Good morning. Good morning. Mayor, would you like to convene? Yes, please. Okay, good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, December 15, 2020. It is 914 a.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Margo is present and presiding, and we begin the meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein?
 Here. Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Here. Morgan? Here. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Here. Rivera? Present. Lizárraga? Present. We do have a quorum. Council, please remember to keep your cameras on at all times so we can establish a quorum during the meeting. Please notify me if you need technical assistance. Mayor?
 Okay, I have some announcements and some good news. First, I'd like to have Sam Rodriguez talk about some good news from the airport.
 It's Mayor and City Council. Good morning. Sam Rodriguez, Director of the Airport. Thank you for the opportunity to share some good news today. As we've gone through this pandemic here at the airport, we have remained committed to executing our strategic plan. And part of that includes continuing our efforts for air service development for our community. We've been working hard and meeting with airlines, airport planners, as well as sending them information about our
 economic activity and everything that we have going on. Today we received some great news from Frontier Airlines. They've announced a new flight to Las Vegas starting March 11th. Even though Las Vegas is already served by two airlines, it is a very vibrant destination for our community and one that we believe is going to benefit our community, providing additional competition as well as routes and opportunities for folks to get out there and enjoy that destination.
 This new announcement and during this pandemic time is really an opportunity for us to really highlight our economic resiliency as a community. It really is a testament to what the airlines and what others are seeing in our area as far as the optimism for the year to come. So we want to thank Frontier Airlines for this great announcement. And hopefully this will spur additional announcements as we move forward. Thank you, Mayor. Way to go, Sam. Great news, Sam. Thank you.
 Next, I would like to honor some of our own esteemed El Pasoans by awarding the Conquistador Awards to four deserving individuals. First, I'd like to recognize Kirk and Judy Robison for their tremendous contributions to our community. The Robisons have called El Paso home since 1973. They own numerous restaurant franchises within the city. And despite their busy business schedule, the Robisons find time to be involved in El Paso civic affairs and contribute to our community.
 Kirk Robinson was awarded the Outstanding Leadership Award by UTEP and served on and co-chaired numerous boards. Judy, with wife Judy, they hold a great dictionary drive every year, supplying over 72,000 dictionaries to third graders in every zip code across the state where one of their Peter Piper pizza restaurants are located. Thank you.
 The Robinsons were inducted into the Junior Achievement El Paso Business Hall of Fame in 2001 and honored with the El Paso Inc.'s Community Spirit Award in 2018. And with the prestigious Conquistador Award today, the city is tremendously grateful for all the Robinsons have done and continue to do for our community. I would also like to posthumously recognize Mrs. Yolanda Areola. Yolanda Areola was a force of good in El Paso.
 She started volunteering at her son's school and noticed some of students didn't return. She began tutoring students who had dropped out for their GEDs, but realized they were still unable to find employment. That's when Southwest University was born, which today educates thousands of job-ready graduates annually. Yolanda recognized Southwest University by naming El Paso's ballpark Southwest University Park,
 home of the Chihuahuas and the locomotives, and the location of Southwest University graduation. Her energy was irrepressible and always positive. Though we will miss her, we will strive to live more fully because of her example. Originally from Guadalajara, Yolanda was a true El Pasoan at heart, and it is a pleasure to present her family with the conquistador award on her behalf. And last, and certainly not least, I want to present this prestigious award to Dr. Hector Ocaranza.
 who has bravely led us through this pandemic this year. Dr. O has served as our El Paso Health Authority for 12 years. He is a board-certified pediatrician and as an integral part of our BioWatch program, he created the protocols for our public health team.
 He served on our Ebola preparedness team, our tuberculosis outbreak response team, and our H1N1 influenza pandemic response team, for which he developed standard operating procedures. A borderland native, Dr. Okoronza has guided our community through our most challenging times, serving as the personification of guidance and information for our citizens.
 An award, even the city's most prestigious, will never be enough to express our gratitude to Dr. Ocaranza. Therefore, it is with the highest respect and honor that I humbly present the conquistador award to Dr. Hector Ocaranza for his tremendous medical guidance and contributions to El Paso. As we continue with this pandemic, I wanted to remark that our...
 Trauma service area rate as of this morning is 25.81%. And if you'll recall, we need to be below 15% on our hospitalizations for seven consecutive days to remove any other restrictions. I also noted that in the data I received yesterday, that on our seven-day rolling average with a 14-day outlook on 11-30, actually November the 29th,
 We had a seven-day rolling average of hospitalizations of almost 950. As of 12-14, that number is 627. So we're on a positive trend. We have 75% of our hospitalizations, hospital rooms available, and our ICU has 21% available. So if we continue to maintain our safety protocols,
 We've had too many deaths, and we're going to continue to have those. So with that, I want to have a moment of silence after I share one verse. I was interested in reading the other day that one of the most read verses during this pandemic has been Isaiah 4110, which says, Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God.
 I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous hand. Let's have a moment of silence for all those who've been impacted by this pandemic, physically, financially, and mentally. Amen. Okay, Laura, let's continue. Yes.
 Mayor, I'd like to say a few words. On behalf of all our city employees, I want to recognize you and Dr. Morgan. I want to thank you all for your service. Know that all of you who run for office, you give of your time, you commit that time, and then you work to make our city better. So I want to thank all the
 the entire council who serves, but the two of you who are stepping down, we wanted to thank you for all your work, and on behalf of all the city employees, we want to thank you and wish you well, and again, we appreciate that you came our way and were part of our leadership group at the elected level, and again, we thank you for your service. Thank you.
 Okay, Laura, let's proceed. Yes, sir. We now move to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revision. Page 15, item 30, move to the floor, per representative . Is there a second? Second. Oh, I got it. OK, let's vote. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anelo. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Morgan. Yes. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez.
 Yes. Rivera? Yes. And Liz Arraga? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page 15 to item 30 that was moved to the forefront. This is a recognition of Lieutenant Marvin Riles for being the first El Paso County law enforcement officer to be elected as president of Combined Law Enforcement Associations of Texas, CLEAT, the largest police officers union in Texas representing law enforcement rights and interests statewide.
 Mayor, may I be recognized? Please, Representative Rivera. Go ahead. Thank you, sir. I have placed, Mayor and Council, I have placed this item on the agenda. And I know during this time of COVID, all the dull and dreary news that we hear and the losses that we suffer as a community. But at the start of this council meeting, there was some good news and some awards handed out. And this is just another one.
 That is a good, a feel-good item to honor this man. I placed this item to honor Marvin Riles, a native of Pasoan, a lieutenant with the Sheriff's Department, and most recently, the newly elected president of the Combined Law Enforcement Association of Texas, also known as CLEET. A bit of information about CLEET, and I'm pretty sure you're going to hear from some of the speakers as well, but this is a statewide organization that represents law enforcement officers.
 They're throughout the state of Texas, and I believe there are about 20,000 members, maybe more. And these law enforcement officers will be fortunate to have Mr. Riles leading the helm of the organization in his new position. As was stated and read by Ms. Prime, Mr. Riles is the first.
 El Paso County law enforcement officer ever elected to this position. And a bit of history, not since the late Chris McGill and El Paso Police Department has El Paso been fortunate to have the presidency based out of El Paso. It's, we are fortunate to have Mr. Riles call El Paso his home. At this time, Mayor and Council, I will conclude my comments at the end. I believe we have some callers waiting. Ms. Prime, do you have those?
 Yes sir we do have some members of the public that signed up to speak on this item. We have the first person is Lieutenant Marvin Riles. Sir if you're on the line star six will unmute your microphone. Lieutenant Marvin Riles. Can you hear me? Yes sir good morning. Good morning. First of all Councilman Rivera I thank you for placing this item on the agenda. I thank you Mayor and fellow Council personnel for taking the time out.
 to recognize me for this assignment. It's, it's very, I'm very honored. I'm very humbled by it. And as being only the fourth president elected to Cleet in the history of Cleet of over 40 years, I consider it a very great honor to serve the men and women of the state of Texas. I look forward to proceeding. And again, I thank the council, Mr. Rivera, for taking the time out of your busy agenda to acknowledge me.
 I WISH YOU ALL A VERY HAPPY HOLIDAY SEASON, MERRY CHRISTMAS, HAPPY NEW YEAR, AND I PRAY THAT 2021 IS WAY BETTER THAN 2020. THANK YOU SO MUCH. THANK YOU, SIR. DON'T LEAVE. DON'T LEAVE. I'M NOT LEAVING. OKAY. THE NEXT SPEAKER IS MR. PETER FERRONI. GOOD MORNING, SIR. GOOD MORNING. CAN YOU ALL HEAR ME OKAY? YES, SIR. OKAY. WELL, GOOD MORNING, MAYOR AND CITY REPRESENTATIVES. THIS IS PETER FERRONI. I'M THE PRESIDENT OF THE EL PASO
 County Sheriff's Officers Association. I want to personally thank you all for recognizing Lieutenant Marvin Riles today for his service, being a lifelong union member, and finally being the newly elected president of the Combined Law Enforcement Association of Texas. Especially thank you, Representative Rivera, for placing this item on the agenda.
 I'm gonna do a little bit more bragging on Marvin. I'm gonna give a little history on him, but the El Paso County Sheriff's Officers Association started in 1978 and so did Marvin Rouse. Our founding members fought hard to get this union started going out, knocking on doors, asking voters to give us collective bargaining rights. Marvin joined Cleet in 1979, where he has served at multiple capacities
 Marvin has served on the board of the EPCSLA multiple times over his 43 years with the sheriff's office. Serving our local union, Marvin has been a three-term president, a director, and he currently holds the executive position of board secretary. Up until the early 2000s, our officers were paid so low that they qualified for food stamps while putting their lives on the line every day.
 People like Marvin and many others fought to change that. In 1991, Marvin won a lawsuit that set a state precedence to allow detention officers to also be a part of collective bargaining. In 2018, I decided to run for president of the El Paso County Sheriff's Officers Association. At that time, I didn't know Marvin very well. I went to his office, introduced myself, and asked him
 If I won, would he help me? And he immediately responded, I will do anything to help the union. It's an honor to call in today to congratulate Marvin as not only being the fourth president of Cleet Ever, but being the first to ever represent a county in Texas.
 Marvin, thank you for the time that you have dedicated to the membership, the time you've spent away from your family serving, which is often unseen. Thank you for being my mentor, my friend, for fighting for better rights, pay, and working conditions, the membership that are dedicated to serving their community. You're one of my heroes. I will always be grateful for your institutional knowledge that you have shared with me.
 I'll keep fighting a good fight for our membership, and I'm just proud to call you my friend and now my president and to everyone else make may you all have a Great holiday season and a Happy New Year. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker is mr. Charlie Wilkinson Mr. Charlie Wilkinson if you'll press star six you can unmute your microphone sir. Good morning. Okay Good morning
 uh as uh as sometimes happened to us in politics i was uh i was talking but no one was listening uh can you hear me now yes sir yes sir we can hear you miss wilkins all right uh henry thanks for doing this uh for marvin thanks for uh everything that uh the uh
 the council does and the folks in government and, and El Paso, uh, we're deeply appreciative to have a longstanding relationship with, uh, uh, with, with folks there and leadership. I want to commend, uh,
 Thank you all of you for taking this time. And a little bit about CLEAT quickly. My name is Charlie Wilkinson. I'm Executive Director of Combined Law Enforcement Associations of Texas, talking to you from Austin. And we have 25,000 rank-and-file members across the state. As was said, Marvin joined CLEAT in 1979. CLEAT was only formed in 1976. Okay.
 And so Marvin was unanimously elected president by our board, and after a long term, the longest serving member of our executive board.
 that serves the officers across the state, all 254 counties. Marvin, as Pete mentioned, was the first president elected as a county officer. So it's fitting that a pioneer that not only talked the talk but walked the walk, that fought for the mundane, hard work,
 We've had a number of hard tasks across the state of making sure representation occurred, making sure that officers were treated fairly, making sure that we attempted at Texas to diminish the pecking order of county officers not being represented or cared for, making sure that lawsuits were filed to consider the people that work in the jail, protecting the community from the hardened criminals.
 people that work in the jail, protecting the accused to stay safe until their rights can be fulfilled, that those people would have the same rights in their workplace of fairness, the path to self-determination, the path towards a professional standard
 and a better life for them and their families. So Marvin served on the committee with me for many years in the Political Action Committee that looked at legislative races across the state, trying to determine who would be best to help law enforcement officers. When they got to the state legislature, governors, lieutenant governors, senators, etc.,
 And so we have a long track record together. And so it's great to see him recognized. No one deserves this position more.
 and is fitting in symbolic ways, and of course, he has the track record of walking the walk. So it's with that that I would like to add our humble voices to this, Henry, and thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Sylvia Carrion. Ms. Carrion, star six, ma'am, to unmute your microphone. That was a surprise. Good morning, ma'am.
 Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you very much for allowing me to speak on behalf of the LT. I don't know if he remembers me, but I was a corporal as a detention officer in the jail when he was working very hard to get us out.
 recognized as part of the union packet. And when I went out to patrol or the academy, he was always in support of the work that I did over there. It's been a long time, LT. And I'm very happy for you. Mr. Rivera, thank you very much. He deserves it. Thank you, Consul. And have a good morning. Merry Christmas, everybody.
 Thank you. That concludes public comment on this item. If you will allow me to complete this Mayor. As you heard Mr. Riles' path to the presidency is well deserved. And as a token of my office I will present him with a plaque. I don't know if you all can see this but I will present him with a plaque.
 which reads, City Representative Rivera, District 7, probably recognizes Lieutenant Marvin Riles on being elected as the first county law enforcement officer to serve as president of Combined Law Enforcement Associations of Texas, CLEAP.
 the largest police officers association, the largest police officers union in Texas representing law enforcement rights and interest statewide. That will be presented to him at a later time. And also on being the shining, are you on Marvin? There you are. On being the shining star that you are in this day. I've got a document here for you that says,
 This is the official Starlighter document. This document certifies that Representative Rivera lit the star at the Franklin Mountain on December 15th, 2020 in honor of Lieutenant Marvin Riles in recognition of being the first El Paso County law enforcement officer to be elected as president of Cleve. So the star will be lit for you tonight. Make sure you look over there at 530 when it gets dark.
 And with that, I thank you. I thank you, Council and Mayor. Henry, we have one more who wants to speak. Oh, okay. Mike Short is in the queue. Oh, wait a moment. Or would you have recognized? Yes, sir. Good morning, Mr. Short. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Appreciate the time and the opportunity to be able to speak this morning on this very important issue. Everybody hear me? I'm not sure I'm unmuted. No, you're coming through, Mike.
 So as is sometimes the case, you know, labor and management don't always see eye to eye, but I want to thank council and Mayor Margo, Representative Rivera, for the opportunity to recognize Margo this morning.
 because the relationship that we share in trying to make law enforcement do the best job that we can for our community is important. I want to thank all of you that are involved in this for making this happen. As is frequently the case when you are last in line to speak, mostly everybody that went before you said everything nice to say and this is no different.
 But you can tell by the passion and the voices that were represented before me what a difference that Lieutenant Marvin Riles has made for not only the organizations that he has represented, but for the individual people that he has made life-changing contributions to. You can hear the emotion when people talk about Marvin Riles. Well, yes.
 When Marvin Riles talks in the circles that we typically walk in as labor representatives, we call Marvin Riles the godfather. The reason we call him that is because Marvin Riles normally sits in the room quietly, listening to all the bantering and stuff that goes on. But when Marvin decides to speak, the room will fall silent because we know the godfather has something to say.
 And it is frequently discerned amongst us that it is well-intentioned, wise, and with a lot of experience behind him. So I just want to say thank you all again for doing this. It is an honor to know Marvin Riles. He has impacted many lives, including my own. Taught me a thing or two.
 And I want to just say thank you to everybody for doing this. Marvin, thank you for your lifetime of service to your fellow men and women in law enforcement. You are a stalwart to all of us, and we thank you again. Mayor, Council, Merry Christmas to all of you, to all of El Paso who's listening. The El Paso Municipal Police Officers Association says thank you for your support.
 and we will continue to police this city the way that you need us to. God bless all of you, and have a good day. Thank you again. Thank you, Mr. Short. Thank you, Mike. Well said. Anything else, Representative Rivera? No, other than the fact that I'm so proud of Mr. Riles also, having worked beside him. Thank you so much for what you do, sir. Continue doing it. Thank you, and I'm glad you let me speak first because...
 These accolades I get are very nice and I appreciate it. Thanks again. All of you God bless. Thank you. Thank you Marvin on behalf of the entire city council. We congratulate you on your new position. Thank you sir. OK Laura let's continue. Yes sir we now return to page 5 to the operational focus updates and if we can take them together. Mayor items 12 13 and 14.
 That's fine. Okay. Item number 12 is presentation and discussion on capital improvement quarterly update for active, deferred, and completed capital projects. Item 13 is a presentation and discussion providing a continuous improvement snapshot and a preview of key workforce engagement and development initiatives. Item 14 is report on the City Attorney's Office year-end report. Number 15 is a budget update.
 So members of the Council, we thought it was important for us to circle back and talk about the capital projects and then also talk about what it takes to get things done and get the results that we've been able to achieve through our staff. And that's where we're going to talk about what it takes with respect to the training. And then we always give budget updates in most Council meetings. So that's why we put this presentation together. The first one is going to be the capital projects.
 Yes, good morning, Mayor and Council. Senator Liggett, City Engineer. I'm going to share my screen here with you. So this is...
 This is the first of two presentations that we're doing related to capital projects. The first one is the quarterly update. This is a regular update that we provide you to give you a snapshot of the various activities and completions that we've had over the past three months. And then later on, as part of the management updates, we're doing the revised rollout and take a much bigger, higher view, 3,000-foot level, if you will, of our capital program and our cash flow related to the various programs that we have active as part of our CIP. Okay.
 This particular presentation is going to cover what we have on the year-to-date results on the first quarter, look at our recent development, and then also look at the upcoming project developments.
 Our results for the first three months, we continue to provide contracts. These are the encumbrances, the amounts that we've been contracted over the past three months. To date, we have $23.6 million. You can start to see here at the bottom of the fiscal year 20 where you start to see the impact of COVID. We started to reduce the amount of contracted amounts here in June, July, and August of last year. The slides aren't moving, Sam. Is it moving now? No.
 Not yet. No, sir. It's moving on my side. Let me see what's going on here. Let me try it one more time. Can you see it now? Yes, we can see it. We see the first slide, but we don't see it moving. You have multiple slides. The monitor stands, so it's showing the monitor with the presentation, not the monitor for the slideshow. Got it. Okay. Okay.
 It's hard to interrupt you, Sam. I just wanted to make sure it wasn't moving. Appreciate it. Try it one more time. That's working. All right. I think this is where I was talking here. I apologize for that. So looking at the contracted amounts to date, we have $23.6 million, and as you can see here from...
 the end of last fiscal year, we started to see the impact of COVID. We slowed down our CIP where the contracted amounts of June, July and the last quarter of 2020 really dropped into the single digits. And we're starting to ramp up again on some of the projects that we had intended to defer that we're now moving forward as we reported the last couple of months.
 The expenditures were close to $20 million in this current fiscal year, $376 million from fiscal year 18 to 21.
 What that translates to on average about 50% of the expenditures go directly into salaries. That means that $10 million in the first three months have gone directly into people's pockets here in our local community to keep our economic activity up. We've created over 2,500 jobs directly associated with construction jobs to date on our current fiscal year.
 When you look at the indirect impacts, both on the expenditure side and on the jobs, we're looking at an impact of $31.5 million in the first three months, as well as 3,800 jobs that have been supported by our CIP to date.
 COVID response, we continue to move projects along, even those that have been deferred, getting those into the design, getting those completed. And as you'll find in the next presentation, we really want to begin the discussion about what we're going to do with the deferred projects and the timelines for those as we move into our next fiscal year 22 discussions at the beginning of 21.
 Just a snapshot of what we have going on. We have 254 active projects in the books totaling just over $650 million. Some of the deferred projects, we deferred 68 to date. Those are projects that are on the shelf or in the process of completing the design where we're not scheduled to go into construction. That totals about $355 million. The pre-design, we have 55 pre-designed to date.
 We have 87 projects that are currently in design. We've shelved 17 of those, and 44, again, are scheduled to be deferred. One of those projects is the Children's Museum. You may have heard over the past three months, they've unveiled the design exhibits, as well as had the groundbreaking and the building design was already unveiled to the public, this particular project. We have 32 projects out to bid.
 Some of those are the Doris Van Doren, Esperanza Moreno, Jose Cisneros Library remodels that are part of the quality of life. They're currently in the bidding process and are scheduled to go into construction at the beginning of 2021. We have 72 projects actively in construction as of today.
 We've completed 13 projects, including the Chamisaw Community Recreation Center, as well as some of our roadway projects like Holly James Street, as well as the Rich Beam Lighting. We're completed within the past three months. Here's a small video, and my audio is not going to work because of the settings on my computer, so I apologize for that. Here's a quick video. Here's a video.
 Okay, well, I'm going to send you the video, the link to the video so you can share with your constituents. It's going to highlight again some of the projects that we've completed here the past three months. The upcoming developments in the over the next three months, we're anticipating 12 projects to go out to bid. An additional 22 are scheduled to go into construction and 33 are scheduled to be completed for our community. The 11 projects.
 that are scheduled to go out to bid include Central Business District 4 in our San Guido Barrio area. This is a federally funded project. We have 22 projects that are scheduled to start construction as well. A lot of these are NIP type of projects but also bicycle connectivity phase two and some of our HVAC upgrades that are needed at City 1 and City 2 were also scheduled to start construction here over the next three months.
 including Modesto Gomez Park. If you haven't been out there, this is a much-needed improvement. We have been in coordination with parks in the potential grant from the state in order to get the timing completed on this project, and we're now moving forward in construction on this particular project.
 And then these are the 33 projects that are scheduled to be completed. Again, multiple road projects like Robinson Phase 2 will be officially completed. Load reconstruction, Bryan-Ray reconstruction, all part of our street infrastructure that we've been focusing on, as well as the water parks. Districts 2, 4, and 7 are all scheduled to be completed and turned over officially to the City, including Eastside Regional Park Phase 1. That includes the other Oasis water park, the recreation and the 50-meter pool.
 are all be completed here in the next three months and turned over to us. See some photos of the water parks. And with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. I do have multiple slides beyond this slide that are available for you to share with your constituents. It's a much more detailed list of projects that you can share as well as part of the backup. Thank you. Sam, this is Laura Cruz, the Communications Director. I have the presentation, the video if you'd like to show it. Yeah, please, that'd be great.
 Thank you, Mayor.
 So we wanted to show that to you because getting these projects back online is going to cost money on the debt side and on the operation side. And I always say that when we buy a horse, we have to feed it. And so I've gotten a lot of questions from a lot of you when we have one-on-one meetings. But there's also a lot of back and forth, whether it's in the community, whether it's at the council level where we're talking about the taxes. Right.
 and I just think it's an important reminder that there's a correlation between the two.
 So when we talk about the value of our properties and the appraisals of properties, that's a delicate subject. But it's one in which if that number doesn't grow, then you don't have additional revenue to then pay for these additional costs. So we'll have to look at our recovery on the CIP and how it's aligned with the economic recovery of our community.
 So I want to assure you that we have plans to complete these projects, but we want to align them with our economic recovery of the community as well.
 and I know that's going to cause some frustration for some of the projects not getting done on the regularly scheduled time, but they've all been impacted by COVID. The public safety improvement bond, they've been impacted. We gave you a briefing on which ones we're planning and designing, but in terms of putting them on the ground, again, I would recommend that they be aligned with the economic recovery of our community, but I don't want to,
 keep those projects from happening either. So obviously your input, your guidance is very much appreciated. But with the caveat that there'll be a correlation with that in the tax rate. I think that has to be said over and over again.
 That's the reason why we recommended increasing our fund balance. We recommended the rate stabilization fund to have some flexibility for you to have flexibility. So maybe we go faster on some of these projects as we look to do that recovery quicker. Because I know when we gave the briefing about the dollars available, some of you thought, well, we got all this extra money. And I said, we really don't. I mean, if we were to go at 100% and put everything back online, we'd be short.
 So just wanted to interject that comment. So unless there's any questions, we'll go to the second presentation. I have no question. Okay. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Araceli Guerra, Managing Director for Internal Services. This morning, we will be providing an update on our workforce development, what we've completed in 2020 and what we're moving towards in 2021. We'll be going over our leadership framework and how we've combined our learning and innovation programs to focus on our continuous improvement.
 This ties directly back to strategic goal six to expand workforce development and organizational focus on continuous improvement through targeting training, activating partnership, and growing best practices.
 So our strategic plan results are a direct product of our processes and systems. So throughout the year, you have received several different updates on our goal reports and transformational reports that show the completion of our 20 and 2020 strategic plan. Now, as we move forward into our 20 by 25 by 2025 plan, we know and we understand the focus of our workforce and the importance of providing them with the appropriate tools to complete their goals.
 So at a glance, this is an overview of our workforce profile. The various roles and responsibilities of our workforce really require the development and learning opportunities in order to support their strategic goals and how they're completing it in their own role throughout the organization. So knowing that our workforce is key to achieving the goals of our strategic plan initiatives. From a financial focus perspective, these results have been achievable because of the continued efforts of our workforce training.
 As you may see, the $99 million in savings was achievable through our process improvement program training, and also the four years of consecutive zero audit findings was all done in order to make our organization better and also provide that strategic plan alignment.
 Now the process improvement program has engaged over 500 participants across the organization and it has allowed us the ability to provide continuous improvement training for 100 percent of our city departments, therefore giving us the ability to form over 85 plus cross-functional teams as you've heard over the last couple of months different areas such as COVID-19 and our police department as well.
 So now our approach moving forward is going to focus our efforts on the learning and innovation piece.
 and also to pursue performance excellence, grow our best practices, and continue to develop our continued partnerships through our communities of excellence, and also focus back on targeted learning, which we will achieve through process improvements, trainings, and projects that are being completed currently. At this moment, I'll go ahead and turn it over to Rosemary Crawford. She's our new chief learning officer, and she will provide more details on the targeted learning process.
 Thank you, Araceli. To achieve the City's strategic plan, we need to ensure that we develop our skilled, diverse workforce so that they can deliver exceptional service to our residents. That is why it's the center of our learning framework.
 At the top left of this page of our learning framework, you can see that the framework includes targeted learning. We need coordinated learning plans at the city, the department, and individual levels, all 6,500 individuals. The question we always need to answer is, what do our employees need to deliver exceptional service? Exceptional service leads to performance excellence.
 an integral part of the learning culture which grows then best practices. Best practices that we can find throughout the 26 departments and the 140 locations. Partnerships expand our learning throughout those departments, the city, and our community and beyond. Those partnerships and best practices allow us to identify more targeted learning for our employees, which brings us back full circle to the learning framework. Next slide.
 At the top of the learning framework is leadership. It's critical that our leaders have the skills, knowledge, and support to ensure the city employees are able to deliver that exceptional service. In the first half of 2021 calendar year, we will be focusing on the fundamentals of leadership and how leaders develop others. One example of this is a leadership excellence series.
 So this Leadership Excellence Series is based on the strategic plan and is within the learning framework. What is important in this series is that the city leaders themselves will be the designers and facilitators of this learning. We are committed to the continuous improvement of this series and all learning programs throughout the city. So speaking of continuous improvement, I'd like to hand this over to Mr. Roman Sanchez.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Roman Sanchez, Chief Innovation Officer with Performance Office.
 And regarding our continuous improvement, one of our focuses is our process improvement program, often referred to as our PIP, our P-I-P. And why do we have our process improvement program? There's three core areas, our workforce, our operation, and our customers. For our workforce, it's truly to empower our workforce, to provide them training and the skill set and the tools necessary, and also the spaces to innovate.
 and with through that innovation we can control costs in our operations by redesigning the way we deliver our services by improving process times increasing our productivity reducing errors and also adding capacity and also for our customers that allows us through our process improvement program to engage our customers
 to be able to understand what their needs are, to provide them a voice within our process, to ensure that when we're designing and redesigning our processes, that it captures what is most important to them. Next slide, please. And through this, through our process improvement program, we have developed several skill sets and several ways we can approach this, and often to refer to this through our toolbox. This is really a high level. We have several, but this is really a high level look at what those look like.
 and how we innovate. And that includes from our Lean Six Sigma projects and programs that folks participate, but also to our newest one, which is human centered design or sometimes called HCD or design thinking. And it helps us reshape and rethink how we deliver processes and services and programming, but considering what the experience is for our customers and for our community. Next slide, please.
 So in general, and Araceli covered this a little bit, but our process improvement program thus far has had over 500 employees who are engaged in the program. And those are employees that have received training, delivered projects, participated on cross-functional teams. We've had 100% of our departments that have gone through, have had employees that gone through training. And we have 88% of our departments have delivered a process improvement project.
 And then we're trending to very soon have 100% of departments deliver that. And importance, again, to underscore the importance of our process improvement program, it's cross-functional teams. So it's folks from our front-end line employees who engage directly and daily with our customers all the way to our executive leadership team. It always involves our customers, our process owners, and our subject matter experts because they're the ones that truly understand –
 what were our opportunities are to always improve and all this to ensure that we continue to deliver results for our program. And I think what I really would want to underscore this is our process improvement program. The reason it's been so successful thus far is really all of our our our organization has the opportunity to participate. As I said, from the frontline folks to the executives. And that's really what sets us apart from other programs.
 So our learning paths and the way we provide knowledge and create skill sets and provide those spaces for folks, our primary ones, as I mentioned before, is Lean Six Sigma.
 Our pathway for Lean Six Sigma S2 is through training, starting with our white belt training, graduating to yellow belt training, green belt training, and then black belt training. We've partnered recently with the University of Texas of El Paso and also with University Medical Center to deliver these different cycles of training, particularly for the white belt, the city training.
 staff our green belts that we have within our program conduct courses for white belt training for yellow belt training. That's a new offering that we're working on a new offering that
 with the University Medical Center with their Lean Six Sigma Black Belts to develop that program. That program was ready to go, but due to COVID, we're going to have to retweak it somewhat so that we can begin to deliver that virtually. We've partnered with UTEP to now deliver Green Belt training, and for our next cycle of development will be Black Belt training, which we're currently doing
 scoping to understand what our best opportunity would be to bring that training to the city of El Paso. Our newest offering, human centered design, which I'll go into a little bit more, has two approaches. For our first training, our first training was actually developed
 and delivered by Stanford University. Yes, the Stanford University. And Stanford University is the premier place to receive human centered design training for the public and for the private sector. Typically that training is saved for students of Stanford University. However, they do offer courses throughout the year for private and public sector.
 organizations to attend. Those classes tend to fill very quickly and typically only one person from the organization can attend. However, reaching out the performance office, reaching and working with Stanford University to see if we had the opportunity to bring that training to the city.
 Based on really on our success of our process improvement program, particularly our LSS program, they're really impressed with the results we've been able to achieve and the scope and the breadth of having employees from different areas.
 segments of our workforce participate. So the city of El Paso became the first organization, private or public, that Stanford actually came to us to do the training. Originally, the training was going to be conducted on site. But again, due to COVID, the training was delivered virtually. And again, the city was the first organization to receive that training. Another partner that we've had is
 for innovation training was through Bloomberg Center for Public Impact. That's another training that the city we applied for.
 We were selected as part of the latest cohort of cities to go through that. Cities from around the globe applied to be part of this training, and it's delivered. We were City of El Paso selected again through the—they were really impressed with our process improvement program, as well as the results that we've delivered, and its integration with our workforce at all levels. So I think that's very telling of our program, if we're able to attract—
 and to have training done by these really strong global organizations and for able to for the city to participate in training with them. Next slide please. So a little bit about human centered design and this is almost a little teaser as we're as we integrate this type of tool into our organization we'll be bringing more projects forward and how we're utilizing this training. And really at the core human centered design
 Training is really the way we design our processes, systems, or products by truly getting a deep understanding through our community's needs through research and ethnography, such as interviews, observations, really understanding that.
 what our community needs are and really separating the wants to the needs so we can really understand when we design a program, it's really capturing the voice of our customers. So that we can identify common insights in developing those needs and working with our community to to ensure that the services that we deliver are meeting those needs.
 So why are we using this design-based innovation? And again, it's really to provide our community another way to provide their voice of what's important to them, what experiences they wanna have when they're utilizing their services.
 So the tools that we refine and design our processes and our services and really the training through HCD and as well as augmented by the one that we have through Lean Six Sigma provides our workforce the knowledge and the tools exactly how to do that.
 And the next slide just really shows the latest cohort that the City of El Paso is part of and the various programs that each of the cities that were selected that are working on. This particular cohort was a North American one. And you can see the various cities in the U.S. out but also as also in Canada and Mexico. Next slide please. And then as important for everything is is our results that we achieve.
 Thus far for our process of improvement program, it's over $38 million impact. And this includes new funding secured, cost avoidance and savings, as well as 90,000 hours of process hours and capacity hours added yearly. I think it's really important to note that these results were delivered by our workforce, really thus really underscoring the importance of our training in not only teaching skills,
 but also allowing and creating an environment of learning and innovation for our folks. So these aren't consultants that are doing this for the city. It's really the investment in our workforce that allows us to achieve results that we have, that we see here. So really through learning and innovation, innovation can be nurtured. And through this learning, it creates and promotes a supportive environment that leads to this innovation, thus our continuous improvement.
 All this leads to results in ensuring that we design exceptional processes and services for our community. DIRECTOR RIVERA- So in closing being able to continue I'm sorry there's a real quick.
 So being able to continue the growth and development of our workforce by providing the training and learning events that have been covered in this presentation really continues to support an environment where our workforce understands and has the tool set to continue the continuous improvement journey.
 So making sure that we're able to advance on our maturity in our performance excellence criteria and also directly support our workforce in their own succession planning of where they would like to be in their career and putting together different plans so that they can achieve their results. So with that, we covered our leadership framework and our focus on continuous improvement, and we will take any questions at this moment if you have any. We have no questions. Thank you.
 The next item is number 14. This is a report on the City Attorney's Office year-end report. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Carla Nieman for the record. We wanted to take this opportunity at the last City Council meeting of this year to discuss much of the work that's taking place at the City Attorney's Office.
 As you all know, we've been reporting out during the COVID-19 CFT presentations, and while that work has been substantial, and every member of the City Attorney's Office has been involved in responding to the pandemic, there's been other very important work that our office has been focused on this last year, which has really benefited the city.
 I'm proud to report that despite the many challenges of us working remotely, we've been able to use many of the tools that are already existing within the organization through the city manager's office or even in the performance office, and we've deployed them.
 those tools in other areas of the organization to improve our own systems and processes and services in our office. These changes have proved to be very beneficial, especially since working from home, as you know, poses very unique challenges and opportunities to develop a different skill set. We have seen a vast improvement in areas of customer service across all of our office divisions, and we've also been able to automate that.
 several systems which have resulted in faster turnaround times. We're going to continue to fine-tune several of the other systems in conjunction with the Performance Office, the City Manager's Office as well as the Municipal Clerk's Office and Code Enforcement and IT. We hope to be able to deploy those systems soon and report back on the improvements that we believe we will be able to achieve. However, we will continue to learn and adopt these new needs of the organization.
 Obviously, the needs of council are ever evolving as are the needs of our constituents and as well as the various departments. I'm going to hand over the presentation to Annalisa Benavides, who is going to be followed by Omar De La Rosa, Victoria Hayslid, and Eric Gutierrez. Thank you. Good morning, Council. Annalisa Benavides with the City Attorney's Office. I will go ahead and pull up the presentation at this time.
 All right, so as Carla stated, this is the City Attorney's Office end of year report for all four divisions of our department. And the overview just follows the pattern that we will be discussing today. So we will start by discussing the strategic plan alignment as it relates to our office.
 I will discuss the litigation division and then I will hand it over to my coworkers for the transactional open records and prosecutors portion. So this, our goals for this year align with goal six, which is setting the standard for sound governance and fiscal management. And the focus of our goals across our department are efficiency in how we process all of our claims, our lawsuits,
 whatever it is that we are doing in providing legal services for the organization. Customer service is something that we focused on greatly this year, ensuring that we're providing the best customer service not only to the city departments, but also to the citizens of El Paso.
 And then finally, quality, making sure that we're providing the highest quality legal services for, again, the city departments, the organization as a whole, and to the citizens when we are interacting with them.
 So with regard to the litigation division, we had three primary goals for 2020. The first goal was to mitigate risk across the organization. And this just means looking forward, trying to assess where there are weaknesses, where we might be seeing patterns in lawsuits, in claims filed by citizens, and trying to get ahead of the issue by resolving them through recommendations to the departments.
 The second goal is to provide consistent updates to city departments throughout the litigation process. And this is just a matter of communication, ensuring that no matter who the attorney is assigned to the case, the department who is involved in that case will be able to expect a certain pattern of communication with that attorney to ensure that they're understanding the process of litigation.
 And then the third goal is with regard to our emphasis on customer service. We receive a lot of citizens' claims, sometimes for property damage, sometimes for personal injury. And we really emphasized the goal to ensure that all citizen claims are responded to within 10 working days of receiving them. So we adopted three processes to ensure that we could meet those goals. The first process was to incorporate data.
 processes for the litigators to identify patterns of risk across the organization. And this is in, again, the lawsuits and claims that we receive. The attorneys are looking for potential areas of weaknesses and providing legal recommendations to the departments to try and mitigate those risks in the future.
 The second process is that we created standard operating procedures to maintain the department's informed opinion litigation. This just ensures that every single time a department has some sort of litigation involvement, they can expect that the same type of communication, the same type of forms are sent to them every single time.
 And then finally, again, we prioritize customer service through uniform processing of all third party claims, making sure that every single one of them is processed in the same manner. So the measured impact is the attainment of our goals essentially at the end of 2020. So first of all, the litigation division identified seven areas of potential liability across the organization.
 As a team, they provided seven legal recommendations to the appropriate departments to try and mitigate those risks and fix those issues before they come back. The second thing we did, as I stated before, is that we did create those standard operating procedures and we began using them as we communicate with departments throughout the process of litigation.
 And then finally, we, in prioritizing customer service, we were able to ensure that 100% of the third-party claims we processed were responded to within 10 working days.
 And if you look here on the slide, we put together the average of claims that were being responded to within 10 days between 2015 and 2019, and we were falling slightly short of 100%. And then in 2020, we were able to achieve that goal.
 The following two slides are simply graphs that will show you that. So in 2019, you can see the red bars in January, July, and November. Those are those citizen claims for which a response was provided to after the 10 business days. And so that's something that we wanted to fix.
 And in 2020, as you can see, we did not have any red bars. So 100% of the claims that citizens sent into our office were responded to within those 10 days.
 So moving forward, we will continue to process these claims within 10 working days, working to ensure that customer service remains a top priority. We will continue to track the implementation of those legal recommendations that we made. Like I said, they were seven during this year, but we will continue looking out for other areas of weaknesses, continue being proactive in providing recommendations.
 And then finally, in providing communication to our departments, we will continue using those standard operating procedures that we have created. And I will now pass this over to Omar. Hi, thank you, Annalisa. Who has control of the presentation? Is it you, Annalisa? Oh, there, I can see it.
 Thank you. Hi, this is Omar de la Rosa with the City Attorney's Office. I'll be presenting the Transactional Division part of our presentation. I'll start off with a brief overview of our section. We'll start off with a couple of goals. Goal number one, our customer service. This is a goal that was established under the City's strategic plan. Goal number two is an internal goal that our division set to ourselves in order to improve the consistency of the services that we provide to other departments.
 And the second two, the last two bullet points right there are updates regarding additional work that our office has been doing in addition to the normal routine operations of the organization. So that update number one is regarding fiscal year 2020 non-routine highlights. And then that last update is regarding our COVID-19 response, which we've been doing all along, but just wanted to do a little recap of that. Can you go to the next slide, please? Thank you.
 So our first bullet point is regarding our customer service. And again, this is one of the key performance indicators established under the city strategic plan. And the key performance indicator provides, it measures how quickly we respond to group team ordinances, resolutions, contracts, and agreements. And the goal is to respond to these within 10 working days of the request. For this fiscal year, we received about 1,200 total requests.
 we managed to have a successful response rate of 95% for the first three quarters. The final quarter, we actually achieved 100%. Out of the 1,200 total requests, about 99% of those were responded within one to three working days. So I think my colleagues have been doing a great job with that. Can you please go to the next slide?
 Our second goal is consistency, and as I said, this is an internal goal that our office set out, and what we decided to do as a group is to create standard legal operating procedures that all of our departments can use.
 And the intent of this is to dovetail off of our KPI under the strategic plan. And what we're trying to do is ensure that our departments are able to plan ahead and continue to provide services to the public on a consistent basis, consistent quality. Again, very focused on our services.
 on our customers. The results, our office, our division so far, we've created over 35 procedures. We have standardized over 25 contracts and other documents.
 We have had a focus group with some department heads so we can chime in. We want to make sure that the process works for our departments. And we're currently working with the city manager's office, the performance office, and developing an online tool so that departments can submit requests to our office, as well as we can keep track of those requests in a more efficient manner. And I want to thank the performance office for this. They've done an incredible job. The city manager seemed to help us out so much. So thank you.
 Can we please go to the next slide, please? And this slide right here is an update on the fiscal year 2020 and on routine highlights. As I mentioned, the previous two slides,
 were work that we focus on as part of our routine operations. What is here is additional work that is done, but it's really not routine. And it kind of comes and goes depending on how the year is. So 2020 was a pretty hectic year. I picked out a couple of highlights for the year, Senate Bill Number Two.
 As a lot of us know, the Texas Legislature modified the process for adopting municipal budgets. Our office worked hand-in-hand with OMB and the tax office to make sure that we adopted the budget and the tax rate on time and with little varying issues.
 With the EPE sale, I think a lot of us are familiar with that. What a lot of people don't know is most of the work was done in-house. We did have outside counsel that assisted us, but a lot of the work was done in-house. My colleagues did a great job with that. Year of elections, I think we've seen many elections this year. We've assisted in answering questions and making sure we're ready for that. Our Title VII rewrite was a very...
 It was a very big one. It's a multi-year project. And it really, what this project led to was a grooming ordinance that is first of its kind in the nation. And with this ordinance, groomers now have to obtain licenses and go to training and register their shops. And this also created new requirements regarding tethering and disease reporting and regarding the abandonment of animals. So it was a huge,
 we write for the community and a lot of work was done and a great job by my colleagues. Our HR contracts 790 plus contracts and amendments and these contracts were only for the fiscal year and this is for the hiring of non-civil service employees so a lot of work done on that on that side by our division. Can we please go to the next slide?
 And as I said, in addition to everything that was going on, in addition to normal operations, in addition to improving processes, in addition to our non-routine items, this year we had the COVID-19 response as well. And I hope I do justice to my colleagues because they've done a lot of great work on this area. They've processed over 120 case files, over 4,000 hours of work.
 regarding our on several items. I'll go very quickly over some of the important ones. Open Meetings Act, making sure that all of our boards, advisory and city council can meet and that those meetings are open to the public in the middle of the pandemic to make sure we don't miss a step.
 Our office regarding HR issues, our office assisted with the research and the implementation of the Coronavirus Response Act to ensure that employees had access to the extended sick leave and FMLA benefits supported under the Act. So that was very important for all of our employees. Of course, we've seen over 108 emergency ordinances, orders and FAQs
 And this is all aimed at ensuring that the public has the proper guidance and protections that we need to prevent the spread of the disease and take care of themselves during this pandemic. The emergency response, the activation of the emergency plan, which is a huge, hard
 for our city, right? Making sure that we continue to receive assistance from the state and the federal government, the expansion and certification of the COVID-19 lab. Again, I cannot express how important that was. And of course the receipt and distribution of the CARES Act money, not only the treasury funds, but all the other money as well under the CARES Act, which the city manager has done a great job in reporting
 to council how that was implemented. Overall from our office, we've processed over 78 sub-recipient agreements and we've assisted with real estate acquisitions and the creation of a manual to make sure that all the money was spent in the proper way. So again, all of this done in the year by our division, we thank everybody, all the departments that assisted us. And with that, I'll pass it on to our Open Records Division, thank you.
 Victoria Haislett here with the City Attorney's Office. And I'm going to talk to you about our open records division. So this year we had two goals two major goals
 as far as what we wanted to get completed in the open records division. And the first one was to establish standard legal operating procedures for all the city departments. And then we also wanted to reduce the timelines for production of records to requesters, to the customers from the public who request information from the city.
 So in March of this year, obviously, everybody knows the COVID-19 pandemic hit. And so one of the first things that we had to do in the Open Records Division is make sure that we were following the Attorney General's guidelines. As far as the rules on calculation of business days, there was no suspension of any of the rules like there was for the Texas Open Meetings Act.
 And so we have been following the guidelines that the Attorney General has set forth in the Texas Public Information Act in regards to governmental entities not working strictly in the normal capacity and working with skeleton crews. The City Attorney's Office has been on a skeleton crew and working from home since early March.
 So during this time as well, what we did do is we continued to process open records requests. We never stopped doing that. And we actually continued to process an increased volume of requests despite COVID setbacks, like many city departments either shutting down or completely working from home. There have been over 6,500 total requests since March of 2020, and 98 of these have been directly related to COVID-19.
 So our strategy to try and meet our goals during this time and to try and reduce the number of days it takes us to produce records to requesters included a number of things. One of the first things that we implemented this year is we did update the requesters ability to agree to mandatory and or discretionary redactions on GOV QA, which is the open records portal that the public uses to access records from the city.
 And what this allows us to do is it allows the requester to agree to let the city follow the Texas Public Information Act and redact information from records without having to request an attorney general's opinion. And so what that means is that we can get our information out to the requesters quicker because we do not have to wait for that opinion, which the attorney general has 45 days or more to respond to.
 So that has allowed us to significantly decrease the timeline as far as producing records to requesters. The second thing we did, and this is a very major improvement in our office, is we started using a previous determination from the Attorney General's Office for police department law enforcement records. In 2016, we received a previous determination from the Attorney General's Office.
 This allows the City to withhold certain information from open records requests that only relates to the detection, investigation or prosecution of crime without first asking for an Attorney General opinion as well. And so if we produce certain information to requesters within five business days of receiving their request, we can use this previous determination.
 Police department requests over historically and over the last six months have accounted for at least 65% of all open records requests.
 And so being able to produce these records to requesters on a faster timeline without having to ask the Attorney General for an opinion on whether or not we can redact information significantly increases our ability to get these records out to requesters faster. And that's something that, again, we were really focused on, like the other depart divisions in the City Attorney's Office's customer service department.
 and helping the public and being more transparent and getting that information to them very quickly. We also in August of this year provided training to all of the department contacts throughout the city. So every department has an open records contact who provides the city attorney's office with the information for that department. And we did a comprehensive training over the Texas Public Information Act
 and the GovQA process as well, so that we can ensure more consistency and just increase that customer service. So this chart is just to show you a comparison as far as the amount of requests we get on a monthly basis.
 It's a comparison from 2019 to 2020 to this year. And as you can see, 2019 is in the blue and 2020 is the orange bars. And every month this year, aside from March, when COVID first hit, we have received an increased volume of open records requests. And again, our staff has been working since March, since COVID hit, we have not stopped processing these requests.
 on a daily basis. And so... Ms. Haylott, let me interrupt you. We're missing Mayor Pro Tem Shoreswine, Representative Anello, Salcido, Rodriguez, Morgan, Lizárraga. Okay, we regained a quorum. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Yes, so we've just been seeing an increased number of requests, which is not something that we have any control over, obviously, but we continue to get those processed.
 Where we've seen the most impact is actually in the Attorney General opinions that we have requested. And this is where you can really see how our strategies in getting to our goals really paid off this year. So, again, it's a 2019-2020 comparison. And what we're focused on here is October 2019 and October 2020. Okay.
 we decreased the amount of times we had to request. Excuse me one second. Excuse me. In October of 2019, we requested attorney general opinions 110 times, which again goes to the speed of how fast we are able to produce records or withhold records from a requester, because we do have that 45 day turnaround with the attorney general's office. In October of this year, we requested attorney general opinions only 10 times.
 And so going back to that last slide, you see we had an increased number of requests come in, but because we instituted using the agreed redaction tool on GovQA and the prior determination tool,
 from the Attorney General's office on PD records, we were able to reduce the times we had to request an Attorney General opinion by 91%. So 91% of the time this year compared to last year, we were producing those records to a requester on a faster basis. We were getting the customer service levels up significantly.
 In October 2019, as you can see these smaller and lighter orange bars show that we did use the prior determination 44 times in October 2020 and the requesters agreed to redactions 18 times. So we were able to utilize that as well. So the next steps for the Open Records Division, like I said, in August we provided training to all the departmental contacts.
 What we look to do in 2021 is offer open records training for all city employees, not even just the departmental contacts. We are looking to continue to develop our ideas on how to improve GovQA and our internal open record process. And we are also looking to submit more requests to the Attorney General for previous determinations so that we can continue to have additional tools to make it faster to
 uh give this information to the public and so with that i will hand it over to eric gutierrez who will present on the prosecutor's division good morning eric with the city attorney um i'm going to finish up this presentation talking about the prosecutors and um there this is a very small unit of the city attorney's office there are uh four prosecutors
 one paralegal and two secretaries. And, uh, each of these four prosecutors, when we first started prosecuting, took an oath. Um, and, and that oath is not to convict, but to see that justice is done. And I think that's really important to point out because when we go through this, I want you guys to keep that in mind. Um,
 These prosecutors, we probably have the most contact with citizens of El Paso through municipal court, be it citizens representing themselves as defendants, coming in as witnesses, or coming in as victims. So we have a lot of contact with the citizens of El Paso. Like the other divisions, we started off 2020 by having division goals. Our first goal was to establish standard legal operating procedures for all city departments,
 and the second is to screen and prepare complaints for trial in a fast and efficient manner. These two goals are intertwined and I'm going to talk about the first one and then you'll see how it ties into that second goal. With respect to this first one, we realize that we need to have training with the departments that issue citations. That's the police department, code enforcement, and animal control services.
 and essentially we need that because in order to successfully prosecute these cases we need successful investigations from the get-go and a lot of these departments have their own training they have you know police has their police academy which does a great job at training the police officers
 But a lot of these nuances that we deal with in municipal court are just very different than, you know, district court and state court with DA's office. So we took this goal on as to training all these departments. And within the first few months of 2020, we were able to establish contacts with supervisors and actually have trainings with each of these departments, right?
 And as you can see here, we've covered a variety of topics with each of these departments, essentially covering pretty much everything that they're going to be doing in municipal court and the investigation leading up to going to municipal court.
 With COVID-19, you know, obviously our trainings have taken on a different role. We focus more so now on these COVID-19 violations with code enforcement and the police department. So we're all on the same page, right? Like I said before, these COVID-19 cases, they're very different than normal municipal court cases. And in order for them to be successfully prosecuted, we're going to need them to be trained up by us. And that's what we've been working on since the get-go of this pandemic. Okay.
 As you can see here, the first one that is on each of these
 columns is the new complaint process. And that's our second goal. And I'll talk to you guys a little bit about that. Essentially, there's two ways that cases can get to municipal court. I'm sure you guys are all familiar with getting a speeding ticket, a police officer gives you a citation, and then that police officer goes to municipal court and drops that off there, and it gets sent to court. That's the traditional way that cases get to court. But there's also a second way, and
 first column here on non routine items, and that's when officers code enforcement officers, animal inspectors send these complaints to our office to review before actually sending it out to municipal court. And we could have issues here. And that's why we had the second goal, because as you can see here, when we chart out the number of cases that we were screening and preparing for court early on in January, February, March, we were getting bombarded with a lot of complaints
 That causes issues for us because, like I said, we have a very small office.
 and we have a bottleneck effect when there's too many cases coming in and there's only four prosecutors reviewing it. And what ends up happening is these cases become stale, right? And that's an issue because we don't want to be going to court on cases where, let's say, an officer has retired or, you know, a witness has moved out of state or out of the city and we have a hard time contacting them. The faster we can get these cases to municipal court, the more likely we are to have a successful prosecution. Right.
 And once we were able to get this training to all the departments and letting them know, hey, don't send us cases that you guys can just send to municipal court, we were able to see an immediate impact on that. And you can see that on this chart around April and May.
 We didn't have any cases going past 10 plus days, which is phenomenal. And since then, we've been able to keep up with the amount of cases that are coming into our office. As you can see, in September and October, the caseload has increased slightly, but we've been able to successfully get these all processed through our office and sent to municipal court within the 10 days as we've been wanting to do. Thank you.
 Some division highlights, like I stated, the COVID-19 pandemic has changed municipal court. I know you guys are all aware of that because you guys hear from municipal court
 All of our prosecutors are doing virtual prosecutions from home through the Teams app. We've been involved with multiple Class C complaint templates for the COVID-19 violations, and it's been teamwork, right? So the attorneys that have been drafting these new ordinances and these new emergency directives immediately,
 to the prosecutors and the prosecutors draft the complaint language that we need to go to court on. And it's been a relatively smooth process and we've been able to get these complaints to municipal court well in advance of any officers trying to issue citations on these violations.
 Um, we've also been involved with training and providing guidance to these officers that are out there actually on the on the ground doing this work, doing this enforcement work and providing them with, you know, summaries and strategies on how to successfully investigate these cases. And at this point, we're
 waiting to get these to municipal court. And that's going to be our next step. We're going to continue to do this trial prep with the officers. You know, right now, 2020, municipal court's been delayed due to COVID-19. And we anticipate these COVID-19 violations to start going to court in 2021. And we'll be ready to prosecute those.
 In addition to that, we've also been working on a Lean Six Sigma project with respect to a new complaint form that's going to be on SharePoint. And this is going to really change the way we deal with complaints because everything's going to be online from the get-go. So all the officers are going to have training on how to submit to the prosecutors online.
 through SharePoint these complaint request forms, and we'll be able to process them through SharePoint and eventually send them out to municipal court to process. And that should also result in a decrease in the amount of time it takes to get these cases to municipal court. With that, that's the end of the presentation. If you guys have any questions, we are here.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. If you all have any questions, I'm prepared to answer. I just want to highlight that much of the work that was done through our office was done in conjunction, again, with the city manager's office and the performance office. And we continue to work with IT and various other internal services department to improve the legal services that we provide to the organization. So with that, I thank you. I have no requests for questions. Thank you. That was very good.
 The next item is number 15. This is a budget update. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Robert Cortinas. So this presentation is going to focus on a couple of different things. And so I really like this slide because not only does it repeat our vision and really highlight, again, the alignment to our strategic plan, but the four outer pillars you see there, the financial, operational, capital planning, and economic development, really sum up.
 All of the things that you hear us discuss, and so whether it's myself giving a presentation talking about finances, whether it's Sam giving a presentation on capital, which you're going to hear in a minute, whether it's Jessica Herrera talking about the economic development, how well that lines back to our strategic plan. And it really is those four pillars pulling in the same direction and working in conjunction that allows us to achieve the results that you've seen in our strategic plan. And all of that is really centered and focused around, you see the people focus there,
 One of the things you just heard Adesely and Roman and Rosemary Crawford present to you about. So our workforce is something that obviously is very, very important to us, not only in the form of compensation and taking care of them and that end and with the health care, but also what we're doing to develop them as well and make sure that they have the skills, the knowledge and the support to be able to do their jobs effectively and efficiently.
 So again, this is the tie back and the alignment to our strategic plan. Again, we're focusing here on the financial piece. Again, the goal there, you see the set the standard for sound governance and fiscal management. And again, you hear about the alignment and you heard some of that with what the city attorney's office presented right now as well. So again, a little bit of a look back in time, looking at the city's property tax rate.
 So this is important because this really helps the discussion going forward. It really helps set the tone for what we've done as an organization for the things that have been presented before you, Council, and the things that you've approved over the last several years in order to, again, be proactive and to set us up for long-term success. And so when you look back to fiscal year 2004, again, while city property values were growing at that time, we saw the increase due to what was going on with BRAC, the increase in the federal government over at Fort Bliss.
 But at the same time, while the values were growing, the city's property tax rate was decreasing. And so you see we went from just under 72 cents there in fiscal year 2004 and a continuous decrease all the way to fiscal year 2010, where we reached just around 63 cents per 100 hours of valuation. And so ideally, you would say that's a good thing, right? We're all very aware and very concerned with making sure that we're providing low property taxes, but at the same time.
 on the flip side ensuring that we're providing the level of services that our community deserves and that the community service that they really expect and so we've heard all those things as we've presented through the budget chime in survey the things we've seen in the citizen survey and so with that again just taking a look back and so while that property tax rate was decreasing again it would be a great thing if all of these areas had been addressed during that same period of time
 And so I did the presentation last week to talk about the fund balance and what we've managed to do on that end. We've talked about the police department staffing and the 10-year plan that we've put in place. We've talked about the streets and the neglect that we've seen for several decades. We've talked about the quality of life projects, which you're going to hear a little bit about not only in this presentation, but with what San Marcos is going to present on what's still remaining on the CIP. Our public safety vehicles and equipment, no regular replacement to do those on an ongoing basis, on an annual basis to replace vehicles.
 not only the police cars and motorcycles but the fire trucks and ambulances and all of the other vehicles that go along with those departments invested in our facilities and so again not having a regular funding mechanism in place to be proactive to take care of our aging infrastructure so again it's not only our city streets but it's also the number of facilities that the city operates
 that provides a lot of different services for our community. So whether it's public health facilities, whether it's recreational-type facilities, again, there was no mechanism or no funding in place to be proactive on doing preventative maintenance on these facilities. Sports courses and complexes, something that we've talked about the last several years, again, just going back to all of the different assets that we have as a city. The AD on-demand request, the economic incentive. So, again, something that, you know, we talked about economic development and wanting to become a vibrant regional economy.
 But again, going back more than four or five years ago, really limited funding on being able to be aggressive and going out to attract new businesses and retain businesses here in the city as well. And then of course, looking at our employees and what we've done as far as compensation and healthcare. So lowering the property tax was a good thing. Well, I guess it depends upon the level of service and the quality of service that you're expecting out of your city government. And so while trying to balance those two, while maintaining low property taxes, but at the same time ensuring that we are providing
 The quality level of services that we tied back and that we mentioned in our strategic plan and what we're looking to provide. And so as the city manager references all the time and that we say is that, you know, we are in this to provide exceptional services. We're not in it to provide mediocre or average services to our community. We're looking to provide the highest possible level, whether it's public safety, quality of life, our street infrastructure. All of the recommendations and decisions that the council has approved have been focused around that.
 And so in our vision statement, we talk about being powered by a high performing government. So what does that mean? Well, a lot of different systems, processes have been put in place, best practices, which you hear a lot about. And it's not just words that we say. You saw Araceli talk about that during parts of her presentation. We can point to some of it during my presentation as well, once we get a little bit later in the presentation. But really ensuring that we're aligned back to the strategic plan. And so again, going back to those four pillars, first, we're going to be talking about
 ensuring that we're addressing all four of those key areas, and then obviously at the same time, focusing on our workforce. Implementing best practices. So again, what are we doing to create new revenue sources to be able to provide the level of services and not just relying on property taxes? And so it's not just creating revenue sources for streets and for all of those different priorities that we've talked about, but it's also about what are we doing on the economic development side?
 And so what are we doing? We talked about sales tax and I talked to you at the last presentation about how well our sales taxes perform, even going through this COVID-19 health pandemic. Bouncing back quickly, we've seen six consecutive months now of growth going back starting in May of this current fiscal year, of this calendar year, excuse me. But at the same time, also implementing the cost saving programs that you heard Roman Sanchez talk about during his portion of the presentation earlier.
 So not only does that identify efficiencies and effectiveness for the organization, but it also again goes back to what are we doing for our workforce? What are we doing to provide them the skills, the resources, and the knowledge to be able to do their job effectively? And then again, those last two bullet points are critical. And so while, you know, a lot of these decisions people want to, maybe want to criticize and may not understand the need to increase the property taxes or may not understand the need to do some of the things that we've done, really our approach and our recommendations are again aligned back to the strategic plan, focused on being proactive,
 not being reactive, which the city had been for decades, and then at the same time really focusing on the long-term sustainability. And so, I mean, a perfect example of that is what you all have approved with continuing to increase our reserves, putting in place that budget stabilization fund to ensure we maintain a strong financial position as we head through the next couple of years of dealing with the impacts that we're seeing from COVID-19.
 Again, identifying alternative revenue sources, something that we've worked really hard at of what can we do to identify these revenue sources to help provide funding for those priorities, whether it's streets, economic development, public safety capital. So these things hadn't been done prior to a couple of years ago. And so the hotel occupancy tax audits that we've been doing, the sales tax and franchise audits are in place. The bridge cash differential fee, which allows them to go out and do capital projects over at the bridges.
 And then the utility franchise agreement. So the El Paso Electric Agreement, which we've utilized to help ensure that not only are we recovering the fair compensation for the use of the city rights away, but then how are we using those dollars from the economic development side to, again, continue to build our economy to reach that vibrant regional economy status that we're looking for in our vision. Leveraging federal and state funding. Again, this is an area that, whether it's changing federal state legislation or whether it's...
 working closely with the state to and the federal government on the MPO projects to get that funding and leverage every possible dollar that we have. Again, Sam Rodriguez and Yvette Hernandez have presented that information to you on how we're able to utilize the city's funding to match paying 20% of a project while 80% is coming through the MPO and again and those types of projects are usually your large-scale transportation type projects that have a significant impact on the community. And then again, what are we doing to become more effective? Again,
 The workforce is critical. And so ensuring that we have an engaged and motivated workforce, providing them an opportunity to continue to grow, providing them an opportunity to have their voices be heard has been critical. And so the Lean Six Sigma training has been something that has been worked very well. We've got hundreds of employees that have gone through training. We've got a lot of projects that have not only been completed, but in the queue. Continue to work on the Bajas training again to ensure that
 providing our employees an opportunity to really look at things from a different perspective. The Bulgers training focuses on seven different areas. It really does make you take a look deep within your organization to ensure that you're being as efficient and effective as possible. And then finally, some financial tools. And so, again, what are we doing to maximize all available resources, utilizing best practices to provide these services at the best possible cost to our community, but at the same time doing everything we can to improve
 to get these projects done as well. So I've talked a little bit about this. I won't spend a lot of time here but again our fund balance I can't say enough about that something that city manager and I over the last several years have met with the bond raiders something they've pointed out they you know they keep telling us or have been telling us that you know it was good to see the four years of consistent trends but you know they wanted to see more so we've continued to build on that with what we've done with the closing of our fiscal year 2020 which just ended August 31st
 The creation of the budget stabilization fund, which again, is another tool and resource that we have at our disposal. And so although you all approve that as a backup to be proactive in providing the response to the COVID, that's only going to be used as necessary. Obviously, we want to hold on to that as long as we can so that we can continue to use that into the next several years as we continue to deal with the impacts from COVID-19. The police department. So again, that 10-year staffing plan.
 So what have we done? Increase over 140 net increase in the number of officers in our police department. The street funding, the $10 million of annual funding now that we have in place so that we can minimize the use of debt. So that's, again, going back to some of the strategies and our best practices of...
 you know what are we doing to be proactive what are we doing to continue to make this a long-term sustainability plan and not just focusing on being reactive again and having to go out and issue ceo to do any type of operating or minor repair that should be built into the annual budget the operating cost for quality of life projects i put that in there because there's a significant cost to not only building these facilities but then what are we doing to build in the operating costs associated with these projects and so you hear the same manager talk about you know the horses in the
 Well, we've done that over the last five years, over $16 million that have been built into the budget to ensure that we have the staff and the resources that go into operating these facilities. And there's still projects to be completed, so there's additional costs related to these projects that need to be factored in over the next several years. And then finally there, the last bullet point again, the public safety capital to have $4 million annual PAYGO funding now to get us on...
 a replacement cycle in both the police and the fire department for their their capital replacement needs whether it's police vehicles or other type of capital equipment needs. I provided this slide in here just for context and so I mean we talked a lot about our largest cost driver and our largest revenue source so this shows our public safety costs going back to fiscal year 2012 as compared to our general fund property taxes so the blue there is the public safety cost and you see the continuous annual increase in those departments police and fire
 not only been being driven by the number of officers we've added over the last five years, but also due to the collective bargaining agreements that are in place with those departments. And you see how that compares to the general fund, which is again our largest revenue source, and how that compares. And so the public safety exceeds our general fund revenue by just about 40 million dollars. So our general property taxes does not even cover the cost related to police and fire. A couple of other key points here again, just going back to more of the discussion about what we've done from the pay go,
 funding, creating that annual funding source to address these priorities. It's been very critical. Again, the economic development, you're going to see that coming up here in the new year with the economic development incentive policy that we have in place. Again, and how we're going to be able to utilize those dollars going forward. So whether it's focusing on our small businesses, which have been impacted financially with COVID-19, or whether it's utilizing those dollars to go out and continue to attract the large businesses to relocate here and take advantage of that and how we grow our economy.
 Again, just a reminder on how we were able to balance the fiscal year 2021 budget. I put this slide in here just about every presentation because I think it's important to remember how we were able to do what we did. Again, it wasn't easy this past summer. It's not going to get any easier as we head into the next fiscal year and even fiscal year after that. Our number one target, again, and what we heard and what we knew the community was dealing with as far as the financial impact was keeping the tax rate flat, not increasing it.
 while at the same time continue to focus on our police fire, our health department and our workforce. So although we focused on the public safety on the police side, again if you remember we have been doing the two academies a year and due to the limited resources we were only able to fund the one police academy for the current fiscal year. And so again the target and the goal there was to not drop below where we are of what we're able to accomplish over the last five years to keep it at the same staffing level.
 But unfortunately, because of what we're facing with the financial impacts, we weren't going to be able to increase the size of the police force this fiscal year. And then the third bullet point there, that's a very important point because when we look at what we've done with our city departments and the employees, and again, we talk about our workforce and how critical they are to the organization, we unfunded all of our non-essential vacant positions. So hundreds and hundreds of positions within every city department were unfunded.
 And so we needed those savings to be able to accomplish the first bullet point there of maintaining the overall same tax rate, while at the same time focus on the investment in those core services that we provide as a city. So going forward, we continue to work on how we go about developing the budget for next year and the year after, and beginning to look at how do we begin to identify what are going to be those critical positions that we need to fund going into these future years.
 And then the final couple of points here again, we talked about the delaying of the new amenities. Sam's gonna have more information on that in his presentation. And then also the deferred completion of capital projects as well. And so no data issuance was planned for this current fiscal year.
 We talked about that and what that's going to do to those capital projects that are in the queue that are whether they're closing up the design phase and ready to move in the construction phase or whether they've been completed and we just haven't been able to open them yet. Those are discussions and things that we really need to get moving on as we move through the next couple of fiscal years. So again, just a breakdown of the overall city tax rate. So the two components, the general fund and the debt service fund.
 And I put this in there because that debt service fund portion of the tax rate, this is what goes to fund our capital projects. And so everything that you hear Sam talk about, you hear Yvette talk about, that $0.28 is what funds our capital improvement projects. It's what funds all of the street projects going back to the 2012 CIP. It's funding the Quad of Life projects. It's funding all of the various projects that...
 you've heard us discuss over the last few years. There's still a lot of projects in the queue that are still looking to move forward here in the next couple of fiscal years. Really developing that long-term plan of what that's going to look like as far as prioritizing is really what we're going to discuss with you all today in this presentation and with what Sam is going to present to you. Again, looking at the overall breakdown of the property tax rate, again, this slide is important because it shows
 That over two-thirds of the overall tax rate goes to fund the operating and maintenance portion of our budget. And so that's funding the police department, the fire department, our streets department, our court of life departments, those core services as a city that we provide. And then the remaining 31%, so just under a third, goes to fund those capital projects. So that's the debt service portion of the tax rate. So if you take these numbers here and you do a simple division of the general fund divided by the overall tax rate, you come up with that 69%.
 So again, you see the increase there over the last five years and the operating and maintenance or general fund portion of the rate. And that's really being driven by what we've done with the investment in our police department, what we've done to build it in the quality of life operating cost, and then what we've done by the compensation health care increases that we've been able to hold the line on with our city employees. So as we move into discussion about capital projects, so again, the discussion, if you think back to those four pillars that I talked about, the financial,
 the operational, this is the capital planning piece of it. And so looking forward with the capital projects that we still have in the queue that are still in the works, what are we doing to try to maximize the resources that we have, again, utilizing best practices to try to minimize the amount of debt that we're going to need to issue for these projects. And so we've talked about the refinancing, almost $50 million in the last four years from refinancing existing debt. Also maximizing what we're doing as far as investments. And so our investment team that we have over in the Comptroller's Office,
 does a fantastic job of taking the resources that we have, the cash on hand, investing according to our investment policy. And you can see almost $30 million in the last three years. And so those funds, the investment interest, stays within the funds that generate the revenue. And so within our capital projects funds, anything that's generated as far as investment interest stays within those funds and goes to fund those projects moving forward.
 And then again the annual pay go which again is a critical a critical step in the right direction towards that being proactive the long-term sustainability. And again what are we doing to try to minimize the use of debt as we move forward. And so almost 30 million dollars of annual pay go to address priorities for our community. So again going back to the streets the public safety parks all of those various things that we hear about every year from our community as being a top priority for them.
 So this slide here is going to set up some of the discussion that Sam's going to talk about. And so this shows our CFP plans and where we're at as far as the amount that has been issued and then the remaining authorization for each of these plans. So you see the largest component there, the 2019 public safety bond, with what you all approved earlier this calendar year, so back in February of this year. We issued $35 million for the public safety bond that was passed in November of 2019. We still have $378 million remaining to be issued.
 And so out of the total remaining that we have to be issued of all of these different capital project plans, that public safety bond makes over half, makes over half of the remaining amount to be issued. And so myself, our budget team, our comptroller team worked very closely with Sam and the engineering, the capital improvement team to work on what's going to look like, how's the rollout going to work with these capital projects over the next several years,
 to phase it in so that we obviously we're not impacting the debt service rate significantly each year, but then same time keeping these projects on time and on schedule. And so this is what we have so far as a model. And so I've shown the slide several times. We continue to update it because it changes all the time as we get annual taxable property values from the Central Appraisal District. The one good thing I'll point out here is that the Council did a couple years ago increase the maximum debt rate per the debt management policy up to 40 cents.
 And you can see that factoring in. And so what I've done here is I've taken all of the remaining authorizations. I factored them in based on the rollout of what SAM is planning over the next several years, of what's been presented as far as the public safety bond, which is really the large driver. And that puts us at a maximum, looking at fiscal year 2027, of just around 37 cents on the debt rate. So, again, staying well below what we had originally estimated a couple of years ago of getting close to the 40 cents.
 And so these estimates and these assumptions are based on a lot of different things. And so one is what are you looking at as far as your overall property value growth going into the future? What are you projecting as far as interest rates? What are the amount of authorizations that you're looking at each of these fiscal years? It doesn't take into account, and this is key, this is critical because I talked about how these numbers change. We do not build in any refunding opportunities into these numbers. We could, however, this shows essentially what it looks like without doing any additional refunding. And so.
 The reason why we do that is that when those refunding opportunities present themselves, that only makes this improve. It makes it better. It's going to bring these numbers down and actually put us in a much better position to get these projects done. And plus, with the refunding opportunities, there's so much market volatility that's really hard to estimate based on timing and what the actual savings would be from any refunding into the future. So with that, our next steps. And so, as I mentioned earlier, the deferring of the debt issuance for the capital projects in this current fiscal year.
 Something we've been looking at, we continue to monitor. We do have refinancing opportunities. I talked about the 46 million over the last four years that we've saved by refinancing existing debt. We have more opportunities to refinance. So we continue to build on that. How could we possibly structure a deal so that we utilize those savings and potentially do not only the refunding, but do an issuance for new money so that we can get some of these capital projects moving and looking at doing something possibly early in 2021
 And again, the savings would be from the refinancing and also some of our debt service savings that would fund this issuance so that it would not impact the tax rate. So again, continuing to work very closely with the capital improvement team on the rollout and what those capital projects will look like over the next several years. That completes my presentation. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Representative Schwartz. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Patinas. I wonder if you can go on slide 16 again. Sure.
 Would that be looking, just to be clear, so we would be looking at an increase for next year up until 2027? That's correct. So we'd be looking at a tax increase right now? That's correct. And so, again, looking at this slide here, so if you go all the way back to the 2012 Court of Life bond, we still have $128 million remaining to be issued. That's all in Proposition 2, which is the signature project, which is the MPC project.
 Okay. So we're not gonna do anything with that in the very near future. Looking at the 2012 street infrastructure, we still have out of the 2012 street, we still have 45 million to be issued. And then if you start looking at the different capital plans that have been approved, and then obviously building in the public safety bond, 370 million, there's $752 million total in remaining authorizations to be issued over that time period that I'm showing here. And so not all those projects, not obviously it doesn't all get,
 phased in all at once. It's all about the timing of the projects, obviously trying to minimize the impact on the overall debt rate. And at the same time, also looking at the overall value growth. And I'll tell you also, and so, I mean, one of the things that we do when we do this modeling is obviously we don't wanna be too aggressive. We don't wanna be too optimistic. We wanna make sure it's conservative, that it's realistic really, and that, for example, the taxable value growth is something that really drives what this is gonna look like in the future.
 And so the last couple of years we've seen really strong growth in our taxable values, 4%, which compared to historical average of 1.5% is really strong growth for us as a city. And so when we're looking at what we're using in this model going forward, we are not using 4% average annual growth. We're using actually under 2%. We're using that historical average. So when the city manager and I talk about using data and the historical data to really drive how we're building this modeling.
 being conservative. And so if we do have 4% 5% of value growth, that obviously helps the amount that's going to be or helps lower the amount that's going to be needed to cover the debt portion, which will lower the debt service rate. In terms of this, this increase, does that assume that library museum services will be restored for the next fiscal year? So this is just looking at the debt service rate. This is not looking at the operating the maintenance rate. This is just looking at the capital projects and getting those completed.
 Okay. So that so I guess what I'm trying to understand is when you're when we're already having these budget updates now to sort of prep and prepare for the upcoming budget for next year. And so, you know, we have these updates and then, you know, we're told
 over the summer during the budget that we've been updated throughout the year. So I'm trying to understand right now, is the plan to have our libraries and museum services operational for the next fiscal year? I can't tell you at what level. I will tell you that we do have them funded at some level. And so we talked a lot about this during the budget over the last several months.
 It's going to be driven by obviously the health pandemic of what we're going to look like as far as actually being able to open these facilities. But we do have those departments funded. We don't have all of the new amenities completely funded. And so this presentation and this focus of this budget update is really focusing on the capital project piece. You're going to continue to get budget updates just like we've done over the last six years with more information. So one of the things we're already working on is what that five-year forecast looks like and what that's going to look like if you do go back to 100%.
 So you heard the city manager talk about that a few minutes ago. We're going to present that information to you and show you what that's going to look like here, whether it's in January or February. We'll show that to you over the next couple months of what is it going to look like when you look at our revenue growth versus our expenditure growth, and if you are to go back to 100%. So whether you're looking at – and when I say 100%, I'm going back to what I talked about earlier. So it's not just the quality of life departments that took budget reductions.
 Again, it's all of the vacant positions in every city department that were unfunded. It's also looking at the city taking on all of the health care increases this current year. It's deferring opening those new facilities quite a lot, but it's also there's other operating costs with other capital projects as well. It's all of that is the full picture and that's what we want to present to you all. We're not going to piecemeal and show you one piece of it. We want to make sure we show you the full comprehensive picture of what that's going to look like. Okay. I mean,
 I guess you're sort of you know working around it. I think it's really important when we talk about a high performing government that it's imperative to make to reintroduce those services that have been cut due to due to COVID. Specifically our library and museum services. When people talk about what their expectations are for government yes public safety and streets is really important but we've heard time and time again over these months that the libraries and the museums
 are as important are important as well. And we're hearing about the recycling service being being stopped. So you know when we're talking about that I think it's really important that that there is an expectation that these services that these services were cut
 because of the health concerns in our response to COVID. So what I'm trying to understand is for our budget, are we still planning on keeping our libraries and museums shuttered because of COVID or because we just don't wanna upset the budget? Because when we talk about a high performing government, I think a lot of our constituents have the expectation that libraries and museums are part of their understanding about where their tax dollars are going.
 And I don't disagree with the representative sports buying. And so I'm not running around anything. I think I've addressed your question. And so I'll tell you also at the same time, and I'm going to go back to the slide, because we talked about balancing priorities. And so nobody disagrees with you about the importance of quality of life in our community. If you look at this first bullet point here, though, we've talked about the limited resources we have as an organization. We've talked about the limited growth we see in our property values. We've been fortunate that we have seen growth in our sales tax.
 but our number one target for this year was at the same time not increasing the tax rate. And so when you talk about, you know, the community expects quite a lot of services, we don't disagree with you, but at the same time, we hear a lot from the community as well about not increasing taxes. So there's a balancing that goes along with providing services, dealing with the limited resources that you have,
 And so all of this information is presented to the council. I mean, we're presenting the information to you today, focused on the capital project piece, because it's a large component of what was deferred and what was delayed, especially with the public safety bond that was passed in November of 2019. We'll continue, as I said, we'll continue to update you with different budget updates. Again, talking about that five-year plan of what that's gonna look like if we go back to the 100% of funding everything that was unfunded this year.
 One of the concerns about keeping the libraries closed, or at least extremely limited services, is with COVID. Has there been any discussion now with four weeks of declining numbers about reintroducing curbside services? I don't know if that's a question for you, Robert, or for Tommy, or for somebody else. What I would tell you is, just to add to the context of the discussion...
 The vast majority of the decision making had to do with COVID in terms of the changes that were put in place. So it was driven by that. As far as right now, the numbers do look very promising. As we told you in the past and we advised and then it happened,
 We're advising at this particular time that because of the cold weather, we think there would be another surge. That's what everything we read about as well and everything we're told by the experts are saying. So we don't want to contribute to the increase by thinking it's OK and starting opening things back up. I think for sure, after the summer months, after the vaccine is widely distributed, there are plans to get back into the swing of things for the next year.
 So that's next year's budget. Right now in the 2020-2021 budget that takes us through this next summer, it's very limited. And it's very limited primarily because of COVID. We don't want to add to the increase in the numbers by...
 having this false positive thinking everything's okay and bringing things online too quickly. Your assessment, your points are well received and I agree with the comments that Robert is making that next year we are probably going to plan to bring in more things online. That's the reason I've said during this several of the other presentations and now I'll repeat again that when we come online that has to be aligned with the
 expectations the council community has with regard to the tax rate as well as the expectations that they have with the economic recovery of our community so we'll have to balance that act but will you know obviously the council will have opportunity to speak on those points it's just going to be a matter of how you want to manage expectations for the community but this year we did
 recommend what we did based on the fact that they were being impacted adversely by COVID, and we didn't want to add to the burden of that. I know several of you are not disappointed that the projects that when we meet one-on-one are not getting done, but that's a direct correlation with the debt issuance and the operational things. And again, I have to repeat this because I've said this since I've come here in 2014,
 The community needs to understand, the council needs to understand that when you spend more money, when you buy more horses and you feed them, it's going to cost more.
 And so we can't say in one breath that we want these things and we want to bring them back online, but yet we don't want the tax rate to be impacted. And then we've made cuts, and when we make cuts, it's like, well, you cut too much. And so, you know, some of the recommendations or some of the things that we've presented in previous financial presentations has been, have we cut out a million dollars on the executive side?
 And we're doing those things to be efficient so that it's not going to be as big a burden in the future. And that's the reason why, as we pointed out, we created the rate stabilization fund as well. But it's all a matter of what we choose to spend our money on.
 But when we spend it, we all have to be on the same page and then, you know, be in favor of it. Because, you know, if we're saying we want these things and then we vote against the budget, I mean, that's kind of saying two different things. So I just want to get clear direction and allow execute. I think we've shown the council, y'all give us clear direction. We've executed and we'll provide whatever services the community wants. But I just have to balance that with the fact that with reality and that is that there is going to be an impact.
 And if I may, this is Tracy Jerome, Deputy City Manager of Quality of Life. I appreciate all the support that Council has offered and continues to provide, and I will ask that you continue to do so by sharing the information of all the virtual programming that has continued and will continue. I know it's not the same as being able to actually walk into our facilities, but again, for the health and safety of our community and for our staff,
 We want to make sure that we don't do that until we don't open the doors until we can. However, programming has continued. That has never been interrupted. I would like to thank staff across all of the Quality of Life portfolio who continues to work diligently and tirelessly to provide the virtual programming. And I thank you all for sharing this.
 that. And I ask that you can continue to do that, especially during the holiday season. There's some great exhibitions that can be visited virtually. And there's a lot of great programming around Winterfest. Library programming continues. Zoo programming continues. Parks programming continues. And so, you know, we will get there. But I, again, thank you for your support and ask that you continue to let your constituents know that all that's still available to them. And I know it's not the same. We all understand that.
 But I do want to thank staff again for all the work that they continue to do to continue to offer that type of programming until we can bring people back into our facilities in person and face-to-face. Let me just say one thing real quick. One thing that was said really quick was, Mr. Rohn, the expectation that our museums and libraries will not be open for any in-person service inside the buildings until at least the summer or the upcoming budget year?
 As we presented to you before, Representative, we have a rollout plan and we have a phased plan of bringing people back. We don't have dates attached to that. It's just like with a workforce coming back in.
 in-person council meetings, our workforce being back into the office spaces in a different way to what we're doing right now. We don't have set dates because we don't know what's going to happen with the pandemic. We have a plan in place. Staff is ready to go when we can activate on those. Unfortunately, we've had a couple of false starts. We've tried to reactivate certain services, and we've had to retract because of the health concerns.
 So I don't have a date on the calendar for anybody at this point, and we are ready to go when we can. But unfortunately, the virus hasn't cooperated with us and has really thwarted a lot of our efforts. But we will continue with our offerings until we can move forward. So I just had two follow-up questions, and I know, Carrie, you want to start first.
 One, do we have the financial resources to start before the next fiscal year to open up in person our libraries or museums? We have rolled out to you. We have shown you a modified operational plan that we have in place that we can support in this fiscal year if we are able to from a health and safety standpoint. Will it be back to the way it was prior to COVID? Absolutely not.
 And anybody that tells you that things are going to go back immediately to the way that they were before the pandemic hit in March is not being honest with you. What I will tell you is if all things come together, we will be able to do a modified opening at our various sites. So we're not saying that we're not going to open until we haven't set a date in the calendar.
 We have a plan in place to be able to do modified openings and modified service expansion. We just haven't been able to do this successfully in long term yet. The curbside service was going well, but obviously we had to stop that. We've tried to reopen the zoo on a couple of different occasions, and we've been thwarted each time by spikes in the virus.
 but staff is doing everything they can, and we are ready to go when we can, when we can do it safely. And I want to say that it's also, you know, we're concerned about our public, but our public and our community is also our workforce. So we want to make sure that we're providing them with a safe environment to be there and to service the community. But with respect to the pandemic, we have been briefing council on our operational, you know, how we stand our organization back up.
 And we were aggressive. Council did want those things. And then we had to stop as Jerome has pointed out because of the numbers spiking. So we don't want to be a contributor to that. And everything we've read everything we've seen and the council has said this we have said this that we need to listen to the experts. Everything we've seen and read we don't want to contribute to it and then increase the or contribute to the spike.
 and have more negativism for El Paso and for our community. And I think that's going to be more important than the provision of services and putting them on too soon. So that's where we're at. And it's not based on being recalcitrant. It has everything to do with following the data, as the council has pointed out and is being pointed out.
 So that's the reason why we have been making these recommendations and going slow on the reopening because of the numbers. So we are true to what we've told you with regard to the budget, with regard to when those numbers go down, we'll go back to opening them. I have just said repeatedly, if you get to 100 percent, there will be an impact on the taxes. We have in 2012.
 and then the additional items that we put on with regard to the improvements to streets and then the public safety have bit off more than we can chew or the more that we can eat or more than we can pay for. So it will increase the taxes. It will have an impact to the taxes. I,
 I just have been saying that since day one. And I want to be consistent not only with the council but with the public so that they know, so they're not surprised. I don't want there to be any surprises. I don't want that when we do that, what we do, what do you mean what do we do? We did exactly what we were told to do. And so we want to make sure that everyone understands that, that these services cost money and to get it to 100%. And we were going really fast. We were going really hard. A lot of results, a lot of success.
 A lot of new quality of life services, but again, all that has an impact. I understand that, and I think it's important, again, I don't think anybody's suggesting to go and add to any sort of spike, but I also think we need to be honest about what the data shows. The Texas Medical Association shows both libraries and museums as low-risk to low-to-medium-risk activities that are there. And curbside pickup, while I understand that there's an impact on our workforce,
 and their safety as well. We're also talking about, you know, curbside service where no residents go inside any sort of building, which is, you know, equivalent to a lot of the different
 small businesses that we see in other businesses that we see in our community. So I'm really, I'm hopeful that we understand that our library services is not, is not a non-essential service and something that can sort of be sort of zeroed out. It's, it's fundamental to the education and mental health.
 and welfare of our community. I know that the mayor is very, very concerned about mental health of our residents. And those libraries and the services that they provide in person, not just virtually, is important as well. So I'm hopeful that with the numbers hopefully going down throughout the first quarter that we can look at,
 that we're going to be looking at. So I think we need to look at reinstating some of that that that curbside service sooner than later when it's safe. Yeah, I think real quick, um, comment I wanted to make about the numbers overall. I mean, I think one of the things we ought to be careful of is we're looking at reopening facilities. We had already talked
 We can't get mesmerized by the numbers that we're seeing today. I mean, it's easy to do, especially when we were peaking in early November at over 2,600. And so obviously it's been very encouraging to see the decline, to see the numbers declining, the hospitalizations declining, the ICU numbers declining. But if we looked at what our numbers are today and this would have been last summer, we would have been very concerned.
 And so, you know, we're going to take the opinions and the recommendations from the public health authority and looking at all those different things, all those declines. But the fact of the matter is, although it's been very encouraging to see the decline in numbers, the numbers are still high.
 They are. I mean, 100 to 200 a day is still a lot of people that are getting sick and infected by the virus. So we just need to keep that in mind and not do the stark comparison between early November and where we are now. Continue to chip away, doing all the things that we need to do to stay safe as a community, and then we'll make good decisions. Okay. Representative Fernandez? Yes.
 Thank you for the presentation, Mr. Cortines. You had mentioned multiple times about the potential for refinancing. And so I'm curious, what is the plan into the new year while rates are very low? Will that be something that you'll be bringing back to council for consideration? Mr. Gonzalez?
 Absolutely. So we want to get the overall structure of it in place, right? So I want to make sure that we've got good numbers on not only what the refinancing could generate as far as savings, but also just working really closely with Sam to understand what's the priorities as far as those capital projects. I mean, he's going to talk about that with you all right now, what's been deferred, what, you know, if we wait on certain projects, what impact it could have. So I'm putting that together, what a new issuance or new money will look like.
 and what that amount is going to be. And then I mean, at the same time, trying to stay within the savings that we're gonna generate so that we don't impact the debt rate this current year. So I mean, absolutely. I mean, the plan is, you know, hopefully sometime in the first quarter of 2021, we get that presented to you all for consideration. Okay. And you show a lot about the debt rate, but I'm curious about the O&M. Do you have projections that coincide with the rollout of quality of life?
 Right. So as I mentioned, we're working right now on the five-year rollout. And so deferring the quarter of life, some of those new projects this year obviously impacted us a little bit. We will be presenting that five-year. I mean, we've been working on it. We obviously want to make sure that we have good numbers before we show anything to you all. Some of the projects, the quarter of life projects and those estimated operating costs, we need to make sure we have it updated. So absolutely. I mean, that's the plan is that, you know, going into 2021, we're no different than what we've done.
 to start showing you all what these numbers are going to look like, particularly on the quality of life side, because that is going to be a driver. But I mean, that's just one of the drivers is the quality of life. But then at the same time, also looking at our public safety departments, our police departments, police department in particular, with what we've done on that staffing plan, it's it's a very ambitious plan to want to add 300 officers over that 10 year period. Those 30 net increase every year come with a cost. And so one point that I didn't get to make to Representative Schwarzbein is
 you know it's the quality of life it's the public safety on the operating side right now it's our workforce those are really the drivers to get all these quality of life projects done but also at the same time now we're dealing with the impact from cinnabill too and what that could potentially have on us going forward on the maximum we're allowed to raise taxes without going to the voter so again it's balancing all of these different services and all these different projects at the same time we're trying to minimize the impact on the tax rate obviously
 Right. And I'm really curious to see a model of what that would look like if we were at full capacity versus like 75% capacity. And then looking at the new quality of life projects that just been built. Of course, the water parks, our new community centers that we just completed building.
 And so I know the public is eager to use that when the time is appropriate. And so I agree with Mayor Pro Tem that we need to start thinking about, you know,
 planning in and phasing in to make these services operational. I don't think there's anything wrong with, you know, preparing a forecast or preparing a plan to make some of these services operational. And I know we heard time and time again that it's going to be, it's going to be dependent on the health, public health of the community and where we're at with it.
 with the pandemic, but we also need to take into account that in the new fiscal year, maybe in the summer, we might be able to open some of these services, and I think that the public would really appreciate that. And so those are the things I'm hearing from my community is when is the Valle Vajo Community Center going to open? When is the water park going to open? And yes, everybody understands and they're being patient, but when there's going to come a time in this fiscal year
 Um, I believe and I'm encouraged that there's going to come a time in this fiscal year that the populace is going, the majority of the populace is going to be vaccinated. Then we should we should have a plan prepared to to reopen some of these services to include our libraries, community centers, water parks. And there's nothing wrong with just creating a plan and being prepared for that if if the time does come.
 Um, some of the, we do have a plan. We have talked about it. We do need to just show you all those numbers, but we have been working on that. Like we said, we have been so, um, as Robert pointed out, this is the capital side. We'll come back at a future council meeting and talk about the operational side that will include what we're talking, what we're discussing right now. Yeah. And, and, you know, I've seen, I've seen the plans and I know you all presented it before and we appreciate you, um, continue to present it. Um, I think now
 the concern is, okay, are we fiscally able to open up? And if we are, do we have the funds available within this fiscal year to do that? And so if there is, maybe at a limited capacity, because again, the public is eager to get these services back. And so one thing I just wanted to mention about the budget and where we're at currently is,
 is I'm very interested in looking at the refinancing and see how that can help achieve economies of scale. I'm also interested in looking at increasing our workforce within the city because I think those are also contributing factors to improve our economy. We are a workforce. We are contributing to our economy, and so we should be trying to find ways to increase
 the number of vacant positions and to fill those vacant positions. And I know it's talked about that that's one of the major factors to reduce the budget. But I think filling those vacancies can really help our economy long term. And also looking at the...
 some of these quality of life projects that are really going to improve our economy like the Mexican American Culture Center and
 I'm very eager to see the progress of that. I think that along with the Children's Museum and hopefully in the near future, the Multipurpose Center, these are going to be factors that will improve not only entertainment and quality of life, but will activate surrounding businesses in downtown and will certainly help with the recovery of our economy.
 And then looking for a plan to activate the streetcar again. Of course, this is all post-pandemic and when the pandemic is slowed down.
 looking at small business relief recovery efforts. I know there's plans underway, but there's not, I'm a little concerned with the funding availability for that, so it's like to start having that conversation soon, what dollars will be set aside, and then what the targeted will be, the targets will be for small businesses or even small business loans, as we have given in the past. And then finally,
 One thing that's very important to my constituents and of course the rest of the city, and I know this aligns with the public art plan, but the August 3rd Memorial, that's something that I really want to start to focus on in the new year on how a strategy to pay for that. And I know we've talked about it in the past, but as we're talking about the budget, I'm throwing out these things because these are very important to my constituents. And then finally a street- Mr. Nanis, what did you say last?
 The August 3rd Memorial. And then finally, a street bond. As we're talking about ways to... Ways to...
 the economy, of course contracts help employ businesses, but also these are these are major priorities for our constituents and so if we can start to plan for that in this new year and into the next fiscal year, I see that there is a cushion between the tax of the debt service rate and I would like to start to factor in what it would cost to ask the voters to approve some of these reconstruction projects and repaving projects
 because again, I have talked to many of my constituents and they said if it was up to them and if they had a vote, they would vote to support that. And so start thinking about not only our public safety bond, but now an infrastructure bond that's gonna help not only our aesthetics and safety improvement, but also our economy. So those are my thoughts on where we're at with the budget. Thank you. Representative Bonillo.
 Thank you. Representative Hernandez and I are almost exactly on sync with what our comments are. However, I have a little bit different of an opinion when it comes to the quality of life projects. So, Robert, would you be able to pull up the debt slide you had that included the remaining quality of life projects in the 2012 bond and the public safety project?
 It's not super necessary. So there's a remaining of $128 million. And we know that Representative Hernandez mentioned that that includes the Red Skipper Cultural Center, the MPC, and from what Sam Rodriguez showed us earlier, I know in my district there's a rec center that is really important to the community, and I'm sure there are other projects that are similar. But when we're looking at...
 finishing these quality life projects and issuing this debt instead of what Representative Mayor Pro Tem was talking about, it doesn't make a lot of sense to me. It's gonna take time to build these, they're important to the community and we do need to get them done. And I also wanna say to Mr. Gonzalez, I know that when myself and other council members came in in 2017, we really challenged you to finish these quality of life projects sooner than later.
 But looking at the financial situation we're in now, I don't know why we wouldn't prioritize opening the facilities we have now over issuing this debt and completing these projects. I'm not saying don't do these projects. But for me, if there is, what are we choosing in the next fiscal year? It would be really putting money towards getting our employees back and opening the facilities that we have.
 So that is the statement that I wanted to make about that. I also, I really, really agree with Representative Hernandez. I haven't seen anything in this presentation on looking at financial assistance moving forward. We talk a lot about what the federal government's going to do. They haven't done anything since the CARES Act and we know that all of that is kind of on hold.
 And so I think it is important that we are looking at community-based services to help people through this pandemic, whether that's continuing rental assistance. People are being evicted right now during the holidays, during a pandemic. And I would like to see a model that included a set-aside amount of money for these funds. So thank you.
 If I may, Ms. Anello, a couple of points. We presented at the last council meeting on the issue of having money set aside that the council voted on when the money ran out. So we do have funding set aside. With respect to the small businesses, we also have a program for that, too, that we briefed the council on. And we are working to...
 on the financial assistance that you referenced specifically, that area there, we're working with CDBG. But that is an area that we're waiting on the federal government, to your point. With respect to the other issue that you mentioned about opening things back up and making that a priority and having the projects completed on time, we were on schedule to be completed with the majority of everything that was on the list by 2021.
 This pandemic stopped everything, as you recall, and we didn't issue debt for this year, except for things that were already in place where we had already issued debt. And then the presentation that Sam will give speaks to some of the slowdown of some of these projects. So we will need to have new dates available.
 new completion dates for not only the public safety, but the rest of the QOL that was very limited, you know, other than the signature projects in terms of being complete, as well as the street projects, because we were on schedule to have a lot of those completed. So we're going to have to have revised timelines based on the pandemic issue. Thank you.
 Okay and really quick Mr. Gonzalez you said that you know we have those funds set aside for community-based projects and you're waiting on CDBG but. No no I didn't say that. My interpretation. No ma'am I didn't say that I said that that's an area we are short in with regard to the rental assistance we are waiting on the federal government for that because the money we set aside had to do with the health issues like keeping the testing going and keeping the contact tracing everything associated with the pandemic
 health position as well as for small businesses because of the way we have our economic dollar set aside with what we were able to negotiate with the electric utility we presented to council our plans and what we're doing to help small businesses i agree that that area with regard to rental assistance that would be an area that we would need help from the federal government on
 And I want to reiterate again, you know that you did a great job on getting these projects on schedule pre-pandemic. But again, for me, I really think that
 reopening the facilities we have as soon as possible takes priority over every building any new facility but it doesn't make sense for me to build quality of life facilities whether that is you know a new rec center in my own district that is really important um or the mexican american cultural center it doesn't make any sense to me to build a facility that's
 a new facility that needs to be staffed that can't be opened right now because we don't have the money to do it i really think that our priority over any quality of life project right now needs to be opening the facilities we have and and that also includes left back online and i don't and i just want to reiterate again that i don't think that's any reflection um on the job that staff had done on getting those projects on time i know that you know this is
 something that no one expected and then we all need to understand that there may be delays because of that. And I think the council should be
 of the decision on prioritizing things. You are. You are part of it. I mean, that's the reason why we do these budget updates. We're getting the feedback from all of you. It's very good feedback, and we've been for the most part been aligned with what you just said, but I think that the majority of the council, whenever there's a vote on an issue, that's what we're going to execute, as you know, but
 But right now with what you're saying, that's what we're aligned with. We're aligned with kind of what your comments are, but that might change because, I mean, Ms. Ananda said something a little bit different than you with regards to the new facilities. So I think that we'll listen to all of you, get all the feedback, and then we'll act upon it, ma'am.
 Well, I know absolutely. I think that's one area that we disagree, but I think that also ask for something super beneficial. I think that looking at different models would be really helpful for the council in the new year, right? What does a model look like where we do half quality of life projects, half reopening, or just all quality projects. So I think, yeah, moving forward, we're definitely going to need to see those models so we can fully understand.
 Yes, ma'am. And we plan on doing that. And just like we said, we were talking about capital, but all good feedback. And yes, we do plan on bringing that forth in the next couple of meetings. So, yes, thank you for that. Yeah, we will bring it back. OK, one rule of thumb, Claudia, I'll get to you just a second. One rule of thumb is that you don't issue debt until you're ready to do the project and have the M&O available.
 But given the interest rate environments you're operating under right now, you may have a one-time window on rates that are unbelievable. So you need to take that into account at the same time. Plus the fact that, remember, on the public safety bond, we included the M&O in that. So it would be a matter of strictly debt, the availability to cover the spread on the debt. Go ahead, Representative Rodriguez.
 ANEESA ROIDADO- Thank you Mayor. I just want to say I absolutely agree with Representative Anello. And so I was just wondering if by the next time that we have one of these update presentations that we can have different models you know just to kind of to show us what hypotheticals right. So this is what the budget could be if we eliminated this debt. And also what we would have to do to eliminate certain debts.
 And I definitely do think also that we should prioritize opening the facilities, the existing facilities that we have versus concentrating on opening new facilities and building new facilities. But that's all I really wanted to say is if we could have those hypothetical models to give us more options and we're able to make better decisions for the coming.
 fiscal year. Thank you. RONALD PORTER I. Rodriguez, if I might. The reason why these numbers shift is because the numbers now with regard to all the refinancing that we've been doing we've saved over we saved millions of dollars. You know it's in the 20 some odd million now in terms of refinancing we've been able to do. I've kept the finance department and Robert really on their toes with that and they've done an exceptional job. So we've done the refinancing. That's why you see those numbers dip and then we didn't issue any debt.
 So the cost is going to be borne more so on the operations side. If we fund 100% of what we have today with any new facilities, you will see a tax increase. 100%. You will.
 And that has to do with not only existing facilities, but then you also have the CBA costs, collective bargaining agreement costs for police and fire. And then you have the streets costs, if we line those back up with regard to the pay as you go dollars that we were receiving that helped us through this pandemic. So just to be clear with the council, I mean, the trajectory we were on where tax increases primarily because as I mentioned before, you had all those projects in 2012 and we put it
 We put them online, and then there's an operating cost to it. And then when we're managing the debt side and reducing that, you still have the operating side that you have to pay for, and that's pay-as-you-go dollars, which ends up being more. I mean, on a debt equation, you can spend $10 million for $1 million in terms of servicing that debt.
 And the interest rate is so low, you can service that debt for like $900,000. And so it's cheaper in some instances to issue the debt. And then when you just line up when that comes online two years later, then you schedule that in two, three years later down the road in the budget process. But what I was simply pointing out that I know I probably have stated overly –
 in my comments is that all of these things do impact the tax rate because when you get the projects back online which we will we'll get it back online i just want to get the council ready because there's just a lot of back and forth that you hear especially during elections and i just want to be clear that if we don't want to increase the tax rate means that we need to stop spending
 we need to stop issuing debt we need to stop uh you know we need to reduce our services with regard to what we provide to the public and if you reduce those you won't you won't increase the tax rate but that's not what i hear from the majority of the council so i i listen to all nine of you and what i hear more than anything is that we need to get these services back online we need to provide these kinds of services and they're good services to provide to our community they they want it they they pay for it and so as long as they know what they're paying for
 But that's all I'm saying. We will come back, as I've already pointed out, and give you the different models for you to look at. And I know philosophically y'all disagree on these issues, but I think the majority of the council has said before and seems like to continue to say that we want to forge ahead and get these projects underway and fund the projects that we've just completed.
 So we're going to have to, and all we're saying as a staff, we need to balance that. We will. We'll balance it. We'll listen to all nine of you. We don't stop at five. We don't stop at four. We listen to all nine, and you have divergent opinions, and that's okay. That's the reason why you're in your office, and we're going to listen to all nine of you. Does anyone else want to speak? Representative Schwartzbein wants to speak again before anybody else. Okay, Representative Schwartzbein. Yeah, I just wanted another word.
 I guess taking notes with Representative Hernandez I just wanted to sort of state too that in terms of looking at at new infrastructure projects that part of that be included the you know the reconstruction list from the 2013 CIP or 2012 CIP as well. There's a number of reconstruction projects throughout our districts that were not completed. So I think that should be factored into it as well. And then
 So just so I'm clear, City Manager, if we were to go and bring back some of these services like libraries and museums, you're essentially saying that would necessitate a tax increase? No. What I'm saying is if we put everything back online at 100%, as we were prior to COVID, prior to the pandemic, yes, you would see an increase. Okay. Okay.
 With respect to getting just certain services back online, no. We can do that at certain levels. But I know that's not the expectation. I mean, if we don't have a pandemic anymore and that goes away,
 What we plan on doing is bringing everything back online. So I hope you're not misunderstanding what I'm saying. I mean, and I'm being clear about that. So that's the reason that when you say what you say and then Robert responds the way he does, we're not saying we're not going to provide these services back online. And I know some of the comments you've heard or some of the comments other people have made, oh, this is a convenient excuse for us to cut these different services. No, that's not why we're doing it.
 I mean, when we started bringing these services back online and the number of serves, we were a contributor to that. And so we're just wanting to be extra careful when we do come back online because, I mean, we've had people get infected at the city, just like we've had people in the community. We've had people die in the community. We have people die from organization now. And so we just want to be super smart now.
 about how we get back online and we just want to be careful and methodical and we've briefed the council about the the seven-day rolling average uh we knew what the cdc guideline was 14 days so we're taking all that into account so the bottom line is we brought some services back no that would not necessitate a tax increase but if we brought everything back online 100 it would okay so i think that i think that's important as as as the
 since we have these updates to talk about the budget midway through the year and not just do it all in three days, I think it's important that there's different sort of options or that the Council can look at in terms of our budget for the next update. I don't necessarily think
 I can't speak for myself. I mean, I can speak for myself. I can't speak for the rest of the Council, but I'm not sure that there's an appetite to go and increase every single service back to 100 percent or if there is to not go and balance that with other sort of street or infrastructure projects as well. But I think that in an a la carte sort of thing where there's option one, two or three,
 about what it looks like to have some services restored or some projects put on pause versus others gives us in the community the flexibility to sort of make these sort of educated decisions knowing that we're not at 100 percent in terms of our economic recovery or probably with our sort of public health sort of recovery as well going into next year as well so I think that that's
 I think an important thing to look at as well. It's just, it is sort of challenging at times to understand the services that we're not offering. Is it because of a health concern or is it because of a financial concern? Because oftentimes it feels when we're discussing this, it's almost interchangeable when we sort of flip back and forth about why the services are limited, because we didn't want to go and raise, because we wanted to keep the tax rate flat versus it's too dangerous to go and open up
 different services there. So I think it's it's it's kind of frustrating to sort of parse out what what it is about why we're we're limiting the services moving forward. But I think that in terms of I just want to be brief because I know that I've already talked a bunch. But in terms of looking at our our upcoming budget I
 piggybacking on Representative Hernandez to look at some of those unfunded reconstruction projects as part of an overall sort of infrastructure sort of plan is something I think that at least something worth it to sort of to look at further. And then also when we're talking about the budget and whatever sort of proposed budget
 sort of tax rate that we that the Council is given sort of different sort of options to sort of look at with ideally sort of pros and cons based upon full services, partial services, spending of debt, etc., etc. And that's all I got.
 So I think that just to be clear, because I mean, I don't want the community or the rest of the council to be left hanging with some of those comments in that we've been very clear it was because of the pandemic. I think when you make an adjustment in the budget,
 and the money's not there, then the money's not there anymore. And so that's what Robert's been reporting on. So then we've created this rate stabilization fund as we've told the council, so that if we bring things back online, we would be able to do so. So there hasn't been any confusion or any blurred lines. And I don't know, you shouldn't be confused.
 You know, as a council member, especially as long as you've served, you know the budget, you know how this works. And so we're just being clear with you so that you can communicate that to the public. I wanna be very clear that the pandemic is what caused us to make this shift. We have a rate stabilization fund so that we can get back online the way we need to. We feel like we can manage the needs of the community with regard to health and with regard to bringing some of these services back online at some level.
 like we had planned to do already. So there's no, I want to just be clear. I'm not, y'all shouldn't be confused because I think that we've been very clear in terms of the message. We're hitting noon almost for public comment. Is there anything else on this one? Okay. Well, I'll let you announce public comment in what, 45 seconds or how long? Yes, sir. We'll take a, we'll just pause for a bit, just until noon. It's less than a minute, I think. Yes, sir.
 All right. Thank you. Okay. It is now noon. We'll move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business. Nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This afternoon we have two members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Lindsay Adams. Her topic is Dr. Sam Morgan. Good afternoon, Ms. Adams.
 Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Good afternoon. You have three minutes, ma'am. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Lindsay Adams for the record, Chief of Staff to Dr. Sam Morgan. I just wanted to take a moment to publicly thank my boss. Sam, I am so thankful for you as a friend and as a boss. We have accomplished so much together, and I will always be proud of that.
 For the last three years, I have cared so much about the Northeast and the people in it. I have dedicated my heart and soul to them. I have spent countless hours researching and finding solutions, and I have stuck by your side through all the hate and hard times, but those times made the good times so much better. I did this all because you made me care. You helped me find my passion, and you saw in me the things I failed to see in myself. You made it abundantly clear that the only way to succeed in this job is to care about the Northeast and the people in it.
 And I did that and still do. You helped me grow as a person and as a leader because you believed in me no matter what. I watched as you always put the Northeast first. Everything you have done was always done with the Northeast in mind. You put the people of Northeast before yourself and before your family and before your friends. And I don't think that they will ever realize the commitment and dedication you had to them. I saw it every day and I felt it when you pushed our team to continue to do more and be better.
 and and work through anything that came our way from the text at 2 a.m with ideas and the calls early in the morning always thinking of things we could do to bring the northeast back to life always in forward motion and always striving to do better i'm heartbroken about the results i really am i shouldn't take this personally but i feel as if i have lost something i am heartbroken for angela who was only a part of our team for 10 short months but proved herself every single day
 I'm heartbroken for you because the Northeast was your priority. You loved the people and cared so much about them and what they needed. I sat with you at our satellite office as we would talk to person after person, and you always gave every single person the time they needed to speak to you.
 You took phone calls from constituents at all hours of the day and never stopped working. I watched your council's decisions weighed heavy on your heart and I am honored to have been able to help you make some tough decisions. I am honored to be known in the northeast community as Sam's assistant even though you would always correct people and say she isn't my assistant she's my chief of staff there's a difference.
 Overall, Sam, I am so freaking proud of you. I will never be able to thank you for all that you have taught me, for pushing me to get my doctorate degree, for believing in my ability more than I do. I loved this job, and I will always be proud of the work we did together. I know I will always have a friend and a mentor in you, and for that, I am eternally grateful. Thank you for taking a chance on me back in 2017. My wish for you is for people to understand the difference you made in the community and the lasting impact that it will have for Northeast El Paso.
 From this experience serving the people of Northeast alongside you, I will take all you have taught me and I will continue to strive for excellence. To my mentor and now lifelong friend, I want to say thank you for being you, for believing in me, and for getting things done. I will forever cherish this journey and I look forward to what is next for each of us on the team at District 4.
 A wise man once told me, hold on to the vision and always trust the process. And that wise man was you. Sam, thank you so much for everything. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Adams. Well said. The next speaker is Mr. Jerry Saavedra. Mr. Saavedra's topic is El Paso Complete Streets Coalition. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, sir.
 thank you mayor margot and city council my name is jerry savedra and i'm with the american heart association representing our volunteers members and staff who work and live in el paso in addition i'm representing the el paso complete streets coalition a diverse group of national and community-based organizations include the aarp the el paso diabetes association action for healthy kids the center for community health impact at ut health school of public health el paso
 Race El Paso, Crazy Cat Cycling El Paso, Independent School District, Quantum Engineering, the Paso del Norte Health Foundation, Podium Finish, Up and Running, Smart Growth America, National Complete Streets Coalition, the Texas Tech University Health Science Center, Velo Paso, the El Paso YMCA, Centro San Vicente, Green Health Project, Frontera Land Alliance, and City Health.
 Together, we are working toward a common goal of having the city of El Paso adopt a formal Complete Streets policy to improve the health and quality of life of all El Pasoans. While El Paso is consistently ranked as one of the safest cities in the United States, when it comes to pedestrian safety, El Paso has some work to do. In 2019, El Paso was ranked the 38th most dangerous city for pedestrians, with 173 pedestrians killed between 2008 and 2017.
 We applaud the work the city is doing to address pedestrian safety. It's going to be talked about on today's agenda on the item on right-of-way fatalities and are excited to see the consideration of a formal Complete Streets policy for the city of El Paso as one of the strategies to improve pedestrian safety. In addition to pedestrian safety, a Complete Streets policy would also help to address the high percentage of diabetic adults in El Paso by supporting children and families to become more active with access to Complete Streets and sidewalks.
 Encouraging families to walk and ride helps to prevent diabetes, heart disease, and strokes. Lastly, one of our coalition members, City Health, an initiative of the Beaumont Foundation and Kaiser Permanente, evaluates America's 40 largest cities on a variety of health policies, including Complete Streets. Every year, cities are awarded gold, silver, and bronze medals according to the strength and number of policies they have in place. Last week, they released their 2020 annual ratings.
 Out of the top 40 cities, El Paso is one of four cities that does not have an overall medal. Specifically for Complete Streets, El Paso is one of only three cities out of the top 40 that does not have a medal as well. The good news, though, is that the city of El Paso has a great opportunity to earn a gold medal in Complete Streets with city council adoption of a strong Complete Streets policy.
 We look forward to working with the city staff and leadership to put forward a complete treats policy for City Council consideration in the new year and we'll be reaching out to each City Council member to further discuss this important health policy. Thank you for all you do. Thank you Mayor. That concludes call to the public. Okay let's go back to item number 16. Okay item 16 is presentation and update on the rollout plan for the approved 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 capital plans and public safety bond.
 Can I pull up the presentation, please? Thank you. Mayor and Council, Sam Rodriguez, City Engineer. To continue the discussion that we had here before noon, we're going to talk about the Capital Improvement Plan rollout and the various programs that we have underway, as well as the COVID response, and then really start the discussion about how we kick up these programs in the future. Next slide, please. We don't have those details. Laura, can you mute, please?
 What this presentation is going to cover is the COVID-19 impacts, the overview, look at the full programs that we have active and underway, look at the revised rollouts, really introduce to you all an administrative policy that Alex Hoffman is going to go over, as well as continue discussions on priorities as we move forward. Next slide. As a COVID response, if you remember dating back to the April 13th presentation, where we basically shared with you what our action plan was going to be related to the CIP,
 We looked at our cash availability and looking at the budget for fiscal year 21, where we're not going to borrow money. And then we also looked at the operational cost, and we evaluated every single project as we move forward. We stated that projects that were under construction will complete and see those through to completion, as well as projects that were in design.
 and moving those forward to completing the design, and then evaluating whether they're going to be adding to the operational cost and putting those on the shelf, or if not, if they're critical to go ahead and move those into construction.
 In addition to that, we stated that we would be committed to the public safety bond program and everything that we have underway on the capital side related to that, as well as our streets. And now it's time to really start looking at the financial model and everything that you've been talking about and looking at the various options as we move forward, both on the borrow side and the operational timelines where these projects will be coming online. Next slide.
 Just to highlight what we have, we have a $1.4 billion CIP. About 60% of that, about $850 million, is needed to go to front streets, public safety, and basic services.
 $471 million for the quality of life bond. We've borrowed $353 million of that and spent $224 million of that program. And then just to highlight within our streets, we've been able to spend $265 million and we'll continue to spend through that through 2023 and some of the programs that are under approved in our active program.
 As part of our capital planning and execution, what we're doing and continuously do with Robert is we need to establish and look at resources both for the capital side and the operations side. We also confirm existing commitments, so contracts that we have or agreements with external parties, making sure that we take care of those as well as we move forward.
 And then also a number three and what we talked about in the response that I just mentioned about completing projects under construction. As we move forward, we'll need to align and integrate our final recommendations with the financial capacity, the operational needs and costs, alignment with our strategic plan and possibly recalibrating that to align with our resources, as well as address our community priorities and making sure that we provide
 We stay and we keep the public informed as to how we're moving forward and how these projects are going to be rolled out as we move ahead. Next slide. In some of the programs that the City Council has approved here since 2012 to include the capital plans of 2017, 18, and 19, and 20, $433 million of that are going to streets, public safety, and other basic services such as our facilities. And only $86 million is going to parks and other quality of life amenities. Next slide.
 within our streets. You can see the priority that the Council has given over the past six, four years, five years, where we're slated to spend $265 million from 2017 to 2023. While you compare that to the previous decade from 2007 to 2016, we only spent $74 million.
 As Representative Hernandez stated, we need to figure out what the long sustainable funding storage for our streets is going to be because they continue to deteriorate on an annual
 And that has to be part of the discussion as we move forward. City Council has done a great job in approving the $10 million pay-go dollars. We need to continue to explore how we're going to fund that gap that we've discussed in the past of that $44 million to be able to maintain our streets throughout our city. Next slide. Sam, allow me to interrupt you. We've lost a quorum. We're missing Representative Shortsvine, Anelo, Hernandez, Morgan, Salcido.
 Okay, we're regaining the quorum. Thank you. Great. We heard in the previous discussion about the commitment to getting the quality of life projects completed started in 2017. You can see the expenditures on the program dating back to 2017 when we went to $32 million, 35, 55, 47. We really got over the hump on that first proposition that dealt with parks.
 and the zoo projects. We have a balance still to go, obviously, but that commitment and that directive that was given to the administration to really get over that hump on the projects, we have done that. Now we're on the tail end of the program as it relates to Prop 1, and we're looking to get that completed here over the next couple of years as we look at the financial model. Next slide.
 This is the money slide. And I really want to take some time to really explain this to you. We've been really harping on the cash available. And the mayor stated that we want to borrow dollars as we tend to use them based on the coordination that we have with Capital Improvement and Robert and the OMB office. We have $211 million of cash on hand. But I'll point out to the bottom three rows on here. It's quality of life, Prop 1.
 where you can see that we have $31 million still of cash, and we have roughly about $23 million of money that we still need to borrow under that Prop 1, which is park and zoo. The Prop 2 dollars, which is where the FPC is, that's where the bulk of the cash is. We borrowed substantial amount of money to advance that project back in 2016. Then of course, you have the public safety bond that where we borrowed $35 million earlier in 2020.
 The balance of that is going towards the street infrastructure and the various capital plans that we have underway. The three orange boxes at the top really highlight kind of the message that we have for you today as to the opportunities that we need to take advantage of as we move forward.
 Under contract, that first orange box there, we have, and I'll pick on the first row, which is the 2012 Street CIP. We have contracts underway. I shared with you that we have 20 projects still under construction under this program. We have about $19 million worth of commitments. Those are contracts that are underway.
 The cash balance that we have as of the beginning of December, it's about $7.6 million. That means that without any additional cash, you know, we're going to run through that 7.6 on the existing contracts and we'll have a shortfall of $11.2 million as running to the fiscal year 21 and calendar year 21.
 And so that needs to get modeled as part of our strategy moving forward to be able to, again, meet those commitments and be able to execute some of these programs as we move forward. Next slide. Thank you.
 Just a visual graphic of that previous table. When you look at the $1.43 billion program, we borrowed $698 million at the top. We spent $487 million of that. We have $211 million of cash of which $133 million are associated with the quality of life program. On the bottom side, there's $845 million of authorization. Most of that is the public safety bond.
 in addition to the balance of the quality of life bond. What that translates to is we still need to figure out, and the discussions that we need to begin to have is, how much money are we going to be able to borrow in fiscal years 22, 23, and the possible refinance opportunities that Robert spoke about. From that, it's going to be a matter of us prioritizing and completing some of the active projects, as well as looking at prioritization of some of the capital plans that we do have in place. Next slide.
 So what are the cause and effects of deferred projects? I want to highlight specifically as we defer projects, we understand that the cost of money increases. The projects are going to cost more the longer we delay some of these projects. We talked about community expectations, and some of you all mentioned that earlier. The facility repairs are only going to get costlier. Street conditions get worse. Level of service drops. Some of the projects that we have in the capital plans go to address
 Things like sports field lighting replacement, where our fields are not going to be able to use that night without the additional investment. Of course, we need to start looking at the public safety program maturity and making sure that we don't get behind on that program and keeping that going. And also the quality of life program. It's 2012. Now we're coming up on 2021 as well as 2022. The 10 year mark is really what we're shooting for to get that program completed. And so that's that's something that we have to consider as well.
 The opportunities for us, as we talked about, and what we're beginning into over the next several months with Robert, is the operational efficiencies, look at refinance opportunities, the revenue.
 The renovations as well also translate to less maintenance costs, specifically on the fire stations throughout that we're going to be addressing with the public safety bond. We spend a lot of time on maintenance and repairs that the intent is for some of these projects to address and really lessen on the maintenance costs of those facilities.
 We also got to look at the facilities, which ones are the most expensive to operate, and start looking at service overlap, as well as the demographic-based services that will be tied into everything that's been discussed before in the previous presentation. What that translates to really is a 360 approach to CIP planning and how we're able to leverage our capital projects, not only to address the community needs, but also to address the operational needs for and the operational costs for our community. Next slide.
 Some of the immediate priorities as additional funding becomes available, our recommendation is really to wrap up some of the older programs such as the 2012 Street CIP. The $43 million that still needs to be borrowed against that program really needs to go towards the unfunded contracts that I shared with you, as well as the six deferred projects that I'm going to share with you here in a minute.
 the public safety bond looking to continue that program so that we meet the community's expectation on that we have fire station 36 and the east side command center under design and are scheduled to go into construction this year we also completed
 the facility assessment for all the fire stations throughout our community. And now it's time to go those remodel projects out as well. And we also looking to begin the design for the PD headquarters, the Academy and the Central Command facility that are critical for us to keep that program going. The Quality Alive program, you know, we're not intending to borrow any cash against this program here over the next year, but we do need to continue with some of the projects that we have a, that we have shelved and need to account for them in the operational cost as we move forward.
 The commitments such as the Children's Museum, the MAC, getting those funded as well as getting them underway will be critical in addition to providing the funding required for a federal program and having the local match dollars as well. Next slide. Next slide, please.
 Just to give you a highlight of the 2012 Street CIP, as I stated, we have 20 projects still under construction. We do have six projects that have been deferred on the reconstruction list. That's where we want to prioritize and get that program completed in the books. Next slide. The resurfacing portion of the program is pretty much complete. There's four projects still underway on the resurfacing for 2012. And as was reported in September, we have deferred the $7 million residential program to 22, 23, and 24. Next slide.
 The public safety rollout with, in essence, next slide, what that has translated to is basically pushing out most of these projects a year out. So some of these projects were scheduled to be completed in 22 and making those available for police and fire. We're pushing some of these red ones all the way one year as of today. Next slide. For the police department, or the fire department, I'm sorry, we're looking at the...
 Renovations beginning in 21 addressing some of the roofs and equipment that's going to be proceeding. We do have, as I stated, we borrowed $35 million. That's allowed us to purchase property as well as the beginning of design. And now we're going to be moving some of these projects into construction. However, the two big ones, Fire Station 36 and Eastside Regional Command Center, are going to require additional dollars in order to move those into construction.
 But based on the model and the cash flow, as you know, these projects don't get done overnight. And that's part of the strategy that we've got to look at is when are we going to need additional dollars on some of these programs so that we can factor in an effective strategy as we move forward. Next slide. Just some photos of some of the existing fire department facilities. Next slide.
 With the federal program and the commitments that we have, next slide, we have $15 million need that's anticipated for fiscal year 22 and 23. If any of you did come before you here earlier this month to share with you how we're going to reallocate the existing savings on some of the projects that we have,
 to fund the fiscal 21 commitments, but we are looking at fiscal years 22 and 23 and understanding how we need to model these needs or these commitments that we gotta put this into the financial model as we move forward as well. Next slide.
 The quality of life. These are the 18 projects that have been already deferred and under shelf ready to go out to bid. Some of the major ones are the Joey Barraza project, the penguin exhibit over at the zoo. Looking at when these facilities will be completed from a construction standpoint will allow us to model the operational funding needs into the model as well. So that's something that we got to start looking at and making sure that's part of the equation. Next slide.
 We also have a lot of the trails that are under design and in coordination. A lot of these are under the Paso Electric corridors. We're continuing with the design on these, and hopefully when we get it completed with the design, we're able to move these into construction, understanding when these will be operational as a community and how much money we're going to be needing to maintain these facilities as well. Next slide. Thank you.
 So what are the items to consider as part of our capital plan? We got to look at the cost of service of each one of these projects. Again, it's nothing new. We all have discussed this at length here before the new time frame. We got to look at what are some of the most expensive facilities to operate. We got to innovate our service models, consolidation of services and facilities,
 There's a good discussion today about the continuous improvement and the performance improvement program that the city has. It really talks about the innovation of our services and how we're going to be able to provide and consolidate in certain cases to be able to provide more effective, cost-effective services to our community. We've got to start looking at demographics as well. What are some of the facilities and how are they being used?
 What's the rate of return on the investment? That has to be factored in in the information that we present to you, as well as research and deploy new cost-effective technologies. There's a lot of new products and new methods that are being used throughout the country for things like pavement maintenance that we've done a lot of research on. And we've got to start implementing some of those technologies in new.
 new methods to maintain, if you will, to be able to be more cost effective as we move forward. So that's something that we're going to consider as we move ahead. Next slide. I'm going to turn the presentation over now to Alex, who will go over administrative CIP policy. Next, Alex. Alex Lutz- Yes, good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Alex Uthman for the record. Next slide, please. So what we wanted to do is just to
 and bring our methodology that we're proposing for administrative CIP policy. And with the COVID impact, we know that it really forced us to look at the way that we prioritize projects. Next slide, please. And so what we wanted to do is to develop a policy that will help us internally to prioritize
 that address some of the high-level issues that we're looking to incorporate into our decision-making process that will have a much more data-driven approach to prioritizing projects. And so what we propose to do is to break this into two components. So on the left, you'll see project types. And so looking to prioritize the public safety and the streets projects, followed by quality of life.
 And then the other components that we wanted to look at was more of a spatial analysis. And that gets into the project locations. And so what I want to do is go through the methodology that we're proposing as part of our administrative process to show the decision-making lens that we want to propose to evaluate each of these projects for prioritization and then show how this fits into our overall 360 approach to capital planning. Next slide.
 And so the first that's been talked about quite a bit is making sure that we align our different projects with the strategic plan. And so looking at prioritizing projects that fall within the priority areas. And so within the strategic plan on the left, we have identified these priority areas and they're on the right, they're mapped.
 And so what we want to do is make sure that, you know, we're prioritizing projects that further the goals of the strategic plan. And so the project that falls within one of these areas would be prioritized. Next slide, please. The second thing that we want to do is making sure that we're addressing an equity component to our CIP.
 And so what we did working with community development is to develop an equity calculator, which essentially identifies areas of the city where there's a higher need for investment. And so to develop this calculator, we looked at things like housing, income, education and mobility and scored the city accordingly. And so on the next slide.
 Please. One of the things that we were looking at and really developing the need for this equity policy is looking at areas of the city that were previously redlined. So areas where previously banks were not giving
 loans for homeownership. And so when we look at this process that took place 90 years ago and we compare them to areas of the city where redlining did not take place, we can see that again, 90 years later that these areas that were redlined had the lowest share of home sales and residential permit activity today.
 Typically, these homes are of lesser value, about one third less value than other areas of the city. They have the highest share of foreclosures, and then they're home to some of the city's poorest residents. And this really just highlighted the need to have this equity component to it because, you know, again, we're seeing, you know, nearly 100 years later,
 These areas are still, comparatively speaking, seeing a lot less investment. And so we want to prop up and help to see these areas continue to improve by making sure that we're having public investment in these areas. Next slide. As Sam mentioned as well, and it's been talked about quite a bit here, is looking to prioritize areas of the city with service gaps. And so this is showing areas of the city
 that are served by all of our different facilities. And so the areas in dark blue are representing areas of the city with the most services, whereas the areas in dark red are showing where we have the least amount of services. And so one of the things that we really wanna make sure that we're doing is that we're prioritizing projects that either address a service gap or if those services were to go away, would create a service gap. And so really looking to prioritize service gaps. Next slide, please.
 And then we're also looking at return on investment. And so the city manager had talked about this, but looking at how much tax revenue the city receives compared to the cost of services. And so the areas that are in darker shades of green here are showing where the return on investment is highest. And so if we think about looking on one hand at equity, where perhaps the return on investment is lower, we can help to support those projects by also looking at areas of the city where the return on investment is highest.
 Next slide. And then finally looking at economic conditions. And so looking at, for example, where areas of the city where we're seeing a high amount of economic investment on the private side of things, and either looking to leverage those dollars or to spend money in other places where public investment is more needed. And so what we've done here,
 is developed in economic conditions calculator. It looks at things like permit activity, property values, you know, sales of homes and those types of things. And then our workforce capital. So looking at educational attainment and income, again, helping to have this economic development lens that we're looking at our different projects through. Next slide, please.
 And so this gets into then the 360 approach to capital planning. And so if we have our, you know, our economic incentives within our economic calculator, we have our equity lens that we're looking at perhaps through G projects and our N. I. P. Projects. And we have capital investment. We look at this as our funding sources combined. We can really help to if we coordinate between these different funding pots, we can help to leverage our city dollars to the maximum. Next slide, please.
 And so this is really important again, because as Sam mentioned here, we're starting to see, you know, a lot of the effects of changing demographics of the city. So on the left, we can see that over the last 70 years, our population has really slowed down in terms of annual population growth. That's what this is representing. We can see that most recently our population growth is at less than 1% annually.
 And that when you combine that with the changing demographics from an age standpoint here on the right, you can see that compared to 1990 or population is significantly older than it was, and so the highest shares of our population or those aged 25 and older with significant increases in that population age 45 and older when we compare to 1990. Next slide, please.
 Then we can also look at population growth at a tract level. And so on the left, this is showing projected population growth. And you can see that for the most part in the city, we're seeing either very slow population growth in the light shades of green or in the tan areas where we're seeing actually population loss. And then again, we're looking at median age here at the tract level. And so the question that this begs is how will changing demographics and the flattening of city growth impact the delivery of services? Next slide.
 And so an important consideration of that, of course, is then the operational cost of service. Next slide. And so what we did was we worked with our different departments to figure out what the average facility operations and maintenance costs are. And we look at how much would it take at full build out if we were to provide these services completely throughout the city, how much it would cost.
 at a per acre basis in terms of city tax revenue. And we can see that that number is about $7,174. Next slide, please.
 And so when we look at our current budget allocation and compare it to, you know, what we need in order to, you know, meet this full build out level of service, we're looking at 134% increase in our inner city budget. So right now we're at $3,065 per acre to provide our current level of service. And then again, to meet this full build out level of service, we'd be looking at about 134% increase. Next slide, please.
 And so this is, again, really important because, of course, the ability of the city to pay for these services really depends on the development pattern that's in existence. And so the development pattern directly impacts the demand for city services and our ability to pay for their long-term operations and maintenance. And so what this is showing is that the areas in green represent areas of the city where the tax revenue generated is significant enough.
 To help pay for their services, whereas areas in red are showing where our costs exceed our revenue. Next slide, please. And so one of the thing in summary that we want to again reiterate that's been talked about quite a bit by Sam and Robert as well is that we're committed to our public safety, our streets, our 2012 quality of life. We're also looking to leverage federal dollars wherever possible and then really looking at our financial model. Next slide, please.
 And so in terms of next steps, again, we're looking at refinancing opportunities, looking at potential issuance of new money in 2021 that could be funded from refinancing and debt service savings. And then, again, working in conjunction with finance to determine priority projects that would be funded, again, through our administrative policy. Next slide. So I think that concludes it, and we'll be happy to answer any questions you have. I have no requests for questions. Thank you. Mayor? Mayor. Yes.
 Quick question. So Sam, you had mentioned in terms of the 2012 CIP list that looking to finish that out, is that accurate or there's still some projects that are going to be deferred from that list to 2012 or 2013 CIP?
 So the street CIP, Mayor Pro Temp, is we have 20 projects under construction. We still need to borrow about $43 million in that program. And that's the reason that we deferred six projects. That includes Canterbury Trail. That's part of that. And so one of the priorities, as I stated, is that once the new funds become available, we want to close out that 2012 street CIP.
 There's six projects in there in an NTMP that we need to wrap up, and that will be one of the programs that would get the priority money in conjunction with the public safety fund. And is there any anticipation when that date might be to, I guess, to release the last of those funds to finish those projects? Yes.
 And that's the refinance opportunities that Robert is talking about that we're putting together to bring before council, because that's where we need the money. Under that program and the slide that I showed you where we had all the money, we have about $19 million under contract. That's existing contracts for those 20 streets that are under construction, but we're down to about $8 million worth of cash in the bank. So we're going to need to put some more money into that program before we can think of –
 releasing the deferred projects, those six projects that you're referencing. Then I just have one question for Alex relating to sort of the equity index and sort of some of the maps that are there. The areas where it looks like there's the largest population loss, are those also the areas that we're targeting as well for sort of investment?
 Yes, exactly. So in conjunction with our areas, our priority areas of the city, that's also where we're looking at doing our different planning studies as part of our capital plan in order to both encourage residents to live there, but also very strategically invest in those communities. Okay, because I mean, I think too, part of that conversation also should be looking at
 what sort of financial incentives or working with the private sector to encourage
 home ownership or investment in those areas where we're looking at losing population, right? Because we know that the areas where we see an increase in population is, you know, the furthest parts of city limits and then off into the county. And so investing in infrastructure, whether that's streets or quality of life amenities in these areas where population is going down, there's also that component, too, of how to financially encourage people
 that kind of investment and families choosing to live, you know, within those areas as opposed to out in the county or, you know, the fringes. So I think that's part of the conversation we need to be having as well in terms of policy moving on to the next year. Certainly. And just so you know, that that is one of the components of our different capital plans that we're going to be bringing forward is looking at our incentive policies as well.
 Yeah, because if you get a first time homeowner that can have some sort of tax rebate or sort of incentive for choosing to live in some of those targeted areas versus something in an area where we don't, we have to stretch to provide the services, that's always something to look at as well. So thanks. And Dr. Morgan, it's wonderful seeing you with that red fleece. We're going to miss that red fleece on this council.
 Okay, let's move on to number 17. Yes, sir. Item 17 is discussion and update from the city's quarterly fatality analysis cross-functional team. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Hannah Williams, Streets and Maintenance. I will be presenting this item along with our bicycle program coordinator and two lieutenants from the police department. And this is on the joint review of traffic-related fatalities. It falls under strategic goal number 7.
 And in this presentation, we will briefly go over the purpose of the quarterly fatality analysis cross functional team. The El Paso numbers from 2015 through the third quarter of 2020, as well as specifically 2020 through the third quarter. We'll look at some heat maps. We'll look at some nearby major city comparisons.
 as well as other cities within Texas and then we'll go over our initiatives and that's when PD and our bicycle program coordinator will come in with the discussion. So the coordinated the quarterly fatality analysis cross-functional team is a coordinated review of traffic related fatalities with the traffic engineering section, the police special traffic investigation unit,
 CID and TxDOT. We get together and collaborate on recommendations and solutions based off of the data collection per quarter. And those are vehicular related fatalities, pedestrian and things of that nature.
 So the El Paso data from 2015 through the third quarter of 2020 is shown on this slide. Through the third quarter, we have had a total of 46 fatalities in the city of El Paso. And although we are quarantined, that number is still going up. So this is a heat map of the previous slide's data. Just kind of outlines the locations of the fatalities within the city.
 And here is a heat map of the 2015 through the third quarter of 2020 fatalities. It kind of outlines the TxDOT right away. So when we're able to put our data into this type of visual, it enables us to coordinate better with TxDOT to see what type of improvements we can collaborate on to improve safety within the city. Okay.
 So Texas nearby major city comparisons of fatalities. I know that this is a slide that has been presented multiple times. However, there are some slight changes and these slight changes include updated numbers for the 2018 fatalities, but only within the Texas cities because that's the database that we have access to. It's important to note that the data that we received and we're presenting on has increased from one
 excuse me, from one to nine fatalities. And that's just an update of those unfortunate cases where there are citizens that are passing, you know, after months later, they've been in the hospital. So the final file for 2018 and 2019 annual report will be available in late fall of 2020, according to NHTSA.
 So some facts and statistics about 2019 fatalities and the beginning portion of 2020 are as follows. There were a little over 36,000 people that died in vehicle crashes in 2019, and this number did slightly decrease. However, fatalities involving SUVs rose by 3.4%.
 For the state of Texas in 2019 there was a decrease overall in fatalities of 0.9% and preliminary 2020 information shows that traffic fatalities fell 2% from the first half of 2019. However, vehicle miles traveled fell at a much faster rate of 16.6% which in turn increased the fatality rate
 And excuse me, there are studies that also show that an increase in traffic fatalities was likely caused by faster driving. And unfortunately, that rings true within the city of El Paso. We have seen a number of collisions and reviewed collision reports where speeding has been a factor. Thank you.
 Now to go into our initiatives, the police department will come on and briefly go through some of their initiatives, and then I will come back to discuss some administrative initiatives. This is Lieutenant Sushma with Special Traffic Investigations with El Paso PD. Some of the police department initiatives is that the El Paso Police Department prioritizes traffic and pedestrian safety and will continue to actively participate in the following programs, operations, and initiatives.
 We're currently just wrapped up a 2020 step grant and began a 2021 step grant where we focus enforcing traffic laws where fatalities have occurred. We do conduct speed enforcement, seatbelts and child safety seat enforcement, DWI, distracted driving enforcement, and intersection traffic control, red lights, stop signs, jib walking enforcement.
 We still currently have centralized motor division where they conduct motor surges at each and every regional command throughout the week. We conduct unified traffic operations with DPS on all major holidays. We currently have conducted it for Thanksgiving, and we're going to be doing it for Christmas and New Year's. We participate in the annual EPBD safety town, but as everybody knows, this year was canceled due to COVID-19.
 Our red light camera program was discontinued by the state. The DWI task force was expanded and we added an additional officer within the last couple of months. Currently, due to COVID, with the bars closing and there's less traffic on the roadways at night due to this, our DWI arrests are down approximately 30% year to date as compared to last year.
 We have an auto safety grant where the PD was awarded $33,500, which will help pay for video equipment to produce traffic safety social media videos. We purchased some virtual reality goggles to use at our event.
 demonstrations, educational videos, and promotional items for pedestrian and traffic safety awareness. And we continue to put out media releases, letting them know when we're out there in force, looking to enforce traffic violations. We have educational efforts where we do presentations at schools, citizen groups, rec centers, colleges, and the military. Below is a presentation we did several years ago at Fort Bliss.
 We put out safety flyers and do posters in English and Spanish distributed at business, community fairs and civic centers, and constant collaboration efforts within a community, other law enforcement schools, and with TxDOT and street and maintenance.
 So programs that process the total millions in improvements on the administrative side. The few that I'm going to touch on are very familiar, and those include the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program, our Street Reconstruction Projects, Street Elimination, and one of my favorites would be the service requests. And those service requests are extremely important because
 We need the citizens to let us know what's going on around the city. I know that we're the city's, you know, 6,000 strong and everybody has their perspective, job duties and responsibilities. However, it's thanks to the citizens eyes and them calling 311 or submitting their requests online that alerts us to potential safety concerns. And that gives the city an opportunity to go out and investigate prior to a serious incident.
 We also coordinate with TxDOT. Like I mentioned earlier, we brainstorm and discuss current and future improvements. One project that I can think of off the top of my head in relation to this cross-functional team is the fatalities that happened on 700 San Antonio, 700 Paisano, excuse me. It was one vehicle crash.
 crash and there were seven fatalities, I believe. And, you know, due to our coordination with TxDOT, there are plans to make improvements in that area. And we're also going to or have been including the City of El Paso bike plan. And the purpose of that is to improve all user safety through implementation of complete streets and safe routes to school. And there will be a section of this presentation on complete streets here shortly.
 So current and future initiatives for safety improvements, the quarterly fatality analysis cross-functional team will continue to meet with the police department, TxDOT and CID. We'll have our regular meetings and discuss our fatal collisions within the city and continue to just evaluate and determine crash factors and how we can improve. Now, Lieutenant Shields will come on to discuss DDAX and the Lean Six Sigma project.
 or not. That's okay. I can go ahead and present on that. So DDAX and GIS is a mapping tool that allows staff to pinpoint hotspots and trends so that resources can be more efficiently allocated. I am a huge fan of the DDAX because you're able to visually see what's going on and where it's going on within the city. The Lean Six Sigma project for a traffic safety plan, keeping our pedestrians and streets safe,
 The mission is to collaboratively reduce fatalities, provide education, and increase traffic enforcement. And the process is listed there. And the result of the Lean Six Sigma project is that they've been able to increase officer availability and traffic enforcement, increase efficiency, increase quality of life, and improve police encounters. Thank you.
 And by coordinating this information, both enforcement and traffic engineering related, we get the most accurate data to inform decision makers on how to address fatal collisions. And this is just an example of the type of mapping tools that we have. On the left, you see fatal collisions as they're listed by pedestrian, vehicle, motorcycle, or bike. And on the right, you see fatal and serious injury collisions.
 that are denoted as suspected serious injury and killed. These maps produce a lot of information. However, it takes a lot of information in order to produce these maps. It's a great visual tool and it's easier to communicate what's going on with the city when we have these capabilities. And now our bicycle program coordinator, Mr. Alfredo Austin, will come on to discuss Complete Streets.
 Good afternoon Alfredo Austin bicycle program coordinator for the city of El Paso and the next three slides Will provide a brief introduction to complete streets So complete streets is a concept of designing and operating streets to enable safe access to all users including pedestrians bicyclists motorists transit riders of all ages and abilities next slide, please
 So by adopting a Complete Streets Policy, communities direct their transportation planners and engineers to routinely design and operate the entire right of way to enable safe access to all users regardless of age, ability, or mode of transportation. So what the Complete Streets Policy does, it complements the City of El Paso's bike plan, our Safe Routes to School projects, and the reduction of fatal collision efforts.
 As mentioned earlier, City Health, an initiative by the Beaumont Foundation and Kaiser Permanente awards cities for the adoption of Complete Street policies that require compliance. There are a number of Texas cities that already have received gold medals for their Complete Streets policies, including Austin, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, and San Antonio.
 A Complete Streets Coalition has been created in the City of El Paso by external stakeholders, and streets and maintenance staff has been coordinating with this coalition in order to pursue a policy that requires compliance. Next slide, please.
 On this slide, we have some examples of what complete streets are on the left compared to what complete streets are not on the right. And some of the best practices included within complete streets are traffic calming improvements, such as introduction of traffic circles and roundabouts, driving lane width reduction, road diets,
 street lighting, sidewalk coverage, landscaping, reduction of pedestrian crossing distances, the introduction of protected bike lanes and shared use paths, along with ADA compliance and improvements. Now the next slide we will go ahead and watch a shattered stream video created by the members of Jefferson High School and the city and some city staff.
 So like Alfredo mentioned, that Shattered Dreams video was brought to us by Jefferson High School and city staff, and we would like to continue to thank them for putting this production together. It does provide an illustration that we believe the high school students and that the younger crowd can identify with. We hear all the time, unfortunately, about drunk drivers either killing themselves or killing other people, and some teenagers may think, you know, that could never happen.
 to me or they just tend to ignore it because they don't see themselves in that adolescent or young adult category yet. So this video does provide a great illustration that kids can relate to and hopefully they'll practice safe habits as they grow older. So this is just a recap of the initiatives that the police department and administrative departments have committed to.
 and our actions and future plans. So we will continue to address street elimination street elimination outages which is something that we hear about quite often especially after a fatality. We just got an email yesterday from PD requesting lights to be reinstalled at the location where a pedestrian was killed. I believe it was Monday or Sunday.
 So we'll continue to do that. We will continue to coordinate with TxDOT and recommend road diets and complete streets approach. We'll continue to submit projects to the Metropolitan Planning Organization for funding and create work orders to investigate and learn the history of these locations.
 Our future plans for 2021, they do include the actions that I just mentioned. However, we would like to present a full summary of the 2020 Fatal Collisions recommendations and resolutions, as well as coordinate with the Federal Highways Administration. A version of this presentation was given at the Texas Safety Pedestrian Coalition in November, and it's...
 some federal employees reached out and said that they would gladly provide a presentation for Vision Zero to City Council. And we will also continue with the Complete Streets Policy and includes this presentation. Are there any questions. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Representative Schwartzbein. DIRECTOR SCHWARTZBEIN Thank you Mayor and thank you for a very in-depth presentation as well as that
 And very intense video by Jefferson. That was that was very intense. So I just had a couple a couple of questions relating to our our complete street policy. One is is sort of I guess how does this reconcile with some of the different sort of adjustments we made with our NTMP policy?
 I know that, you know, when we look at roundabouts and we look at these other sort of traffic mitigation items, you know, we sort of had a policy years back, which we've sort of adjusted. So it seems complete streets also means that the streets become more expensive to do.
 And we saw with our NTMP policy that, you know, we chose to, you know, move away from the roundabouts to focus on the speed cushions, which are more affordable. So I'm kind of curious, how do you sort of see us enacting a complete streets policy? And how would that affect the cost for our street resurfacing and other infrastructure projects? Alfredo, do you want to go ahead and take that one?
 Absolutely. And that is a great question because you are correct, right? As part of the NTMP, there are two different categories, Tier 1 and Tier 2, with one of them requiring more investment and changes to our streets. So as part of the Complete Streets, one of the main things that we want to do is reevaluate our current procedures, plans, regulations, etc., to find those
 possibilities to continue to address those issues, but addressing safety for all users. Now, of course, as part of a complete trees policy, there is an economic component to it as far as how do we better utilize taxpayer money.
 to as we continue to provide projects within CIP and streets and maintenance. And we'll continue to evaluate that. As a matter of fact, later today, we do have a meeting to discuss complete streets with our NTMP coordinator. And hopefully in the near future, we can provide more information as far as the economic impacts of it.
 Yeah, another thing, too, I think is when we look at our comprehensive bike plan, which, you know, we're sort of piecemealing with different MPO projects and different opportunities we have with the resurfacing. I know that NACTO and other sort of safe street has a different level of advocacy for what are the best kind of.
 ways to have bike lanes, for example, and a buffered bike lane with stripes is not as safe as something that has, you know, bollards or even something like a protected bike lane with a concrete barrier. So what sort of plans do we have to look at having those protected bike lanes, whether with curbs or with bollards, incorporated into our street projects into the future? Yeah.
 Great question. So yes, you are absolutely correct. The more separation, physical separation you have between motor vehicles and vulnerable users, the safer environment you will be providing for all users. And we do continue to look at opportunities for the introduction of cycle tracks or protected bike lanes.
 NACTO, which the city of El Paso adopted, the NACTO standards provides great guidance as to when this type of projects are adequate because they do not work everywhere. But we are continuing to look for those opportunities. We do have some projects coming soon in the downtown area, which will include protected bike lanes through separation by...
 concrete barriers. So we'll continue to see more of those projects and we'll continue to analyze those opportunities. As I mentioned, they work great in some areas, they don't in some areas depending on the conflicts, but I am in complete agreement with you. The more separation we have between motor vehicle users and vulnerable users, the better.
 Yeah, because I just I guess it's just a question of just sort of, you know, being being honest about it all. Right. Because we had these great presentations with complete streets and a lot of great words. But then when it comes down to sort of the action and the sort of policy and operations.
 too often we're doing, you know, we're resurfacing roads that do not incorporate the comprehensive bike plan or we're having sort of buffered bike bike paths that don't really that they accommodate like the most
 the most experienced and confident cyclists, right? But for those families or those beginner cyclists that want to get outside, want to get exercise, want to travel safely, a buffered bike lane with traffic going 40, 50 miles per hour is not really going to cut it. Bollards are better, but then you have the concrete barriers. So I just think it's really important just to sort of be honest. Like, we're having this Complete Streets presentation. It's something really great to sort of talk about, but...
 It has to go into sort of action. And oftentimes what that means is that it's going to cost more to do these bike lanes. And the exchange is that you actually have buffered bike lanes that make more El Pasoans feel safe than not in those areas and feel comfortable actually, you know, being pedestrians and being cyclists in our roads.
 And so to what extent we have to not just have a complete street presentation, but actually factored into the projects we have moving forward, I think is really important.
 If I may, before he responds, give him some time to collect his thoughts. I will remind the entire council about how in the 2000s, you know, we've given presentations about the neglect on streets, the neglect with police and fire equipment, the fact that the police department had been reduced dramatically over the years, and this council has taken a lot of action. There's been other councils also that took some action.
 But in terms of being as aggressive as this council has been with regard to streets, with regard to police, with regard to the equipment replacement, we've had a lot of catch-up to do. A lot of catch-up. As Sam Rodriguez has presented to the council multiple times, that it takes $44 million a year to just maintain. Right.
 And this pandemic is not helping that number. So that's the reason why we put those pay-as-you-go dollars in place. So I want to make sure, you know, when we talk about, you know, getting everything on the table and being honest, let's talk about everything, about how we came to be where we are today. I do think there could be more done with regard to bike lanes and with regard to a lot of things that are on the table.
 but there's just so much catch up that's having to be done. And this presentation points to the fact that we're looking at those things that need to be done. The fact that there was not a traffic enforcement division with the police department, they did away with it like over a decade ago. And the fact that that's stood up, that speaks to the fact that that's a priority for us in terms of the safety and the numbers that have been talked about.
 If you talk to Greg, you talk to Dion, I have told him until I'm blue in the face about these numbers going up. And so everything you heard today has been our recalibration of a lot of the efforts that we've been doing to include the NTMP process, which we brought that to council because it didn't make any sense to do the Cadillac version and having, you know, 20, 30, 40, 50 projects on hold because one project required a roundabout, which was $1.5 million. Right.
 as opposed to doing a street cushion that's $3,500, $5,000 tops, and you can have more safety throughout the entire city. The council agreed with us and approved that. So that's the full answer. I'll let him respond directly to your request with regard to the bike lane, but there's just a lot of catch-up that we've had to do, and that catch-up problem didn't happen overnight, and it's not going to be fixed overnight either.
 Right. And on reference to some of the issues that you mentioned on reference to connectivity gaps and issues of that sort, I also want to highlight the fact that there has been increased coordination between Streets and Maintenance and CIP as to how do we continue to work ongoing projects and future projects. And just to also connect this presentation to the presentation that Alex Hoffman gave earlier, right,
 right? We are also coordinating with them on project selection to make sure that we are addressing those gaps and that we are working to provide better infrastructure for all users. So yeah, we continue to do that coordination. We continue to strive for best practices. We'll continue to push for them and we'll continue to update city council as progress comes about.
 And just to kind of add on to what the City Manager, Mr. Gonzales said and my coworker Alfredo, we do understand that the Complete Streets Policy and implementation is an expensive investment. However, we feel that it would be worthwhile and that it would be very beneficial in reducing the number of fatalities within the City of El Paso. I'm not sure if Council is aware, but TxDOT does have a campaign, Road to Zero,
 where they would like to aim or they're aiming towards zero fatalities on their roads by 2050. And Complete Streets, as well as Vision Zero, also falls in line with that. But also they fall in line with reducing fatalities on our city streets as well. So although it is a lofty investment, we believe that it's one that could definitely address some of these fatalities in our city.
 I totally agree. I guess the question is, City Manager, are we committed towards funding complete streets with our upcoming street infrastructure moving forward, even though it might be more of a Cadillac version?
 The $44 million is a number we're growing that number to. And we've briefed that before, that that's a big number to get to. We've got $10 million set aside on an annual basis to do that. The council has passed COs for street projects in order to accelerate that. I think that that happened in 17. So there's been more dollars.
 put in this program, but not to the level that it needs to be. I mean, unless we want, you know, five penny tax increase and you could get there overnight. So that's what I mean about us being able to get there gradually and having that goal of getting there and working towards that goal and having a plan. If we don't have a plan, if we don't share it with y'all, even if we're criticized, if we don't have a plan and share it with you, we're not ever going to get there. And I think we've shown that when we have plans, we execute them and we get results at the
 If the council asks for that, we put those together and we execute. And I understand that. Mayor Pro Temp, you have the floor more than 10 minutes, sir, and there's other speakers. Okay. Thank you. I'll speak up again after that. Oh, Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just have a quick comment. It's not just a technical comment. I have on the page where on the presentation where you all have the examples of what a complete street looks like and incomplete street looks like, I would just suggest that
 to put actual examples of El Paso because I know those were kind of random examples pulled off of the Internet and I think it would just benefit the community and us if we could have actual examples of the streets that have been completed or the sidewalks that have been completed versus the ones that haven't. But that is it. Thank you. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes Representative Rodriguez thank you. That is something that we're currently working on. We are working on a full catalog for the City of El Paso. Thank you. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Perfect. Thank you.
 Thank you for all the data. I'm very excited about a complete streets policy. I think that this is really a good time considering all of the investment that the city is making. And it really will help the council and staff really think about not just, you know, repaving a road but making sure that it's accessible, it's safe.
 for all persons of all types with all different abilities. And so right now, one of the challenges that my district is facing, especially south of the freeway, is that there's no, you know, even basic accessibilities and some roads don't even have concrete or any asphalt. I mean, we have dirt roads and it's very rare that you see complete intersections with landscape and with curb cuts.
 with any flow of water from the medians, from the streets to the medians or to onsite ponding.
 And so I think this is a good opportunity because a lot of my constituents are saying, well, I saw this intersection with the reconstruction project, what about my area? So you're starting to get a lot more questions from the public about what is our plan, what is the direction to complete that? And so obviously it's going to take more money, but looking at the previous presentations, looking at population going into the outskirts and we're losing population in the core,
 Complete streets is really what's going to help attract more families and is going to keep them in the core. And so it improves aesthetics. It improves overall the environment. And so I think this is something that council should like highly consider adopting in the near future and then benchmark what we can put aside to it so that we can remain in compliance. So I just wanted to express that I'm very excited about the presentation, about what it means for fatalities and how to reduce that, but also increase...
 exercise and healthy living within our communities. But thank you for sharing this, and I'm really excited to see what comes from the policy. Any other council member wish to speak? Representative Swartzbind, did you want to say something else? All right. No, I guess, yeah, my final point was just that it was about sort of understanding that a complete street policy is really important.
 it's great and important, but it's going to cost more per project if we're being really open and honest about wanting to implement that. And so I think that when we look at
 the presentations that we have for our CIP updates, and we look at all the projects that are deferred and under design, we need to be asking right now, like, are those projects factoring in those complete streets? Are we going to be going through another slew, another round of projects where we're not really doing as much as we can in terms of honoring complete streets, honoring protected bike lanes that make our streets safer for pedestrians and cyclists and all?
 all kinds of participants of our streets, not just cars. And so that was just my final point. Mayor, can I say a quick comment to Mayor Pro Tem? I think there's two points to this too, right? I think the complete streets is something that we're working towards, as Hannah stated, because that's critical for new development as well. The challenge for us as we implement new projects, whether it be resurfacing or reconstruction, we're always challenged
 with the existing right-of-way that we have and our ability to acquire new right-of-way without taking on full properties and really escalating the cost just beyond the improvements. Once you start adding property acquisitions to fit in the extra width that's required for a bike lane, I mean, just to give you an example, we looked at, like, Trailbridge is a great example that we've been submitting to the NPO. We've been looking at cross-sections and how do we fit, you know, separated bike lanes, those kinds of things.
 Some of the, especially in the core area, a lot of our buildings are very close to the right-of-way. By the time you start really accommodating everything that's required within an ideal, true environment,
 complete streets, those costs exponentially go up. It needs to be strategic. It needs to be targeted. But the policy needs to move forward in my opinion and what we're going to be recommending because there's still a new development that's happening whether it's in the northeast or west or the east side that should be incorporating some of these new standards to make those areas as safe as possible while we try to figure out how we can how we can do the existing infrastructure to meet those those requirements as well. Thank you Mayor. RONALD BOYCE- Representative Bonillo.
 Thank you. I'm trying to figure out how to state this, but Sarah, I'm glad that you brought up the Trowbridge project because I guess what I'm trying to see is right now, you know, where we give prevalence to these kind of ideas, right? I'm thinking specifically about
 The Trowbridge Reconstruction Project, over a year ago, we had a community meeting. The constituents asked for a protected bike lane. And as your staff knows, we then had another community meeting a couple months ago, and they were very upset when they saw that wasn't happening. They felt like their concerns weren't had.
 or heard, I'm sorry, and now we're having a presentation on how these are priorities of ours. And so I'm just, I'm trying to figure out, you know, where we're prioritizing this. I understand what you're saying about right-of-way, but you know, again, the Fort Boulevard project isn't really a right-of-way issue. So yeah, I don't know if you can answer that at all.
 Well, in Fort, it's a different story. I think Fort has a very expansive right-of-way. But Trowbridge, the segment that you're referencing, is a challenge. It's a really great case study when you think about how we have existing codes and how we try to implement these existing codes.
 even the existing cross sections that we have in place. When we go through and reconstruct, we try to fit our first our first approach is to meet code. What is an existing cross section that's been adopted by the city that we can implement? And for the most part, a lot of the new roads do have the right of way for us to meet that. But a lot of the roads in the central area
 Even a lot of the roads like we did over on Glenwood is a great example. We have 34 right-of-way. And it's a challenge because how do you try to fit the true cross-section that's been adopted by the city within the existing right-of-way? And that's where the dialogue and the community meetings, Representative Nello, need to happen and make sure that we manage expectations properly because...
 To be able to accommodate a true cross-section within the existing infrastructure is very challenging. It can really be very costly, too. And that's where the balance has to be as to how much of this can we implement without making the project where it's not feasible to do the project anymore.
 well i mean we're going to have to have this conversation offline but i think you know when you look at the fort boulevard you're actually already cutting in the right of way um to build out parking and so it seems like it was the perfect project to do it um and so you know when you say things like manage expectations it goes back to what representative schwarzbein was saying is like how you know
 how far are we really pushing this project? Because I do think it's important. I do think these suggestions are important, but to me, we have a great example and opportunity to do so. And there's a little bit of hesitation, but again, I think we need to have this conversation offline a little bit further.
 Yeah, definitely. I'd be happy to, Representative Anello. What I can tell you and what I want you to walk away from is that we are implementing where we can, the cross sections, where we have an opportunity to separate bike lanes. We're doing it. We're running all our projects through the bike coordinator, Alfredo. We have very close coordination with our traffic division. Everybody really pitches in to try to figure out what the best solution for each one of these projects as we move them ahead.
 We're looking forward to the conversation. Thank you. Thank you, and I just want to say hello to Alfredo. It's good to hear from you. Okay, let's move on to the first reading of ordinances. Yes, so the next items are 18 to 23. These are the first reading of ordinances. Is there a motion to approve? Motion to approve. Second. Let's vote. There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 18 to 23. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Representative Shortswine, thank you. Representative Manalo. Representative Hernandez. Yes. Morgan. Yes. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizada. And the motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page 10 to item 24. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2020-680R, Civic Convention Center and Tourism Services to SMG.
 Motion to approve. Second. Any further discussion? Let's vote. There's a motion and a second to approve item 24 on that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Yes. Thank you Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Sorry about that. Yes. Morgan. Yes. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga. Aye.
 Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is 25. This is discussion in action on the request that the Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department be authorized to issue a purchase order to Quality Texas Foundation. Motion to approve. Second. Any further discussion? Let's vote. There's a motion and a second to approve item 25. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Yes. Representative Anello. Yes. Hernandez.
 I'm so sorry. I do have questions on this item. We're on 25, correct? That's correct. Can you, I'm sorry, I may have missed this in the agenda review. Can whoever is responsible for this item explain what the purpose is? Hello, this is Claudia Garcia with the purchasing department. I'm going to let Julie Baldwin to answer this question.
 Yes, Julie Baldwin is not available today. Representative Hernandez, we are this Texas contract for training that is Ball Ridge based. So we're looking at LSS, we're looking at the Ball Ridge Examiner Training, as well as leadership training that we wanna have available for our resources and our workforce.
 as we move into over the next three years. So that's what this contract is for. It's a sole source because it is Baldrige-based. You've seen the multiple results that we've realized as a result of the training and the investment in the workforce, and this is really in alignment with that effort. And I see the source of funding, but where is that coming from specifically? It's the training budget within the HR department. Okay, so is that general fund? Yes, ma'am.
 And this is training we've already been doing. This agreement is just allowing additional capacity to continue doing the training we've already been doing. And if, I'm concerned about the price, so if there is an opportunity to, if we need additional dollars, can we cancel this for convenience?
 This is an on-call type of contract, Representative Hernandez. So it is, as the training, as we align and use the services, it's an on-call type, like we typically have on-calls. So it provides the capacity and our ability to use up to that amount if the budget is available. So there is no, it's not necessarily a...
 we won't necessarily need to counsel a contract if the funds are not available, which is once you use the services and it's not a requirement, if you will. So it's an on-call type of contract. Okay, thank you. I vote yes. Thank you. Representative Morgan? Yes. Salcido? Yes. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera?
 Yes. Please, Aracal. Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is 26. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2020-0046, Veterinary Medical Supplies to Butler Animal Health, Holding Company LLC, DBA Covertress North America, Manuel Talamantes,
 The third, DBA El Paso Veterinary Supply, Lambert Vet Supply, Midwest Veterinary Supply, Inc., and Lauren Hodges & Sons, Inc., DBA Longhorn Distributing. Motion to approve. Second. Let's vote. There's a motion and a second to approve item 26 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Morgan. Yes. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez.
 Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 27. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a deed without warranty and any other documents necessary to convey 301.97 acres of land, more or less, to the El Paso County Water Improvement District number one. Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Mayor, I have a question. Go ahead.
 Do you know what the purpose of the land will be for? Yes. Good afternoon, Council. James Wolfe, Real Estate Manager of Hustle Water. The district is planning on using the property to store water, to store irrigation water during the irrigation season. And with the transfer, I mean, is this already owned by the city and then we're going to be giving it or are they paying for it?
 No, so we're selling it. This is city property that's managed by El Paso Water. It's within El Paso Water's portfolio, and we're selling it to the El Paso County Water Improvement District number one. For $1.4 million? Yes. Okay, thank you. Is anyone signed up to speak? No, sir. Okay, let's vote. There's a motion and a second to approve item 27. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthby. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez.
 Yes. Morgan? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye.
 And that motion passes unanimously. Item number 28 is discussion and action that the Mayor of the City of El Paso, Texas, be authorized to sign resolutions of support for all or some of the following projects for 2021 9% regional competitive low-income housing tax credit applications, including a waiver of permit fees in the amount of $500 each to Mountain View Estates and Sunpoint Apartments. Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 Okay, we have, I understand, four signed up to speak? That's correct, Mayor. I'd like to see the presentation as well. Is there a presentation on this? Yes, good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Mark Webber with Community and Human Development. Let me bring up the presentation right now. Are you seeing the presentation? Yes. Is there a presentation on it? So this year we've received two applications or two requests for municipal support. The first,
 The first one is the Sunpoint Apartments. The applicant is the Housing Authority of the City of El Paso or HACCP. This is the rehabilitation of 101 units in District 2 at 4647 Maxwell Avenue. The total cost of the development is $19.25 million. Here you see a location map. This is the existing HACCP property west of the neighborhood Walmart on Hondo Pass.
 and here you see the site plan for that rehabilitation. The other request is for Mountain View Estates. This is, the developer is Investment Builders Inc. It is new construction of 80 affordable units at the Northwest Quadrant of Montana Avenue and Justice Street in District 5. The total cost of development is just over $10.6 million.
 Here you see the project location in the upper right hand corner of the aerial map and as well as a rendering. And here is the site plan for that project. Staff recommends approval of both these responses. All right. Let's get to the bottom. Yes. So the first person that signed up is Mr. Roy Lopez. Mr. Lopez, star sixer, will unmute your microphone.
 Mr. Roy Lopez, star six, please. Good afternoon. You'll have three minutes. Mr. Lopez, star six, sir. Will I make your microphone? Yes. Yes, sir. Mr. Roy Lopez. Good afternoon, Mr. Lopez. Go ahead, sir. Mr. Lopez, you're back on mute. Star six, please. Go ahead, Mr. Lopez. Yes, I'm on. Go ahead, sir. You have three minutes. Mr. Lopez, go ahead.
 Oh, thank you. I won't take but a few seconds. I just want to say, Mayor, Council, thank you very much for your support. Thank you, Mr. Lopez. The next speaker is Mr. Richard Dayu. Wait, Mr. Prine, did I miss the whole conversation? I believe that was his comment, sir. Oh, okay. Thank you. Can you hear me, Lauren? Yes, sir.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, Richard Dayou, for the record, representing Investment Builders. I'm not sure if there was a challenge with Roy's comments being heard, so I'll just echo what I thought I heard from Mr. Lopez, which is to express personally on behalf of IBI our gratitude for the way you all have worked with us over the last few years.
 This last year, of course, we came before you. We made a commitment to the mayor, specifically and to the members of council with whom we met, to find a more symbiotic, more pleasant way to work together among the various developers in low-income housing development. We fulfilled that promise this year, we hope, and are before you thanking you for this opportunity and look forward to working with you in the future.
 My very best to all you have any questions either Roy or I are available. Thank you, Mr. Day you the next speaker is mr. Tom Deloy mayor and council. Good afternoon council You're back on mute. Mr. Deloy star six, please and mayor. Good afternoon mayor and council. This is Tom Deloy Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Wonderful. Tom Deloy chief red officer for the Housing Authority. We have no comment either I just wanted to share our great
 and sincere appreciation to council for supporting this resolution for the tax credit. Sunpoint Apartments, from our standpoint, will be a significant investment for El Paso, which is great, but more importantly, for the 101 families that will call Sunpoint Apartments home. So thanks again, happy holidays, best wishes for a happy new year, and we can't be more pleased. Thank you. Thank you, the next speaker is Mr. Gerald Sechon. Sir, are you on the line?
 Mr. Gerald Sechon? There will be no. Thank you. There will be no comments from Mr. Sechon this afternoon. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez. My questions are for Mr. Weber and Mrs. Fiorini, if she's on the call.
 In the years past, we discussed where the tax credits should go. So I'm curious how these two applications align with the desires and the requests that council envisioned at that time, particularly with the areas that we are targeting. Okay.
 So do these two applications align with the areas that we targeted, the priority areas that we'd like to see, along with the infrastructure proximity to public transportation? So there was various, like a rubric, if you will. And so I'm curious, how do these applications align with that? Yeah, in terms of our priority locations, you'll recall we have Tier 1 locations, which are
 um uptown and the mca area and then we have tier two locations that are within a quarter mile of a brt stop both of these proposals are tier two locations and that they are within a quarter mile of a brt stop okay um and that's one of my concerns um we had discussed other projects in the past and so i'm curious
 specifically with the Uptown and MCA projects. When will those projects come forward and why aren't they being considered today? Mark, I'll go ahead and take that. Nicole Ferrini for the record. I hope that y'all can hear me.
 So, you know, it's as Mark described in the tier one and tier two scoring system that we have, our preference is to be able to support projects that build out units in those tier one priority areas. But if we did not receive any other applications, these two applications were the only ones submitted. And as they do meet our tier two criteria, we would hate to lose those number of affordable units in our community. And that's why we're recommending support today.
 it might have looked differently had we received applications in tier one. Those applications would have been better positioned to score well in our process. However, again, just given what was submitted, we recommend support. Does that answer your question, Representative? It does, but I'm concerned because the process that I'm seeing today is completely different from processes from years prior. I think that in the future,
 because we're out of time. So in the future, we really need to see how this aligns with our priorities. I really want to understand why our Tier 1 priority areas are not being considered when we're putting so much more emphasis on building development and improving existing development with the core of the city. And so I'm fine with the District 2 one, which is a priority area,
 as well closer to the core, but I'm not satisfied that a lot of these projects are going to the outskirts. This is going against everything that we are planning for. We just spent an entire day talking about sprawling and the impacts of population loss to the outskirts.
 And so these tax credits need to align with our priorities. And if the applications don't come in, then we deny the applications and we start over. So I just want to make clear that I'm not satisfied with the projects that are being forward, that are being brought to us today, and that we need to have more of an emphasis on putting the priority areas to the forefront. And one thing that I'll add, Representative, because I think that in terms of alignment, you're right, you're absolutely right. COVID has
 put a delay on our joint housing task force that is intended to look at exactly what you're saying. We're hoping to be able to convene that in early 2021, and we'll be able to bring in an additional emphasis on the housing strategy and bring that forward into the next year. So we'll look forward to bringing that back to you and addressing your concerns.
 Right. And I mean, it really feels like a lost opportunity, a missed opportunity here. So I'm certainly disappointed. And I'm happy that the industry is able to get along, but that their decisions need to align with.
 the direction that council is going. And this is certainly not what I envisioned. So I just wanted to express that disappointment. Of course, any improvement to affordable housing is appreciated, but the projects that I have seen in the past were more competitive, were more exciting, and were more aligned with the vision of council. And so I just, I'm not happy with the decision today. Okay, Representative Manello.
 Yeah, so I want to first say that I'm really grateful to the Housing Authority for this project on Maxwell. I know this was a project that we were supposed to see a few years ago. I know that it's been worked on for a while, and I'm very happy. This is an extremely important area. These buildings have been causing so much blight over the years, and it's just –
 Aside from being in part of the areas that we have highlighted, it's just a huge improvement for this neighborhood and this community in the Northeast. So I want to thank you. But I do want to second what Representative Hernandez said. And I know when we had talked about the housing policy previously, I had asked that we have a workshop.
 And so coming in the new year, I would like to have this conversation again with council. And so we can really revisit how we're looking at this priority areas and what Representative Hernandez just said about disqualifying applications if they do not fit in there. So thank you very much.
 Thank you, Representative. I'll just, uh, one clarification. I want to make sure that the Council understands as we move into some of those discussions is that if we were not, if we were to not support any projects, our community would lose that investment entirely. And so we get put kind of between a rock and a hard place.
 in that sense. And so I just want to make sure that it's clear that we're trying to make the best decision possible given the circumstances, but we appreciate the comments and we will absolutely bring some more information back to you in the new year. Representative Salcedo? Thank you, Mayor. I just have a couple of questions. The process to submit applications did not change from the last time. Is that correct? Yes, ma'am. That's correct. That's correct.
 Okay, so I really just wanted to share a little bit of my thoughts on this. I think, like you mentioned, whoever did apply, we don't want to lose those dollars to be invested in providing housing, or affordable housing, actually, in those areas. And one that is in my district, as you all know, my district has a lot of single-dwelling homes.
 And so with that being said there's people that can own a home and do need to be able to rent and affordably be able to be in that district. So I think that this is great. You know given the fact that they were the only two that did apply and I do see a benefit for District 5 and the fact that you're providing more homes affordable homes I am definitely in support of this. And so thank you so much for all your work on this. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Let's vote.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item 28 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello. Hernandez? Yes. Morgan? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously.
 The final item is number 29. This is discussion and action on a resolution to approve an amendment to the City's 2019-2020 45th Year Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus to reduce Project Bravo COVID-19 Emergency Housing Payment Assistance Program
 by $1 million and allocate the funds to supplement the El Paso Rent Health Program, to create the Inspira Hotel Emergency Shelter Project operated by Endeavors, and to create a whole project for the remaining balance of CDBG-CV funds. Motion to approve. Can we get a presentation? I'll second that, but can we get a presentation on this, please? Yes, sir. So second. Go ahead with the presentation. If IT would bring up the presentation, please.
 I'm sorry, I'm not seeing it just yet. I can bring it up myself if I need to. Oh, there you go, you guys got it. Thank you. So good afternoon, Mayor and Council, Nicole Perini, Chief Resilience Officer. This item is seeking your approval for an eighth amendment to the 45th year annual action plan as it relates to our entitlement CARES-related funding. Next slide, please. Here's a quick summary of the changes. We are shifting funds.
 CDBG-CV, which is the CARES-related CDBG funds from a rental assistance program being operated by Project Bravo. It was originally funded at $1.5 million. We're proposing a reduction to a half a million dollars and moving those funds into the Under One Roof program, originally funded at $6 million from the Coronavirus Relief Funds.
 All the funding for that program has been deployed, as you all are very well aware, and our community was lacking any form of in-city rental assistance. And that's the reason for the shifting of the funds into the Under One Roof program. The Under One Roof program is able to deploy assistance now, whereas the other program was on hold due to a lack of administrative capacity.
 through January. And so it was our decision and we request your approval to move those dollars so that we may open up rental assistance for El Paso families tomorrow morning based on your approval today. The next item in the change is a budget of $1.1 million from the, again, CDBG-CV, meaning the CDBG CARES-related funding
 provide a block of 80 hotel rooms for four months so that's January through April at 7815 North Mesa services provided will include meals and protective equipment disinfecting services security and support services for homeless individuals being sheltered on site in addition there is staff on
 again, provide for those individuals. This is a continuation of an existing contract that we had funded under Treasury. We're just continuing it on in January, obviously, because Treasury funds must be exhausted by December 30th. Finally, we have a $3 million program hold. That is what is remaining in the CDBG-CV, again, CARES-related entitlement funding.
 We have obviously earmarked those dollars for community response planning and recovery. We hope to be able to bring a solid project for your approval in early 2021. I want to be clear, it's not as though those dollars are simply outstanding and up for grabs, if you will. Rather, we're currently working through the evolving community need and the changing conditions of the pandemic.
 so that we make sure, we make absolutely certain that moving out of the support of our treasury funds, our CRF funds, that we are well covered to meet the needs of this community through federal dollars, as those are really the only ones we have to address those needs going through into 2021. Next slide, and I believe that's it. I would be happy to take any questions that you all have. I don't have a request for any questions. Is that covered? If not, if so, let's vote.
 Representative Fort Spine. Thanks Mayor. Could you go back to that slide, I guess two, two ago. So the, the hotel project that is open for any eligible families or is that, or is that essentially us moving our homeless shelter to a hotel? What it is, sir, is an overflow.
 folks don't go directly into the INSPIRA hotel to reside. They move through the Delta site. They are screened and tested for COVID-19. And we move folks that are appropriate for that type of shelter into the INSPIRA so that we can in essence reduce pressure on the Delta shelter. So it's not open for folks to just show up at INSPIRA
 and receive shelter services. Everyone has to come through Delta still at this point. Does that answer your question? So it's an extension of the Delta site? Yes, sir. Okay. Can you go back to that slide again, please? I'm sorry. Partially a visual learner. No worries. Let me see if I can just do it. Are you all looking at my screen? Yeah. Okay, there you go.
 So the funds that are, the funds that are, what are they coming from that we're using for this again? So the funds that we're discussing today are all CDBG-CV, meaning coronavirus, so CARES-related. This is a second tranche of CDBG funds that came in through the CARES Act are from that source. Okay, so we're not moving...
 We're not moving CDBG project funds that would have been earmarked for different districts. This is CDBG COVID funds. Yes sir. Yes sir. Absolutely. This is not regular entitlement. And has that been has there been any awareness given to any of the the um property owners around the the hotel where this is being proposed? Are they aware of it? Because I believe this is next to the Village Inn
 Yes, sir. It is next to the Village Inn, and we've leveraged our relationship with the private property owner of the Inspiro Hotel to make sure that folks in the surrounding area are aware. So, yes. Okay. No, because we've seen sort of similar projects in other cities in the country where neighbors have been sort of up in arms and this sort of thing, and just understanding that I believe that some of the owners had already been sort of
 Trigger happy in terms of litigation against other institutions in our community. So I just wanted to sort of double check that we're not sort of doing this and going to face a lawsuit against the city in, you know, a couple weeks. No, sir. Not to my knowledge, no. Okay. That's all the questions I have, Mayor. Representative Rivera? I wish I could give you more questions. That's all I got. Thank you. Representative Rivera.
 Yes sir thank you ma'am. Ms. Farini going back to that slide I hate to do that to you but regarding that that project Bravo rental funding could you explain that again why was why was the $500,000 taken from there? Yes let me pull that slide back up for you. There you go. So the issue sir if you'll recall as we presented out to the council in November I was gonna say early December but we're still we're still cutting early December now
 But in the last several council meetings, there was a lot of concern in the community that the Under One Roof program had expended 100% of its treasury funds. We couldn't dip further into treasury dollars due to the deadline. Our initial intention was that Project Bravo utilize these CDBG dollars to the tune of $1.5 million to be able to provide services through and beyond the Under One Roof program.
 They were not in November due to administrative concerns internal to that organization. They stopped providing access to new rental assistance applications.
 And we worked very long with that agency, with Project Bravo. We urged them to please reopen the program now when people need assistance now. It was made very clear to us that they were unable to do so. And so in essence, what we did is we left enough funding for them to be able to complete the commitments that they have already.
 and move the million dollars into a program, frankly, sir, that had the capacity to meet the needs of this community today, not in another 30 or 45 days. Okay. Thank you. That kind of answers it. So then that $1 million that was left over was earmarked for people that they had already committed to? The $500,000, yes. Okay. And what about the other million? The million was uncommitted.
 of Project Bravo, which is why we were able to move it to under one roof. And it's specifically for the Delta program. How about people that are still applying for this rental assistance? They can't come here, right? Folks that are in need of rental assistance today through EP Rent Help beginning tomorrow because of this change. If you all approve this change today, they will be able to apply tomorrow.
 Okay, thank you. I just want to make sure that the funding was still there for them. Okay. Thank you, ma'am appreciate it Yes, sir And the one thing that I will the benefit of the public a million dollars is not going to go very far And so folks that are in need of rental assistance, we encourage them not to wait but rather to apply Thank you, ma'am Okay, let's vote there is a motion in a second to approve item number 29 on that motion mayor Pro Tem Schwartzman. I
 Yes. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? No, the board has- Yes. Morgan? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously.
 Motion to adjourn. Mayor, Representative Lizardo has her hand up. Oh, excuse me. Representative Lizardo. Yes, thank you, Dee. I just wanted to say that on behalf of the City Council, I want to thank you for your service to this community, including all your past service, and I would like to wish you and our First Lady Adair all the best. Sam, thank you for your service. God bless you and your family.
 Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays to everybody. Thank you. Motion to adjourn. Second. Thank you, sis. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed? And the regular City Council meeting for Tuesday, December 15, 2020 is adjourned at 1 54 p.m. Mayor Margo and Dr. Morgan, it was a pleasure working with you and an honor. Thank you so much for your service.
 Thank you all for your service. Thank you. Merry Christmas. Thank you. Merry Christmas. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Council we do have a meeting on Monday December 21st at 10 a.m. Bah humbug. Thank you. I get to.