Yeah. Schoenberg? Yeah. Ross? Yeah. Kirby? Here. Irvin? Here. I don't see Thompson. Is she on? Hoffman? Rose? Funders? Yeah.
 Each here. Really. Really. Really 13 present. Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening.
 So we will begin, as we always do, with an invocation. Alderman Irvins, would you like to provide us that invocation? Sure. Yeah, that would be awesome. Heavenly Father, I just thank you, Lord. I thank you for this opportunity, Father, to be able to just speak to the entire city all at once, Lord God.
 I just, I pray right now, Father, that your wisdom leads each and every one of us, Lord God. I pray, Father, that our hearts, Lord God, are being realigned, Lord God, for anything that's not in line is sin, Father, and iniquity. And so I pray, Father, right now that all of us, the leaders of the city, Lord God, that we begin to surrender to that will, which is yours, Father, for all of our lives, Lord God.
 especially on city council, Father, for you say there's much wisdom and much counsel. And I thank you for my brothers and my sisters around this horseshoe that's shown me and taught me so much that, I mean, I feel so ignorant when I compare myself to them, Father. So I just thank you for the opportunity to even find value amongst them, Lord God. And I just pray, Father, that, oh, I pray over the mayor, Lord God, for you tell us to pray over our leaders, Father,
 And I declare your wisdom to be on his lips, Lord God. I declare that your heart be his heart, Lord God, and that it just starts to exude, Lord God. Just boundless grace, Lord God. Boundless, boundless, Lord God. Father, I don't know if they want to give me the floor, Lord God, because there's so much to ask for. He said to come to you with petitions, Lord God.
 And I thank you, Lord God, because you have a government, Lord God. You have a way. You have a plan. You have a system. You have a way of doing things, Lord God. And I just pray, Father, that we become more like you, Father, in this moment. I thank you for our first responders. I thank you for those that...
 that have laid down their lives, Lord God, to serve, Lord God. You've placed authority. You've positioned authority, Lord God. But I thank you, Father, also because you said, you declared that the first will be last, Lord God, and the last will be first, Father. And so I just thank you, Lord God, that you're balancing things out, Lord God, that you're up to something right now, Father, and we have no choice but to trust you, Father. Amen.
 And so those that trust you, Lord God, I know is like a tree established, Lord God, by the rivers of water, Lord God, by the rivers of life, Father. And so I pray, Father, that those right now, Lord God, that are tuned in and hearing this, Lord God, that they begin to just lean on you again, Lord God. For you have not given us a spirit of fear, but of wisdom and a sound mind, Lord God, those that have drawn close to you, Lord God. And so I just thank you, Father. Amen.
 I thank you that people are being stirred up right now, Lord God. I thank you, Father, that there's nowhere else that people can turn to but you right now, Father. Hallelujah.
 I thank you for you I pray father that you leave this night this council lord god I dedicate it to you and I pray father that your will be done lord god in Jesus mighty name we pray amen amen thank you Alderman Nervins next I'm going to make sure I unmute everyone to the legions ...
 So we'll begin with the question. Hi, everybody, gents. This is a reply from the United States of America and to the Republic of America. Let's go with it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to go back to mute.
 folks here and then you can unmute yourselves. I just want to make sure I get some of the others off.
 That was the first time you got to see our acapella pledge of allegiance that we do so well together on these virtual meetings. So it's difficult. So at this time, I'd ask if there's a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council council meeting held on May 11 2020. Second, we have a motion and we have a second. Is there any discussion?
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed say sign. Motion carries. Next up, we do not have a proclamation right now. So we will move to the public hearing that we had scheduled.
 The public hearing is on the annexation of 42XX, 46XX, and 4804 Pelly Road, and 45XX Simpson Road, and 42XX U.S. 20 bypass. Alderman Chiarelli, would you like to do that, or would you like me to do that? It's totally up to you, Your Honor. If you have it, we'll go with you. Okay, I will take care of it for you. Okay, this evening we're hosting a public hearing.
 Tonight, pursuant 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5-11-15.1-3 for the annexation agreements for the following properties. 42XX, 46XX, 4804 Pelly Road, 45XX Simpson Road, and 42XX US Road.
 20 bypass. Are there any comments or questions from the city council members on the annexation? Yes, Chairman. This is, excuse me, Benita? Yes, please. Thank you. I talked with several people, adjacent neighbors. Some are directly within those parcels or right adjacent to it. Others live in.
 A little further away, but there are several streams, I believe, that are always, I guess I should call one a spring, because it depends on the amount of rainwater as to whether it appears. Many, those folks, I should say, many of their concerns are about rain.
 Not what exists there now with the annexation per se, but with the industrial classification and what that could mean in terms of building site changes and permeability. Especially if we're looking at large warehouses, parking, and how that's going to affect the runoff process.
 from those areas. They're not opposed to development, but they are worried and concerned that the city ensure that whatever grading is done or changes, whatever changes are made to either the topography or the covering that takes away a lot of the permeability,
 That that grading makes sure that water is routed in such a way that it does not result in flooding to their property. I am going to forward the letters because the property owners explain it a lot better than I can. But some when there's a heavy rain, they already overflow properly.
 Some, I guess you can't even call them banks, but it's the way the water runs when it runs freely. So whatever comes in to disrupt that could have catastrophic results for their property, unintended, but nonetheless, their concern is that it could still result in that. It would change the use.
 or just the enjoyment of their land. So, again, they weren't opposed to the development. They are very concerned, though, about the industrial classification and what that could do to water flow and water direction. I can't make... I don't make people any guarantees, but I would hope that the city could... I know we require studies. I know...
 Not FEMA. Who is it with the state? Is it natural resources? Whatever the places are, there are organizations out there both within the state. I don't know if Army Corps would come into play here, our own water department and our own engineering departments. But I think they would love some assurances that those concerns will be taken into account with whatever development is selected for that site. Okay.
 Okay, very good. Can we get those to the most questions or concerns to the appropriate departments, Your Honor? Absolutely. Thank you. Absolutely. I will forward those to Chaz, Ms. Bailey. I'm assuming I should forward those to her and she would distribute those to the appropriate. You certainly can do that. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all for being here. Are there any questions from the public? No.
 No questions from the public, Your Honor. I don't see any and I would just I'm actually going to ask Glenn downstairs to see if he has any. Glenn, do you have any citizens who's come in in person? Oh, I'm going to unmute you. Sorry. Are you there, Glenn? Thank you, Your Honor. No one here for a public comment. All right. Thank you. I'll get you later. Okay. Thank you.
 So now this hearing is closed. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.
 So with your permission, I know we have one public speaker. If you don't mind, if we could jump to public speakers. I know the public speaker is actually here at council. And just out of respect for their time, I would like to see if we could have that public speaker go forward. So we have Mr. John Tech Brantley is in council chambers with Glenn. Glenn is also going to be the timer this evening. And so with that,
 uh glenn i'm going to turn it over to you and uh mr john bradley uh your honor john tack is not in the gallery this evening oh i thought he was okay bear with me i want to see david bear with me i don't want to be like boy son mr uh dobson is in the gallery tonight i don't have a mr dobson signed up but legal do we have mr dobson signed up
 So, I believe this meeting agenda called earlier today, but I did not sign up. I'll let you go, Mr. Dobson. Is it okay by council to allow Mr. Dobson to speak? He said council chambers.
 i would love to hear him speak on my part yes objections no objection no objection uh mr thomas uh if you could time mr dachshund and uh we would all be uh thrilled to hear him speak okay you're up sir good evening honorable mayor alderman and other public servants thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight by the way i sent my facts in just a little before three so i appreciate the opportunity especially
 I live near Perryville Road inside the city limits of Rockford, and I'm greatly concerned about illegal and violent behavior in our city in the last week, as I'm sure all of you are. At least a couple businesses near my home were looted, and other businesses were, with some kind of security, able to avoid looting.
 Our wonderful city, I believe, is not speaking in a unified voice to denounce criminal activity like we've experienced recently, while still respecting everyone's right to fair and legal police protection and behavior. I simply ask all of our elected leaders tonight to denounce rioting, looting, violence in our city, while respecting the rights of reasonable protest and public assembly in our community. Thank you.
 That's all thank you, Your Honor. John Tack Brantley has shown up in the gallery. Hey Gwen, I may have missed it, but I believe that Mr. Brantley is now in attendance on the second floor district column. I believe he's on the second floor. Yes, he is. He is in the gallery now. OK, thank you. Thank you.
 I know he's supposed to come to the second floor because I saw the sign say it was blocked. But anyway, let me get to my little three minutes. Good evening, Mayor McNamara and all the persons. John verses 10 and 10 says, a thief does not come to steal and to kill and destroy. I come that they may have life and they may have it more abundantly. But I come so that my sheep will have life and so that they will have everything they need.
 I am with you and no one is going to be able to hurt you. You have no idea how many people I have on my side. Isaac 4110, don't be afraid for I'm with you. Don't be discouraged for I'm yours. The power of the precinct committeeman can be underestimated. Riots erupted all across America. A series of mass protests and riots have erupted across the country sparked by the horror death of George Floyd who died in police custody after being
 detained for alleged using a $20 counterfeit bill. Don't shoot. I'm somebody. My life matters. Being GM, be
 beat Gordon and music in front of the federal building on Saturday at 100 Strong was there, we knew a turning point was there in support. There was a little over 50 people that came out early that day. Also, on that day at 4 p.m., we was at Hassell Park, a march that was hosted by Rockford Youth activists,
 Over 2,000 people was there. We had a little over 100 people that showed up for the march. We marched from the park, from the city hall, downtown, and our group stopped at the bus station. We had too many youth that needed to use the bathroom. That's where we ended our march and went home.
 Afterwards, I got an email and a phone call about what was happening at District 1. I was highly upset about that because that was the wrong action to take, allow a few individuals to derail what we're trying to do that's very important.
 talking about the police station over 400 years our African American males have been lynched beat, shot and killed by the hands of the police. We have always been racial profiled. We need to have a dialogue with the new world order. However that will never happen unless we have the have nots, our
 invited to the table. Even after 10 years after Mark Anthony Bonmore was killed at Kingdom Authority Church on May the 20th, 2014, the Winnebago County Violent Crime Task Force was formed. We were still not invited to the table. Unless you walk a mile in our shoes, you will never know how we feel and why so many of our young people hate the police. Not only was there riots in the United States, but all around the world. I can't breathe. Now that...
 now that this mic might be my three minutes might be up i will uh save the rest for the next time when i'm able to talk when our main things our main concerns is is how can you tell a criminal from a a criminal a customer from a criminal when everyone got on mass what type of uh program we're gonna have we need the library back open we need the boys and girls club back open
 We need the YMCA back open. We need to have activities for our youth to go to. Instead, our youth, our idle time is a waste of mind. A lot of our youth is getting further and further behind without having activities for them to do. Thank you. I'll be back.
 Mr. Branson, appreciate it. Okay. Thank you for allowing those public speakers to move forward with respect to the time. If it's okay with the Alderman, I'll run through the petitions and communications. Yes. Thank you. Petitions and communications under
 Planning and Development Committee. Memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Director of Public Works, regarding an application for the 2020 Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Rebuild Illinois Public Infrastructure Program. Refer to Planning and Development Committee.
 code and regulation committee memorandum from scott capovilla planning and zoning manager regarding flat of rockford public library referred to code and regulation committee traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on june 10 2020 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on june 22nd 2020 referred to code and regulation committee
 Item C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director regarding the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership non-federal share waiver request referred to Finance and Personnel. Item number two, memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director regarding the Early Head Start
 Early Head Start Child Care Partnerships application to apply for CARES Act funds. Refer to Finance and Personnel. Item number three. Memorandum from Derek Berkson, Fire Chief, regarding an intergovernmental agreement for dispatching emergency services between Harlem-Roscoe Fire Protection District and the City of Rockford. Emergency 911 7. Item number four.
 memorandum from off the gary of on assistant city attorney regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the city of illinois department of central management and the city of rockford for the extension of the lease of office space at 303 north main street for a five-year term item number five memorandum from la facuria bond assistant city attorney regarding the lease agreement between city of rockford and 303 north main street llc for the extension of the lease of space
 at 303 North Main Street for a five-year term.
 That will also be referred to finance and personnel. We already did public speakers, so I'll move right now to new committees. And we have no items under planning and development. We have items under code and regulation. Alderman Shrelle, would you like me to read those or you? It's totally up to you, Your Honor. If that's okay with you, I'll just keep going. We're on new committee reports.
 Uh, B1 committee recommends approval of Carl street right of way. Platt, UW Swedish American.
 Item number two, committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford Liquor Code. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Oh, I should not have agreed to this. I just looked at this page. Item number three, committee recommends approval of the annexation of 42XX, 46XX, and 4804 Powery Road, 45XX Simpson Road, and 42XX US 20 bypass. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number four, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for zoning map amendment from I-1, light industrial zoning district to an I-3 airport industrial zoning district at 4227 Power Road, 39XX Power Road, and 47XX South Main Road and South Street. Subject to conditions, legal director shall prepare that appropriate ordinance. Item.
 Item number five, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of the zoning map amendment for Winnebago County AG agriculture to I3 airport industrial zoning district at 4711 Pelly Road subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number six, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for the special use permit for a planned unit development
 consisting of five commercial retail use buildings a quick lube oil change service building and a drive-through pickup window for one commercial buildings including freestanding signs with deviations from the regulations site plan with deviations from the regulations in primitive landscaping foundation landscaping interior landscaping and open green space requirements with deviations
 from the regulations in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 18XX, 1850, 1972 McFarland Road, 1965 North Perryville Road subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number seven, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a variation to increase the maximum allowed
 for the west building addition from 45 feet to 65 feet and a variation to increase the maximum allowed height for the east building addition from 45 feet to 80 feet in the high one of white industrial zoning district at 707 Fulton Avenue subject to conditions. The legal director shall procure the appropriate ordinance. Item number eight,
 Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for the special use permit for a mural on the building at NSC 3 General Commercial Zoning District at 603 West 8th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number nine, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation.
 for approval of the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and C3 general commercial zoning district at 7616 and 76XX Walton Street. Subject to conditions, legal director shall prepare the appropriate order.
 Item number 10, committee recommends sustaining the advisory board's recommendation for approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6779 East State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare that appropriate ordinance. So all the many 10 items before you.
 Mr. Mayor, I believe we're going to ask item 10, the exam. Sorry. I believe item 10, we're looking for amendments to the conditions. Yes, is there an alderman who would like to read in that amendment? We don't have the amendment. Let me get it on. Okay.
 I can read it in your honor. Thank you. I moved to amend the committee report on the new committee reports. Roman numeral six B item 10 to reflect sustaining of liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for this.
 style of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 6779 east state street to reflect the following amended conditions one must meet all applicable building and fire codes two compliance with all city of rockford liquor codes three window display signage is limited to 20 of the window area
 that the window shall not be covered with the bars and other devices that block the windows. Five, the proposed use shall not have a cover charge or dance floor. Six, the proposed use shall not have and operate as a nightclub. Number seven, the hours of operation shall be limited to Sunday to Thursday 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. and 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Saturday and Friday. Number eight, all hours
 On-site signage must comply with the current sign ordinance. All non-conforming signs must be removed. Number nine, any pending general ordinance cases must be resolved prior to issuance of the license. Number 10, all outstanding general ordinance fines must be paid prior to issuance of the license. Number 11, all conditions must be met prior to establishment of use.
 And this is the amended item number 12, Your Honor. The proposed use and facility is prohibited from having any video gaming machines. Do we have a second? We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. I'll make a union. Your Honor, I case the amended item up for the amendment up for passage. All right. So we'll take the amendment on number 10 first. Is there any discussion on that amendment? No.
 Yes, I'd like to ask you to raise your hands, too, and Alderman Beach, you have a question? Thank you, Your Honor. The mentions here of the fines, any outstanding fines, what fines are against that building? I don't know.
 a standard condition. Conditions 1 through 11 are already in. The only amendment was the condition 12 regarding video game machines. That's supposed to be a standard condition and for some reason was not included. We're only asking for amendments to include that and we should have had a standard condition at the beginning. Thank you very much.
 Any other discussion or questions? I don't see any listed with hands raised. You... Ms. Herbin? Was it just on number 10 or... So we're going to take just an amendment for number 10 first. Just an amendment. I'm sorry. Sorry. I raised my hand wrong. Okay. So no other questions on the amendments. We're going to place an amendment up for passage. All those in favor of the amendment, please say aye.
 All right. Any, all those opposed to the amendment, please say aye. Okay. The amendment's approved. Okay.
 All right, so now there's 10 items up in front of all of you with item number 10 being amended. Alderman Hervey, did you have a question? Yes, Your Honor. With regard to number six, when we have a PUD that, you know, not all of the buildings or the actual site plans are together yet, will this come back to council for each one with regard to the landscape deviations?
 Thank you. Good question. Director Franzen, are you there and able to answer this question? Thank you, Mayor. So, no, as long as the development develops in consistency with the PUD listed here, the development will move forward without coming back directly to Council.
 Well, the concern I have, I'm not opposed to the development at all. It's just the way some of those buildings are facing towards Perryville, even though McFarland is technically the address, we give it a Perryville address because that's what everybody wants, I'm just concerned that with some of the foundation deviations, we're
 We're going to end up with garbage, heat or waste sites on McFarland or facing McFarland or even for the portions that are facing Perryville. Depending on how they implement the deviations, you can have some really scraggly looking building foundations facing one of our major thoroughfares, being Perryville. Um,
 I just wasn't clear on what those deviations were going to be depending on the types of buildings that could go there. I thought those would have to have further approval. This just seems like with these PUDs, that's a very broad allowance of a deviation without us really knowing what they're going to do.
 That might be more of a concern with how we're defining these PUDs, but I wouldn't vote against it on that basis, but I just think that's a very broad allowance for a deviation for foundational landscape. That's all.
 Thank you. Are there any other questions on items 1 through 10, the 10th item being amended? I don't see any. Kirk, could you please call the roll? Dirky. No, I'm sorry. I have to abstain on number one. I am the rest.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Beach. Okay. All right. McNeely. Sure. We need to get those. Okay. Okay. I. McNeely. Now you're on music. Sorry. Okay.
 Okay, aye. Thank you. Item number 1, 13 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 2 through 10, 14 ayes. Thank you.
 So next, we'll move to finance and personnel, and I've learned my lessons while at Alderman Frost and his finance and personnel items. You know, Mayor, I don't have the agenda printed out, so you did such a great job on coding, right? I would defer back to you. You did a great job. I got you. Oh, I hope when the word allocations come out. Yeah.
 Finance and Personnel Committee agenda items. Letter C, committee recommends approval of the vouchers in amount of $4,564,560.65 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee that met on May 26th, 2020. Item number two, committee recommends approval of the fine reduction for 605 Whitman Street, reducing the fine from 2,400 to 1,122.
 the director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number three, committee recommends approval of the update of the 2020 fee schedule for liquor license. The change of class A would increase from 1,847 to 2,395. The director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number four, committee recommends approval for the update of the 2020 fee schedule for the proposed remote fire alarm fees.
 The charges per installation rate would increase from $263 to $300, and the service rate would increase from $134 quarterly to $65 monthly. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number five, committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the state of Illinois and the city of Rockford for the lease of 11 parking spaces at 302 South Main Street, lot number 11, for a five-year term. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number six committee recommends approval of an ordinance authorizing and providing the issue of not to exceed 11 million, 11 million, 300,000 general obligation bonds of the city of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle County, Illinois, for the purpose of paying the bonds due to the city related issues.
 to settlements of litigation against the city prescribing the details of sub bonds providing for the imposition of taxes to pay pay the same and for the collection segregation and application of sales tax rates seats to pay set bonds and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof legal director shall prepare the appropriate words can certainly tell that a lawyer wrote number six
 is there any discussion on any of the six items that are before you Alderman Beach has his hand raised? Thank you Your Honor on number five a couple questions one what is the lease rate and number two does that stay the same for five years or does it escalate each year?
 I believe it's market rate by Mr. Cagnoni, and I believe it increases with the market rate by Mr. Cagnoni. Could you please provide additional thoughts? Thank you, Your Honor. So this is the renewal of an existing lease that's expiring. The rate is set at market rate, but it's held for the five-year term. But I would also note that the City of Rockford, as well as the State of Illinois, has a 30-day notice.
 SHOULD EITHER ONE OF US WANT TO TERMINATE THE IGA. IS THERE SOME, EXCUSE ME, YOUR HONOR, MAY I ASK ANOTHER QUESTION? OF COURSE. IS THERE SOME REASON WHY THERE'S NOT AN ESCALATOR EACH YEAR? SOME, SOME, 3%, 5%, MORE, LESS?
 We have this lease originated when the city acquired their, the state of Illinois parking lot on South Main Street. At that time, we set the rate for five years without escalation. When they came back to us this time, we felt that if we set it at market rate now with the 30-day clause, it didn't allow us to revisit it, understanding that we haven't adjusted the rates.
 for 2020, the parking rates that is. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, this is a discussion on six items. But for you Alderman McNeely has a discussion. I unmuted you. Thank you. On item number six, why do we not include in Ogle County? Yes, the city boundaries now extend into Ogle County.
 So our ordinances reflect the city of Rockford in both being, I'm sorry, in both Winnebago and Oco County. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussions?
 Yes, I just wanted to suggest this goes to Alderman Beach's question that all of our parking I know we're still working on the parking ordinance but especially where we have extended leases I'd say even beyond two years that there be some annual increase built in I mean our parking is notoriously undervalued
 I think even for market rate, we've got problems maintaining it as an enterprise fund. So I would just like to ask that staff include in all of these contracts some rent increase each year. As Alderman Beek said, 2%, 5%, something. And I don't think that would be a big shock to...
 to any of the people that are leasing spaces from us at a group rate. So annual increase in the base amount based on market rate and then for contracts that extend beyond whether it's one year or two years, but something that we automatically include an annual increase. Do I need to make that a motion or a resolution and bring it back to council? No.
 This is Todd. I'd be happy to respond. We'll certainly take your guidance, Alderman, in regards to having future parking agreements addressed, some sort of rate adjustments going forward.
 This one was a little bit unique understanding the circumstances of the purchase of the state lot. I'd also point out that we have a number of parking agreements that we've utilized for economic development reasons that have low market rate for a limited period of time to entice and support some investment in our downtown area.
 But as we go forward, we'll certainly take that all into consideration. I'd just like to make one other point. We are in the process of completing a comprehensive review of our overall parking system and the structures of the rate. So as we complete that evaluation and bring it back to city council for first review and then ultimately consideration of it, allow us to make adjustments going forward. Okay, thank you.
 thank you so there's six items before you is there any uh further discussion other than mcneely do you have another question i'm sorry i'll turn that off oh you're good i just don't know um any other uh questions i don't see any could you please call the roll turkey hi hi
 Tunger? Aye. Ross? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Ervin? Aye. Sampson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? No.
 I had to mute on it. It's I. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 14 aye. Thank you. So we have a, we'll have to move forward. Next we have a host of a
 Most of the appointments, many of which are not up, but one that is, is a reappointment to the following individuals as directors of the New District and the City of Rockford. That is Carrie Adderley, Finance, Cherie Hunter, Human Resources, Aquanet Park, Human Services, Glenn Trommels, Information Technology, Nicholas Omeyer, who's the Digital Director, Kyle Saunders, Public Works, Carl Branson, Community and Economic Development.
 Motion to approve. 2nd, we have a motion and we have a 2nd. Is there any discussion? No discussion. Hi.
 Aye. Tumberg? Aye. Ross? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Urban? Aye. Johnson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Hoffman, you didn't hear that. Aye. Thank you. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye.
 You know what it is? All right. Stanley? Aye. St. Neely? Police and fire are not up for reappointment. They don't reappoint. Oops. Those are not reappointed. Okay, I'm sorry. Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. Next we'll move to motions and resolutions and at this time I would be most happy to provide this over to Alderman Chiarelli, the esteemed Alderman of Close and Blacks to read in these items. Okay, so motions and regulations under P1, the annexation agreement. I have an annexation agreement by and between my, the Board of Trustees and the Board of
 3 llc owner and the city of rockford for property commonly known as 42 xx 46 xx and 4804 pelly road 45 xx simpson road and 42 xx us 20 bypass i placed that up for passenger owner and that does require 10 votes this evening thank you so we have uh one item before you uh
 That requires 10 votes. Is there any discussion on that item? Alderman McNeely, I see that your hand's raised. Do you have a question? No, I didn't put it down again. No worries. Any other discussion or questions? I don't see any, so clerk, can you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Turkey. I didn't hear my name called.
 I'm jerky hi thank you yes bring hi hi worthy hi urban
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 thank you for that item next go to financing personnel government false yesterday i was actually able to find the agenda i'm sorry so i could i can help you out right now if you'd like oh i would love it um first uh is the award of bid
 for the rental and cleaning uniforms, for masks and shop towels to Sintas Corporation of Rockford, an estimated amount of $47,500. The contract duration is one year with four one-year possible extensions. The funding sources fire, police, and traffic operating budgets, and water, property, garbage, and human sources fund operating budgets. Number two is an awarded bid for the 2020 demolition group 11 to Northern Illinois Service of Rockford amount of $81,326 for the demolition of the following properties.
 As listed below, the contract duration is 45 days. The funding sources are the Community Development Block Grant and sanitation funds. Number three is an award bid for the Lead Service Land Replacement Program Phase 2 to spend from excavating at Rockford for not to exceed an amount of $2 million based on unit pricing.
 that is listed on bid tabulation. The contract duration is one year and the funding sources are IEPA state revolving loan funds. And the fourth is the acceptance of Project Safe Neighborhood Violent Gang and Gun Reduction Program, fiscal year 18, Northern District of Illinois grants subaward from Regional Law and Planning Council. The subaward passes through Project Safe Neighborhood Plan
 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Administration. The grant award amount is $568,553 and does not require a cost match. The grant term is from April 1, 2020 to March 3.
 31 of 2022. The number five is acceptance of the U.S. 2020 Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program grant award of the amount of $572,968. The grant also does not require a cost match. The grant term is from January 20, 2020 to January 31, 2022. That place will be before you, Your Honor. Thank you.
 thank you so we have uh five items before you this evening is there any discussion on those five items i don't see any discussion on these five items could you please call the roll jerky hi yes barini hi silver hi hi hi herbie hi urban hi johnson kelly
 Aye. Tothman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Ciavelli? Aye. Forty-nine. Thank you. So those items are approved. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next, we'll move to the new business code and regulation committee, and I will happily provide that to all of you. Thank you, Your Honor. We've got new business ordinances under B1 through 10. The first ordinance is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Ross Pearson Post No. 5149,
 The Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States at 922 7th Street. Number two is an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code. Number three is an ordinance approving the annexation of 42XX 47.
 46XX and 4804 Pelly Road and 45XX Simpson Road and 42XX US 20 Bypass. Number four is an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment for light industrial zoning district to an I-3 airport industrial zoning district at 4227 Pelly Road, 32XX
 39XX Pelly Road and 47XX South Main Street. Number 5 is an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from Winnebago County AG Agricultural to I-3 Airport Industrial Zoning District at 4711 Pelly Road.
 Number six is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of five commercial retail use buildings, a quick move oil change service building, and a drive-through pickup window for one of the commercial buildings including freestanding signs with deviations from the regulations, site plan but deviations from the regulations, and perimeter landscaping.
 FOUNDATION LANDSCAPING, INTERIOR LANDSCAPING, AND OPEN GREEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS WITH DEVIATIONS FROM THE REGULATIONS IN A C2 LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 18XX 1850, 1972 MCFARLAND ROAD, 1965 NORTH PERRYVILLE ROAD.
 Number 7 is an ordinance to increase the maximum lower height for the west building addition from 45 feet to 65 feet and a variation to increase the maximum allowed height for the east building addition from 45 feet to 80 feet in I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 707 Fulton Avenue.
 Number eight is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a mural on a building in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 603 West State Street. Number nine is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 7616 and 76XX Walton Street.
 Number 10 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6779 East State Street, subject to the conditions 1 through 12. I place these 10 ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. So moved. Thank you. We have 10 items before us. Is there any discussion with those 10 items? Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just a quick question. The Swedes plat, that doesn't require an ordinance? Maybe Mr. Meyer can refresh my memory. I'm sorry, can you repeat that again? This is Todd. I can answer the question. My ordinance has plats approved by committee report, not ordinance. Thank you, Mr. Kang. Moni?
 I DON'T SEE ANY. CLARKE, COULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE I DON'T SEE ANY. CLARKE, COULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL? ROLL? ROLL? DERKY? DERKY? DERKY? AYE. AYE. AYE. GASBREENY? GASBREENY? GASBREENY? AYE. AYE. AYE. KIMBER? KIMBER? KIMBER? AYE. AYE. AYE. BRAUN? BRAUN? BRAUN? AYE. AYE. AYE. GERBY? GERBY? AYE. AYE. GERBY? AYE.
 Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 14. okay thank you
 Did you have a question? Yes. Could you just recall the last year in the item? Yeah, in the item for the record. 14 times on all items 1 through 10. Okay, thank you. Next. Any other questions? No. Okay. Yes. Thank you.
 MOVING ON TO NUMBER ONE, AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE REQUEST FOR FINE REDUCTION AT 605 WHITMAN STREET. NUMBER TWO IS AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE UPDATE TO THE 2020 FEE SCHEDULE FOR LIQUOR RICENSE FEES. THE CHANGE FOR CLASS A WOULD INCREASE FROM $1,847 TO $2,295. NUMBER THREE IS AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE UPDATE TO THE 2020 FEE SCHEDULE FOR PROPOSED FIRE ALARM FEES THAT CHARGES
 PER INSTALLATION RATE WOULD INCREASE FROM $263 TO $300 AND THE SERVICE RATE WOULD INCREASE FROM $134 QUARTERLY TO $65 MONTHLY. NUMBER FOUR, AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE STATE OF ILLINOIS AND THE CITY OF ROCKFORD FOR A LEASE OF 11 PARKING SPACES AT 302 SOUTH MAINE LOT 11 FOR A FIVE-YEAR TERM. NUMBER FIVE IS AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND PROVIDING
 for the issue of not to exceed $11.3 million of general obligation bonds, sales tax, alternate revenue source, etc.,
 of the city of rockville one of the mobile counties illinois for the purpose of paying the amounts due by the city related to settlements of litigation against the city prescribing the details of said bonds providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same and the collection segregation application of certain sales tax receipts to pay said bonds and authorizing the sales head bonds to the purchaser thereof i place those five words before you
 thank you is there any discussion on those items don't see any hands raised any discussion on those and clerk could you please follow turkey turkey hi
 Yes. Green. All right. All right. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi
 Aye. Thank you. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Thank you. 14, aye. Thank you.
 So those items are approved. So now we'll go back to office of supports. Alderman wants to retain, but before I get to Alderman, just two items. One is June, on June 16th, we've been working at the city to create a plan for the city
 as an organization to open back up. So on June 15th, many of our staff are coming back. We want you to know that we are been working really hard and diligently to ensure that those staff as they slowly return to their office locations, that we have a number of procedures and modifications in place to ensure that we're practicing social distancing, to ensure that hand sanitizer
 and face coverings are available and ready for our employees as all of you have continued to tell me and we certainly have been pushing um the safety of our citizen of our employees uh due to the copenhagen pandemic uh is of an utmost concern uh so that those staff will begin returning on the 15th i'm sorry i apologize staff will begin coming back on the 16th
 And open it to the public. Let me start over. I got too many dates in my head. I so apologize. I keep getting all these dates mixed up. So staff will begin to come back on the 15th. We will allow public to come back beginning on the 16th. We're allowing that staff that one first day to ensure that we have everything set up the way that they're feeling safe and comfortable. So that we can ensure that when we welcome in the public, we're 100% ready to safely welcome them in.
 Also, it is our intent to begin opening back up our city council chambers for council meetings.
 i know there's been discussion of this in the past but this our intent right now is to open up uh council meetings on june 15th what i would ask is that if you have thoughts or concerns please reach out to me this week uh that's not set in stone and i we don't need to have a long debate tonight about it but we want to make sure that we're accommodating as many wishes uh
 of the alderman as possible to ensure the highest ability for us all to gather together. We do in one place and send in another that make it terribly difficult and potentially disruptive to the transparency with our technology uses. But we will try to be as accommodating as possible because we want to respect all of
 So please reach out to me. Next item is a lot more difficult than the pandemic, I believe. So there's been much said and viewed, and said and viewed again and again since Saturday. I just want a couple of things to give you a brief update.
 work to provide you with these challenging times. But Saturday morning, there was a really peaceful group that met at 10 a.m. in front of the courthouse and just did a beautiful job of coming together as a community led by Brandon Goulden. Then later on at 4 o'clock,
 there was a peaceful uh demonstration at haskell park and obviously uh that situation broke down later on in the evening when many of the original protesters had uh moved on and that situation broke down and uh became more aggressive uh at district one uh then just last night uh there was
 More moving and not disruptions. Obviously we are seeing this, not just in the city of Rockford, but across our entire country. And then actually places across the world, I guess 2 things that are 3 things I want you to be aware of 1. So many different steps as we face difficult times like this.
 one thing that i'm always humbled by is to see your city staff work collaboratively together to address whatever the issues are and so many of them have been working uh night and day for the last several days to ensure that all of our team in our community is in a better position uh secondly i want you to know and i think it's incumbent on us that we do not allow the violence
 destruction of property to dilute the important message that those peaceful protesters came together for to share with all of us. I think it's an important message that we need to take to heart and begin doing it, and starting with me doing a better job of this. Second thing I would, or the third thing I would say is the rioting and the looting is not acceptable. Right.
 Our police department has been dealing with that and will deal with it swiftly because we cannot have disruption to individuals or to property in our community.
 I would just say to the alderman, a big thank you. If you remember just about a year ago, we created a commission to build a stronger community and community communication. And that was through the community relations commission. And they actually have a meeting on the 11th where they'll be addressing a host of issues. Several of these will be part of it. I will also be going out and
 Doing a number of listening sessions to the community and coming back with you the feedback that I hear and I know already I'm hearing feedback from many of you as alderman in the community, which I so appreciate. And I'm hearing it from our staff members.
 which I so appreciate. Just wanted to share, I know we provided updates either in writing to you privately or to the public, but wanted to just give you an update on those items. I would open it up to all of you. Thank you, Eric. Thank you for those good words. I agree that these, I don't know what you call them, agitators, knuckleheads, but these folks,
 who run around and destroy things really are taking away from an important message actually is running across our country. And I'm sure that most of the aldermen tonight are going to comment on George Floyd's murder. And I think we should, as civic leaders, comment and express ourselves and our thoughts
 Um, I'm on this horrific act. I don't, I can't recall anything that I've ever seen more horrific, uh, on a video. Um, and I'm, I'm a physician and I'm not, I'm literally, I understand what's happening to literally watching a guy be murdered. And, um,
 And our police officers, I watched our guys and gals and our chiefs, and they're outstanding. And they're great community leaders. And I think our citizens should be proud of them and what they do for us all. And are no way anywhere close to this horrible thing.
 And, you know, it's been, you know, I'm not the oldest guy on the council, but I've been around a little bit. It's one of the most horrific things I've seen in the United States that I can recall. And, you know, maybe I'm going to moralize a bit with my comments. I'm no saint. I guess I try to do the best thing I can. Yeah.
 But I, like a lot of people here, have recognized that the progress on building a civil society in the United States really needs examination, and it really needs an honest look at it.
 on how continued progress has failed to be achieved. I hate to use the term reset because it's kind of a cliche and it's in the commercial, but it seems applicable that with this particular act, I mean it's not like all the other acts have been, you know, not horrific,
 But it seems applicable that we need a national reset of sorts. History has repeatedly, and it's people's obvious, that law and government has not been able to cleanse our nation completely of racism. It just hasn't. We've got constitutional amendments. We've got various federal and state laws passed. We have workman laws. Even our Declaration of Independence...
 says that we're supposed to be created equal by a creator. I mean, what greater moral ethic is there? But however, government and the world's limited. Government can only control people. It doesn't, to an extent, government can't erase racism because government cannot change the heart and soul of an individual. It's just limited in that. And racism is not wrong because it's illegal. It's wrong because it's immoral.
 It's wrong. And who's teaching this in our culture? Our culture today seems a little bit adrift when it comes to things moral. Where's our moral sense? Where's our sense of values? Where do we root those values in a society? It is not in government.
 Government has spent a great deal of effort kicking, and like I said, I told you I was going to moralize, and I'm going to share you my personal beliefs, but we've spent a lot of time kicking God and religion out of public schools, out of the public square. Recently, churches were labeled as non-essential, and I will emphatically state tonight that if anything anybody's seen over the past few days, that churches are essential.
 They are absolutely important in our civil society. They provide the moral framework that is the basis for rejecting racism and incivility. We live now, it seems like in a post-church, a post-family, even a post-truth world.
 And any reset that we do has to involve returning to the values that make our culture great. The strong families and strong centers of faith, I think, are incredibly important. And they have absolutely no use...
 for these individuals that espouse freedom from religion. I think history and truth across culture and time has proven these individuals wrong. The lack of a moral, a societal moral compass that they espouse, the result of a culture that's free from religion is nihilism. And they bring almost...
 There's no sense of direction that they offer. So government, their laws, their policies, they have failed to change the heart and soul of a person, and they can't, and they're not supposed to. They cannot do the work that only God, that only religion, that can change people.
 the heart and soul individual, they cannot do the work of a quality family. Religion, civics, and this moral sense in human enterprise need to be retaught in all avenues of our culture. The humanism that's being taught now only depends upon the human in charge. And I really believe that God's absolute truth...
 It needs to be taught, and it needs to be culture-wide so that we end this craziness that is racism and incivility. Because it just needs to be done. I mean, it's an oft-quoted verse that I'm sure Your Honor, you, and others have heard.
 And it's in Chronicles. I may screw it up a bit because my memory is not so great. But the writer says, if my people who are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from the wicked ways.
 Then I will heal from heaven, hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin and heal their land. I cannot think of a time more important that this needs to be advocated and taught. Another good quote, and I usually write about C.S. Lewis, I'm not going to do that, but
 The Alexander de Tocqueville, we all know this quote where he wrote, I sought for the greatness of the genius in America in her commodious harbors and her ample rivers, and it was not there. In her bird of fields and boundless forests, and it was not there. In her rich mines and her vast world of commerce, it was not there. In her democratic congress and her matchless constitution, it was not there.
 It was not there, not until I went in to the churches of America and heard her pulpous affliction with righteousness did I understand the secret of her genius and power. America is great because she is good. So if America ever ceases to be good, she will cease to be great.
 And I cannot emphasize enough, this is just a very personal conviction. And some people share it. I know some people don't. But that is my call to our city. And it's nothing, my thoughts are nothing original. They've been claimed before.
 I really appreciated Natavius' prayer tonight. It was meaningful, incredibly. And I'm sure I'm going to share something with Natavius. There's a preacher that I heard at Wheaton College a few times. His name is Reverend E.B. Hill.
 He was from Zion Missionary Baptist Church in L.A. He was in the inner city of L.A., a great preacher. And he gave a sermon, which probably can be heard. It's called It's Friday, but Sunday's Coming. And so tonight, it may be Friday. Okay.
 But if we do the right stuff, one day I'll be here. So sorry, Mayor, for going on like that, but I appreciate the time. Alderman Durkee, I think all of us appreciate your passion and compassion towards the issue. Thank you. Alderman Gasconini?
 Hi, everybody. Just a few words tonight. Unlike my counterpart in the Republican Party, Dr. Durkee and Mr. Thunberg, I will keep it short. Although I did Alderman Durkee. That was wonderful. We've been going to church for 250 years in the United States, and we still have racism. I don't know. I think we need a little more help. I did walk this weekend. I was in the protest.
 I felt it powerful. I felt it emotional. That's the day I cried my tears. The signs of Mama, George crying out for his mother, that's when you cry, and that's when I cried. I was in the walk from the beginning. We went up City Hall, back around, down to the jail, over to police headquarters, and it was great. Great.
 It was peaceful. When I left, we all left, it was fine. So don't let these incidents reflect the people that were there to do good. I think the people that caused the trouble, and I'm going to take two crochets, I think they were thugs and I think they were gangsters and I think they were people profiting from something they shouldn't be profiting from. And you know what? They'll get their time now.
 I just want to say a couple other things. I just want to say to the mayor and to the chief to, you know, hold our officers accountable. Make sure you tell our officers to hold their other officers accountable.
 Because to see those other officers standing there, it was just a horrible sight to see. And there shouldn't be retribution if you do say something or you do pull somebody off. I think we need strong people to do that. And I think Rockford...
 can do that. And I think Chi Poche is a good man. And I think you guys did a wonderful job this weekend. And I appreciate you. I did take a look around this weekend at War II. We did get hit a little bit. It was sad. It could have been a lot worse. That was Chicago this weekend, and it was a living nightmare. They actually opened the bridges downtown so people couldn't cross.
 It was an incredible sight to see, but I just, I just want to commend again, the chief and the mayor and everybody else for the job they did this weekend. Let's make this a lighter note. Please mow your lawns. I'm tired of the phone calls. Please mow your lawns and get your weeds. Thank you guys. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Alderman. Thanks mayor. Uh,
 Yeah, yes, mow the lawns. There's a lot of calls I get on that, too. But Dr. Durkee and a very moving and emotional speaking there, and I think that I'm fortunate to go after you because I think you echo so much of the sediments of not only myself but many on council. Yeah.
 Uh, and, you know, fortunately you and I have had many talks after council and off council, uh, and, and, you know, we're, we're in the same line of thought on a lot of that. I know that just right now, it just seems that, you know, in, in society, it's, you know, we're being taught that wrong is right and right is wrong and, uh,
 I just it's a lot of what you said doctor is is you know what we both both agree on quite a bit I made a call today to an individual that is active in the black lives matter group I just I pleaded with him to be on the lookout these these anarchists antifa people are there to hijack
 whatever your movement is at the time, and they will try to weasel their way in. And I said, you know, just by unintended consequences, I'm afraid your movement is going to get...
 thrown thrown in with with what's happening because of them so please denounce when these antifa guys come in there if you can see who they are you know do whatever you can to stop what they are doing they're trying to hijack your organization and
 It's just they're bad news. I'm getting a fair amount of calls today and yesterday from individuals who are concerned in the neighborhoods now because they have seen things online. I know the chief is concerned.
 uh has is made aware of it as well but um their their concern is now that these these individuals are going to leave the city aspects of it and start hitting the neighborhoods um you know when they start doing that there's there's quite a bit of trouble that can erupt from that um you know as a as a
 Person that has been trained and such, I go by a saying that, you know, pray that it isn't necessary, but prepare as if it will be.
 Um, the last thing a resident wants to do is something, if somebody is coming into their home uninvited, um, and they're feel like their family is being threatened. Um, you know, so I don't, I don't want to see any of that happen. Um, so I have confidence in our police force and, um, just keep us updated. Thank you. Thanks. Alderman Frost.
 Thank you. I yielded the majority of my time to Alderman Durkee. I just forgot to tell everybody that. And I think he hit many good places, including that, you know, our nation is built on being a great nation. And we have many good people in our nation, in our own community here. And we can't be overshadowed by the bad people. And as the mayor said, first, I want to thank the mayor.
 THE CITY, THE WHOLE CITY LEADERSHIP THAT I TALKED TO OVER THE WEEKEND, INCLUDING CHIEF O'SHEA FOR HOLDING THE LINE. I'M A LITTLE DISAPPOINTED AFTER WE PUT SO MUCH INTO ALL OF OUR THREE SUBDISTRICTS THAT THE PROPERTY DAMAGE WAS VERY HURTFUL TO SEE THAT HAPPEN AT DISTRICT ONE. AND I HOPE IN THE FUTURE THAT NEVER HAPPENS AGAIN.
 because of some acts of a few bad people. And I hate to see folks in Rockford think that our Rockford City Police are categorized by the bad intentions or bad will of a particular officer in this particular case or others that have been happening in our nation. And somehow we can rise up
 and have good leaders come to a table at some level with respect to identify better behaviors and to really, really candidly talk about the issue of racism, because I think what happened is you had a protest in a number of cities that should have remained civil and independent.
 and address those issues that have been addressed before by leaders in front of us and obviously have continued to stir. But then that's a mutually exclusive issue to the issue of the violence and the looting where folks are taking advantage of serious conversation to really just commit criminal acts.
 and it's unfortunate that it happened here. It's unfortunate it happened around the country, and I was involved with family members in Chicago and the Chicago suburbs who endured worse things. I think in Elgin, a rifle was stolen out of a vehicle, and that vehicle was driven to a wall where it was burned. I'm glad that we didn't have that level of property damage here, but I think...
 They're two different conversations, and they don't need to get mixed together. And I'm very hopeful that we can have the right leadership on a national level, on a state level, on a local level, on a neighborhood level, to really address the issues of racism. Because I don't believe any rock for police officer, and I've been involved in...
 the bar more litigation or the litigation is ever trained to follow a protocol or procedure that is discriminatory or racist. And what I saw after the protest at District 1 in the
 the words that were used and painted on the sign reflect something different. I just don't think that's fair to categorize our own Rockford Police Department. So I want to thank the leadership again, and hopefully we as a community can learn from this and grow from this. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Ervin? Yeah, I have to... Excuse me. Having worked in civil rights most of my legal career, I have to disagree with Dr. Durkee on a number of fronts. I wish I could agree with you, but from the time this country was founded, religion was used as the basis for instituting slavery. Yeah.
 The Southern Baptist Church of the churches, the segregationist movement, was predicated on the...
 the foundation that blacks could never be the social equal of whites. That was what justified segregation. I don't have time to change people's hearts, and I don't have the authority to do that. But I do believe it is government's responsibility to tell people how they can behave.
 You cannot go out and lynch black people because you don't like them. You cannot go out and shoot African Americans because you don't believe they're human. We do manage people's behavior, and that is the only thing that we can manage. We can't manage their hearts.
 You can't stop African Americans from voting by implementing Jim Crow, Northern style. You know, we do it in the form of a driver's license, not a poll tax or a literacy test or a grandfather clause. But we have our own ways of doing it here. So we're fighting racism every day, every day.
 If you really want to talk about correcting some of the things that are wrong in relationships between the African-American community and the police, get ready to have a tough but honest conversation about the power of police unions to stop the removal of bad officers. Don't get me wrong. I do not want to live in a world without unions.
 Been there, done that, even though I was too little to know. But that scale has gone too far the other way. The dirty dozen police officers who ruined the good name of the 300 can't be removed from the force. Try firing them. You get absolutely nowhere. And that's a shame because you can't make the kind of change that you need to make now.
 And those 13, just like the 20% of the criminals who account for 80% of the crime, you know, 80% of the good, lawful folks in the African-American community get painted with the same brush as the bad folks. We get pulled over in traffic stops. Our kids have guns put to their heads. Our kids are taken out of the car, patted down, searched, humiliated.
 and then sent on their way home. Rockford didn't do that until recently. And it's the only time that we've done it, as far as I know. I had a long conversation with Chief O'Shea. He knows how I feel about it. I'm never going to like it. I'm never going to accept any justification for it. But it's still not as bad as what some of our counterparts do in other agencies. We need to have a long and honest conversation.
 about why little black boys and little black girls who grow up to be young men and women can't become Rockford heroes, police or firefighters. What's wrong with citizens of Rockford who pay taxes that they can't qualify for these institutions? These are people we should look up to, respect, and we should see ourselves there.
 That's got to matter to every single one of us, not me and Ann and Linda. It's got to matter to all of us, no matter what your color. And if religion is truly the moral fabric and the moral basis for our country, then religion cannot accept any premise that makes one person lesser than another because of their color. And too often, religion does.
 And I say religion and not God, because I don't think he did. But I think we have allowed that to creep into our collective national psyche, and it's got to stop. I would remind us that Alexander de Tocqueville, in addition to looking at the better parts of our country, also talked about the peculiar institution of slavery. Yes.
 He spent some time talking about how he couldn't understand how a country with our premises and our principles could enslave people based on their color. So our country comes from a mix and a sometimes contradictory set of principles and morals and values. And until we start to put those puppies up there and smash them like a pinata...
 They're going to continue to come back and haunt us. The gentleman who spoke downstairs wanted each of us to denounce violence,
 I wish he would have been there when violence was being perpetrated against some of our children. I wish he would have been there when the white supremacists were marching through a college campus with tiki lanterns and threatening the lives of every African-American student there. And I wish our president would have condemned them as quickly as he condemned and threatened the thugs
 that were out here tearing down Rockford and cities all across the United States. So until we can address those things and those kinds of contradictions don't exist, we can't talk about eliminating racism and we can't talk about the morality of our country.
 So I encourage all of us, if we really want to see change, fundamental systemic change, we've got to address some tough issues and some tough questions and truly join together and address change.
 some of the underlying institutions. I agree. It's not just one thing. It's not just education. It's not just employment. It's not just housing. It's not just one thing. We've got to tackle things on a multiple level of fronts. And African Americans have to be willing to say, we've got some of our own baggage. We've got some of our own issues that we need to address from within. Yeah.
 Because if we allow the cancers to continue to eat away at our community, it's not going to matter whether the police can come in and help us or not. We'll be doomed. And thank you, Alderman Thompson Kelly, for speaking yesterday, and Alderman Beach for standing with her, and Alderman Chiarelli. Help me out. Who else was there? I can't remember. Okay.
 Hoffman and Hanley. Hoffman and Hanley. Thank you. Thank you. I couldn't see everyone. Linda was there. Linda was there? Okay. Thank you. I couldn't see everyone. I could actually only hear it part of the time. So thank you to everyone who went out and stood. I apologize for taking so long, but thank you.
 I guess it's on me I can't hear anything can you guys hear me yeah I'm sorry I'm muted Alderman Irvin sorry I kept saying your name and then you would respond as if you heard me and I was like oh you must hear me yeah no I appreciate it here you know I I guess say you know these are some crazy times that we're
 we're living in, you know, I know none of us have experienced any of what we're seeing now, and it's all new to us, you know, and I just, I thank God that it's not new to him. You know, in the book of Ecclesiastes, he said that there's nothing new under the sun, and that all is vanity and gasping for the wind. It's, there's no point to it really, y'all, but it's really interesting
 enjoy the work that he's given us. And, you know, it's, it's an honor to be in this position. And I just, I thank God that he's allowed me to come alongside of you guys in times such as this. And, you know, I just, you know, listening to everybody talk, you know, it was just, I really didn't know what I was going to say, you know, but I do want to say this, you know, um,
 When we're addressing these people that are frustrated and aggravated and hurt, confused, and lost, really...
 that's the truth. We don't, we don't want to address them with terms like, you know, knucklehead or, uh, agitators, you know, because, uh, life and death is in the power of the tongue. The scriptures say, you know, if we want to get back to the foundation of things, because God tells us build on a firm foundation and,
 You know, so when the storms come, the house don't fall apart. We're building on sand. And so when we begin to transform the way that we think and the way that we operate and the way that we even speak, because life and death is a part of the tongue, we start to change our atmosphere. You know, when we start speaking from a position of understanding, you know, I...
 That's when the people know that they're being hurt. Mayor, I mean, you said it multiple times. We need to do a better job at listening.
 You know, the scripture tells us that, you know, a wise man holds his son, you know, but a fool vents off. You know, a wise man listens. And so I thank you for being in tune to that, because in moments like this and in times like this, I know that God is speaking. And I would encourage you to be listening to him above all.
 Be in tune with that because there's souls, there's hearts, there's families, there's so many people that are looking to you. And if anybody's going to be in direct, if God's going to go to anybody, I believe he's going to go to the leader of the nations. And so I just I want to just be aware of who we're putting our mouths on, because I believe God has chosen people.
 to do a work and you don't mess with god's chosen people you know many of these people like i said are just lost that doesn't mean that they're not called or chosen you know the reason for a lot of this writing you got an entire body of people who for generation after generation have had to sit and watch things like this take place over and over and over you know and and even myself
 You know, speaking as a black male, going through an abundance of, you know, racism and stereotyping, you know, it was so much worse because I had not a parent in sight to turn to for any type of understanding of any of it. You know, so think about the generations that's come that has had to deal with what's been passed down for generations and generations. Right.
 when you're forced to watch someone like yourself murdered and you're crying out, stop, stop, stop. This is injustice. What else? What I mean on a global scale, what's done in the dark always come to light. God is very unhappy with what's taking place. And there has to be a rebalancing process.
 You know, I hate to say it, but sometimes it sucks for us to have to look at our own ugly. And I believe this is just that, us looking at our own ugly. We've allowed this stuff to go on by pushing God away and in trying to embrace our own ways of thinking and our own ways of doing and our own ways of operating. We are us and we can manage us, but we didn't even create us. And it's like, that's common sense.
 We look at a world that's constantly changing, but we have a word of God that remains the same throughout the generations and have been proven to set people free even in moments of depression and captivity. There's a different type of peace that falls on the people when they are able to embrace the word of God.
 And so the enemy comes to kill, steal, and destroy. That is his purpose. That's what God tells us. This is the enemy's sole job, to kill, steal, and destroy. The Ten Commandments were manipulated by the enemy. He took the Ten Commandments and manipulated the people themselves.
 And the scriptures tell us this. And in the same way, people will manipulate the word of God.
 such as enslaving people and operating the way they did. It's a double-edged sword. You know, putting it in the wrong hands, it could do a lot of damage. But putting it in the right hands, the word of God could cause multitudes of fruit to flourish and overflow in abundance. You know, especially when it's coming from the head down. You know, it's...
 When everything around us is changing, I just can't not ignore the fact that the word of God remains the same. And when we don't deal, when we don't take the time to deal with the heart problem,
 then we don't take time to deal with God's people. Cause that's, that's God's mission. It's reconciliation. It's bringing people back into relationship with, with himself, not us. It's not our responsibility to change people's heart, but to embrace people and, and deal with even our own heart towards people. Because, you know, clearly, you know,
 Clearly, there's a misunderstanding. Clearly, there's a lack of understanding
 There's lack in general. There's lack, and we need a rebalance. This generational thing, I can't stress the fact enough of iniquity, is passed down from generation to generation by our forefathers. And what we were birthed into as a nation, we can come out of that.
 That is the whole message behind the gospel is coming out of that bondage, not only physically, but mentally. It says, do not be conformed to the world, but be transformed by the renewing of our minds, changing the way that we think, changing the way that we operate, changing the way that we speak, changing the way that we perceive. And so...
 Yeah, if you don't mind, I'd like to conclude that and seal that. Heavenly Father, I just thank you right now that you're still at work, that you're still doing the work, Father, that you're just moving and you're cultivating, Lord God, the hearts of the people in this moment, Lord God. I pray, Father, that right now that those that have ears, let them hear.
 Let them hear, and those that have eyes, let them see what you're doing, what you're up to, Lord God. And I pray, Father, that you call them to draw close. Call them to draw nigh, Lord God. You said for so long you wanted to embrace them like a hen does her chicks, but for so long they rejected you, Lord God. I pray right now that their hearts are softening, Lord God.
 for the stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone, Lord God. And so I pray, Father, that as we continue to build and we continue to go forward, that we constantly remind ourselves that you and you alone have authority, Lord. In Jesus' mighty name we pray, amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Alderman Irving. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Yes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to say thank you to you for the different meetings that you have called and the different individuals that you have requested from the community. I also want to say thank you to Alderman Hervey for her comments because she's right on. I want to also acknowledge the fact that, Alderman Frost, we do have a problem in this community with our officers.
 We do have a problem in this community with our administration. We do need to address that. And all the individuals, you may not be getting the complaints. We get the complaints. Today I had a call from the Hispanic community that want to meet, the 100 strong that want to meet. But, you know, there's one part of the puzzle that is definitely missing from this.
 All the individuals that have been called to the table, and that is the unions. Because if we don't invite the unions to participate in the conversation and acknowledge the change that we need to make, we're not going to make them.
 I appreciate all the efforts and the time and everything that the mayor has put forth because the confidence in the community and the confidence of the residents of this community in our administration and our mayor is excellent. But the confidence with the police department is not. And those are some of the things that we have to address and have tough conversations about.
 They're not going to call every time there's a little incident. It's going to build up and build up in this community until it's out of control. We need to address it. We need to address it as a whole.
 And I think all the aldermen that stood with me, because that shows that we are, and I know everyone cares. And Dr. Durkee, wonderful. I know everyone cares about what happens in this community. Otherwise, we would not be occupying these 14 seats. But we need to work as a whole, not pick and choose who.
 Who we talk to, who we don't talk to, who we support, who we don't support. We need to support this entire community. When I vote, I vote for all 14 frickin' wards. When Ward 7 has a problem, I expect for all 13 aldermen to support the 7th Ward.
 And that's the way it should be. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Thompson-Delly. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I'm coming from a little different point of view. I do want to commend Chief O'Shea on an issue. I was reading the Chicago Tribune, and I saw that the new chief is going to have a training for all of his officers on asphyxiation techniques.
 why they shouldn't be used because they're not trained to use those in any of the police academies but they're being handed down from senior officers to younger officers so
 So I asked on Saturday, what are we going to do? And he said, we've already done it. We've already trained our officers that they're inappropriate, and they will be held accountable if they use those measures. So we are ahead on that one issue that asphyxiation techniques
 are not allowed on our police force and the officers will be held accountable if they use them. So thank you. Thank you, Ms. Bohn. Okay, I'm taking that. Thank you. Alderman Rose. I don't, I mean, I don't know how you prepare to comment on what happened last week in Minneapolis. It was one of the most grotesque things as a human being I've ever witnessed.
 And I don't normally make political comments about our president at city council, but I just don't understand how people would think that these kind of things don't happen when you have a leader who basically encourages strong police and inappropriate police responses.
 When you have someone who promotes that kind of behavior, it allows for a free pass. And, you know, I just don't have a lot of words to explain what happened, but when people are silent for a long, long time or people are silenced,
 This is the result of that. We heard the president call Colin Kaepernick and the guys who joined him in kneeling. He was real quick to call those gentlemen thugs. But when it came to white supremacists and other people who...
 attack people based on their race and color and ethnicity, creed and religion. He was quick to say, well, there's sometimes good people too. I just, I think it starts at the top. And I think if people want to change our country, we have to be vocal. And I mean very vocal. I can call out whether it's politicians, whether it's,
 um directors whether it's ceos whoever it is you know we see some of this in our community and it goes just right under right under the um kitchen table we just sweep it out we see it in our uh community college and where we had a opportunity to place a a great um
 ATC building in a minority neighborhood and they wouldn't answer any questions as to why they didn't want to put it there anymore, except for it just wasn't the right fit due to budgetary concerns. You know, the state of Illinois has seen a 30% reduction in African-American youth, most specifically males,
 and we wonder why this kind of stuff is happening, I mean, I'm not surprised at all. It doesn't surprise me. And when we talk about racism, you know, we may not have Jim Crow, and we may not have segregation, but institutional racism is everywhere.
 I think our city has an opportunity here to lead on these issues, and I hope we do. I hope we engage our legislators. I hope we legislative lobby for certain reforms in this regard. I think...
 Obviously, you know, our police unions have a very strong voice when it comes to these kind of things. But we've talked about this as a council before on making sure that we have African-Americans represented in all facets of government, specifically police, that we're hiring African-American police officers, that we make sure that they have diversity training, that...
 Our officers live and work in our community. I don't know a much bigger issue is when you live in the community that you serve and you have to face the fact that you serve that community, you're held to a higher standard. Right.
 And I will still 100% advocate that we look into some fashion or form of having our police officers live and work in our community, because a good portion of them do not. And I get it. They have all the reasons why they're here.
 they wouldn't want to, but they have one big reason why they should. Responsibility. Okay.
 And so I think there's a lot of reforms that need to occur. I think reforms around, you know, officers who perform misconduct that, you know, get a slap on the wrist and I'm not talking in regards to most of our officers in the Rockford department. I think we've had good responses. I think we have good communication in our police department, but there's always, always, always room for improvement. And,
 I think we can lead, and I think Chief O'Shea can lead in this regard. I think our mayor can lead. But we need to get a hold of Springfield and say, what is the state going to do to prevent this kind of stuff happening? And if we're not doing it as a city, as a part of our legislative action group, if we're not asking for this as a top priority, then we are not
 doing the work of our citizens because we represent a huge portion of minorities in the state of illinois um, we we just really we need to have a voice and um You know, that's really all I can say. I'm not surprised by this and I hope that uh, you know our community can heal by this and um, but I I hope our nation can and um,
 I hope in the future when young black men or women decide to kneel at a national anthem, we take a second look at what they're trying to say instead of attack them or tell them to shut up. Because this is the conversation we need to have as a country. So I'll end there. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Alderman Beach.
 Thank you. Um, Tim Durkee, I really appreciate your comments from your heart. I think for too long a time, political correctness has robbed us from saying what's in our hearts. I remember a time in this community
 where the clergy associations had a very heavy influence over what we did, the laws we crafted, and how we dealt with one another. And our police was quick to call on them for their help. My heart is very heavy over the events that have occurred in our city in the last 72 hours. And I want to thank...
 So many people, the peaceful protesters, who with their words and their actions set a solid example for our community and our children. And we dare not allow the violent faction whose turbulent purposes was to loot and to steal, overshadow the intentions of...
 of the peaceful or define who we are as individuals and as a community. Yes, we've got a long way to go, but we've come a long way as well. And I just wish sometime that you would take the look up the Humanist Manifesto.
 There's three versions, one, two, and three. And it will clearly outline where a major force in our country is under the situation of trying to dethrone God and deify man. You know, on an iceberg...
 There's only about a third of it above the surface, two-thirds below. And I really honestly feel that so often we're doing nothing but dealing with the surface. We don't get down to the root, as we've heard tonight. The root of what's causing this. Why do young children, ages 10, 11, and 12, how can they kill and murder and have absolutely no remorse? Although I've read where young men...
 feel they're going to be dead and gone perhaps of the black men by the time they're 21 years of age. What's motivation for them? I want to just say to you, I want to thank you so much that we have a city council and a mayor that allows this kind of conversation to occur. In my heart, love is the most powerful force in the world.
 Change lives change the world because there's no one that can legislate behavior outside of a changed heart. And I really think we need to, as the doctor said earlier, others have said we need to focus on that more than we are.
 I have much more to say, but I will not say it tonight. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Next up is Alderman Cunha. Yes, I'm on a...
 Thank you, Mary. I want to commend the good job you did over the weekend, you and Chief O'Shea. I had two instances in my ward. There was a fire at 1100 Block 7th Street. I want to commend Chief Olson for the fire department for putting that out real fast. That's for the...
 The building would have caught on fire if the agitators started burning the whole 7th Street up. Down the street in the 1200 block, a small business owner, having a hard time the way it is, he got robbed, beat up, and I want to commend the police department for arresting the ones that did the job on him. And there's two folks out there. I'd like to see him. Hello.
 stop by and uh and uh and uh comfort the guy tell him that we're out there watching the small business man if she can't make it we have a community officer uh to stop by there and and uh tell him that we're we got his back and uh we're out there watching the 11th ward and the whole city of rockford but i want to thank the job well done and uh
 let's work together and get rid of all these bad people in Rockford if they want to still act crazy and we'll be out there and we'll get them thank you thank you uh alderman hanley who is probably thinking i thought these started at 5 30 and ended by 7 it is now your turn thank you um
 I'll try to keep this brief. I just want to say thank you to all my fellow under men, the mayor. Police department fire department, everybody who's been working all weekend to kind of keep our city together, keep our community together.
 Yeah, this is a really interesting situation for me to be in kind of my first week. There's kind of a lot of responsibility placed upon all of us right now to really say the right thing but not say too much. Because for a lot of us, it's not our place to overspeak because we do not know how it feels, right?
 So I try to be careful with what I'm saying right now. As a mom, and as a foster mom, I see a lot of different kids come in my home, and I kind of, like, put everything in that perspective. And what we saw, watching someone's life being taken away, I mean, that's all I think. You know, I think, what if that's one of my kids? What if that was one of my children that I fostered in my home, right?
 So, yeah, I can't fault people's reaction. I can't say how I would react. I don't know. I might want to burn everything down myself if it was my child. So it's hard for me to say you shouldn't do this, people shouldn't be reacting that way because it's not my place to say. But all I can say is how we respond. Okay.
 We need to let people know that they are heard because, obviously, this is all coming out of years and years and years of frustration. And people are uniting all over the country, and they need to know that we hear them. And as local officials, as local representatives, I think that is our responsibility. I think Mr. Durkee said we should make a statement, just we hear you.
 And kind of that's it. So that's we hear you. And that's all. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Manley. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And thank all of you for your great comments. I would just like to say that I think
 Going back years decades There's certainly we as a society have seen some horrible things happen to African Americans
 And in my mind, when I saw what happened to Mr. Floyd, I went to Emmett Till, and those pictures forever stay in my mind. So I also think about Rodney King and how we watch the videos of the beating of Rodney King. So there's a lot of history there, and I certainly appreciate all the, Kirby, your
 your comments regarding the history. And we certainly know the history of the churches, of various churches within America. I think Martin Luther King said it best when he said that
 the most segregated time is on a Sunday morning with the churches. There you see the segregation. I think now since then where the churches are improving and people are starting to mingle more, but certainly we look at those churches and,
 in this city and every other city, and they're quite segregated. We have a long ways to go. I think we have to be honest with ourselves. We can't say, oh, we just need to go to church and everything's going to be all right. Everything's not going to be all right. There was a problem when President Obama ran and people 
 Didn't like what Minister Wright said, but that's the type of dialogue that we so often hear in African American churches. That's not foreign to us. That's not aggressive to us. And I think that we just need to...
 To not forget our past and that's all of us not to forget our past. So we're not confused about the present. There's nothing confusing about what happened to Mr. Freud or to the young lady that was killed in her house.
 where the police had a no-not-search warrant and she was killed. And her boyfriend, they put him in prison. He's out of prison, out of jail now, I mean. So we have to keep those things to the forefront as we move forward and have discussions. I certainly appreciate what Alderman Rose, that you've said,
 regarding the college the change in Rock Valley College from where we were looking at putting that on the south side of Rockford and now it's up for grabs
 I can't help but think about what happened last week with Winnebago County Board member Dorothy Redd and Airport Director Mike Dunn. When we have comments like that being made or discussions or disagreements like that happening within our city,
 It doesn't help, but it certainly, that lets us know that we've got problems and we need to deal with them. I still have real concern with the Police and Fire Commission. Over the years, I've had a number of African-American males that have applied for the police and fire. And when they get to the...
 The psychological part of the testing, that's where their points go down, and they don't become officers. So there's something there. So I hope that we can truly look at that. Mr. Mayor, I want to thank you for what you've done, and certainly the police chief. And I would just advise people, if you're going to march, if you're going to take part in a march, know who you're marching with.
 Because if you don't know who you're marching with, you could be marching with your enemy. And that's been the case throughout this country throughout this last week or so, where meaningful protesters are marching with their enemy. So that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McKinney and Alderman Crowley.
 Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. And thank you to all my colleagues. What a great collection of thoughts and words tonight. You know, speaking of God, speaking of racism, speaking of the civil protester, of thugs. I mean, we're mixing all these thoughts collectively, and I think that's what makes our council great honor with your leadership tonight.
 i want to thank the police department for everything they do they're in a very difficult position with a lot of people who are today against the police department some rightly so and some unfounded but i think i think most important to me your honor is that we do become unified and i do accept the challenge
 from Alderman Hervey tonight to come to the table and have hard discussions, difficult discussions
 to effectively change the way we do things and the way we think. I think it's very important for us. I also want to thank Alderman Thompson Kelly for her words yesterday, talking about respect and trust and how we need to build on that. That is the cornerstone of all good communication is to have respect and trust
 There was a question asked by one of the reporters yesterday, Your Honor, to yourself, I believe, was, did you hear what the protesters were saying? And yes, we do hear what they're saying, but more importantly, do we understand what they're saying? And can we demonstrate that understanding? It's very important.
 and that's the basis for a good communication is to demonstrate that understanding and put everything on the table to ourselves to heal and move forward and take away these horrific things that are happening to our community our citizens are crying out from anxiety and fear and hatred and rage and all these very negative emotions
 that fill our content of our consciousness that is horrible. We need to change that. We need to fill our hearts with love and joy for all humanity. And I tell you, right now, this is a great opportunity for us as a council and leaders to build on that. And we have to. These civil protesters are doing a fabulous job of trying to get their message out that they're being infiltrated by these horrible people.
 people who are inciting fear and rage and attacking innocent people. And it's unacceptable, Your Honor, that right now our constituents and our communities
 trying out for some type of leadership to understand that they are going to be safe and we're doing everything in our power to help them. We must congratulate our businesses who have endured for so long these last few months of their closure of their businesses and now have to endure the fear of their businesses dying.
 being rampaged for no reason. And we have to stand by them, Your Honor. We have to stand by the civil protesters. We have to stand with all the people of our community to understand that we truly don't understand sometimes. And that's a very difficult thing to admit, that sometimes we truly don't understand. Because we hear with our ears and see things with our eyes that convolute our true nature as human beings.
 And I believe we have this great opportunity today and going forward to collectively make a change in our community with all our departments, fire, police, everybody that's involved. I truly want to make our community better. So that's, yes, I do accept the challenge to come to the table and be part of that dialogue to effectively change our community, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you, Walter McCrory. So...
 I think many of you said this. We certainly have an opportunity and I think it's incumbent on us as the council to lead. I mentioned the Community Relations Council previously, but I want to ensure that it's not just them, it's all of us. It's every board and organization that participates in our community, that helps our youth, that
 uh their uh faith community uh it's all of us as a community that's gonna have to sit at that table for the difficult dialogue and then after that dialogue we're going to need actionable steps to move ourselves forward so again just appreciate all of you we'll continue to keep you updated uh as quickly as we can as this situation evolves and we'll also continue to update you regarding uh
 So, thank you for your time this evening. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. No one wants to discuss that, so you have a wonderful evening. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All right. Good night.
 Thank you.