to participate in city government. We pray now that you will bless our city council, our mayor, our fire and police department, our school district, and all citizens that make up this great city, Rockford, Illinois. In Jesus' name we pray, amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America,
 And to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee, Getschis, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Pannell, Thompson-Kelling, Odom, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, Chiarelli, 13 Presnello.
 thank you very much you have a quorum motion to accept the two journals we have two journals up for passage the may 16 2016 journal and the may 23rd 2016 journal of growth for passage are there any amendments or changes none all those in favor of approving the two journals that are upper passage please signify by saying aye opposed no i just have it journals be approved
 We have several speakers signed up for public speaking tonight. And mine are speakers that they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. And I have three minutes to make those comments. Our first speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of 2nd Corinthians, the ninth chapter, the seventh verse, it says, every man according as he purposed in his heart. So let him give not grudgingly or of necessity for God love or cheerful giver. What I want to speak about tonight, he rose in need of help.
 Seeking help is not a sign of weakness, it's just the opposite. Law enforcement officers are trained to be in control at all times. Many officers with behavioral health and substance abuse issues award seeking help because they feel it would mean they've lost control, a sign of weakness that could prove dangerous to their fellowship and survival. Additionally, many officers are concerned with confidentiality worry their departments won't protect their personal health information, which could also be detrimental to their careers. But so often
 These fears are not based in reality. That's why it's so important to one, realize accepting help is a sign of strength and courage. And two, seek accurate information about the help that's available to you. If an officer has a problem and resists treatment, the problem will worsen just as with any disease.
 says James Morrison, treatment consultant, law enforcement for American Addiction Center. Over time, behavioral health, substance abuse issues weaken the physical and mental endurance needed to perform on the job. Trauma-related disorder and drug, alcoholic or B, PTSD is a...
 Psychiatric disorder often resulted from exposure to a critical incident or traumatic event due to the nature of the job. PTSD is common among the law enforcement community. It is imperative that officers exhibiting PTSD symptoms be assessed by a licensed professional. Common symptoms may include, one, chronic stress, anxiety, two, hallucination or delusion, three, memory loss, four, panic attacks, five, sudden flashbacks, six, feelings.
 of hopelessness, sudden depression, thoughts of killing oneself. Sadly, it's also common for officers to numb the physical or emotional pain faced while on the job with drugs and alcohol. Signs of substance abuse include noticeable changes in attitude, mood, appearance, and work performance, the latter of which may include abusing medical time, spousal or loved ones, regular call-out on behalf of the officer.
 Excessive citizen complaints, extending days off with personal time on a regular basis in an effort to recover from a drug or alcoholic binge. I need help now.
 Sometimes the fear of losing one job is enough to persuade an officer's treatment. In other cases, support from loved ones provide enough encouragement to make the decision to seek help. However, it's often the officer who must make the call and the commitment. Seeking the support of loved ones is key. Police officers, you're not alone. Help is just a phone call away.
 Call us today, 1-855-99-POLICE, Police American Addiction Centers. You're always there when we need you. Now it's our turn to help you. A good friend of mine, y'all might have heard about him a long time ago, he committed suicide. I had another friend that's a retired policeman. He committed suicide. That's why I hate for people to call my house at nighttime because it's always bad news. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.
 Keep adding. It works. Plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two
 Yes, we met. And now, what should we do? What must we do? Demand a loan. Write a speech. Borrow our book. But write your speech. Take it back, Neighborhood Watch Group. We'll be meeting tomorrow at Centennial Church, 6 p.m., Broadway and Parmalee. Open to everyone. Stop the violence. End the silence. Call Crime Stoppers.
 On this day, 72 years ago, Operation D-Day commenced. Where were you last Tuesday evening? The city's committee meeting was canceled. So, barring a family or medical emergency, where were you? Where were our county board members? Where were our newly elected county board members? Where were our 14 aldermen? Less than half. Yes, less than half.
 of our aldermen attended the crime meeting at Memorial Hall.
 Just because the city canceled a regularly scheduled meeting does not mean you get a day off. This was not a snow day where you can make it up. This was about crime, crime in our city, and every one of you should have been there. Even if it was for the last 30 minutes of the meeting, an appearance should have been made. Crime affects every one of us directly and indirectly.
 At that meeting, Sherry Boustos talked of a high-profile home invasion and how the victim told her that the assailant was once a three-year-old boy. All I can say to that is it was no three-year-old boy holding a knife to my mother's throat. It was a 26-year-old man. Also at the meeting, Mr. Schablaski of Transform Rockford said it wasn't apathy but frustration that is affecting the citizens of Rockford. What? What?
 Frustration? Maybe they were frustrated with our one-way streets. They couldn't find a way to Memorial Hall. They got so frustrated they went home. Apathy is alive and thriving in Rockford.
 As I was sitting in Memorial Hall last week, I couldn't help but notice all of the empty chairs in the room. The empty chairs that should have been filled with my neighbors. The empty chairs that should have been filled by victims of crime. The empty chairs that should have been filled by anyone who gives up about what happens in this city. As a victim of crime, I am truly saddened that there were empty chairs in that room.
 Chairs that should have been filled with the faces that surround me. Chairs that should have been filled with the people that are watching this broadcast at home. An empty chair has no voice. An empty chair is silent. I say to you, an empty chair speaks volumes. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you to our, oh, I'm sorry, one more speaker. Next speaker is John Brantley.
 Good evening, I'm the Mayor, Marcy, our aldermen and alderwomen, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 17, verses 27 to 28, highlight seven benefits of keeping quiet. It's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. It allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. It gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure that you pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something important to say.
 Few athletes willing to risk it all like a vocal Muhammad Ali did. Muhammad Ali stood for what he believed in, and he paid a steep price for the elementary act of standing. He lost his heavyweight title in class and perhaps his best year as a boxer. He lost his livelihood. He lost many of his fans, if they think so.
 thing most athletes stand for these days is a folding shoe tied to their shoe endorsement. Very few of today's stars will risk everything the way Ali did in 1967 when he made the highly controversial decision not to fight his country in Vietnam. He said his religion believed
 picking up a rifle unthinkable or as he put it, I ain't no draft dodger, I ain't burning no flag, I ain't running to Canada, I'm staying right here. You want to send me to jail? Fine, you go right ahead. I've been in jail for 400 years. I could be there for four or five more, but I ain't going no 10,000 miles to help murder and kill other poor people.
 If I want to die, I die right here, right now, fighting you. If I want to die, you my enemy, no Chinese, no Japanese. Man, man, I ain't got a quarrel with them Vietcongs. You my oppressor.
 freedom, you my oppressor when I want justice, whether you believe what Ali did was right or wrong, you can't dismiss the bravery he took to follow his conscience and the cost that it came with. That was 50 years ago and it's hard to come up with many other athletes who have recently made sacrifice for an idea.
 Pat Tillman walked away from the NFL to enlist in military after the 9-1-1 attack. The University of Missouri football team refused to take part in team activity last year until the school system president resigned for not addressing racial issues on campus.
 those decisions have tangible risks. There's no reason wearing I Can't Breathe t-shirts to express your anger over a death. And LeBron James and other NFL players did in 2014, as the grand jury decided to indict a white police officer
 who helped a black man in a chokehold before he died. Muhammad Ali, the greatest and the greatest during his time. He put fear in his opponent's heart by telling the world what ground he was going to knock them out in, and he did it. However, after receiving over 47,000 hits in his body and head, he later on in life had Parkinson's disease,
 But he did not stop fighting for people's rights. He went over to Iraq and came back with the release of a prisoner. At 74 in December, the boxing legend gave a statement criticizing Mr. Donald Trump's proposal for banning Muslims from entering the United States. Your time is up. I'll be part of you next week. Sounds good. Thank you very much. Thank you to each of our speakers. Petitions and communications.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one referral. It's a request from John Holstrom, Paul Ogley, and Jim Keeling for consideration of financial commitment in the Kishwaukee school area for demolition and neighborhood improvement. This will be referred to Planning and Development. That'll be referred. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a couple announcements to make on the petitions and communications. Saturdays in the park by the Divine Divas, again this year, will be June 18th, July 16th, August 20th, and September 17th. There will also be a Sunny Safety Walk July 10th from 1 to 5 p.m. in Andrews Park in the community. The Sunny Safety Walk
 where we have the Park District, the Housing Authority, donations from the Fire Department as well as the Police Department, and our community service officers will be joining us in that safety walk around the park. I have flyers to pass on if any of the aldermen are interested in it. Thank you.
 Thank you. Further petitions and communications? Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a couple items this evening. The first is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on June 8th, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on June 27th.
 The second item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, the assistance operations manager regarding upcoming special events which include Rockford Fourth of July Committee Annual Parade and Fireworks, Booker Fest, Fund Fair, ROC Party, St. Stanislaus, Polish Fest, YMCA Urban Golf, Rosecrans Recovery Walk, and Swedish American State Street Mile. Both those items will be referred to the Codes and Rights Committee.
 Thank you, matters will be referred for the petitions and communications. Hold them back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have the intergovernmental agreement with the Rock River Water Recommendation District regarding Fisher Avenue, Haskell Avenue sanitary sewer extension and water replacement.
 I have the memorandum from Mark Stockman, the transportation superintendent, regarding a lease agreement for use of city-owned property at 523 South Central Avenue with Timber Industries of Dixon, Illinois. And I have a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, interim finance director regarding authorization ordinance to issue bonds to finance district police stations, concourse parking deck repair change order, refunding water, and TIF bonds. These three items will be referred to finance and personnel.
 And it was referred. Thank you for the petition and communications. Committee reports. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 4B, 1 through 8, Your Honor, I'd like to suspend the rules. Second. I'm going to motion and second to suspend the rules on the committee reports. Roman numeral 4B, items 1 through 8. All those in favor, please say aye. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I just have it. It's supposed to be suspended. Your Honor, I place items 1 through 8 for passage. Committee reports for which the rules were suspended are for passage. Is there a discussion? Certainly. Number 5 will be separated. We'll take the others first. Any others? We'll take all items except for 5 first. Any discussion on those items? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to number 6, the mural that's going to be on the bridge, was there a schematic of what that looks like?
 I mean, before we say yes to somebody putting a painting on a city bridge, I would just think we should know what that painting is going to be. It looks like Mr. Cagnone is walking over to you. Was that distributed as part of the packet?
 Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, what I just provided to Alderman Hervey is the schematic that was done by the artist that's been commissioned by the Rockford Area Arts Council for the mural. You should also have an e-mail that I sent the Friday before the Codes and Regulations Committee, so about two weeks ago, that laid out the method and proposal for consideration by counsel.
 thank you for the discussion and items one two three four six seven eight are up for passage for the discussion those items hearing none clerk please call the roll get just make him here for us pervy no I'm sorry I know
 Connell Thompson-Kelley No 1, 2 Odo Newberg No 1, 2 Beach No 1, 2 Can you repeat that? No 1, 2 Elia Beck Aye McNeely Aye Chiarelli Aye Items 3, 4, 6, and 8, 14 ayes. Item number 1, 13 ayes. I'm sorry, 12 ayes, 1 no. I apologize.
 12 eyes 1 no 2 abstain that's 11 I'm sorry I'm number 2 is 12 eyes 2 nose number 7 is 12 eyes 2 nose sorry number 2 with 11 eyes 2 nose 1 abstain that is all passed we'll come back to number 5 their discussion Alderman Thompson Kelly
 First of all, I'd like to say thank you to the staff for going back to the developer and negotiating some of the requests that the developer wanted to do in regards to West State and Springfield area. I was totally appalled at the request of the developer. Never have I seen in all the years and all the boards and such,
 a no need for any ordinance that we have in this community. I think the request was made to a variation for every ordinance that we have with the new developer. I think it's appalling that any developer would come into the community and want this and to put garbage in the community. Development is good, and I don't think anyone can say that any part of the city needs development, especially new development.
 But when you come in and it's appalling that you would want to put something less standard than has been accepted in other areas of this community, to me I have to say something in regards to it because it's a disregard, a disrespect for the area of this community. And as I said, I wanted to thank the staff for pushing back.
 and knowing and acknowledging the fact that something such as this couldn't be built anywhere in this community, not just the west side of Rockwood, but anywhere in this community. So I appreciate that. I still have some major concerns of some of the things that's been recommended for approval.
 I have some major concerns about the safety and protection of the residents of the community. I also have some major concerns about the staff recommendation on a couple of variations. I'm not going to get to the point to where I'm jumping up and down and screaming about it, but I do want the developer to know that this is appalling that he would even move
 to build something like this, not just on the west side of Rockford, but anywhere in this community. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Ditto for the most part. I want to speak separately just to address with my fellow aldermen the idea that –
 And by the way, let me make it very clear that I have huge respect for this developer, what he does for Rockford, what he brings to the area. I want to talk to him about some things along South Main, and I think that's great. But I agree with Alderman Thompson-Kelly. When somebody comes into an area and wants to abide by zero of the
 requirements that we have for development. There was originally a request that was actually brought to council for no inside landscaping. If we as a council are going to allow those kinds of variances in some places but not the others, then shame on us. All areas of
 deserve the same high standards. And somewhere we've got to meet those high standards. Someone suggested that I was saying that this developer was doing a second-class job on the west side. That's not what I was saying. What I'm saying is the absence of all of these standards that were originally requested
 would have been a total deviation from our standards. If that's not second class, then it's second standard. I don't care what label you put on it. This dialysis center is much needed in the west side of Rockford. We have a very high rate of utilization in that area for dialysis services. And I think it's gonna be great for people to have them closer to home.
 At the same time, if we're gonna start developing some of our areas, let's make sure that we are establishing a standard that we're gonna apply across the city and not have a
 lesser standard for everything from landscape to security berms and privacy berms. I don't like fences. I don't like the message that a fence sends. And we ask for berms for a reason as opposed to fences. I don't like the fence. I think it sends an absolutely bad message. And we put berms in every other area. I don't think we've ever had a fence
 whatever they call those fences that are just total blocking fences. We do them in industrial privacy, we do them in industrial areas I know, but I don't think we've done them in residential areas. The preference is to have the privacy berms and I would prefer to see that here. So I would ask that staff at least try to get the developer to go back and reconsider
 putting that fence up in that area between the residential places and the development. Thank you. Further discussion? Ullman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly appreciate my colleagues, their concern regarding this development and certainly agreeing with both of them that there is respect for this developer and certainly knowing that I want something, some development along that.
 the one major corridor within my ward, which is West 8th Street. Mr. Mayor, I would ask staff to address the comments that have been made regarding these changes and why they decided to go along with it, given that this is the first new development in several years. Mr. Cagnotti, perhaps you can give some background and sort of the current staff position on the proposal.
 Sure. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a little bit of clarification. On tonight's City Council agenda, the request and discussion was reflected as originally requested by the developer. You should all have a memo on your desk from Scott Capovilla that set forth what the original request was.
 as represented on Council's agenda, and then our efforts to work with the developer to bring in green space, interior landscaping, and buffering for the proposed development. The site is constrained as it relates to the total footprint without additional land acquisition, and the developer was working to accommodate the dialysis facility as well as additional retail services.
 We had worked with them on their original request to incorporate as much interior green space as the site would allow, while still maintaining what the developer had represented as their minimum footprint to be able to financially move the project forward.
 You know, attached to the memo that you have this evening is the site plan. And so, yes, there are variations in landscaping along Springfield and West State Street, but I'd also point out that what's published as the approval, the variation down to four foot, for example, is the minimum –
 setback along the corridor, but because of the configuration of the lot in many places it's on an angle so there might be some minimum points But then there's also areas which go up to 21 foot along West State Street and 15 to 16 foot
 along springfield because of the configuration of the existing lot you know we're happy to go back to the developer and work on alternatives should the proposal not be acceptable to increase the green space on the site I also wanted wanted staff to comment regarding the fencing
 Thank you. You know, there have been occasions in the past that we have accepted fencing in lieu of landscaping when adjacent to residential properties and or other commercial properties. In some circumstances it may make a better buffer because it's, you know, it secures the residential property site and creates, you know, site obstructing, you know,
 barrier between the residential property and the commercial property. We've also had occasions where we've had the fence in the landscaping to go along with it. Certainly, we've had quite a depth of approvals over a number of years related to different standards based on the site configuration.
 usually taken into consideration as part of the overall plan so there are other places commercial places that do have the fencing and do have a reduction and the site and that area the state area correct there there are other areas I can't reference those off the top of my head but I'd be happy to get further information
 It's an exception in that it's a variation, but this council and previous councils have approved variations for buffering in the past when adjacent to residential. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor, I stated last week that I was disappointed in the reductions that...
 the developer had requested. I'm still disappointed in that. I'm disappointed in the number of signage. I can't imagine how it's going to look.
 But those are things that at this point I am willing to overlook and move this project forward for the benefit of not the developer, but for the benefit of the individuals that live in that area and for the individuals within that area and outside of that area that needs a facility that's closer to them, which would not just be within the city of Rockford,
 but locations that are west, south, and north of Rockford that would make this more convenient. So I do hope that the council, all of my colleagues would support this and allow us to move forward with it. Thank you very much. Thank you for the discussion, Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 I really appreciate your comments, seeing that we played phone tag over the weekend trying to discuss this. But I have a question that I'm concerned about and I'd like an explanation from staff. The signage. Aren't they permitted to put three signs up because they're having three buildings but they're asking for one sign? Mr. Cagnone? Please explain that to me.
 thank you your honor so are our sign regulations as they currently said allow a minimum of one freestanding sign per lot the configuration of this development
 is three lots, so each lot would be allowed to have one freestanding sign, with the exception of the corner lot, which could have two freestanding signs, one facing each street frontage. As part of the request from the developer, they've asked for a shopping center sign for the entire development. So we have a regulation for shopping centers that allow you, anytime you have six or more businesses,
 on a site that you can have a shopping center sign, which allows you to go up to 20 foot to advertise all the businesses versus an 8 foot sign for single user lots or lots with less than 6 tenants. On a staff level we supported the variation to treat the overall development as a shopping center so that they could have a lot of people
 shopping center sign near the intersection of West State and Springfield. As it proceeded through the review process, I understand the Code and Regulations Committee removed that condition so that a shopping center sign would be allowed on the corner lot and then on the other two lots they would be allowed to have a landmark sign.
 low profile sign, eight foot in height. The developer had indicated to staff, and I believe this was represented by my office to the committee, that the lease with the dialysis facility had stated that they would have their own freestanding sign in addition to advertisement on a shopping center sign. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Any further discussion on item five?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Goetjes? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Portinise? The matter passes, thank you. Thank you. For the reports of committees, Ollen Beck?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have Roman numeral 4C, items 1 through 4. Ask for suspension of rules. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules of Roman numeral 4C, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended.
 I'm up for passage better surface of their discussion well every it you're not I have a question with regard to for legal with regard to item number two this is the fine reduction request I'm not on Weaver Road in my understanding is that this property had significant outstanding fines on record and
 was sold through Fannie Mae, which tells me that this was probably a title company holding. Fannie Mae is a government, quasi-government agency, who certainly knows that if there are municipal fines or liens against a property, they can't transfer that property without satisfying those liens.
 They did it anyway. Now we've got the person coming to us saying we want to reduce the fines. And I have a problem with that. I think the goal of reducing fines is to get properties into hands of good folks who can do some work on them and bring them back up to standard.
 get them back on the tax rolls, bringing in more in property taxes, et cetera, where they have corrected the violations. This is a case where an agency that knew better transferred a property without satisfying those liens. And I think that's a bad message to start sending. You can leave your property...
 in horrible shape. This was on Weaver Road, so they probably kept it up. But you can leave the property blighted and in bad shape, don't take care of the grass for as long as you want, then when you sell it, just ask them to reduce the fines. And that's not what I want to end up doing with people, not in my area, because they will leave it blighted and unattended for too long. So I want to know how we're going to address that with Fannie Mae. They should have escrowed the amount of the fines at closing
 unless there's something I'm real off base with on this property. Mr. Hayes, can you give some background? So this particular property has a rather complex ownership and transfer set of issues, particularly as it relates to when we initiated the code enforcement action and when it took hands. The matter was filed related to what appears to be the conduct of the prior owner.
 was continued for hearing on a number of occasions. The actual hearing took place in January of 2013. It was a default hearing. We were not aware because of transactions going on. But it may be that Fannie Mae didn't own the property on the scheduled hearing date. The findings, decisions and orders took some time to get recorded. By the time it was recorded, it
 had been conveyed already that he is folks so I would be happy to set this matter aside we have engaged in 30 or 40 fine reduction requests before the city council and this has been consistent with them I think that one way that the findings decision and order mechanism differs
 from a lien and why staff has relied on that is that many times the owners when these properties go into this condition their painless judgment proof but these findings decisions and orders
 don't aren't lean sick it captured on a transaction they are they are imposed on the property remain on the property until the city reduces into judge tries to collect so the vast majority of cases were not looking at owners were responsible when the citations issued that have any capability of pain but the findings and kid findings decisions in order gives us control over the property because we can impose those later on after purchasers
 And we can do that to the DS's in this case, but the DS's seem to be the type of people that we have been entering favorable outcomes to in the past. So this is a more complex discussion, I think, than we can have tonight and get right. I have asked my staff, as you can tell by my report, because I wasn't directly involved in this matter, to report on me on them. But I think in essence, the findings, decisions, and order mechanism
 is a special device of municipal law that allows us to visit this consequence in the future if we choose to. And if the city council in its judgment doesn't want to reduce the fine, it doesn't have to approve this, and we'll try to enforce it against the property owners now. But most of the cases that we have, if we just file a lien, it's just never going to get collected. So we do have rare cases where there's better opportunities, and we try to ferret those out and pursue them.
 and we will in the future. Your Honor, I'd like to suggest we send this back to committee. If that's okay with Alderman Hervey? Just so we can really look at it. I think you bring up some good points. Yeah, but my point is I don't want to punish the people who now have the house. That wasn't the goal. If they have already purchased it, to me they were, quote, innocent purchasers, if you will. So I don't want to punish them for the reduction.
 And if we didn't actually have it recorded until after the transaction, I'm not bothered by that. It just bothered me that Fannie Mae, it seemed, was the owner of record at the time the sale took place under what I thought was a foreclosure. And that's what I had a problem with, was Fannie Mae transferring a property and not satisfying or seeking to reduce that fine.
 prior to transferring the property so I guess my question would be are we at all limited our ability to convert a fine to a lien recorded with the county and I just would you know we don't have to discuss all this tonight I'd be happy to
 support a separate agenda item at a future meeting to discuss it, but the question I would have between community development and legal is that if we're not routinely converting a fine over to a, you know, something that could be searchable and found in a title search lien, is it a matter of not having the legal ability to do so or is it a process issue? I can't imagine what the benefit is of not having that lien recorded since it could be
 always to be waived or set aside at a later time but yeah that's not a tonight's not the time to discuss in conjunction with this item I'm happy to agenda that for future discussion council Alderman Frost and Alderman Tubbs-Kelly and I would agree with the Mr. Hayes I mean if the majority of what whether you have a fine or a lien and it's placed on the property at any given time when a new purchaser
 comes to the city or wants to move from one home to another home in the city and is buying a property that's blighted, dilapidated, has a lien on it, I don't think it's fair to, if they're going to be the ones that are going to renovate, refurbish and get the property up to code, let's not forget that the real purpose of these fines isn't always collection but it's compliance. So I don't care whether the fine is $10,000, $15,000, $10,000, $15,000,
 or $3,000 on this house. If the new folks are in the home and they're bringing up the compliance and staff recommends waiving it or doing a fine reduction, I would be all for it. Again, whether or not it's a fine or it's recorded as a lien, as Mr. Hayes indicated, if it's someone that we can collect the lien on or if it's Fannie Mae or whoever is allowed it to happen and we can find a way to
 recoup some of our costs and time on it. That's one thing, but I'd hate to see someone like the Diaz in this particular case be held up after they purchased a home and been hit with a large fine or lien on their property when really they just want to buy a new home and actually fix it up and get it in compliance with all the city standards. Alderman Thompson-Kelley?
 Your Honor, I would like to request when you place this on the agenda that we be given fine...
 that we start to discuss process for fines and liens. I think the staff has somewhat been all over the place to do the best they can to remedy some of our problems. And we need to take note and have a discussion and have guidelines in order for them to work by. So I would hope that you have fines, backslash liens off discussion on the agenda.
 Thank you. Thank you, and so I would suggest that we go ahead and it sounds like there's the will of the council to reduce the fine for the property owners, but I really would like to have this on the finance and personnel committee in the near future, unless it makes more sense to be on codes, I'm not sure, but on one of the committees to discuss the overall issue. It sounds I'd be happy to ask between Mr. Cagnoni and Mr. Hayes if you guys could get
 both the committee and any potential discussion topics you want to associate with it, and we'll get it set for one of our future upcoming committee meetings. Thank you. Further discussion on the item as it sits, Alderman Newberg. I'd also like to know the difference between reducing a fine and abating a fine. You know, what if the city staff could sort of, you
 Give me a tutorial on that, not tonight, but sometime. Because I understand reducing a fine because work has been done and it's been brought up to code. But if it's for grass, if it's for water, if there are certain fines that are levied against a property, and then, gee, the property's been sold, they owe the city $3,000, $4,000, but we can't.
 you know the new owners are going to pay their owners are going to pay their the city is the person that's losing out so I'd like a little more clarification of how they picked this but mysteries so well as a condition of all of these reductions we include as a standard that any mowing or cleanup liens or assessments would be paid
 So we generally, when we're out dollars directly out of the city to vendors, because you know our mowing is done by vendors, our cleanups are done by vendors, those have to be satisfied in addition to the amount that the fines might be reduced to. So typically, as part of the product that is approved by city council, those direct costs to the city are subject to recovery.
 Thank you. The fines may not be that are imposed, but the actual costs that the city suffers are recouped. Thank you. Again, we'll take up the suggestions from tonight and get the items agended for a future discussion. Look forward to that discussion taking place. If there's other items that council members want to include in that discussion, we're happy to have a broader conversation.
 So if there's no further discussion, the item as it is sits before the council tonight. This again, item two. Or actually, we've got to take all those up, which is items room number four, C items one through four. Any additional discussion on those? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Getches. McNamara. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. It's on. Bill on two. I am the rest.
 each only a back I think nearly cheerily and 124 14 I items numbered or item number 2 13 eyes one betters past thank you officers reports I'm good
 The only thing I wanted to make sure we covered tonight was a response to an article that came out last week by the Guardian. There was some news coverage on it locally. We did a press release. We've got a more detailed response that we want to do tonight. I'm going to ask that that presentation be delayed to the end of the meeting. We have some other items, including a closed session that we need to do first. So if there's no objection, we'll move on.
 I'll wait to do that discussion, discussing our water system and specifically the accusations that were made by the Guardian news agency last week until the end of the meeting. For the Office's reports, I'll go to Thompson Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First of all, I would like to refer to the legal department from the Legislative and Lobbying Committee the results and responses from the Alderman's priorities. I'd like for the administration to move forward with our lobbyists and notifying them of our picks.
 to request from Todd, the community development department, an update on the time it takes to call in a lease and the cut and the process it takes so that we can respond to our residents that are, I know you're overwhelmed at this point in time, but we've got residents calling in complaints
 So we want to give them some type of timeframe in which those weeds would be cut or addressed. I would greatly appreciate that. The other thing is, the other day there was an article in the paper in regards to Crusader Clinic and Mercy Health Systems. I have to comment on it simply because Swedish America has been a true friend
 to Crusader Clinic and the residents of the West Side Proctor. I truly don't feel that Crusader Clinic would have accomplished all the things as quickly as it did without the support that Swedish America has given us. Swedish America's foundation every year over $200,000 was donated to programs with women's problems
 They've also supported organizations in the community as far as keeping Crusader healthy and strong in the community. It was really amazing to read that Crusader, and I really don't know why the decision was made. I'm sure there's more than what was in the paper.
 But it was quite disturbing when we've had such a partner as the Swedish Mayor in the community all these years, with the millions of dollars that they have donated and they have been partners with willingly all these years, supportive all these years. It was very disturbing to see that their partnership was not valued this much. I'd like to let you know.
 as well as the administration know that, how much I appreciate all their willingness and all their support, as well as giving her, like I said, I don't know all the details of the decision, why the decision was made or how it was made. I just felt it was quite disturbing that they would not try to work out some type of agreement with the relationship over the last 20, 30 years that we've had. Thank you.
 Thank you for the discussion. Alderman Herby. Thank you, Your Honor. Several things. I hope it's not out of line, but I grew up
 feeling good as a little dark-skinned girl with nappy hair, largely because of a man named Muhammad Ali. He was Cassius Clay at that time. When he became Muhammad Ali, he made some speeches and said some things that resonated with me as a child and had a lot to do with my, which some people might regret, my involvement in the civil rights
 movement and made me a lot of what I am today. He said he was the greatest, we can argue about that.
 He was one of the first men who I saw stand up for his principles and his religion. I'd heard a lot of people say that they would die for their God. I didn't see a lot of people say they would lose their money, their title, and their freedom for their God. And I thought it was just fascinating that this man was willing to give up so much, go to prison for his beliefs,
 I disagree with people who felt that he was a coward. I don't think a coward can get into a ring and have his head bashed in. And I believe that his fate drove his decision to be a conscientious objector. I would like to ask if we could take a moment of silence for Muhammad Ali, for all that he was to our nation, and I think to a lot of people across this country. I'd be happy to. Thank you. Please rise for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor, and thank you to everyone else. Second, I would like to mention there was a full-page ad in the Register Star on Sunday announcing that Legacy Academy of Excellence was awarded international baccalaureate status. International baccalaureate is a school designation.
 that allows students to be educated and receive this IB degree or diploma when you're done. They are few and far between. The Rockford Public Schools talked about doing an IB program. Alice Sidergus talked about that for years.
 It is a very difficult designation to attain. I'm a little biased because I was on Legacy's board when they first formed and came here as a charter school. But I did want people to know that we have a charter school in the city that has a status that is awarded to very, very few. And I want to congratulate Legacy on attaining their IB status. And I think people should know it's a great program for their kids.
 I wanted to say just a couple words too about the Swedish American and Crusader Clinic designation. I know things change and I know that progress is sometimes painful for people, but I think one of the things that made Rockford great was our medical system. One of the things Rockford I think could be proud of is that we didn't have a good hospital for some people and a bad hospital for other people. We had all good hospitals.
 I think our medical community, albeit competitive, work very well together. And everybody knows I'm biased on this topic of Mercy Rockford. I'd look like an idiot if I tried to pretend anything different. But I think it's harmful when interests come into a community and start to really upset and uproot
 something is vital to the city and to the community, not just the city but the community including surrounding areas as healthcare. I'm not naive. Things are going to change.
 But it bothers me that so much of the change that we're seeing in our healthcare market is negative. I don't know that we recover from that. Swedish American health system is going to get hit hard by some of the changes at Rockford Memorial to lose much of their obstetrics and their medical care.
 neonatal care is going to be a big blow. This is gonna affect employment, it affects a lot of the investment that they have made in their new campus, and they're gonna get hit hard by the reduction of emergency room services at Rockford Memorial. If they now make a decision not to expand their emergency services, not to take up some of the slack that we're gonna feel for Rockford Memorial,
 Somebody, and I do believe it should come from the city, needs to get in here and start figuring out how we're going to redistribute the healthcare needs of a large swath, not just of the west side of Rockford, but western Winnebago County. Those are policy matters. Those are matters that are going to affect our emergency medical providers, our fire
 We need to start having some discussions. I can't be included because the room wouldn't survive. But we need to start having discussions about how we're going to provide for those needs. What is Swedish American going to do? How are they going to provide for those services? How is it going to impact St. Anthony?
 And I'm hoping that the city will take a leadership role in that discussion because we helped create some of that vacuum that's going to occur. So I'm disappointed in what occurred, but again, not naive as to why it occurred and what's behind it, but I do hope that we can start to make sure that we protect this community because people are at risk. Thank you. Thank you for the officer's report, Solomon McNair. Thank you, Mayor.
 We talk often about the connectivity of our bike paths, and I know me and you have briefly discussed Spring Creek, and I've spoken with Public Works Director Mr. Bittner on this as well. But I just urge that the administration does everything that we can to,
 and our council does everything that we can to include a bike path multi-use path on the north side of uh... spring creek i just think it's so critical if we can connect from the auburn street bridge up to spring brook we can really bring that connection all the way from downtown to
 Rock Cut State Park to Rock Valley College, we can bring that multi-use path and connect so many of our, that one connection is just so critical, I would say. So if there's anything that I can be doing to help and assist in that matter, please let me know.
 Thank you. Just as a quick follow-up, I have been in discussions with Mr. Ryan and Mr. Vittner on that specific issue, and I understand that you've been working on that along with Alderman Frost quite a bit. I'm happy to follow up with you. I know we're in the process of requesting some information from the
 sanitation district and potentially a request that they delay the start of the construction on that so that we have a chance to fully evaluate the options. Alderman Newberg, then back to Alderman Cross. We did it towards the last. The citizens of Rock, we didn't know what the problems are. I've been here for years. You do know what our problems are in Rock. My work and the name of the board keeps saying it. We know what the problems are.
 So I would like, you know, it's a good thing to find a law enforcement, a tranquil and involved state. This is what we would like to do. What can I tell them about? What can I tell them about? Maybe the ground of mercy, whether you work, whether you work in the state. That was so good to see so many people out. We've made it on so many bad things.
 that this is going to bring Rockford into national status, I believe, what is going to be built there and what it's going to do for Rockford. Alderman Frost. Thank you. First, I wanted to thank the Mayor and your entire leadership team and staff for
 participating and working on the culmination that did take place today. And I'm not just saying that because it's in the fourth ward of Rockford, but the Mercy Health Mercy Rockford campus is truly going to be an amazing thing for Rockford for years to come. And I know in the negotiation process that took place, things got a little bit sideways at times. And I really want to just
 Thank you guys for doing a good job and seeing it through and it was nice to see everybody there together and actually see the dirt actually turning and the project taking place first and foremost in the City of Rockford. So I wanted to thank you for that. With respect to the talk about Spring Creek Road, yes, I have been involved a little bit in this and I would thank those that can possibly can meet to see this major development.
 sanitation project that's supposed to take place. If there's a way we can delay it a little bit, get a net gain for both, for all citizens of the area that would allow something to connect up between the downtown bike path to get all the way out to Rock Cut and make a full loop around not just the city of Rockford but include going to Loves Park, the Chesney Park and coming back to the city, it'd be fantastic and really that's just about a 1.8 mile gap there that would really allow that
 I know it won't be easy to probably convince everyone to get on board with that, but the last time Spring Creek Road got done, I was probably riding a bike only because I had to. It was about 1982, 1983. Yeah, I was alive. You weren't. So it was really nice to see that. So any other Alderman who want to get involved, just see Alderman McElroy.
 Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Just real quick. I don't often put on my park tester cap when I'm here at City Council, but I just want to let everybody know that the Music in the Park concert series at the Mississippi Music Show will be beginning tomorrow night. With the 60th anniversary of the Phantom Regiment, they'll be performing there to kick off their season. So it's always a really special night with the Phantom Regiment kicking it off. Just incredible sound. It's really nice to...
 you know, be able to kind of just start the season off that way, but we've got a really tremendous lineup of performers this year, every Tuesday and Thursday night through the middle of August. So get on the Rockford Park District website and download their Sounds of Summer guidebook, all the free entertainment that's going to be provided this summer. And then the other thing, I just want to congratulate Grandpa Joe. Next to me, my colleague Joe Torelli had his first grandson today. Thank you. Congratulations. Further officers' reports? Sure.
 just a quick a couple items i failed to mention originally um rockstat this month i believe we will be getting an update on the weeds and citations code enforcement effort anything that we don't cover there or we could just agenda it for a follow-up at our next um
 uh committee uh meeting uh maybe next week uh or whatever you think mr cagnone just just to make sure those questions that were asked about a general time frame frame from original notice or citation to when we typically get something mowed is that going to be coming up
 Yes, Your Honor. We'll be presenting the weeds update, and I can send out an email tomorrow which would give you a summary of the number of complaints that we've had, how many of them are first-time offenders, how many of them are Winnebago County trustee lots for contracting complaints.
 The last assessment I did in regards to the amount of time from first complaint to mowing was the May 20th email that I sent to City Council. And at that time, it was 10 to 12 business days or two and a half weeks from initial complaint for a first-time offender until we were getting it mowed.
 We've been able to increase that timing as we stepped up the number of times that we contract mowing from two times per week to three times per week over the last week and a half as a test run. We felt that that has worked out. As of Friday a week ago, we had all properties caught up as it relates to being contracted out for mowing, so you'll see a number of those problem properties get taken care of.
 Certainly, if there's any properties that are not in our system, let us know. We want to get out there and get them taken care of, but I'll summarize that in a little bit clearer. Thank you. Further officer's reports, so we'll move on to unfinished business. Bob Dierke. Thank you, Your Honor. On your unfinished business, I'm going to take a moment to thank the board members for their support.
 for planning and development. The committee recommends approval of the proposed Section 108 loan guarantee assistance to Cliff Breakers Riverside Resort and Hotel, LLC.
 at 700 West Riverside Boulevard. Section 108 contract and note for loan guarantee assistance between HUD and the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number two, committee recommends approval of the proposed Section 108 loan guarantee assistance to Cliff Breakers Riverside Resort Hotel, LLC, dash 700 West Riverside Boulevard. The loan agreement, mortgage promissory note, guarantee and security agreement between areas
 investors LLC and the city of Rockford legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance places up for thank you the matters under Roman rule 6 a 1 and 2 are for passages their discussion I started out as a note on the cliff breakers section 108 long and after
 I don't have a lot of time and I took two trips. One trip out to visit the site and another to meet here with them about the plans. I want cliff breakers to succeed. And I took that time because I wanted to make sure that the folks sitting in the back of the room had the ingredients to make sure that cliff breakers will succeed.
 I got a number of calls from people when it started to hit the newspaper editorial and stuff. One thing I want to make clear is that the city of Rockford is not taking $2.7 million out of our coffers and loaning it to cliff breakers. This is money that HUD is directly
 lending to the Cliff Breakers group. What the city is doing is guaranteeing that loan with our community development block grant funds. Not general fund, not street funds. Somebody said you're going to take it out of our roads if it goes up. It would come out of community development block grant.
 My understanding is that when loans have gone bad, HUD has worked with the cities to stretch those out so that they don't devastate the city on the payback. So number one, I think our risk is minimal. Our legal department did what I want to say was an excellent job making sure that we're in a first position. If something does go wrong, that may change for some good reasons, but certainly we can make sure that we have security in those measures.
 I'm excited with the management team that's in for Cliff Breakers. If you haven't been out there, they've already started to make some improvements that I think are telling as to what they plan to do.
 Newberg and I got to actually, I limped around, but she walked through, and we got to see some of the renovations. They're making the renovations the right way. So for those of you who are looking for weddings, graduations, all of those things, I hope the community will come back and support Cliff Breakers. And...
 give them a chance to prove that they can get back to their glory days. It's going to take a few steps, but I think the management ingredients there, I certainly believe the renovations are going to be up to par.
 I would ask that the city work and see if there's something we can do to help with Northtown Mall because I think it could use some spruce up too. Driving past Pond Daddy is not the best thing in the world when you're coming into your hotel. But having said that, I'm really excited about it, and I'm going to give it full support, and I hope the rest of council will join in. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you, Mayor, for letting me speak. I, too, was initially against this, and I think...
 I think Cliff Breakers has an opportunity to be an anchor, an anchor that either drags that entire area down or an anchor that can hold it together. And I hope with the new ownership that they choose to be an anchor that holds it together and follows through on the promises that you have made to this council and to the community. And I would like to make a motion to amend.
 number eighty two that property owner and developer agrees that for the term of the loan they will not object to any taxes assessment uh... for the project uh... property without uh... written consent of the city council and consent shall not be unreasonably upheld uh... by the city
 withheld, I'm sorry. And in addition, this provision shall only apply if it does not void the tax-exempt status of any of the bonds issued by HUD to finance the transaction. So the motion, I'll try to see if I characterized this correctly, is to amend Roman numeral 6A2 to require that during the term of the lease
 that the uh... uh... cliff breakers riverside hope resort hotel l l c uh... not object to its uh... property taxes unless it receives written consent from the city of rockford which that which shall not be unreasonably withheld uh... and that this term would only apply if it would not avoid or otherwise inhibit the uh... the underlying
 bond tax exempts I'm sorry the tax exempts status of any of the bond sources Is that right? Yes sir So there's been a motion and a second is there discussion on that item and then a motion to amend Alderman Newberg did you have your hand up? Alderman McNeely Has this been approved by City of Alderman Newberg? Mr. Hayes can you answer that question? Well you can tell by the
 oral motion to amend that this is a rather new idea to this set of agreements. My primary concern is that we typically have these types of provisions that they're self-executing because they're part of TIF agreements. And in a TIF agreement, we are disposing of property tax proceeds to a developer in recompense of eligible expenses. If that developer violates this provision of the agreement,
 the provision self-executing we just don't send them as much money or any more money depending on what the outcome might be so we have that security that ability to enforce number one in this issue I'm a little concerned about what happens if there's a violation
 That will cast us off into some sort of dispute resolution model with this entity. We're not going to pull out of our guarantee because we can't. Our guarantee is to HUD, and HUD won't have violated this. And so this is going to be a little more difficult if there's a default to perform. So I'm concerned I haven't had an opportunity to fully review that aspect.
 In addition, the main reason why these types of provisions have been scandalized in Illinois and other communities is that back when Sears Roebuck came into Hoffman Estates, they went and got a revenue ruling about this. And that revenue ruling is about the second clause that Alderman McNamara mentioned. Agreements like this are held by the IRS to be inappropriate in a tax-exempt financing
 And while we were able to get some preliminary input from our HUD consultant that this would be okay related to HUD as long as there was fairness in it, I remain concerned that it might disrupt the tax-exempt status of the financing, the underlying financing that HUD uses to fund these programs. So that's why that savings clause is part of it.
 By the way, in the Hoffman Estates matter, they had to reverse out this clause out of that entire agreement in order to preserve the tax exempt status of a number of the financing mechanisms there.
 We don't have that issue in our TIFs now because we don't go out and bond ahead of time. So we're not issuing tax exempt debts. And this is one of the reasons why in the pre-2008 era of the city, we didn't have these agreements in our TIF agreements because we couldn't have bonded for those and maintained a tax exempt status on those bonds.
 I apologize for the complexity of my answer. I know I'm trying to get simpler in my answers. And I don't have a perfect answer for you now. But the language that Alderman McNamara read in is the best I can do tonight to get this matter done. So I'm sorry I can't give you a more confident review. Thank you. Follow up Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Attorney Hayes. And certainly thank you, Mr. Mayor. I know that there's the amendment of the amendment that was passed in the last two years. I know that there's a motion to approve it. I know that there's a motion to approve it. I know that there's a motion to approve it. I know that there's a motion to approve it. I know that there's a motion to approve it.
 I certainly can't support it I think that's something that for something like that or something similar to that to be added that we send this back and and get the wording of it I certainly appreciate what all my mcmurray is trying to accomplish and and I would hope that the management of clip breakers would respect the city and our agreement to support this project with not
 pursuing a tax that will not be necessary financially for them to be viable. I think that's what we're trying to get at with the, if the city would agree to allow them to protest their taxes based upon some economic criteria that are making it difficult for them to maintain their current tax status. But I kind of feel like it's pretty late in the game and I really, I'd like to let these guys go ahead and do what they're going to do. We debated this for many, many months.
 little disappointed that this has come up at the last minute but I do respect I mean what we're trying to achieve I just I would just prefer that we go ahead and I think we worked out a really good deal with the breakers the management's worked very hard with us and just feel like we keep trying to find more ways to throw another roadblock in there in their path and I really hope that the majority of the alderman would agree with me and we could just prove this tonight thank you further discussion of the proposed amendment all maneuver
 I do understand the reason behind the menu and I are menu the amendment and I would hope that the people doing the work yet cliff breakers they're a good team I think they've
 This is the first time in a lot of years I've seen someone that sort of knows what they're doing making decisions at Cliff Breakers. It was at one time a viable, beautiful attraction for the west side of the river. It's the only restaurant along the river. I would hate to lose this asset to the city of Rockford. And it's not an east side, west side
 convention type thing. It's to give, to bring back to Rockford something that was viable and that Rockford was proud of. We've got so many new projects going on in Rockford. Let's continue on and give this
 Vote this through so that these people can bring it back to what it what once was with North mean being improved on This is the right time to give a little extra help to somebody that wants to do a good project Thank you further discussion the proposed amendment hearing None, please call the roll on the proposed amendment turkey getches McNamara frost Kirby
 panel Thompson Kelly photo Newberg beach LA back it really cheerily nine times five motion motion carries so the amended Roman numeral six a two and six a one as it was presented are passages there any further discussion on beach I just have a question or two
 if you don't mind, the money that HUD gives for any 108 loan, does that come out of a separate HUD fund or does that reduce the amount of money that our community could use for other purposes? It does not reduce, I think that was already discussed earlier tonight just to make sure we're clear on it. No, no. It does not reduce the amount of money that
 It's not taken out. The funds come from a separate fund that HUD creates. They create it typically out of issuing bonds. That was a discussion about tax exempt bonds and the issue there. It's new money that comes into our community. It doesn't take away money from us for other work that we do. In the event, however, if there is default on a loan, then it could, since we're a guarantor,
 it could impact some of our cash flow, but only to the extent that there is, that's the discussion about all of the herby raised. How much that would hit us in the event that our guarantee was triggered would depend on at what point in time the loan
 failure and default occurred. If it's a 10-year loan, it would just depend on what the repayment schedule is and how much. If they make 75% of the payment and they're 25% off, then it might be kicking in that amount. We don't know exactly how much that might hit us in terms of our cash flow in a given year, but that would only hit us in the event if there was a default. There's quite a bit of...
 corporate protection in terms of the assets of the owner before that would ever hit us. Well, thank you. May I follow up? Certainly. I did understand Alderman Herbich's comment, and I do understand it doesn't come out of our general fund. I guess what I was saying is that the monies that are earmarked for Rockford through HUD, our committee of grant
 Those monies are not diminished by one of our loans. Correct. It doesn't come out of our Right. But any default repayment would come out of general fund monies. So it would come out Of a block grant fund. Correct. That could be And only out of our block grant Right. And I think we have something that's almost finished, about $375,000, I think.
 It's just about finished that we are paying back on another loan. So I want to ask you this question as serious as I can. I am not against this project, Your Honor, but money today and the way things go, I just ask, I have conversations with our city administrator,
 this is good deal for everyone why the owners signed a personal guarantee behind us so this city is not at risk for anything I mean we've got a lot of risk going and I'm all for that but and I don't mean to to to open up a can of worms here but even given our downtown hotel we were promising what happened and for no fault any of ours it's not happening
 And we don't have rooms that were supposed to be open to complement the UW Sports Factory. And I'm not saying this won't work. I just ask a simple question. Why can't there be one more level of a personal guarantee? And I'm told that that's not possible. So it makes it really tough for me. I really appreciate the effort that's being done. Cliff Breakers is a wonderful place.
 And I'd too like to see it succeed, but financially I'm just asking that question. Why won't that be done? Why can't it be done? I think it's – just let me give you my – as someone who has been on the front lines trying to recruit all kinds of economic development projects into our marketplace, that I think would be going too far to take what is already a very difficult market and make it almost impossible to attract new capital.
 There is a certain amount of risk that is expected within the corporate world when you're dealing with folks who do this kind of thing for a living. That is not just based on my opinion, but based on the opinions of staff, based on the interactions that I've had with folks in the marketplace. A corporate guarantee is certainly extremely common and that's what's being provided in this instance.
 But to get a personal guarantee of someone's personal assets is not
 At least in this context, something that I would typically see, especially when we're in a market where we've had the significant decline in values that we've had and the need to try to turn to gap financing and resources like our HUD CDBG guarantee. That's my experience with it. Alderman Frost? Thank you. I would agree with Alderman Beach on many fronts. I guess the question is you've talked about the market.
 I guess I don't want Rockford to become a market for the distressed market. I hope that Cliff Breakers continues on. I've done some research on the group, both the owners and the management company, and they seem to be very successful groups. What's been done so far, I'm not real impressed with that I've seen so far, including the protest actually of the taxes since these folks have owned the property already.
 So, I think Alderman McNamara's amendment is apropos and it's good that it went through. However, my frustration really is frankly just with the whole process. The federal government coming on these loans and making us as a city,
 guarantee a particular project. We're not underwriters, we're not real estate developers, this is really not in our wheelhouse per se, but yet we have to guarantee a loan and if there is a default on a loan, whether it be this project or any other 108 loan, to put it on us to then say, well, you don't have to pay us back, but if it does default, then we have the right to take your CDBG
 funds which are vitally needed throughout our community and mitigate those and lessen those until they're paid back. So for that reason, I'll be voting no. Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Durkee.
 Yes, sir. I would maybe ask Patrick, Attorney Hayes, to clarify. If the loan is defaulted, Aries Capital LLC as well as Aries Investors LLC are in line to be attached to that loan first before the city comes into play and the CDBG funds. Is that correct? Mr. Hayes?
 Thank you for the discussion. Alderman Hervey. Just a very quick one. If we're going to implement a policy of requiring personal guarantees, then I like to see it be a policy, not applied to one and not the other. That's been a real issue of mine. Or if we're going to say you can't protest your taxes, I want to see that applied to all of the TIF agreements or whatever.
 I just get real nervous when municipalities, which have to me a duty of fairness and nondiscrimination, and I don't mean on the basis of race, nondiscrimination, start to give exceptions to some and not to others. Money is money. And if somebody's going to default, they default.
 So if we're going to do that, let's make that part of our policy kind of like we did with the TIFs, that you can't protest your taxes. So let's make it a clause that's applied to everyone, not just to some. And especially, I would hate to see it applied to cliffbreakers at this late date. Further discussion? Your Honor, if I could. Mr. Hayes. Thank you. Thank you.
 Ten years ago now, the city did a loan, a million dollar loan, Whitney MegaFab. And in that loan, the difference was that we were behind more conventional debt than all the conventional debt. There were tens of millions of dollars into that agreement from private lending entities and sources, and we were on the back end.
 In that circumstance, we required a personal guarantee of the main investors at the front end of the loan for the first five years until there was confidence that the loan payments would all be made on time. During the first five years of that loan, every loan payment was made in a timely basis. Under the terms of that loan, that personal guarantee was then released. That loan is going to have its final payment here in the next 60 to 90 days.
 I would just suggest that when we approach this by way of policy that you understand that the nature of guarantees is part of the analysis of risk and underwriting that's undertaken. And this is why we brought in NDC to help us with an appropriate package here. Staff isn't willy-nilly saying personal guarantee, not personal guarantee.
 We're looking at the package with the assistance of astute, well-educated professionals in this arena on what is appropriate security for this loan. Because we're in first position, the need for a personal guarantee is not present, not only in staff's opinion but in the opinion of our consultant. There is a corporate guarantee that's been vetted by that consultant and they believe that there's liquidity there to service these payments if not.
 This is why staff's recommending the package and the way it is. It isn't something arbitrary about the borrowers or the project. It's based on the underwriting, the technical underwriting, and the position we're in. Keep in mind that the appraised value of the property as it sits today is in excess of the value of the loan that we're going to be putting in play. I appreciate you allowing me to clarify those issues. Thank you. Any further discussion?
 Hearing none, the roll number six, items A1 and 2. Number two is amended previously. Those items are up for passage. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Good. Connell. It's Herbie, I'm sorry. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Telly. Aye. Odo. No. Newport. Beach. Ellier. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli.
 10 times for those matters passed thank you further and finished business really you are and I wouldn't want to convene a closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiations just wanna make sure before we get there we on did we have an item open about six be had apologize your honor I withdraw my motion
 Thank you. 6B1 is the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a modification of a special use permit to build three two-family buildings instead of an approved use for family buildings in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 89XX Milac Lane. Place it up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Room number 6B1 is up for passage. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Gets us. Mike DeMera. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. Newberg. 12 ayes, 1 no, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you.
 Is there any additional unfinished business? Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Now I move to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor and negotiation matters. Thank you. There's been a motion and second to go into closed session to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters as well as labor and negotiation matters. Is there any discussion? Motion? Hearing none, sir, please call the roll.
 Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Ross. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Pannell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Your honor. That are motion carries. We will go into closed session for the purposes of discussing pending and threatened litigation as well as labor negotiation matters. Thank you.
 Eight motions and resolutions. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 8B1, 2, and 3. I got a resolution for authority to intervene on property tax appeal cases for 4751 Harrison Avenue and 4949 Harrison Avenue. Item 2 is the Seasons Produce Outdoor Market as amended a committee this evening.
 And number three is a resolution for settlement of Oco Roigwe versus the City of Rockford. Case number 13, CVO 6887 in the amount of $500,000. Place those items for passage.
 Thank you. Up for passage under Roman numeral 8B, items 1, 2, and 3. And just note that the item 2, the seasons produce outdoor market, was amended at committee. And those amendments at the committee would be before the council as the proposal in item 2 at this point. So those three items are up for passage as their discussion. I'm sorry, Alden Beecher, did you have a question? No.
 I just returned. I'm sorry, Your Honor. Is number two up here as amended? Correct. All right. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gets us. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Cownall. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. No, I'm two. Is that two and three, or just two? No, I'm two and three. Beach. Alley-ing. Aye. Beck. Aye.
 Aye. Chair Rennels? Aye. Item number 1, 14 ayes. Items number 2 and 3, 13 ayes, 1 no. That is all passed. Thank you. Alderman Beck? Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to hold out item number 1 at the request of another alderman who had a few additional questions. As long as that's not going to cause any hardship for the bid, awarding the bid, staff . Mr. Whitney? Yes, sir.
 I'm sorry, go ahead. We're fine with holding it out. I'm going to hold out item one, and then I will place up items two through seven for passage. Thank you. For passage, then, Alderman, Roman numeral 8C, items two, three, four, five, six, and seven, number one will be held. Other items are for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? No, I'm C6, I am arrest. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye.
 Frost, Herbie, No on 6, 5 on the mention McConnell, No on 6, 5 on the mention Thompson, Kelly, No on 6, 5 on the mention Odo, Aye, No on 6, 5 on the mention Newberg, No on 6, 5 on the mention Beach, No on 6, 5 on the mention Elliott, No on 6, 5 on the mention Beck, Aye, No on 6, 5 on the mention McNeely, Aye, No on 6, 5 on the mention Chiarelli, Aye, No on 6, 5 on the mention 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 14 ayes, 9 ayes, 5 noes The others will pass, thank you
 It's a business called the dirt team.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral IX, new business A, one and two, proposed, first ask for suspension of rules on these two items. Second. Motion, second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral IX, eight, items one and two. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. As have the rules, we're suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would place up these two items for passage. Number one, proposed section 108, loan guarantee assistance to Cliff Breakers Riverside Resort Hotel, LLC.
 700 West Riverside Boulevard, Section 108 contract and note for loan guarantee assistance between HUD and the City of Rockford. Item number two, proposed Section 108 loan guarantee assistance to Cliff Breakers Riverside Resort Hotel LLC, 700 West Riverside Boulevard, loan agreement, mortgage, promissory note, guarantee and security agreement between Aries Investors LLC and the City of Rockford.
 Please cease out for passage. Thank you. Matters are for passage and I would just note item two was amended as a committee report and that amendment would follow within the ordinance. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. Vatkamara. Aye. Frost. No. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. No. Newberg. Beach. No. Ellier. Aye.
 Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 10 ayes, 4 noes, Your Honor, and 1 and 2. Matter's passed, thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral B, 9B, 1 through 6, I move to suspend the rules. Aye. I've got a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Roman numeral 9B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I have to respond. Place items 9B, 1 through 6 up for passage, Robert. That is up for passage. It's there. It's got to be here. Done. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. No, I'm B1. I am, right? Getchis. No, I'm 5. I am, right? McNamara. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. No, I'm 5. I am, right? Elliott. No. Beck.
 really sure I am number 113 I know I'm summer 2 3 4 6 14 I'm number 5 there's 11 nice 3 notes that is all past thank you thank you I'll back your honor Roman 9 see items 1 through 2 1 and 2 I ask for suspension rules the motion in seconds for the rules and normal rule 9
 C1 and 2, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it, the rules be suspended. I place them up for passage. Opposed, no. And it's up for passage. Is there discussion?
 I have one question and it refers to Roman, I'm sorry, C number 2. That's the land contract with Mr. Mark Rose. I trust the judgment of the legal staff to bring this person on board, but as part of the agreement, he has access to office staff phones and things like that. Just a quick question, is that an unusual arrangement?
 Is that typically what's done to grant access to city services as part of a subcontract or not? Mr. Hayes, do you want to take that? Yes. So Mr. Rose worked here at the city for 30 years and retired last year. In a continuation of services agreement, we've done this in two occasions with the city's legal department, one with Mr. Schultz and the other with Mr. Rose.
 I anticipate transitioning out of utilizing as services. We do have a contract for services that covers
 those issues of access. So he's a trustworthy individual. It is unusual, but this is more an accommodation to the city to transition out of a long-term employee. We hope we have that position posted for his replacement. When that's done, we'll utilize him for some training and special cases, and I anticipate utilizing him much less in the future.
 We also just know that in other circumstances, for example, IT, we have contracts where a good number of our staff, I'm not sure what the number is, Mr. Chambliss, you could fill in if I'm missing this, are contract employees but they have access and full use of our
 city office related materials, services, that kind of thing. That is certainly not something that is a huge percentage of our employees, but where appropriate, we've had those types of contractual employee relations where they've been able to use materials as opposed to a fully outside third party contractor. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I do appreciate extending Mark Rose's contract simply because Mark Rose works with the Community Development Department land acquisition as far as West State Street, South Main Street, North Main Street. So he's all over the place. And with the hours that he was slated to work, he could not have accomplished the things that we have voted on to take care of.
 And that was another reason why his hours was increased. And Mark has done a wonderful job in all phases of his employment here in land acquisition. And we would not be as far along as we are if we had not had Mark. We would have had to contract out for the services that we're getting from him. So we're in a win-win situation with extending his hours and his contract.
 Thank you. Any further discussion on those items? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Alley. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Curelli. Aye. 14-9-14.
 Madam Pass, thank you. Before we adjourn, we have a short presentation. I'll just ask staff to work through this as quickly as they can. I think it's really important to address what I found to be an extremely misleading story that came out last week and it was a story that was released internationally.
 It identified the city of Rockford as a city that the story suggested was cheating the rules for testing for lead in our drinking water. We do not, I'll let staff take it from there, but just in short I want to assure our citizens that our drinking water is safe. This council knows how much we've invested.
 over the years, just since I've been in office, both on our water production as well as ongoing investments in distribution and testing. And I would hand it off over to our staff to lead the presentation tonight on the status and to try to address any of the erroneous information that went out this week. Mr. Vintner will lead off the discussion.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to introduce you all to Kyle Saunders, our new water superintendent. He's been involved with the city for nine years now and he was the water treatment supervisor, so he's most knowledgeable about the requirements that we need to meet regarding the quality of our water and the safety that's built into it.
 please welcome Kyle Saunders and his information will be presented at the end too so you have his contact information at the end of the presentation and it's in the handout too. Thank you.
 Okay, so thank you for the introduction, Matt. I did want to, before I got into it, just briefly discuss, and I'm going to do it quickly, our role on the Water Utility Council. Myself, the water quality supervisor, and the water engineer are all involved with the Water Utility Council. If some of you haven't heard, the Illinois State Assembly is working with state and federal government on adding more stringent lead and copper rules.
 Obviously, there's been no time as of recent that there's been more spotlight on the water industry as a whole as a result of Flint. I'm hoping that I laid this presentation out so that we can understand a little bit about lead in the first place, discuss the article, and then conclude with some information that in discussing with Alderman Hervey, I think would help ease some of our constituents and residents.
 First and foremost, lead in drinking water. The city of Rockford source water, the groundwater is lead free. So I know it took a few phone calls last week and the concern was, is there lead in our water? From the city of Rockford standpoint, when we pump it out of the ground, and I have an illustration on the next slide that'll help kind of illustrate this.
 When we pump it out of the ground, store it in one of our reservoirs, and then send that out into the distribution system, we have no detects of lead on the city of Rockford source water.
 However, lead can enter the drinking water through the corrosion of your internal household plumbing fixtures. Water is corrosive. A lot of times due to its low mineral content in some utilities, it will tend to pull certain minerals and materials out with it. So I always use the definition water is a universal solvent, trying to kind of break that down in a simpler form.
 Water is H2O. As it's pulled out of the ground, we pick up iron, we pick up manganese, we pick up radium in some cases, and the water holds onto that. Lead is no different. As it sits stagnant in a pipe, it could, in fact, introduce lead into the drinking water. We do have corrosion control and certain other things in place. In Rockford, we do benefit, in this case, from hard water.
 I was discussing a little bit last week the white hardness that we see a lot of times around our fixtures, in this case does assist in scaling the inside of the pipe. So the calcium and magnesium that oftentimes we're trying to soften out because of its nuisance, in this case helps us prevent from contaminating lead into the drinking water.
 Homes built before 1986 are more than likely going to have lead in them. Generally speaking, lead service lines from the water main to the property line were installed until about the mid 1950s to the early 1960s. Continuing on up to 1986, we did install lead solder on our copper pipes on the internal customer side.
 New homes also are susceptible because believe it or not legally lead free fixtures still were able to contain up to 8% lead up till 2014. So faucets, fittings, anything that consisted of brass or other material were allowed to have up to 8% lead.
 In 2014, amendments to the safe drinking water were added that dropped that allowable percentage of lead to 0.25%, which does obviously help in reducing the contamination of lead into the drinking water. This is included in your handout. I think this is an easy way to just kind of understand how lead is and when it is introduced into the drinking water. As I mentioned, number one, our groundwater, our source water, is essentially lead-free. We're fortunate we have no DTEX.
 Number two, how does Rockford treat their drinking water? So in addition to the hardness that helps scale the inside of the pipe, we do also introduce corrosion control, which is phosphate. So I know there's been a lot of discussion on phosphates and what its role is in our utility. It serves two functions, one being to sequester iron, which that's a big term for just holding on to iron so that it doesn't show up red or orange when you turn on your tap, it's clear.
 And two is to scale the inside of the pipe to help reduce the amount of lead that's entered into the water. Number three, how is it distributed? Obviously we send that out into the water mains through about 815 miles where it reaches that service line that then extends into your home. And this is where the possibility of introduction of lead is brought forth.
 The city has lead services from the water main to the cutoff box of the property line. Included in that is the customer's service from the property line into their home and then continuing on with the internal plumbing. So there's a shared partnership in lead in Rockford.
 Just a little bit of background on lead and copper rules so we can understand this, which then I think will kind of draw to the article. In 1991, the EPA did establish regulation on lead and copper in drinking water. As a result of this rule, large utilities, much like Rockford, were required to add in corrosion control, which in this case is phosphate, so we kind of touched on that.
 Additionally, it starts every six months. They do consecutive six-month intervals. They collect lead and copper samples from your kitchen faucet. In that sampling, they ask that there's a six-hour no-water use period. They call it a stagnation period. I'm trying to use it in terms that helps us understand. That is the key to lead and copper sampling is that there's a six-hour no-water use period followed by a first draw sample.
 So what that means is when our resident samplers get their instructions, they are to not use their water for six hours. Don't flush your toilet, don't open your faucet, so that it can actually be a representative sample of potential lead contamination.
 Yes? Who is they, and how do they determine which houses are going to be sanded? Perfect. It is my understanding that in the past, we actually went out and advertised for potential volunteers, and those were scattered throughout based on attributes of their home. You know, was it crosswalks?
 1986, does it have a lead service? There's three tiers in that and we try to have all tier ones, which is the worst case tier. So that's what we pursue in selecting our sample sites. It is noted that those sample sites the EPA recommends that you don't change them if you can't because that way you get representative year after year comparison. So that's where we're comparing our year over year over year samples. So
 The City of Rockford has never exceeded the Safe Drinking Water Act as it relates to lead and copper. And because of our consecutive years of compliance, we have been placed on a reduced monitoring program. So what that means is rather than two six-month intervals of sampling, followed by annual sampling, we're now every three years. So we are on a much reduced
 monitoring schedule, but we're still going to all of our sites, we're still complying with EPA guidelines, and still complying with the regulations and the recommendations. Yes. So we have a record. If you could wait until I can turn the mics on. Hold on.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you. So we have a record of the areas we covered when we did test? Correct. We've been working with internal staff on actually plotting all of our back to I believe 2001 of all of our sample sites so that we can see exactly where those fall into the city. So we we've got really good records internally with
 starting in 2001 every three years. And that was one of the requests in the FOIA were the last five cycles of sampling, which was 15 years. So that was all the material and the data that was requested as part of that FOIA.
 And in those documents, we have instructions to our resident samplers. We have an actual sample piece of paper that would then be sent away to our lab to do the analysis. And then we have to follow up with an analytical report citing what the results were to each sampler. So would it have been percentualized the same around the city?
 I'll have to look exactly what the breakdown was geographically. Obviously, the density of lead in the city varies. Right? I mean, you could have older homes down in the downtown area that may have been a house built in the early 1900s, but they have in fact upgraded their internal plumbing.
 So to say exactly a pinpoint location, it's spread out throughout depending on, you know, whereas 1986 there were a lot of houses built that may have, you know, lead solder, may have a copper service but lead solder. So there's a tremendous amount of variability in where the lead services are located. Thank you. Yep. Okay.
 So, in regards to the published reports, based on the FOIA document, they stated that Rockford defied EPA guidelines for lead and copper sampling, which is a false statement. In looking at all of the reports, it appears as if they referenced the 2007 instructions to our samplers where we instructed them to conduct
 This is this term pre stagnation flushing and the removal of their aerators prior to that six hour no water use Okay, as late as 2008 Illinois community water systems were still being instructed to specifically in its exhibit a in your packets Remove the aerator and conduct a 30 second pre stagnation flush before the six hour no water use now in
 Pre-stagnation flushing, flushing before you're collecting a sample for lack of a better term, is a common practice in water quality sampling. Because what you want to do is you want to standardize or benchmark the sample so that they're all the same. Because one person's six hours could have been another person's 12 hours.
 So it's an effort to not get a false positive so that, you know, we are, it's not valid or reliable data. So up to 2008, there was still recommendation from our regulatory agencies to conduct this. 2007, that's, you know, prior to that, we submitted that, our instructions with those clear recommendations based on the guidelines we had at the time.
 Exhibit B you'll see in your packet are the 2010 instructions that went out to our samplers. That's our next cycling period. Those you can see clearly state do not remove your aerator and there's no mention whatsoever about pre-stagnation flushing, which is indicative of the change in the recommendation over that time span.
 Okay, and then exhibit three is the 2016 revised document that will go into effect this year, 2016. So we are going to be conducting lead and copper sampling this year, and those will be the instructions verbatim that will go out to our residents.
 We always try to emphasize the importance of utilizing our agencies for support and following their recommendations and guidelines. In closing, we've always complied. You'll remember most notably, I think it was a year and a half ago, we were cited for having no violations, no attachment A items in our IEPA triennial inspections.
 We have a close working relationship with our local IEPA contacts. We work with them to make sure that what we do is in compliance and that we're operating our facilities accordingly. A couple of points. Just to really be clear on this, the Guardian article was false to the extent it suggested or stated that we were violating EPA guidelines.
 We followed to the letter the guidelines provided by the EPA the entire time. We've never been cited. Moreover, I would say, if you recall, all the investments this council has been making, millions over, well over $80 million in total just since I've been on the council, the issues in quality we were addressing were radium, iron, and water pressure. I think those are the main ones.
 The iron was resulting in rusty water and you'd have people from time to time, years ago, thankfully not in years, showing up at council, especially if you had areas where the depression's right. Few of the aldermen had them quite often where people would, aldermen would show up with little, literally samples showing the rust in the water. We've, by regular maintenance and investments, eliminated those issues, water quality issues.
 But all that being said, I can't recall any time ever being cited for any complaints for lead or definitely in no cases of lead poisoning related to water. Yeah. The cases of lead that have been investigated, lead poisoning investigated by the health department, trace back to a very serious issue.
 with lead-based paint in a number of homes. That's been a significant issue in the community. There's definitely been cases involving kids eating lead-based paint. But I don't recall any cases, and I asked for us to try to check with the health department, any cases of ever being cited for any lead in our water.
 I did verify today that there have been no concerns with lead poisoning as a result of drinking water with Winnebago County. So they assured that the usual suspect is lead-based paint, and they work with those people to walk them through the proper protocol in trying to eliminate that. Thank you.
 And this is the last thing I'm letting you guys go. I just want to touch this because Vanita asked that I include this in here. Alderman Hervey? Yes, Vanita. I'm sorry, Alderman Hervey. This is advice for lead safe water practices, so I do apologize. These are some of the things that we can communicate in the community to people that may have a concern with lead. If you have a lead service or you know of someone that has a lead service and they're asking for questions,
 that they can or concerns that they can deal with. One being before using any tap, you know usually your kitchen tap to actually consume your water, flush it for a minute. Flush it until it's cold to ensure that all that stagnant water has been evacuated and you have a fresh water source.
 Two, remove and clean that faucet aerator. Now don't do it directly before lead and copper sampling, but that's something the EPA recommends frequently to eliminate any particulate that may have gotten stuck in there. So that's a normal preventative maintenance. And then three, if anyone would like to test their water, there are four labs that will work directly with private customers and
 Send them their sample kit, send them the analytical results, and then help them interpret what those results mean. Quick note, we have had communication with customers that have done this and, as a result, paid for their lead service to be replaced because, ultimately, that's the best way to eliminate the potential is to remove lead.
 So just wanted to touch base on that and just leave it so that if you have any further questions, you know, obviously feel free to reach out to me and I'd be more than happy to answer any of those. So thank you for your time. One just quick question. Will we do, does our lab, you may have already mentioned this, I apologize if you did, can our lab test for lead? Our lab cannot test for lead. Just want to be sure. Any other comments, questions? Alden Newberg, did you have one? No, I just know that my daughter, you know, we have a house in the city and I have well water. Okay.
 But for my water to be tested, I have to go to the Winnebago County Health Department.
 We can test your well water for the monthly back teas to make sure that you don't have any E. coli. So any coliform bacteria, not E. coli, sorry, coliform bacteria. We can do other testing. We just don't have the capacity to do the lead testing. That's why these other labs are down there. But we frequently do testing or get called in to provide backup. We just had this happen recently, I believe, with some...
 City houses that were annexed in with the last 15 years and they had E. coli and some of the wells, those private wells, and that's what we're working through some issues right now. So if there's complaints or concerns on that, we will do that testing and there's no charge for us to come in and do those. But we can not test for lead? Correct. Just another point. Mr. Vittner? Yeah.
 Our consumer confidence report's coming out at the middle of this month, and that has this data published in it along with other test results. It's published annually, very transparent. Everybody can see it's a public document that'll be posted online. So just to make you aware.
 Thank you. Alderman Beach? Is it possible to work some kind of an arrangement about one of these labs to get kits in the city to get to those that want to, to make it as simple as we can for the people? We can work and see if they'd be willing to do so. I mean, it's definitely worth a question for sure. I can look into that. If you want to just follow up, and then we'll have either you or Mr. Vintner provide an update. Yep. Thank you. Good question.
 Anything else? Motion to adjourn. So moved. Motion and second to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Means adjourned. Thank you.