Good evening. We will call to order the City of Radford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, June 3rd, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. 14 present. Thank you. Excellent. We have a full house and a quorum, so next we'll go to petitions and communications, and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee, and we will start with Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, we have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed development agreement with Slidematic Precision Components, Slidematic Inc., for building expansion at 1303 Samuelson Road in support of new tooling capacity. The project represents the permanent construction of approximately 45,000 square feet addition, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding authorization to place for sale the city-owned property located at 316 Hinkley Avenue, referred to Quote and Regulation Committee. number two memorandums from scott capovilla planning and zoning manager regarding plat number three north town mall subdivision referred to code and regulation committee number three a memorandum from scott capovilla planning and zoning manager regarding cambridge chase road dedication plat referred to quota regulation committee number four a memorandum from scott capovilla planning and zoning manager regarding the plat of rockford mass transit district mulberry street subdivision referred to code and regulation committee Number five a memorandum from Jeremy Carter traffic and development engineer regarding an honorary street name change on Montague Street for Montague Road to Johnson Avenue to Albert Johnson Way in honor of Albert Johnson Who started live at Leving's referred to call the regulation committee and number six a memorandum from Jacob Rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 47 12 West State Street We have No petitions or communications from finance and personnel. So we'll move to our public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the council. I'm hoping my phone works. If it does work as I had planned, you'll get Rainer right at the three-minute mark to stop your comments. If it doesn't, I will make you aware that the three minutes have completed. Our first public speaker this evening is Majdi Saka. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Majdi Saka. I'm a Palestinian American from Rockford. I'm 17 years old, and I'm currently a student at RVC. The current situation in Gaza is horrific. Over 36,000 people have been killed, 30 percent of Gaza's population is starving, and 86 percent of Gaza's population is homeless. Over 6 percent of Gaza's population is either dead, wounded, tortured, or missing. Months ago, President Joe Biden called a potential invasion of Rafah a red line. Weeks later, on May 6th, Israel would invade Rafah. And a couple days ago, they took Rafah's entire border with Egypt. If Rafah was truly a red line, it has fully been crossed. Heads have been blown off of kids. People are being burnt alive. A friend of mine, a Rockford resident, Rami Abu Mesma, Many of his family and friends have been killed inside this conflict. One of them is Dr. Aziz. Him and his entire family were killed in Khan Yunis on October 23rd. And a friend of his, Adnan Bush, was tortured to death in an Israeli prison on April 19th. Mayor Thomas Macromera, I'm addressing this directly to you. Your proclamation last week wasn't enough. During it, you called it a conflict when it's very clearly a genocide. It does not directly call for a ceasefire, and you're addressing it to the people who are angry and not the government who is participating in this genocide. Right here, there are eight different weapons manufacturing companies right here in Rockford. This genocide is not just being pushed by the Israeli government or the American people. It's being pushed by Rockford. We ourselves are doing this. We're killing our brothers and sisters. I have in my hands several ceasefire resolutions from across the country as examples of what this council could do. And all of them call for a ceasefire around the entire country, especially in Boston. And we want you guys to tell the government that we don't want to be complicit in this genocide. And again, you guys are here to represent us. You guys are our representatives. Abraham Lincoln said during the Gettysburg Address, and the government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from this earth. This government hasn't perished, but you can choose if its purpose does. Don't save the people of Gaza. You guys can't save the people of Gaza. Just save yourselves. I was going to give this to the clerk, but I know that Mr. Rose is the only person who's actually going to do something with it. Thank you. Thank you. The next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom McNair, all the persons and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. I wanted to talk about the Book of Washington Center, and I wanted to mention about Dr. King's famous speech. When the architects of our republic wrote the Emancipation Word of the Constitution, the Declaration of Independence, they were assigned a promissory note to which every American was to fall heed. This note was a promise note that all men, yes, black men, white men, would be guaranteed an unalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. But 100 years later, the Negro is still not free. 100 years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the mass pressure of segregation and the chains of discrimination. 100 years later, the Negro lived on a lonely island of prosperity in this vast ocean of material posterity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corner of American society and finds himself in exile in his own land. And so we have come here to dramatize a shameful condition in the sense we have come to our national capital to cast to pass a check. What I want to bring is even today, up to this day, Booker Washington Center. Back in World War II, the Japanese-American was put on the concentration camp where they could not leave the concentration camp. Booker Washington was founded in order to keep the African-American in one area from the downtown area on the east side of the river. Once again, I want to bring up the fact that John McNamara and charge box open up the corridor for us to be able to open up business on the east side and in the downtown area. There also was a promise made to build business on the east side, but on the west side what they had done was turn it into a grassland. We have funds coming in from regrowth, we have funds coming in from the casino, we have live, learn, and play, but none of the funds should trickle down to the grassroots organization. When they brag about Booker Washington Center, that was a corral. It should be a badge of shame. It should not be a badge of honor, but a badge of shame because we are still corralled right here today in Rockford where black people cannot do anything unless they get the white man's permission, and white people feel like blacks have to get their permission. So that's why I talk about the... We talk about the bourgeoisie, bourgeoisie decepticons. Another word for the bourgeoisie decepticons is our house Negroes. The house Negroes and the field Negroes always been divided. If you watch Bo Dingo, the house Negroes can never want to be free. They always follow master. I want to detour from talking about this because I know my memory is almost up. But in all actuality, when the Palestinians invaded Israel on Putin's birthday, that was the way to detour as well in Israel. Thank you, Mr. Branson. I'll come back and speak on that again. But they should go to the UN. The UN is the only one that can change. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Jenna Goldsmith. Good evening. On October 31, 2023, the writer Dan Sheehan urged writers of all stripes to express solidarity with the people of Palestine. Quote, we need our writers to keep speaking out. We need our community to be united in the condemnation of their brutal extinguishing of life, united in demanding a ceasefire, united in our support for the 170,000 members of the Palestinian diaspora who call America home. We need more prominent authors, authors with clout and power and protection in the industry, to make their voices heard so that others will feel empowered to join the chorus, end quote. Well, I am in no way the prominent author Sheehan refers to here. I'm a writer in the Rockford community and a constituent afforded a platform therein, and I'm honored to be able to exercise it here today. I'm a poet, an educator, and a Jew. My paternal grandfather and grandmother, a pharmacist, and the chief of the Elk Grove Village Volunteer Fire Department, and a secretary of the Chicago Tribune, respectively, were Republicans, but they switched parties when their conservative, pacifist values did not align with the Bush administration's intervention in the Middle East after 9-11. Not surprisingly, as Jews, they were outspoken advocates for a democratic society and opposed violent interventions based on destructive and incomplete narratives. They were not Zionists and would be vehemently opposed to the extremist actions taking place in Gaza on behalf of the Israeli government. As Jews, they tried to abide in large and small ways every day by what their cultural identity instilled in them, the power of education, hard work, the liberty of all people, dignity for all, and service to others. This, therefore, is my cultural lineage. Today, I join the chorus of voices in my community of writers and progressive Jews to express my solidarity with the people of Palestine, and I encourage you to continue to consider how your role affords you a unique and awesome responsibility in rejecting harmful narratives that conflate Jews, Zionist ideology, and the Israeli government. This conflation is fundamentally anti-Semitic because it enacts a prejudice against Jewish people, a diverse community who largely reject tyranny, the strongman, and persecution in all forms. To put it plainly, Jews are not a monolith. I leave you with a submissive, do your part to complicate short-sighted and misguided narratives you know to be false. Your ability to do so will make a difference. Thank you for listening. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Tom Craven. Hello. I'm the guy that's trying to get a federal firearms license for my home business. You guys have heard from me a couple times. I'd like to read you Rockford's, one of Rockford's guiding principles under business climate. Rockford is an uprising city that attracts and retains a wide variety of industries, businesses, and professional services. Rockford cultivates entrepreneurship, including small and minority-owned businesses, through innovation and green initiatives. I think running a gunsmith service is a small, innovative business, so I'd really like your support. The biggest thing I've heard so far regarding my federal firearms license is, I wish you were in a commercial space. My day job is in a machine shop. Twenty years ago, it was a guy with a milling machine in his garage. Now they employ ten people, and under their apprenticeship, I've put parts literally in the space. I had my best friend start an upholstery business. He started in his garage doing couches and stuff for people in his homework space. Last year, he closed on his first commercial space. He moved out and moved on. That's the most common way craftsmen or custom businesses start. You work out of your house until you build a customer base, reputation, and history of your work. And after years and a little luck, you might be able to justify moving into a standalone location. If we assume that the ATF approval process takes nine months, if I had a commercial property, I'd have to spend that time paying rent without legally being able to do business. I work full-time. I have three young kids. I'm not trying to start another full-time job. I just want to be able to come home after work or the weekend, work on a couple of firearms for some extra spending money. All the women and men can attest that I hear your concerns regarding safety and regulation, and I truly think we can find a compromise that works for all stakeholders. Unfortunately, I'll be out of the state on military orders for the next couple of code and regulation meetings, but I hope we can resume discussions once I return. And I thank you for your time. Thank you, Council. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Mark, the third chapter, the 35th verse, it says, Whoever does God's will is my brother and sister and mother. What I want to speak about tonight, forgotten heroes fighting Germans and Jim Crow. About 2,000 black soldiers stormed Normandy while serving in a still segregated military. It was the most massive amphibious invasion the world has ever seen with tens of thousands of allied troops spread out across the air and sea aiming to get a toehold in Normandy for the final assault on Nazi Germany. And while portraits of D-Day often show an all-white army, in fact, It also included black soldiers. Roughly 2,000 black soldiers hit the shores of Normandy in various capacities on June 6, 1944, serving in a United States military still segregated by race. They encountered discrimination both in the service and when they came home. But on Normandy, they faced the same dangers as everyone else. The only African American common unit that day was a 329th barrage balloon battalion whose job was to set up explosion rig balloons to deter German planes. Waverly Wilson Jr. was a corporal and a medic with the battalion, although Wilson did not live to see this 75th anniversary. He died in 2005. He told the Associated Press in 1994 about how his landing craft hit a mine on the way to Omaha, but bought a sand. And that's when the 88 hit us. He said of the Germans' 88 millimeter guns, they were murdering us. Of our 26 Navy personnel, there was only one left. They raked the whole top of the ship and killed all the crew. Then they started with the mortar shell. Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland is headed an effort to have Whitson awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for his action on D-Day. Another member of the unit, William Davies, described what they encountered on D-Day in a 2009 Associated Press interview. During the invasion, the fire was fierce on the beach. beach. I was picking up dead bodies. I was looking at the mines blowing up the sails and so I didn't know if I was going to make it or not, said Dannon, who passed away. Linda Herbich detailed the exports of the 320 in her book, Forgotten, the untold stories of the black heroes at home and at war. She said the military resisted efforts to desegregate and just wrap up for World War II. Instead they kept separate units and separate facilities for black and white troops. African Americans, People don't believe that lie. They say about our people. Our people have fought for the United States. Thank God for all veterans. Welcome back home. And to prove it, I did 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, 15 seconds, 3 tours in Vietnam. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we're going to move to new committee reports, and we'll go to planning and development in Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Approval of the redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and Mulford and State Development LLC for 5909 and 5949 East State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have one item before us. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd make a motion to lay this matter over. We have a motion. We have a second. No discussion. It's automatically laid over. That's correct. Second, we're going to go to Code and – or next, we will go to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Another woman Trina, okay I have number one the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to require traffic on Allentown Avenue We stopped prior to entering the intersection with Barton Boulevard The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number two the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following items request to establish two-way stop control at the intersection of Hutchins Avenue and Washington Street and Thus repealing the existing traffic control of Hutchins Avenue yielding to Washington Street. A request to establish yield control at the intersection of Quincy Street and Brunner Street. And a request to establish no parking any time restriction on the west side of Christina Street from 65 feet south of Broadway to 150 feet south of Broadway. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4640 West 8th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to reduce the required setback from an alley from two and a half feet to zero feet for a six-foot high privacy fence in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 232 Paris Avenue. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District to I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District. The special use permit for outside storage of a lift and trailer in an I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 1211 11th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. number six the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit zero five three dash nine eight for the expansion of the church parking lot and variation to reduce the required 10 feet frontage landscaping to four feet along logan street in an r1 single family residential zoning district at 418 logan street subject to conditions the league of regents shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number seven The committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 2011 10th Street Subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number eight the committee recommends the following in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 5909 and 5949 East State Street and Denial for a special use permit for 105,939 square foot self-storage building and outdoor truck storage. Denial for a special use permit for a drive-thru in conjunction with a quick service restaurant. Denial for a variation to reduce the required number of parking stalls from 88 to 81 from multi-tenant building on a proposed lot 3. Denial for a variation to reduce the required 20 foot... 20 feet front yard setback for a parking lot to 10 feet along East State Street for proposed lots 2, 3, and 4. Denial for a variation to reduce the required 20 feet wide frontage landscaping to 10 feet wide along East State for proposed lots 2, 3, and 4. Denial for a variation to reduce the required foundation landscaping from 50%, 345 lineal feet to 29%, 103 lineal feet along the building on proposed lot 1. and denounce for variation to reduce the required interior landscaping end caps from eight to two proposed lot one thus reversing the zoning board of appeals recommendation for approval we will need to adopt the findings of fact item number nine the committee recommends the same the zoning board of appeals approval in an r2 two-family residential zoning district at 725 727 726 to 728 732 to 734 736 to 738 737 to 739 742 to 744 743 to 745 752 to 754 755 of 757 762 to 764 766 768 772 to 774 773 to 775 716 778 72 to 784 785 or 787 786 to 788 792 to 794 795 797 796 to 798 802 to 804 803 to 805 gabrielle court for a variation to reduce the front yard setback along mill road and gabriella court from the prior 30 feet to 20 feet for lots 1 through 4 6 8 through 9 and lot 17 through 24. a variation to reduce the front yard set back along south bell school road from the choir 40 feet to 20 feet Variation to reduce the rear yard setback from the required 30 feet to 20 feet for lots 1 through 4, 6, 8 through 9, and lots 17 to 24. Variation to reduce the side yard setback to 6 feet for each side yard for lots 1 through 4, 6, 8 through 9, and lots 17 through 24. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the following text amendments to the city of Rockford zoning ordinances, front setbacks. Table 21 through 1, uses clarification table, character standards, C2 and C3 districts, uses classification table, mandatory plan uses developments, maximum wellhead setback overlay district, minimum wellhead setback overlay district, wellhead protection setback districts, outside parking and vehicles and residential districts solar collectors temporary construction dumpster storage pods maintenance parking and loading signs in residential districts e maintenance and landscaping be general fencing regulations see fence height and residential and Commercial zoning districts laps especially permit entertainment and spectator sports The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Item 11. Committee recommends approval of a modification to an existing liquor license to add an additional video gaming terminal at 2327 Kishwaukee Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 12. the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license for the sale of liquor by the drink upgrade to a full liquor license in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3605 auburn street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 13. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco shop in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3708 North Main Street, subject to conditions. The legal direction will prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 14. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink, Class NGOS, in the sale of packaged liquor, Class PKG, in conjunction with a restaurant and bar with an outdoor seating area in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 212 East State Street, subject to conditions of legal direction. Prepare the appropriate order. Number 15, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink, Class L50, in conjunction with a restaurant with an outdoor seating area. video gaming terminals on the c4 urban mixed-use zoning district 211 Elm Street Sweet C subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance a place these matters before you Thank you. I think you did exceptional So council we have 15 items before us. Is there any discussion Alderman frost? You're not make a motion to lay over item number eight second. We have a motion a second. I that would be automatically laid over and then we have another uh alderman logeman i would just move to amend the committee report for item 5b4 to remove condition number one Which is work with staff to verify the property line along the alley of the right-of-way if I might speak to that of course Yeah, I emailed all of the aldermen a just a little memorandum that the property owner sent She's they are both fully aware that they would absolutely need to comply with city requests I know there's no in-text condition to conduct a survey, but the discussion kind of centered around last month or last week a Requirement to conduct a survey which at this point would be you know with no impending construction There is just kind of a added unnecessary cost so the I forwarded that right forwarded that memo to all and just to show like the the goodness of the intent of these Applicants. Thank you Thank you. So we have a motion to amend item five So alderman Mogman had a motion to amend item four and we have a second I believe the older woman Tarina and then second that Is there any discussion on just the amendment of number four alderman rose? Yeah, I guess I Didn't get a chance to read the letter. But I mean, could you tell could you share a kind of what the reasoning behind uh i mean you kind of did but is it pretty calm i guess this is more for staff but if you want to um go ahead and answer to alderman logeman is my understanding is that when the fences go in that they are left that clearance to allow for an adjacent property owner is there an adjacent property owner have they been you know talked to or Any kind of information on that? Yeah, adjacent property owners were all notified. Is that your question? Yeah. Yes, they're all notified as well. There was the big stake in the front yard. So, yeah, everyone, to my knowledge, is okay with it. And, like, you can't, I mean... I included a picture in the packet as well. I wrote just a little memorandum on their behalf when they went in front of ZBA. And if you take a look at that, it's really hard to even see how it impacts. I mean, they're still like two feet off the paved alleyway. So yeah, ultimately, just wanna make sure that we're not having another financial burden to these. property owners who through the erroneous ways of their contractor Has already cost them money going through the ZBA Okay, any other discussion just on the amendment from alderman logeman to item for seeing no discussion all those in favor balderman logeman's amendment item for please say aye Those opposed okay, so now we have 14 items before you because item 8 has been laid over. One of them, item 4, has been amended. Is there any discussion on any of the other items? Alderman Beach and then Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. On the number 11, can we get an update on the number of video terminals we have out in relationship to our max? Yes. Director Meyer? The question was what is the impact to our maximum? Yes. Give me one second. I can pull that up for you right now. while we wait for that alderman beach do you mind if i go to alderman that'll allow mr meyer uh alderman turkey did you have a question thank you your honor um it relates to new committee reports b10 um within the committee reports there's an amendment to section 53 that's not listed here also the the text amendment i i would recommend that it be held back because it is a little bit Odd because it talks about the repair of ammunition, and I don't know there's anybody around here who wants to repair ammunition I don't know how you do that, but a little bit dangerous, so I may be a little bit of wordsmithing on that Can you repeat the first part I couldn't hear you with the I'm sorry. I'm sorry which item you were oh, that's B new committee reports B 10 and there was there's a text amendment for section 53 for home businesses and Can address that in the yeah the word thank you a little bit so you're right This is the one was a little confusing last week so at committee alderman that Specific text amendment was actually voted to be held out at committee. Okay, so it will be discussed at the committee on Monday All right. Thank you. There is later on this agenda. However a Resolution for a text amendment that you had proposed it essentially addresses what you're talking about. Yeah, I Thanks a lot. They're not they're not connected. Do you have the answer for I do in Beach? So right now the city of Rockford has a total number of 560 authorized Video gaming terminals in the city of Rockford. This would add one to that list. So our total number of authorized would be 561 Of those, only 526 are actually in operation. If you recall, sometimes we authorize these, and for whatever reason, they are not approved by the Illinois Gaming Board, or the restaurant or bar chooses not to move forward. So we have a bit of a lag sometimes. But the total number, the operative number is 560 now going up to 561 if this is approved. Thank you. Any other questions on the items before us? We have eight that has been, item eight was laid over. Item four was amended. No other questions? All those, or clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Bogerman. Tunberg. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. 12, 13, 15. Alderman Beach. Alderman Beach. What were the no's on? 12 14 and 15. Thank you Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie I'm just one through five 14 eyes item 613 eyes one no item seven nine ten eleven fourteen eyes item 12 13 eyes one no item 13 14 eyes 14 and 15 13 eyes one no, thank you Next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thanks Jerry number one committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of eight million seventy seventy six thousand six hundred and eighty two dollars and thirty four cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting held on may 28 2024. number two the committee recommends approval of sales city-owned property located at 323 soper avenue to laritha macklin for her bid in the amount of eleven hundred dollars the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of revisions of the city rockford Rules and regulations including section 1 section 4 section 5 B section 5 F section 13 section 14 section 14 D section 24 F Section 26 B and replacing gender specific pronouns the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number four the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the rewritten city of Rockford 457 deferred compensation plan the city direct legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Number five, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Illinois State Toll Authority for the East State Street Widing Project. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number six is the approval of the Rockford Fire Department's sworn temporary staffing adjustment, the proposed increase in authorized full-time employees, and the approval of the Rockford Fire Department's sworn temporary staffing adjustment. Is to recruit classes per year one in the spring and one in the fall each consisting of at least 12 new recruit firefighters The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these six matters before you. Thank you We have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items other one meets? I just have a question about item number six I I'm having a hard time recalling this situation, but I remember the I think it was a firefighters union Wanted to see I think it was like the daily number of per shift How many firefighters were on shift and they I think they wanted to see that number increase Chief do you recall? I Do you recall that like situation the request from the union to increase the? number of firefighters per shift she think of I Thank you for the question. And yes, we have had conversations on several different occasions, mostly in negotiations, in terms of the daily staffing and increasing that staffing. So yes, those conversations do take place. So with this taking place, does this even temporarily kind of solve for that problem? So it would... It would help to temper that, but it would only be temporary, right? But yes, because the plan would be to have the spring class account for our normal separations, our average retirements and separations that we have annually. And then the fall class would be obviously the second class, and that would be where we would move above right we wouldn't see that if this were to be approved we wouldn't see that until January of 2025 that when that first class would be over I'm staffing and then you know an additional fall class 2025 then we would obviously To add to that staffing and then and then my last question is and how long does it typically take? from training to have a firefighter like out on the field ready to go so typically it takes 15 weeks for our recruit Academy and then if the Candidate comes to us with no medical then they would have to go through that process and and that is an additional six weeks. So upwards of 20 to 21 weeks in total. Okay, those are all my questions. Thank you so much. Are there any other questions on the six items before you? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. 14 eyes. Thank you We will move to unfinished business committee reports laid over We have nothing under planning and development committee and nothing under code and regulation committee So we'll go back to finance and personnel and alderman frost. Thank you number one committee recommends approval of amendments to the city Rockford court of ordinances item a is article 2 and Section 2-26, adjustment of aldermanic salary pay up to $16,000 per year. And item B, Article 3, Section 2-57, adjustment of mayor's salary to $155,000 effective in the next four-year term. This would not have an impact on current officeholders. With counsel's approval, the change would be implemented with the new alderman in mayor term and will be budgeted in 2025. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two the committee recommends approval of fine reduction request for the property located to 206 Broadway The owner Michael Selkis is requesting the fine total of two thousand a hundred dollars be reduced to zero Pending a sale of the property the property is not in compliance with the appropriate building sanitation codes at this time The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. I place these two matters before you Thank You counsel We've got two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? alderman logan Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to read a quick – I've been exchanging some text messages with the applicant item two. I think this was laid over when I was away. But this is in my word $2,800. I'm not going to read this whole thing verbatim, but essentially he, the, it's a, it's a landlord and the, um, the tenants kind of destroyed the interior of the property. And so I think a good question is like, doesn't housing insurance cover this or The home insurance cover this and they did except he would have had to pay He would have had to bring the building back up to code out of his own pocket And he did not have the money to do that. He does have a seller lined up right now. Who's going to make? these improvements to the property But he yeah, this does not have the the funds to take care of the the fine and to conduct these improvements out-of-pocket so I'm always really hesitant to I know we all are hesitant, but I'm always really hesitant to sign my name especially to a fine total from 2800 down to zero or any amount of money because I fully recognize the amount of staff work that goes into this but it is my belief in my feeling that you know doing this will allow a property on broadway street to kind of come back to life a little bit so um i support this and that's just kind of some further back story in that and i can yeah i can share this text message with anybody if you want but thank you mayor mayor thank you Any other discussion? Alderman Barney. Thank you, Mayor. I move to amend item 6C1A to increase aldermanic salaries to $17,000 rather than $16,000, effective with the next council term beginning in May 2025. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a second. Is there any discussion on the motion that's before us? Alderman Frost, then Alderman Moogman. I didn't know about this amendment until this evening, and I'm just um We I think that we had some lively discussions and debates about these two matters a few weeks back I guess I just I'm confused as to the increase with respect to the ultimate if it's based on like CPI other sort of Issues with respect to the number that was proposed Without asking that Alderman directly what the rationale is, I guess I'm just worrying what what would be the rationale for increasing it tonight? I can give a stab at it and then if Director Haggerty wanted to add anything And understand that wasn't at your previous discussion about both of these items, which I'm wishing I wasn't at this one either but My understanding is there was an amendment that increased the mayor's salary up and wanted it to have also that somewhat similar increase for the aldermatic salary, is my understanding. Director Haggerty, any additional information? Sure. The original recommendation of 16,000 was based on a survey of other municipalities. Certainly it wasn't the highest rate, and we looked at what a 2% annualized adjustment would be Over the time period since aldermanic pay was last adjusted and that was over eighteen thousand dollars. So 17,000 I believe was the number we landed on as a reasonable increase still under that CPI adjusted over 21 years Thank you. Thank you. I am was there another alderman loberman I Yeah, I've said my remarks in the stream of committee meeting. I'll just keep it short. I just think the um, I Would be opposed to this amendment here. I think the the timing is important for everything and you know I mean you consider like we always talk about pure communities. I think it's important for us to consider to like pure governmental Organizations, I realize city of Rockford, you know, we do meet the most but when you consider there's no No financial compensation for the Park District or two or 205 and then just also just building trust with the community and You know, I understand it's like consideration wasn't made into an election cycle, but I think that's important to take into account, too That I think the right time to do something like this is at the beginning of a term and these these are longer terms these are four-year terms, but yeah, I you know, I think the Approve the proven support the mayor's increase but an aldermanic increase is not something I can support. Thank you other odd discussion so alderman rose I Yeah, similar to Alderman Logum and statements. I think the 16 amount is Plenty, I'll be supporting the 16,000 adjustment but not the 17,000 additional increase. Thank you Alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor. I'm also not in support of this but I want to reiterate I Some past comments and that I think the taxpayers Although that's listed in our code of ordinances and it the salary has to be listed as such I think what the taxpayers need to know is how much they're compensating us as a total the compensation package that's available to the alderman including Health insurance that the pension payment all that stuff. I think that the taxpayers are in count entitled to see exactly all that's available To the alderman salary and the mayor salary for instance. You have a card. I'm not not opposed to that I think you should have a car, but they should see Exactly what is flowing out of the budget to support the aldermen's activities and mayor's activities and things and things like that so So that's one reason, and then the other is I'm just opposed to the – at least section number A. Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Barrios. Thank you, Major, for allowing me to speak. This is just – it's going to pertain to me. In 1998, they moved me to the office. From superintendent, I manage over 200 people, and the company provided me with a car. And to become an estimator for the company, they evaluated the deal, and one of the deals was where you want $15,000 or a car company. So when you're talking about $16,000, in 1998 they offered me $15,000 for a car company, To do a job, an alderman job, you need a car. Now how are you going to maintain the car? Insurance, repairs, gas, and others. So I'm willing to be for the approval of this amendment. And also, see, an alderman job could be a part-time or could be a small-time or could be a full-time. For me, it's a full-time job. And also, for me, I need an office job. How are you going to pay all the utilities? Just by the looks? Or any citizen do you think is going to pay my utilities? So if you want to do a good job, my father say, if you want to do some work, you deserve to be compensated. So this addendum is compensated for doing the good job. Now, also you need a telephone. All that is not free. You got to understand if you want to do a good job, you got to take care of our citizens. We need all those items. And I really thank Alderman Bonney to come with this amendment and the mayor for moving forward. Thank you. But this is just my opinion. MR PALLADINO There was – Alderman Thunberg, did you have your hand up? Alderman Thunberg. ALDERMAN THUNBERG Thank you, Mayor. A few things, you know when it comes to this is a part-time job I would say if there is an individual that would like to shadow the third ward alderman some week They're gonna realize that it's anything but a part-time job number one, you know it this is a What I guess if I didn't return constituent calls I didn't put in what I feel is a earnest effort I could make this a part-time job but as as the mayor could probably attest in the third Ward if you Don't do those things. I just mentioned you will be voted out if I end up getting voted out someday It's not because I didn't put in my hardest effort so With that said, in regards to the first ward alderman, about the full amount of everything, the full compensation, I am for that as well. And I would like to say as a small business owner, I am on the city plan. I've mentioned that before. I'm in the HSA plan, which I could say hopefully saves the city some amount of money. But it's all just based on each individual's choice, whether they go into the HSA plan or the regular PPO plan, whatever it is. But with that said, is that... Taxpayers should realize too that most of us employed here, if it's some individuals are employed by the school district and are taking advantage of being on the school district's health plan. So taxpayers are paying, helping subsidize that health plan with their taxes to the school system instead of to the city of Rockford. Other individuals may be employed through a medical facility, and those medical facilities are charging those customers or those patients accordingly. So when I go see my doctor or what have you or go get a procedure done, I am paying – an amount that is partially going to those individuals' health plan in higher prices. So it's, I would say it's all according, it's all basically a situation where individuals are either paying through their taxes to help through the school system to subsidize their health plan or whether it's through medical care or whether it's an individual that's maybe through a retail establishment. Maybe they're working for a Target or a Walmart. Those prices charged by Walmart or Target are priced in such a way that I'm gonna pay, when I buy goods there, I'm paying a small amount of premium to go into their health plan to help pay for their employees' health plan. So I just wanted to mention that, sorry, just a little, basically some economics there, I guess. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Any other discussion? Right now we have the amendment. We have a motion. We have a second. No further discussion. Alderman Bunn? Point of clarification before we vote. Is alderman only a full-time job in the third ward? We're not going to get into that. So I heard someone maybe in my dream call the order or point of order. So any other questions? Clerk, could you call the roll simply on the amendment? Turkey no logan timber frost Torino fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie hi six eyes five eyes nine nose Okay, thanks now. We have two items before us Item one and item two is there any discussion on those two items? Oh? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to separate 1A and 1B. Okay. Separate. They are. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Yeah, just for item two, this is just more of a personal one. When I have people who bring me a reduction notice for my ward, I just flat out tell them no. And the reason I do that is because they have an obligation as a property owner to, take care of their properties, whether they're a homeowner or a rental company or whatever. So that's really the only reason I will be opposing it. I do think that... you know, every property owner should have some skin in the game. You know, they can make promises on what the new property owner is going to do and what their agreement is and all this stuff, but ultimately, that person cannot make that promise for that new property owner. We have no ability to enforce any action on that new property owner if they... do not make those fixes. And so that's why I will be voting no on this. If there were some type of small payment, whether it was a $300 or $500 fee, I think that that at least puts some skin in the game for property owners to follow the processes and take care of their properties and do that. If we don't enforce our own laws, they're not really laws. that's just my only thing for item two, but that's why I'm voting that way. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. So it seems to me the issue is there are fines here because there are things that need to be done. So how is it that we can't hold the current owner responsible for it, the $2,800, and if the new owner that comes in actually corrects the salt, then we remove it. If not, they still owe it. so i don't think i don't understand why we can't just do that and that kind of accomplishes both worlds thank you director meyer so that's how it would if the motion to reduce the fine is denied that's how it would work the the fine stays but any property owner who takes that property then it also inherits the code violation and the liability now so the best thing would be if that If those code violations are then removed or abated You could still come back then and speak to council about Reducing that final removing that fine typically, that's why we ask on the application if the fine or if the Code violations have been abated because it counsel is more likely to rescind or remove those fines if the problem has been fixed yeah, real quick, I think the Prospective buyer was a little skittish Getting involved if the fine was still going to Remain in place, but I think you know like attorney Meyers said if this I mean if it's defeated Then that's going to be the course of action moving forward and I yeah certainly agree with and respect all the men roses opinion there my Endorsement of this was just to kind of like facilitate this property getting back to I Yeah, just getting getting sold and Rehabilitated as as soon as possible, but I yeah, that's what I have mayor. Thank you. Thank you other Discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? I am one B and two no on one a Logoman nay on one a I on the remainder to bird Terina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie item 1a is 10 eyes for nose item B is 14 eyes and item 2 is 6 eyes 8 nose Thank you Next we'll go to motions and resolutions. We'll come back to officers reports I There's nothing under planning and development. We'll go to Alderwoman Trina for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends denial of the request to instruct the zoning officer to file an application for an amendment to Article 53, Home Business, of the zoning ordinance. And number two, the committee recommends approval of the authorization for resolution to grant temporary easement and right-of-way to Illinois Department of Transportation at the city-owned property located at 1105 North 2nd Street. Thank you. Thank you. Council, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. As it relates to B1, I guess this is another amendment or motion I brought to the council that's going to crash and burn maybe. It seems like my track record. Just some clarification. The Article 53, the text, the change that we're asking for is only for a home business. That's it. So which would be for the most part very limited in scope the every other activity that goes on in this individual's home more or less outside of working with other persons firearms goes in any Buddy who has a foie cart you are free to work and fix Manufacture do whatever you can buy firearm components and assemble them in your own home you are free to as a foie cart owner to construct and and reload and make your own ammunition so this already goes on all over rockford um the difference in this is that this individual is doing it for other people he's also highly vetted with the federal government to allow him to do this so um So you're not, all the amendment does is allow this individual to do for others what others are already doing in their own homes. That's it. Every other home, any other firearm owner can fix them, repair them. You can make ammunition. You can do all those things in your own home right now. The only thing that requires the federal licensure and this text amendment to Article 53 is allowing him to do it for somebody else. That's it. So the idea of home businesses is to regulate the certain home business, but what it is is to regulate traffic within the neighborhood so that we're not causing a Taco Bell drive-thru in somebody's driveway for a home business. And that is not happening. Rest assured, we have home businesses where people cut hair. and i think more people get haircuts in a neighborhood than are requesting somebody to assemble or repair firearms to tell you the truth quite a few firearm owners know how to do this themselves so i doubt that again this is going to be a high volume business so i would urge uh the council to um vote no on roman on number one and uh request that the zoning officer allow a text amendment to be found for article 53 to allow a Home business to operate in this manner. Thank you your honor. Thank you We have older woman meets and alderman toonberg. Thank you so much I would just like to urge council to remember that when we create ordinances we don't create them for one individual we create them for the entire community and So just take that into consideration when you make your vote. Thank you alderman to book. Thank you mayor I would yes, please Do remember all factors considered in this vote. I would also think about the Individuals I mean in today's day and age It is a lot different due to technology being part of it and a person's ability to work from home and And in this case, I've spoken with the individual, and the amount of individuals that are going to be using his services are extremely low to the point where he even admitted that if he did have to get a shop, it would be... It just wouldn't be cost efficient. I mean he would lose money based on the amount of Customers he'd be serving It just wouldn't it wouldn't warrant renting a spot a commercial spot He would lose money and it just he wouldn't he wouldn't be in business. I So I think yes, one of the main concerns is for these small businesses, I've talked with our zoning department, Mr. Capovilla, Long time ago about some of these small businesses had one in the third ward that was causing individuals to come by their residence way more enough that neighbors were complaining and so yes, I do address a situation in a different aspect, but in this aspect I This would be a case where he has so few customers to the point where renting a place would not be Cost efficient and he would not be able to have this business Thank You alderman Bonnie Thank You mayor I would just remind everybody that we are not this is not a vote on the Recommended ordinance change itself. It is to refer it to the ZBA To be referred back to us through codes and regs and through council So all we're doing is if we were to approve it Which would be to send it to ZBA to be vetted and then we could still as a council vote it down If we think it's a bad idea. Thank you. Thank you other discussion. I Alderman Rose? Alderman Rose? Yeah, I think Alderman Bonney makes a great point there, and also Alderman Meeks. I just would point out that the language does not offer any kind of language for the lockup of devices nor security based on the home business. And so because of those two major items, I will be voting no. Thank you. Any other? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Turkey. No, I have to look at my tumor Frost Torino fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey, Bonnie. I remember one six eyes I'm sorry eight eyes six nose and item two 14 eyes Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of a bid for fire panel replacements at Metro and Concourse parking decks to Helm Electric in the amount of $53,413. The funding source are ARPA funds. Number two, the committee recommends approval of water wood for commercial vehicle body repair to Don Paris and Sons Auto Enhancers Anderson Collision and Glenn Denning Auto Body for an estimated contract value of $200,000 based on unit pricing. It's through June 30, 2025 with four possible one-year extensions. annual price adjustments for CPI concerted contract renewal only the funding sources the equipment fund operating budget number three the committee recommends approval award bid for the concourse parking deck membrane rehab to Western specialty contractors the amount of three hundred ninety eight thousand seven hundred fifty dollars the contract duration is through November 1 2024 and the funding source is the ARPA funds Number four, the committee recommends approval of RFP for security services to Metro Enforcement in the amount of $200,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered contract renewal only. The funding sources are the parking fund operating budget and the property fund operating budget. Number five the committee recommends approval award of a men a men in engineering agreement Davis Park improvements Phase one supplement to the Smith Group of Madison, Wisconsin additional amount of forty eight thousand nine hundred dollars for an amended amount of one million three hundred and thirty three thousand nine hundred dollars the contract duration spring 2023 through spring 2025 The funding sources are state of only capital grants 70% in the city rock redevelopment funds at 30% number six the committee recommends approval of change order for water treatment plant and 31 and 43 filter media replacement to CNC environmental in the amount of $602,000, no change from the original award. The Public Works Department recommends changing the location of the filter repair work from water treatment plant 31 to water treatment plant 13. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of resolution authorizing the central services manager executed contract for electrical municipal aggregation supply. Number eight is the acceptance of the fiscal year 2024 Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Law Enforcement Camera Grant in the amount of $842,320. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from April 10, 2024 to June 30, 2024. Number nine is acceptance of the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services Youth Crisis Housing Advocacy Grant award amount of $135,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2027. The grant funds will pay for staff time of two housing advocates to provide services to youth aging out of foster care involved in child welfare system. and number 10 is the acceptance of the illinois department of children and family services norman housing grant awarded the amount of 270 000 it does not require a cost match the grant term is from july 1 2024 to june 30 2027 the grant funds will pay for staff time of two housing advocates to provide services for families involved in the child welfare system With respect to number 10, I believe this is when alderman beach had a question about earlier I believe I have that we have an answer to it now both items 9 and 10. I do have an answers. Thank you Alderman frost into alderman beaches question. It's a total of two employees It's also a renewal of existing positions. So a total for item 9 and 10 to employees And it's a renewal of existing positions. Thank you your honor. I'm in Turkey too much rock and roll I I'm sorry. So the question came from Alderman Beach for items number nine and ten under finance and personnel committee earlier and I did not have an answer for them And the question was is it in each one if you read them it says you can hire two people And so his question was good He said is this a total of four people or is this two people overall for both? the answer is it's two people overall and it's a renewal of existing positions and Any other discussion on the 10 items from finance and personnel? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. No. Five. Aye. Logeman. Toomer. Five. Aye. The rest. Frost. Four. Five. Aye. The rest. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. I'm just one through four, 14 ayes. Number five is... 10 eyes, 4 nose, 6 through 10 are 14 eyes. Excellent next up. We'll go to new business item for planning and development was already laid over So we'll go right back to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina and older woman Trina as you begin to Prepare yourself for this you can paraphrase Already provided instruction and do that. Thank you You only provided that just so you know after I really went after him and I said, can you just let her paraphrase some of these? Mayor and the legal director I'm paraphrasing number one an ordinance requiring the traffic on Allentown Avenue stop prior to entering the intersection of Barnum Boulevard number two an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the required setback from an alley from two and a half feet to zero feet for a six-foot high privacy fence in our one single-family residential zoning district at 232 Paris Avenue it ordinance approving the annexation of 4640 West State Street and In ordinance approving number four in ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from C2 limited commercial zoning district to I1 light industrial zoning district and a special use permit outside storage and lifts and trailered an I1 light industrial zoning district at 1211 11th Street. I don't know how to paraphrase, but I'll do it on the bigger ones. Number five in ordinance approving a modification of special use permit for the expansion of a church parking lot and a variation to reduce the required 10 foot frontage landscaping to four feet long. along Logan Street and R1 single family residential zoning district at 418 Logan Street. Number six, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm in I-1 land industrial zoning district at 2011 10th Street. An ordinance approving the following variations in R2 two family residential zoning district for Gabriella Court. There's four variations, one to reduce the front yard setback, along Mill Road, along South Bell School Road, reduce the rear yard setback. Yeah. And number eight, an ordinance approving the following Texas amendments to the city of Rockford zoning ordinances. Number nine, an ordinance approving a modification of the existing liquor license to add an additional video gaming terminal at 2327 Croswoff Street. Number 10, an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license for the sale of liquor by the drink in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 3605 Auburn Street. 11, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco shop in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3708 North Main Street. Number 12, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink and the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a restaurant and bar and an outdoor seating area in the C4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District at 212 East State Street. 13 an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and outdoor seating area and video gaming terminals in the C4 Urban mix use zoning district at 2 11 Elm Street. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any Discussion on the items before us clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? logoman Toomer frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Barrios links Bailey funny there's no one five Thank you. I'm just one through four fourteen eyes item five thirteen eyes one No, I am six through thirteen fourteen eyes. Thank you next we're gonna go to financing personnel committee and alderman frost Number one is an orange proven sales city-owned property located 323 Soper Avenue through the wreath of Macklin for a bit of $1,100 and Number two is an ordinance approving revisions of the city of Rockford rules and regulations, including section 1, 4, 5B, 5F, 13, 14, 14D, 24F, and 26B, and replacing gender-specific pronouns. Number three is an ordinance approving the adoption of the rewritten city of Rockford 457 deferred compensation plan. Number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city and the Illinois State Tollway Authority for East State Street Widening Project. Number five is an ordinance approving Article 2 section 226 regarding an adjustment of automatic pay and item B is Article 3 section 257 an adjustment to the mayor's salary Number six is an ordinance approving a fine reduction request for the property located at 2206 right away from two thousand eight hundred dollars to zero pending the sale of the property then number seven is an ordinance approving the Rockford Fire Department sworn temporary staffing adjustments and to have um two recruit classes per year one in the spring one in the fall each consisting of at least 12 new recruit firefighters I place these seven matters before you uh I I don't believe item six uh the community report was not approved so that would not yep so we have uh six items before us uh item six is not one of them uh so we have items one through five and number seven is there any discussion on those items Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No on 5A. Aye. Hogeman. No on 5A. Toonberg. No on 5A. Yes on the remainder. Frost. No on 5A. Yes on the remainder. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Marios. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Items 1 through 4, 14 ayes. Item number 5A. Aye. 5, 9 ayes, 5 noes. Item B and number 7, or 14 ayes. Thank you. Prior to asking for adjournment, is there any officers' reports? Alderman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to acknowledge the new Levings Unity Pavilion that there was a celebration on Friday because it was finally built. It was a million-dollar investment that Hard Rock Casino made into South Rockford, into the Fifth Ward. They had a beautiful celebration on Friday. So I just want to say thank you to Hard Rock, and also thank you to Ringling Johnson that contributed their services at no cost. There was a great amount of people at the celebration on Friday. On Sunday was the first Live at Leving's event, and I'm pretty sure there was at least 3,000 people there. So it's just a testament to when you invest in an area and invest in the people, they show up. And so it was a beautiful celebration, so I'm just looking forward to... More Live at Leving's events and also the Dominguez del Parque events that happened there as well. We're just looking forward to enjoying the stage. I just want to thank everyone that had anything to do with it. Thank you. Thanks. Alderman Meeks, then Beach and Rose. Busy weekend, despite the rain and everything. I don't know everyone else, but the Creative Music and Arts Festival was fantastic. If you did not get a chance to catch it because of the rain, you missed local favorite Danielle Duray, who performed a beautiful song called Mercy House. Please check it out on Spotify if you have time. It is a fantastic song. and I love her. She is great and they picked some wonderful bands to perform. I also participated in the League of Women Voters, a very nonpartisan group for their annual meeting. I thought that was a fantastic event at Congress. CLIP BREAKERS IN MY WARD, PRIDE PARADE THAT TOOK PLACE THIS WEEKEND. I WAS UNABLE TO WALK IN THE PARADE, BUT I DID DO SOME THINGS PRIOR TO THE PARADE AND I THINK I saw the aftermath and there were so many people. I heard that it was verbatim the best parade in this city I heard. I just want to remind everyone of the Juneteenth celebration that is coming up at Sunnyside Park It is on June 19th, as it is every year, Wednesday, June 19th at Centisigbee Park from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m., featuring the band Confunction as the premier band. And then last but not least, I want to... Absolutely thank council but thank LT construction they started the Sidewalks at Ingersoll Oxford Park recently So thank you Tim and Public Works team for all of your help and work and getting that done and executed It already looks fantastic I ran into a resident at the park with a husband and a wife and About four kids they had enjoying the park and I said, how do you feel about the sidewalks and they said it's perfect It's about time that they came so I'm just really thankful that this program that was implemented by this city To really kind of get people into the trades. This was why it was brought about but what it's doing is is Bringing you know new sidewalks to life really given an opportunity for people to immerse themselves into this career and It is beautifying our city and I'm really very very thankful. So that is all thank you so much. Thank you alderman Beach. Thank your honor This loving unity music show something to be seen. I And so the Park District, Jay Sandeen and his team, what they did to help put that together is tremendous. I'll tell you this. I did drive through there on Sunday afternoon. I couldn't find a place to park anywhere. I mean, I tried to think about places to park. They're blocks away. I asked one of the police officers if there was 3,000 people out there. He said maybe four. He said that was their estimate. It was just a wonderful thing. And then the Flex, the movies downtown, Friday night, and the Come Together, all the projects, the Convention Business Bureau, John Groh, the staff, this entire city was come alive. And if there's something you want to do, you can do it. Excuse me, I'm so sorry. You can do it right here in Rockford. So congratulations again. I hope there's many more festivals out there at Levine's. That was quite a neat deal. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to recognize many of the comments made by other aldermen. One that came to mind was just seeing the photos of the different floats and the events in the Pride Fest. I hadn't seen that much excitement on social media in a long time in this community, and wanted to give a special shout out to Barb Chidley from our staff who participated in the parade and representing the city. I know you, the mayor, walked in it, but I think it says a lot about our city as a whole when we have city employees and you representing the broader spectrum of people here in the city when we say that we want Rockford to be a town that welcomes everyone. And so I just wanted to applaud those efforts, Mayor, that you've been doing, but also with our city staff and the many staff members that participated in it and the organizers of it as well. They did a fantastic job. I felt terrible I could not make it to the Events, but I'm just seeing it on social media. It seemed like it had quite an impact on our residents Thank you alderman timber. Thank you mayor. I was Unable to make some events due to family Obligations, but one of them the livings lake. I'm glad to hear the feedback on that. I do remember during share fest Leving's Lake or that the park was just annihilated by the ash borer and I remember there we took a look down a lot of those trees and I mean almost looked like a Ghost yard with those trees just stripped down from the ash borer So I'm glad to hear that that living spark is made a big comeback I would also like to say thank you to sergeant mark Lawrence He served in Vietnam in 1969 and handed me a commemorative coin for just saying thank you on a few different issues regarding veterans. And so those still living who served and those who unfortunately gave the ultimate sacrifice. So thank you, Sergeant Lawrence, for the commemorative coin. Thank you. Any other reports? we'll just add a couple of quick comments um there is uh first to levins lake it was a great uh day on friday and i only heard uh wonderful things about sunday uh i will say just as nice you see hard rock continuing to fulfill their agreement with the city which is great to see and i will say the one piece that i won't forget from that day is uh mr albert who was there handed me uh a folded piece of paper in his pocket right when i got there and he was like you have to look at this in 1986 he had he unfolded it and it was you know multiple pieces of paper like this stapled together and it was all handwritten out every single thing that he told webs norman they park district needed to do out at levings lake and the one thing that was not done at uh as of right before Friday, was a stage, a real stage. And so he was saying he could actually cross it off. It was a pretty neat experience to see someone who called Webs Norman 38 years ago to finally see all of these new improvements. And when Alderman Thunberg mentioned devastation, The trees I think they lost 200 cherries and being out there cleaning up after was a lot But it looked gorgeous and just thrilled that so many folks are out there and I want to also say a sincere thank you to, there was a lot going on. All the folks who were around either the Pride Alley party, the Pride Parade, just the amount of time and energy that they put into both of those great events. Creative, we've heard lots of wonderful feedback from the music to the drones to, I can attest I wish they actually had a little bit fewer kids activities. I could have left there a little bit earlier if they did. But my son did not want to go and they had an ability that you could like draw a hat and he literally drew on the hat. He was actually sitting next to Jody Beach when he drew on the hat that said, best day ever. And so it was just a neat experience. Last thing that won't probably be as fun as the creative fest, Probably more important. We will do a public safety Town Hall on June 5th, which is this Wednesday at 530 At Crusader clinic 1200 West State Street, so that's June 5th 530 p.m. Crusader clinic 1200 West State Street It'll be the third one that myself chief red and Jennifer Katja Pollya have done So please share it let your residents know and if you would like to come yourself, please join us With that we need a motion. I We have a motion. We have a second to adjourn. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favour say aye. Those opposed, have a great night.