Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Hanley. Here. McNeely. Here. Shirelli. Here. 13 present.
 thank you so we have a forum for this evening uh we'll go right to motions and resolutions underneath finance and personnel and alderman hervey do you mind if i read these no please thank you okay uh award of rfp summer food program to quality catering for kids up community illinois for an amount not exceed 392 000.53 the contract duration is one year with three one-year extensions
 funding sources United States Department of Agriculture grant through the Illinois State Board of Education. Item number two, authorization to accept CARES Act funds from the office and start administration for children and families for $632,741 if awarded. The grant does not include a cost match to the city. Is there any discussion on those two items?
 Your Honor, with regard to C1, I would just like to add the word possible to one year with three possible one-year extensions just to be on the safe side. My apologies, Alderman Hervey. I thought you may have already amended this. Was it amended? You know, I just said it. I think probably I should have amended it. So we have a motion to amend the language to include the word possible extensions. Is there a second to that?
 Second. There's a second. Any discussion on that? Seeing no hands up, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed say aye. Okay, so we'll have that item amended. We now have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Aye.
 all right item passes and actually i apologize clerk should we do that by a roll call i'm going to leave that to nick all right my apologies so clerk could you please call the roll jerky gasperini hi timber hi burby hi urban hi thompson kelly hi boston hi rose hi beach hi
 Kenona? Aye. Hanley? Aye. Thank you. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13-9. Thank you. Next we'll go to officers' reports. And with this, since it's hard to do this, I'll just go through five words, if that's okay. And we'll start with Alderman Durkee. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 You sure you want to do that? Well, my goal here by starting with you is everyone else will be really tired. Well, yeah, tonight's bloviating won't be like a John Boehner-esque by Dr. Jetta. I think it's going to be a little more of Mr. Hyde. I wanted to make a comment on I've actually gone to a number of the protests recently
 I am a little, I'm getting a little concerned about a couple issues. I think some of the last one I went to, I did not go to the one on Sunday, but last one I went to started to get a little out of hand where they, even on Saturday, where they invaded private property, invaded businesses. I was at a business where the protesters started to get a lot of hand. I will give credit to
 Our police department, I was at a restaurant where the protesters clearly tried to provoke the police, and they did phenomenal. I mean, I do not know that any non-trained human being would put up with what I witnessed that was directed toward our police officers. So they did, frankly, an outstanding job.
 And so I want to make mention of that. But I want to make Alderman aware of there is actually on June 11th,
 Uh, there's a vote before the Winnebago County board. I don't normally comment too often on their board actions, but they're mending a section on the county board that gives the health department power to shut down businesses, uh, that they deem whatever they unsafe during COVID. And, um, this, this bothers me a lot. Um,
 First of all, I don't think any individual or any, you know, especially the director of the health department should have that power when they're unelected and directly not accountable to the voters. The provision of this ordinance doesn't allow any appeal, even though.
 And I'm not an attorney. I know we have some on the council, but there is a state statute that basically says the health department, if they're going to shut down a business, they're required by Illinois law to go to a court of competent hearing in order to adjudicate that. And there's no method of appeal in this ordinance. Right.
 And so I'll go back a little bit briefly, I promise briefly, where we had the mayor set up a task force into looking at impediments to business. Now, where Director Martel may do well with other peers or CEOs of the health systems and things like that,
 It appears that the health department under leadership struggles at the street level with businesses. And what we found in this task force is that the health department, some of their inspectors are arbitrary. They're a little bit capricious. They're unpredictable as it relates to things like sinks, outdoor dining, and other things. And we had talked to the director about it. She did not seem very receptive to that. Businesses need...
 some kind of predictability. They need the function. So when we're, the County is giving her the health department, this power, it disturbs me. And, you know, I think if we can, if we have folks that we have contacts with in the County board, you know,
 uh you may or may not agree with my perspective but i think we should reach out to the county board and have them we reject this and i make it i make a little secret i've had my troubles with director martel during the pandemic i emailed through her spokesperson different queries about data they were using uh modeling they were using
 And would never directly get back to me. It always came through our city spokesperson. And even when I queried, you know, the county health department, why don't you just talk to me directly, I received no answer. So right now I'm troubled with this health department and what they do. We've had some blowback with them, even when we were doing the –
 the Business First program, a lot of city inspectors and everybody got together to try to expedite business openings. And the blowback we got, even in those meetings, was from the health department. So I'm very, very concerned about this ordinance that the county is passing or attempting to pass. And I will contact my contacts on the board, but I am very much in resistance.
 to that. So that's the Mr. Hyde moment as opposed to the Dr. Jekyll. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. And I guess I would, on the first portion of what you mentioned, I would ask if Chief O'Shea could comment. I certainly support the tactics and decisions he's making as a revolter on the protests.
 chief i appreciate your comments alderman turkey uh the officers um have been doing really really really good work and we're trying to provide safe passage for protesters as well as protect the general public uh the private property uh incidents anytime they go on private property the officers are actually the supervisor working the detail of contact with that private property business
 If they don't want them on the property, they're given warnings or they're not allowed to come on the property. And so far that's worked out. Other properties have allowed them on and chose not to have the police remove them or ask them to leave. So we kind of work on the fly and the officers and supervisors working at shift, not only with our police department, but with the county and the state and Wells Park and Cherry Valley and Rock Valley and the district are all helping us.
 I think everything's moving in the right direction, and we're just trying to provide safety for everybody involved. Thank you. Next, Alderman Gesslinger.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I really don't have too much to say, and I just want to say that I'm proud of the chief and the police, and I'm proud of the protesters. I think everything has been done right, and so I appreciate you, Chief, a lot. So I just wanted to say that. Mayor, you too, you're working really hard. And I think just speaking to and for the aldermen,
 It's been a long week, a long two weeks, but that's nothing to compare with the mayor and the chief have gone through. So thank you guys very much, and I appreciate you. Thank you, Alderman Gasperini. Gasperini, Alderman Toomber?
 Yeah, I could echo that. Long couple weeks for everyone. It is a little concerning to me when the streets are taken over just at will and when the streets are taken over.
 And kind of almost, you know, at a quick time, we don't have many times forewarning. That does concern me for first responders that need to get somewhere and they may have to bypass certain areas and take a longer way to get to a service call. You know, it's just that the violence part,
 You know, we're in a time that is everyone has the right to protest. That's part of America. And, you know, to protest for something like this is absolutely justifiable. But when it starts turning violent, you know,
 It starts to go into where business owners who have already just been absolutely annihilated due to the COVID situation now are forced to close early. Some of them are hiring private security, private groups to come and protect their property. That comes at a cost.
 Um, so, you know, the, the, the entities that seem to attach themselves to these, uh, protesters, um, is concerning. Um, but I do hand, uh, give a hand to the, uh, police for handling it. I've heard great things. Um, you know, certain individuals getting in their face, giving them the finger and,
 the other kind of lively words, they have to, they have to take it. So, you know, there's just, there's too much for me to say. So I'll say I'll, I'll, I'll hold off for now. So thanks.
 Thank you, Alderman Tunberg. Oh, Shay, could you touch on, I think Alderman Tunberg brings up a great point regarding the emergency personnel and the work that you and Chief Berkson do to help coordinate those efforts.
 Absolutely. We can certainly, you know, we always look at hospital routes, ambulance ingress and egress with the fire trucks. Some of the routes that have been taken, we, myself and Chief Bergston, our staff will communicate ahead of time. We also communicate with the hospitals regularly.
 and we'll reroute emergency services as need be. It gets kind of tricky sometimes because it is last minute, but everyone should know that the fire and the police and the hospitals are all working in conjunction to make sure that no life safety issues arise for the protests in the street. Thank you, Chief. Alderman Hervey. Sorry, I was still muted. Thank you.
 I want to also commend the police department, with the exception of that one Saturday when things got really crazy and there was some damage to some businesses that simply did not deserve it. I do want to clarify one thing. I don't think the protests themselves turned violent. I think there are fringe people.
 who come with the intent to opportunists, I call them, to loot. You know, I don't even think they want to be violent just for the sake of violence. I think they want to loot. I think there are some people who have grudges with the police, regardless of where they stem from, who want to be able to throw something or take a shot. Yeah.
 Um, and we get some of that, but the protesters have been pretty, pretty proud of, um, I do want to say too, of many of their, their, um, they call them demands, I think, um,
 You know, some of those we've been working on as a city. I'm proud of the fact that some of the police tactics that are being prohibited on a national basis, we already prohibit and we have prohibited for years. Chokehold. Chief, what do you call it when you use that hold that cuts off people's that one that goes to the brain? What's the name of that?
 There's a bunch of names, but it's LVNR, lateral vascular neck restraint. That's it. Isn't there a carotid something too? The LVNR restricts the flow through the carotid, which causes an individual to pass out. We do not utilize those. We have not utilized those in years and years and years. We don't train in those.
 I want to make that very clear. We put it out on social media. Rockford Police Department doesn't use a multitude of names, but chokehold is the common one that comes up, but it's an LVNR, and we do not utilize them. We do not train in none whatsoever. Do we use any tactics which come off the airways? Absolutely not. In the airways, that would be a stranglehold, and that would be a deadly force situation. We do not train in any of that.
 Yeah, I tried to get an officer to show me that carotid thing so I could cut off somebody's brain, but they wouldn't do it. So, you know, I just have to rely on my own techniques. But in all seriousness, I do want to say to Chief in front of everyone –
 You do continue to have my support. I'm not asking for your resignation. I'm not asking for you to be fired. You and I had a long conversation about your comments and some other things that displeased me, and I'm going to leave it at that. It's not always that you can have a conversation with your chief of police.
 and have him take an hour or more of his time on a weekend or a weeknight when you know he wants nothing more than to have some peace um and listen to me jawbone about something that i didn't that disturbed me and and he did and he did it respectfully he did it uh with real listening um and
 And somebody asked if I, you know, why I wouldn't support getting rid of you. And I said, hell, I spent, what, three years now getting him in the shape. You know, I'm not going to throw it all that way. If you get a man 80% to where you want him, you should probably keep him because you're going to have to do it all over again. That's just the way it is with you guys. I'm sorry if that sounds sexist, but it's true. Okay.
 So there are some things that I do believe we can do better. And there are some things that I think we need to systemically that we need to change. Some of those are statutory changes.
 Some of those are policy, and others are going to come from working together as a group. And I hope the protesters, these groups, by the way, I've identified three groups now.
 So one day I want us as a city, I want to make sure we're not paying attention to one voice because it's the loudest and ignoring some of the others. You know, I think I said to one of the news people today, I'm old now. You know, so these are young voices. So my perspective is going to be a lot different than yours.
 Some of the young people. And that's okay. During the 60s. I remember thinking that old black people. Were stopping progress. Because they were more conservative. In their views. And not as conservative.
 forceful. So I think that happens with every generation. So I don't turn into Chad and Tim. I'm going to cut it off here and thank you all for letting me bloviate and pontificate. Alderman Hervey, I think you had about another nine or ten minutes. I can't jump with them. Alderman Hervey,
 That's harsh. That's harsh. That's harsh. Okay. Okay. Solomon Irvin? Yes. Uh,
 You know, I have to say that my vocabulary has greatly expanded since being on city council. Obligating, that was like stuck in my head for a week. I'm like, that's awesome. Let me use that more often. But no, I just wanted to share a little bit as I was listening. You know, what came to me is seed time and harvest. It's a principle that will never cease.
 you know, and until the end of time, we will always be able to, to plant weight and, and then reap a harvest, you know, and the word of God actually speaks about the kingdom of God being very much so like a vineyard, uh,
 planted by the father of the king and how that vineyard you know he said he had he had people in the in the field work in that field and he and they came back to reports the king that hey there's weeds growing up with the healthy plants and the king told me said leave them and let them grow up together and when it comes to harvest time that we would we're gonna we're gonna separate
 the good fruit from the bad fruit, you know, from the weeds. And, you know, looking at all of us, I just wanted to say, first off, Mayor, I appreciate you, and I know that there's a tremendous amount of weight on you, as well as the rest of the aldermen. I'm honored and blessed to be working beside you guys, the first responders, the police officers. You know, I just want to remind us that we're called to be seed source. Right?
 We're constantly seeing when we're out on this battlefront, when we're facing, you know, I'm like, you know, this looks like something out of the history books, you know, um.
 We're called to be seed sores And so I just want to encourage you In that sense And think about these opportunists As they've been called I tend to think of them Kind of like that parable From the scriptures We have these protesters out here Who's looking to produce fruit And produce change And grow our community But we have these weeds That kind of flourish up Not to say that we have
 to just let them do what they want to do. But I think it's, uh, it, there's many various reasons, you know, as to why people are doing the work, the thing, I mean, it's sin. And at the end of the day, it's wickedness, it's selfishness, there's greed, there's, there's so many things, you know, and I just, I would hope that we're, and I don't think that this is an issue, but, um, um,
 we wouldn't allow that to, to take away from what's actually being done, the fruit that's actually being produced. And so, uh, I'm still encouraged. I believe that, that this shall pass too. And just like, uh,
 any other storm, you know, God gave me this vision the other day of, of, of a storm. Uh, and it was a heavy storm and it, it, it, it almost flooded the land. And he told me to pay this. The land has been dry for too long. And the purpose of the storm is to replenish the soil. And so I'm just, I definitely believe that this is a season to continue to plant those seeds, continue to listen like you've been doing there. And because, you know, not only, uh,
 are the voices of the people to be heard. But God, I truly believe that he wants to be heard as well in this moment because there's a real purpose and a plan that he has in store for this city, for you and for myself and the rest of us here serving. You know, he said the greatest among us will be the servant of them all. And so when I'm looking around this horseshoe, I see a constant people
 CONSTANTLY SERVED IN THIS CITY AND I BELIEVE GOD HONORS THAT. SO I THANK YOU AGAIN FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK AND JUST WANT TO KEEP EVERYBODY ENCOURAGED. THANK YOU, ALDERMAN NERVINS. ALDERMAN JOHNSON-CALLE.
 Yes, I will be brief. First of all, I want to give my condolence to the Frost family with the loss of its mother. I also want to thank Chief O'Shea for the information you provided to me today. I greatly do appreciate it.
 I want to, I hope staff is still here, that are we, because of the rain, behind on grass cutting and mowing of lawns? Did you say are we behind? Yes. Because of all the rain and everything? Yeah. So is Carl or Kyle still with us? Carl, can you provide us an update on where we're at?
 I know we had a tremendous increase over the last...
 Hello. Carl's here. I'm not sure if you can see me. I don't have specific numbers for you, but you're correct with the heat and the rain. We have had a 75% increase over this year to date as of last year. You know, we've made some investments in some technological capabilities, and they're not fully up and running to increase our efficiency. Probably happy to.
 Thank you all the men numbers and where we're at. I know that Matt Flores has reported me that we are relatively at least keeping up with our complaints. Maybe not as on the proactive side as we have typically done, but certainly our complaints responding in our time allows.
 Well, thank you, Doug. That's fine. I just need to know when people are calling, give them a time frame that we would get to the different complaints. Thank you for that. I also want to share with the alderman, I hope you received the email today with the information on the sessions, the listening sessions for the alderman. Everyone is invited to take part in it. If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to reach out to me.
 or something I forgot, please let me know. I would greatly appreciate it. And Todd, I want to thank you for helping me to put that together. And that's all I have. Thank you, Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Next, Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I would just like to say, run back the Alderman Hervey's statement. And when she's done, I'm going to say I second. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Rose.
 So I won't be too long and, and bloviate, but I did want to share, you know, Martin Luther King, a lot of times he goes unquoted for saying that riots are the voice of the unheard. It's not a common quote of his that is used. And we as a city have been extremely lucky compared to many other cities and
 And I am very proud of our officers and our protesters in some senses. And I'll come back to the protesters a little bit, but, um,
 when people talk about Rockford being one of the most dangerous cities in the country, and we've been spared a lot of the damage and destruction that is going on, I think it says a lot about our people. I think it says a lot about our police department. I think it says a lot about the protesters being responsible, and I think it says a lot about our community.
 Um, we've had a lot less than I know, um, other cities like Aurora, St. Louis, Chicago. And so I just wanted to say that, um, I also, uh,
 You know, one thing that does upset me a little bit is the kind of disrespect towards our officers. And, again, I caution people that, you know, you can turn anything into a political debate. And I had a friend who said to me, geez, you're getting hit on both sides of the aisle. You know, you make one statement and...
 the people say you're you're not doing enough over here and the other people on the other side are saying you know help us over here and i think as politicians sometimes people forget that we just we want a solution and um and so we're i think
 having the human relations commission, um, look into some of these matters and, and for us to do these listening sessions and the work that you're doing mayor and the work that chief O'Shea is listening to our community. I think it's, it's so beneficial. Um, and I hope that work continues and we're going to, uh, continue to go that route. I do, um, hope that, um,
 sitting on the legislative lobbying committee that if things don't get moving in a fashion that is um addresses some of the issues i know that the state has really pretty much shut down for a good portion of this year and um i i would like to urge our governor to consider uh bringing bringing back um you know our representatives to session if if
 things move too slowly here and so that's that's one hope but on a second uh kind of positive note um i'll be meeting with um a group it's called northwest development corporation it's a group founded by um
 A lot of pastors in the northwest side of Rockford. I kind of put it out there for them to take a look at this issue, but also I've run it by Terry Haggerty, our finance director and our city legal. We know that we have a struggle ahead of us with some of the.
 monetary issues we're going to be facing. And Northwest wants to help, I think, and we'll be discussing it on Thursday. But I'm pretty sure we're going to be looking at setting up a GoFundMe account for some of these body cams. And I think one of the things, if they agree to set that up for us, one thing that they'll be asking is that,
 As an individual, you'll be able to donate. You can donate $5, you can donate $10, you can donate $100, whatever you feel like you want to donate. If you're a corporation or a union or some bigger opportunity or small business or large business and you want to donate more, you can help.
 I think this is something that people have identified that is going to help our officers. It shows it keeps it keeps them accountable, but it also helps them prosecute crime that is actually happening in our community. And so.
 I'm hoping that they'll approve that measure of setting up the GoFundMe account and. And we can start asking for funds through our community and I had 1 person said, well. You know, geez, Alderman Rose, you're asking for a lot of, uh, you know. Uh, you know, people are taxed quite a bit here in our region. You're asking for a lot and my response was don't donate then.
 If you don't want to give to it, that's fine. That's perfectly fine. We'll find people that want to help this cause want to help our city want to help our officers want to help make sure that there's accountability as well. So I'm hoping that that we can, we can get that up and running. So I'll turn it back over to you. Thank you all the Monroe's Alderman beach.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just a few things here. I'd like to thank Matt Knott for helping defuse and settle a neighborhood problem that's been going on for a couple of weeks. I wanted to say thank you for coming out actually late at night to help in that situation. Also, I talked to Matt Knott, not Matt Knott, but...
 Matt Flores, the attorney, about this mowing situation. I hope that we can figure out some better way to deal with this problem because by the time an inspector, and they're short inspectors, go out and look at the property, by the time they notify the people, now it's not that the grass is already very long, by the time they respond, and by the
 And most of the time, we're not getting responses because of these foreclosures. And then it's even much longer. And they're sure to stay up to mow these lawns. And I'm just saying it.
 I THINK WE JUST HAVE TO FIGURE OUT HOW WE CAN PUT MORE PEOPLE TO WORK MOWING LAWNS FOR THIS DISTRESSED PROPERTY FOR THE CITY OF ROCKFORD AS WE GO FORWARD. I DON'T KNOW. I THINK I HAVE SOME IDEAS. AND EVERY TIME I BRING ONE UP, THEY SAY, WELL, MAYBE WE CAN'T DO IT BECAUSE OF THE INCURRENCE OF THE LIABILITY. WE'RE SMART ENOUGH TO THINK ABOUT IT. AND I'M JUST CHALLENGING US TO DO THAT AGAIN. OKAY.
 So all of the trailer and myself spent three nights out with the protesters. Much of what we did was to visit the businessmen that were having a problem and to see that they're okay, not that we've heard them do anything, but in our rides along,
 The police should really be complimented in a significant way as they stayed tonight and won't study it again. But I believe in my heart we're going to get through this. I want to thank the city for allowing the listening sessions because I know
 that were calls made early on, I know by Alderman Kelly and myself, is we've got to get someplace that we can listen to the folks. If we're ever going to have a solution designed to deal with this problem. So thank you for that coming up. And Alderman, I really urge us all to take advantage of those sessions coming up this month and next. Thank you, Runner. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Alderman Quinones? Yes.
 Yes, I want to thank you, Mayor, for doing a good job here during these hard times. And our police force with 2-4-3, I want to commend them for doing a real good job out here with the protesters. We have a good police department. That's all I have. Thank you, Alderman Cunha. Alderman Hanley.
 Yes, thank you. Yeah, just kind of going off of what everyone's saying, I want to thank you, Mayor, for the listening sessions. If we aren't listening to the people in our city, we don't know what our problems are because our problems are unique to Rockford. So I think that is important to kind of not compare ourselves to other places and really focus on what's happening here in our community. Thank you.
 People definitely have my phone number now as an alderman because I've gotten a lot of calls and a lot of messages over the past few days. And I will say, other than the grass, most people have been actually reaching out to me in support of Cheap Rocher. So I've had people come next door from my city email, on Facebook, just kind of reaching out and saying,
 we want you to know that we support him please kind of pass on that message so lots and lots and lots of people thank you thank you um alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor and thank you for sharing with us your pledge that you made with my brother's keeper but i do hope that
 the people with that organization as well as the people that are out there protesting understand the legislation works with police departments and understand that
 WHAT YOU HAVE GIVEN THEM IS NOTHING MORE THAN A PLEDGE AND WHAT YOU HAVE GIVEN THEM IS NOTHING MORE THAN A PLEDGE AND HOPING THAT WE CAN PROVIDE HOPING THAT WE CAN PROVIDE THEM WITH SOMETHING OTHER THAN THAT THEM WITH SOMETHING OTHER THAN THAT PLEDGE. PLEDGE. I'M GOING TO QUOTE SENATOR KAMALA I'M GOING TO QUOTE SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS. HARRIS. SHE SAID, TODAY WE HAVE CONFUSED SHE SAID, TODAY WE HAVE CONFUSED HAVING SAFE COMMUNITIES.
 by having more cops on the street. And the real way to achieve health, safe and healthy community is by investing in those communities. And we certainly, Mr. Mayor, need to invest within those communities. And I think one thing that I as the alderman have observed and know that we certainly need
 Within the community is a place for. I have to be able to meet and I know that. Within my ward and I briefly mentioned to you. And the path, the location.
 On West State between Springfield and Pierpont, that development that never went through, we have land there that we should be considering to develop. Also, we have another location close to Johnson that we need to develop and make use of. And hopefully it'd be a place where the African American community can meet.
 There's also within the 13th Ward on Cedar, there's a building there. It was the old Northwest Railroad station. And I know that we as a city purchased that property.
 I would hope that we can look at that, Mr. Mayor, as being a property that we can revamp and make for the community. And finally, there's a property...
 North Main Street, the old armory building next to the Discovery Center parking lot is a building. I know it needs considerable work, but the building itself, it appears to be sound. I hope we can look at that as also being a possible place that we can meet. And I hope also, Mr. Mayor, that...
 You will push along with the other people in the community for Rock Valley College, continue to push for Rock Valley College.
 to be located in the fifth ward off in South Main Street. I mean, that was so significant and it still is significant. And I'm not ready to give up on that. I want us to push for that. I'm not sure how, but I know you're very good at putting people together and coming up with solutions. So,
 I'm hoping that we can all work together to come up with a solution for that. I'm glad to hear the police chief and the fire chief explain to Alderman Thunberg that
 that for those protesters that are on main streets, like at Perryville and State, that they keep in communication with one another. So in case of an emergency with the fire department trying to get to a hospital, they're aware of what streets the protesters are in before that emergency becomes an emergency. So thank you very much for sharing that.
 with Alderman Thunberg. And I also excuse me I also want to thank the chief and the officers for the work that they're doing. We're all human beings and I'm not so sure that I could stand there with someone yelling in my face and saying different things to me. So
 I understand that they're police officers and that that's not an easy task to do. So I appreciate them that contain themselves and withhold themselves not to react, but to do as they have been trained to do. Thank you.
 And I want to thank the protesters because, as Alderman Hervey said, they're much younger than I am, and I've gone through my protests when I was younger, and I certainly appreciate them. So often we hear about the young people and what's going to happen to us in the future, and I think that the protesters here and throughout the country, the young protesters, have proven to us that they're capable
 to take care of this country in the future. And so I commend them and I encourage them, but I certainly would like to hear from them. I would like to be able to sit down and talk with them. I don't know, Mr. Mayor, if you've sat down with the different groups, but I certainly would like to hear from you.
 And so with that, I think I'm done, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McNeely. And I think we all agree the pledge is a pledge. It's going to be up to us to put in the hard work and develop action items and then act on
 I certainly share your frustration with the lack of direct communication that I think would be beneficial for all of us with multiple groups of protesters. Alderman Trowell? Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. Just one request tonight for you, Your Honor. Sometimes it's a blessing to be the last speaker. Sometimes you can shake up the roster a little bit and have me talk first.
 I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT
 crime that was and also gratitude and appreciation for our police department public safety officials they are doing a fantastic job it is a very difficult job but again the balanced approach they're taking is much needed in our community there's one thing I can say for our community and to our citizens that we are committed to whatever changes need to be changed we will address that I'm
 I said last week we need to listen, we need to understand, we need to demonstrate that understanding and then take actions towards change. Every morning I wake up and I say to myself, what is it mine to do today to make a good change for our community and to be a better person and a better community for our citizens? And I think we're all seeing that with all the different departments that have joined together, got connected, using their relationships.
 To build some unity in our community and hopefully with these listening tours and sessions, we can build a strategy for change and we can also. Try to see what does change look like for our community and how is that going to impact all people? Not just.
 group or another you know we need to be able to articulate that clearly and hopefully we can stick to that strategy going forward because I think we are committed and I think everybody is I wish that pledge would have that we do commit to our community all people and all different types of issues that we are faced with every day because I think that's truly what we need is our
 to be able to change what needs to be changed and not resist change because it's too difficult. So again, if you can change up the roster a little bit sometimes that would be wonderful, but also with Dr. Durkee's comments about the pending ordinance on the County Board, it is imperative that people do get engaged with their County Board members. There are counterparts.
 in this community and it's good that they hear your thoughts and ideas because they do correlate with our city and I think I went through my checklist and that'll be about it tonight. Thank you Mayor. Thank you Alderman Shirely. With that is there a motion to adjourn?
 So move. Second. If a motion is second, just want to say I hope you all have a wonderful night, good week, be healthy and safe. And again, if you do have questions or concerns, things are moving pretty rapidly. So first and foremost, I apologize if we haven't answered.
 directly been able to connect as often as any of you would like to, but know that we are here and it's not for a lack of not wanting to or valuable input. It just truly has been a lot going on over the last 10 days. So please do reach out, text, email, whatever, and I'll make sure that you get every piece of information you need. Thank you again and all those in favor of adjourning, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? At the wonderful...
 Thank you. Thank you. Have a good night.