To. Tarina. Fronti Wilkins Hoffman. Rose Beach, Kenona. Meek McNeely, Bonnie 12 present. Excellent. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on April 19th 2021? We have a motion is there a 2nd, we have a motion we have a 2nd, sir. I need discussion any discussion online.
 Hearing none clerk. Could you please call the roll logaman? Hey, Timber Torino, I printy Wilkins I Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely, Bonnie 12 eyes Excellent sir motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on May 3rd 2021. I
 We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion inside council chambers? Seeing none. Any discussion online? Hearing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logaman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Frunze. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 12 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. Next we have proclamations. There are no proclamations this evening, so we'll move to item Roman numeral three Presentations and we do have a presentation from the Rockford rebounding government efficiency task force And I believe we have a couple of presenters. I
 yes and we can certainly have uh lorraine logan and bobby holdsworth and jay sand dean come forward and we also have uh finance director hagerty uh as part of that they should be good i would just say to presenters it's uncomfortable how close you have to be to that microphone for people to hear you but folks at home want to hear you want me to turn that one out for you
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Alderman, for having us here this evening. Last spring, Mayor McNamara formed several working groups, the rebounding groups, to think about the impact of the pandemic and how we might best recover and move forward through it.
 As co-leads of the Government Efficiency Group, Lorraine and I had the honor of working with people from the city, people from other governmental bodies, and with other civic-minded individuals who have the best interests of this region at heart. We thank all who participated and deeply value the efforts that were made over many months by leaders and staff from the various organizations.
 As a group, we've been committed to improving services and economizing the use of taxpayer dollars. This presentation reflects just a few examples of what's been achieved. It also highlights other opportunities for efficiency across organizational lines. We heard from many on our team that they had been good at cooperating with each other, but they were not intentionally collaborating.
 We believe that this intentionality, where time is set aside to identify and work on areas of opportunity together across governmental body lines, will continue to show significant results. And now I'd like to turn it over to Ms. Haggerty and Mr. Sandin to walk us through the presentation.
 Hello, everyone. So the group that was formed looked at a variety of areas of operations. Obviously, we don't have time tonight to go into every single bit of information that was provided to the task force as a whole, but I will highlight here, we talked about maintenance, we'll get into a little bit more detail on later.
 community safety again we'll get into that one too a little bit later policing specifically we we had an information technology group meet of i.t directors
 We had joint purchasing conversations, which has been a longstanding cooperation between the local taxing bodies. We discussed strategic land management, human resources, compiled a group of HR staff across agencies to look at a variety of topics, and then community investment, including housing.
 the family peace center juvenile crime reduction the live learn play initiative neighborhood investment and mental health which we'll get into some of those a little bit later as well as you can see there's a a
 Not an area of the city's operation that this collaboration didn't touch, didn't already touch, or we're not moving in that direction as a result of the work of the task force. We appreciate the cooperation from all of the taxing bodies who sent representatives to several meetings, and the feedback that we got from the members of the task force on direction, effort, they were a great resource for all of us.
 I'm going to hand it over to Director Saunders to talk about some of the public works areas of cooperation. That's on if you want it.
 Thank you Carrie. As Carrie outlined we met as a group, a working group and identified several key overlaps in each of our operations. So between Winnebago County Highway Department, Rockford Park District and several other partners. There's a host of different opportunities outlined on this slide and I'm going to highlight a couple in greater detail but just starting with equipment sharing. As we sat down and started discussing our different operations,
 identified that each of us do things a little bit differently. Each of us finance our equipment a little bit differently. Each of us run our operations a little bit differently. So the discussion on how to best
 Runner operations, you know efficiently with reducing our cost for overall taxpayers We started looking at the different pieces of equipment that each of our agencies has The township the county and the city of Rockford all run uniquely different operations so we actually put together a list of different pieces of equipment and
 both in quantity as well as specialty and started discussing the possibility of how possibly leveraging the different agencies and organizations may help defray additional capital expenses in the future. If we can leverage a piece of equipment that the township uses seasonally or if the county uses it monthly and it benefits us in our public works department, makes a lot of sense to reach across lines and help maybe bring that piece of equipment into our operations so that we don't have to purchase one outright.
 Another thing we looked at was different specialty operations as well as service provisions. So, for instance, our sign shop in Public Works. We've been operating our sign shop for several years, creating custom signs and traffic signals throughout the city. We identified that our sign shop
 our sign printer was up for replacement. And as we kind of talked amongst our peers, identified that Rockford Township had just made a significant capital investment on a brand new sign printer. And that they were just getting into kind of the onboarding of that piece of equipment.
 in talking back and forth identified that our staff may actually be able to help support them in the training side as well as use that sign printer for those specialty signs that we may do on a weekly or monthly basis, not something that we do every day. So again, it was an opportunity to not have to make a significant capital investment, provide some interagency training opportunities, and then ultimately decrease the redundancy in our different operations.
 One additional piece that we also talked about was some of the service provision that we do interagency.
 A big one for us is traffic signal maintenance. When you look at city, state, and county routes, a lot of times multi-agencies own that intersection. Maybe 25%, maybe 50%, but we really looked at that overlap in terms of if we're sending one crew out, why don't we just address that entire intersection rather than having to mobilize and roll a truck to address needs at that entire intersection. So again, just looking at that equipment sharing and service provision side.
 Another big one, and I think we spoke about it for hours, and it's obviously because it's a huge thing for our operation, is snow removal.
 There was something to be said of certainly proximity to routes, right? Again, we have multi jurisdictions throughout the city in terms of who owns what roads the township the county in the city a lot of times if if if a route intersects or You've got a county pocket where a city plow is stopping Oftentimes we'll work together where township will hit a route for us. We'll hit a route for them that way. We're not taking trucks
 trucks out of route to touch those kind of obscure service areas. So as we annexed areas of our southern city extents, for instance, Township County may overlap so we don't have to mobilize a truck really, really far south and off route. So again, looking at how those operations overlap.
 One thing that we identified in discussing was not only is it an operational piece, but it's also a planning piece Mitch leatherby Carlos Molina in Rockford Township staff oftentimes are on a group text message all season long wondering When are you going to make the decision? When are you going to mobilize your crews? What are you doing in terms of preparing for this event? So again opportunities to address? What type of treatment what type of plan we're going to roll out really helped benefit the group as a whole and
 Two really cool technologies that came out of those discussions, and I'm not going to kind of belabor them too far, but road weather information systems. It was something that came out of this discussion with county highway department. We actually piloted a series of cameras this year at four different locations that gauge temperature, pavement temp, air temp.
 They can actually grab you a still shot of what the streets look like currently during a snow and ice event. And by us piloting that technology, talking to the county, talking to the township, they're actually going to possibly pursue installing similar cameras throughout Winnebago County. Which obviously benefits us as a whole because now we can share those camera systems, not have to make redundant investments, and ultimately benefits in our approach to snow and ice removal.
 And then we'll talk about a host of others, but again, just a really good opportunity to kind of look through the different service provisions. One of the biggest things that came out of this discussion was kind of our approach to the fleet management side. A lot of you remember
 Late 2020 early 2020 we came before City Council asking for approval to do a pilot program on an open-ended Lease model for our light duty fleet. So not our big dump trucks Backhoes front end loaders, but our smaller light duty fleet that doesn't really require a lot of build-out, right? It's the escapes the explorers the things that really we're just bringing in putting a logo on Putting a radio in and then getting it out into the operation. So
 One of the really cool things we identified here was Enterprise offered a solution that the county was already utilizing that it's a six month open-ended lease model. So we get a new vehicle every six months. At the end of that six month, we're actually selling that vehicle back to Enterprise so they can go ahead and put that back in the market.
 resulting in a net benefit to the city rather than a net cost. So we leverage our government status to buy the vehicle at a deep discount. We utilize it for six months. We don't incur any type of maintenance expense. And then we sell that back at the end of the sixth month at significantly higher book value than what we originally purchased it for.
 So ultimately that results in a profit back to the city that then we can either reinvest in additional fleet purchases or just offset the amount that we need to finance the rest of our fleet with. So again a really awesome opportunity. We're actually about three months into this model in our pilot program. If you remember we're just piloting six vehicles and right now we're anticipating at the end of that six month term to benefit or to result in a net $13,000 benefit to the city of Rockford.
 so again just a really cool thing that came out of this discussion rockford park district took the lead as well and they're looking at this open-ended model in in their operation which is going to significantly reduce fuel costs we love the fact that these vehicles wouldn't be in our maintenance shop which ultimately lets our maintenance crew work on our other fleet and not have to worry about this light duty fleet
 And it is my understanding as well that Rockford Public Schools is also looking at this model So again something that came out of some discussions and ultimately right now is benefiting it benefiting in a significant a significant operational enhancement on bridge inspection savings This is something that Winnebago County Highway Department does for a lot of neighboring townships They have specialty trained staff on hand that can do bridge inspections currently, they utilize that staff to do inspections in 14 different townships and
 And they also do provide that function for this the Rockford Park District which results in about a twelve thousand dollar savings annually for the Rockford Park District So again being able to take some of that staff expertise put it into another operation and generally benefit the community as a whole Um, then we're just going to highlight a couple of those maintenance efficiencies. So mowing savings We identified sitting down that there's a lot of overlap in our different
 in our different facilities and sites throughout town. So a lot of times you'll see a park in your proximity to city-owned properties. So we identified that Rockford Park District actually provides mowing for the City of Rockford at 33 different sites, predominantly boulevards, triangles, and dry dams.
 um alpine dam is a good example page park is a good example where rockford park district is actually on site maintaining their site and then they go ahead and take on that mowing for the city of rockford which ultimately reduces our costs and reduces our operational challenges so when you look at one one cut per week or i think it's actually every two weeks we're looking at about a 73 000 savings as a whole for the city of rockford and one of the really cool um
 benefits of this is Page Park, great example where we've got that kind of benefit ruling both ways. Park District provides us dry dam cuts and that site as a whole actually provides for the hay they need to operate their Lockwood equestrian facility. So again, a great benefit that
 Rockford Park District saves us $73,000 per annum in terms of mowing costs, and we actually significantly offset their hay yield costs. And I think we've estimated that anywhere from $50,000 to $80,000, depending on how much they utilize in a year. So again, a really cool opportunity that came out of these discussions that really show how our different agencies work together.
 thank you Kyle so public safety is the next area we wanted to highlight and I'll hand it over to Chief Burke in just a moment here but sort of broad categories here 9-1-1 emergency dispatch the Winnebago County and City Center service backups for each other fire equipment repairs I'm going to just hop
 to the next slide here to highlight that quickly. We operate a repair shop out of the fire department that provides services to other area fire protection districts. At a considerable savings to them, also a revenue generator for us, and it gets their vehicles back in service more quickly because they don't have to drive to Aurora to get regular routine maintenance completed. It's a 15% savings on parts.
 11 on labor and then provides 165,000 in additional revenue to the fire department which has offset the cost of hiring a mechanic. Hopping back here, water rescues, several different intergovernmental agreements for various purposes.
 shared police equipment, and video surveillance access, which we'll get into in just a moment. I'm going to have Chief Burke come up and talk about the CADRMS project, which is probably one of the largest examples we have of intergovernmental cooperation, not only providing cost savings, but also efficiencies in all of our police operations. Thank you, Director Hagerty.
 Reference to our record management system, we actually went live August 18th of 2020. Prior to that, there was quite extensive, I guess, investigation, research into what system we wanted to go with. It was included all the surrounding law enforcement agencies within Winnebago County. And like I mentioned, in August of 2020, we went live with Central Square Records Management System.
 It is a NIBRS reporting system, which is the National Incident Based Reporting System, which is required by the FBI. Rockford Police Department actually has been doing that since 2006, reporting that way, but none of the other surrounding agencies had the capability to do so effectively. And now all the Winnebago County law enforcement offices are reporting through NIBRS.
 It was a shared cost, obviously between all of the jurisdictions. It is a, it's definitely a robust records management system for the smaller agencies. Probably if we did not collaborate in this manner, we would probably be able to switch over to a system like that on their own. The incident report summaries are shared between all agencies. There's no longer need to request incident reports from other county law enforcement agencies.
 Really big just use burglary. For example, if we're investigating Maybe a rash of burglaries in a certain location Obviously, they don't stick to one location and they can move around rather easily You know prior to this system, we would have to call up the other agencies and hey, are you seeing any burglaries? This is the method of operation
 If we have any vehicle information. So it was rather time consuming for both agencies to look at all the information, see if there's anything connected. And now since it's all real time information, we can get that just through our own system. Whether it's like if we have a vehicle, we could put in that license plate number. Anytime that license plate has been in any of the other police reports, it'll pop up for us, obviously with date and time. So it's been very beneficial for us.
 The searches performed include information from all the agencies that they put in their system,
 You can also see where criminals are operating outside of each agency's boundaries, which I mentioned earlier. But there's also a link analysis. And what this link analysis allows us to do, and again, all the other agencies, is connecting individuals with report to any other incidents countywide that that person has been involved with. Connects associates in reports to other incidents, so perhaps they're stopped for something.
 The link analysis will let us know what other individuals they were with. Also connects their vehicles and locations as well. So it's very, helps us tremendously with manpower in trying to obtain all that other information, which otherwise would have just been phone calls and other detectives and other agencies sifting through all of their information.
 The CrimeView dashboard statistics is also very beneficial. It provides a means to track detailed crime statistics by timeframe as well, as well as geographical boundaries, and this is also very helpful. So you can just pick out a certain location. Whatever boundaries you want, it can be wards, be broken down by wards, patrol districts. Obviously we've got three different districts here in Rockford, or you can even break it down further to actual patrol areas.
 And then also can include things like hospitals or schools. So if we see any crime trends that's happening near a school, if it's any information that we feel we need to share with the school district, busing system, or anything else like that, we can get that information out to them very quickly. So it definitely has been a huge boost for law enforcement to share that information. As was stated earlier, we worked very well together, but we didn't collaborate as well as we could, but obviously we didn't have the technology to do so. So this system has definitely helped us achieve that.
 we're going to have chief glover come up next and talk about video surveillance thank you we're talking about collaboration here i've been collaborating uh since i left the city of rockford to go to the park district so i've been i had a head start on everyone else about collaboration we shared policies and stuff
 When they purchased their dash cams, I made sure that we also were equipped with dash cams and that we got the same vendor so that our video footage, they could be able to see our footage and we could see their footage. So this has been going on for quite some time. To talk about video surveillance, I'll give you an example. Last year with COVID-19,
 We had to shut down parks and stuff, and so the kids found another place to go after hours, and they chose, instead of house parties, they chose park parties. And we would have problems with them 12, 1, 2, 3 o'clock in the morning in different parks.
 And there were shots being fired, so we were recovering casings as well as the city was recovering casings. And because of that, we were able to, with our video footage at Washington Park, arrest four individuals in a shootout.
 just by collaborating back and forth with the city detectives. That's what video surveillance do for you. And we also were able to purchase some trail cams. The trail cams, we put them in hot spots where the kids were gathering, and we could set the time factors on the trail cams to send us a message when these kids were gathering in the parks.
 and because of that we were able to respond and get the kids separated and out of the parks but the caveat to that is the dash cams that we got were used to get the license plate numbers of the kids who are in the park after hours so
 The next day we would go out and cite the owners of the vehicles for being in the parks after hours. So that's what Big Brother does for you with trail cams and video surveillance. Don't want to say a lot about that because, you know, this is, we collaborate on everything. And now you know about the...
 body cams that are coming. Well, we're a part of that as well, you know, so we aren't going to be left behind. We collaborate as often as we can.
 and the Park District is said to have a big footprint as you all know we got a footprint all over the place but with that being said we work together with other agencies and we aren't stepping on anyone's toes we're respectful of each other we just stand side by side with each other without stepping on anyone's toes even though we have a good foot a big footprint thank you
 So this is just the city's crime rock stat data, just showing, and this sort of segues into our next topic, which is community investment, just showing the need for community investment to prevent these types of increases from happening.
 So the first thing, we've talked a lot about Family Peace Center over the last few days. I won't talk about it too long. You all are well aware that the Family Peace Center brings together not only not-for-profits, but also law enforcement agencies throughout the community to provide services to victims of domestic violence and human trafficking. I'm going to hand it over here to Jay so he can talk about the Live, Learn, Play initiative at the Park District. How's everyone doing tonight?
 I first off want to thank Mayor McNamara for inviting me to join the Government Efficiency Committee about a year ago, and I want to give these two leaders a shout-out because they're volunteering a lot of their time on this effort. And when Carrie and I pulled staff together of all these different agencies, we felt it was a great opportunity to actually showcase a lot of the great work
 that we're doing and our taxpayers should expect us as public employees to be working together and leveraging resources and stretching their tax dollar. And we're doing that in a lot of areas. So we're proud to present this. I'm going to talk about a really terrific example of collaboration. And it actually started, I think, in October of last fall. Mayor McNamara and myself are both on the governing board of Alignment Rockford.
 and during that meeting dr jarrett came in and and gave a real eye-opening report on how our children are doing in covert learning i know that as a parent of three kids in in public schools and of all schools
 we've got children falling behind and it's it's literally a crisis uh right now um i texted tom during the meeting and said we got to get together asap we need to pull people together we did that uh anisha grimmett is a great director of alignment rockford helped us uh pull pull folks together and i got to give a lot of credit to two outstanding leaders in this community one is danielle potter from the rockford park district
 and another is Heidi Dentman from RPS 205. I wanna say from the time I texted the mayor,
 TO ABOUT 60 DAYS LATER. KERI, IF YOU WANT TO FLIP TO THE NEXT SLIDE, WE HAD LITERALLY OVER 30 DIFFERENT COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS THAT PROVIDE RECREATION SERVICES COME TOGETHER AND DEVELOP A VERY COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM. AND BASICALLY WHAT IT IS IS EDUCATORS OUT INTO RECREATION PROGRAMS DURING THE SUMMERTIME, AND THEN WHEN SCHOOL HITS, IT'S RECREATION PROVIDERS GOING OUT TO SCHOOLS AND AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS
 And basically it's a 24-7, 365 investment in our kids. Public schools, private schools, parochial, pre-K, all the way to graduating seniors. So we're working right now on doing that and hopefully turning around those COVID numbers. We have kids that are literally almost a year and a half behind where they're supposed to be right now in their education.
 And it's a crisis. So that was a great example of collaboration. And our hopes and our commitment is that this isn't just a COVID thing. When COVID is done and passed us, this is how we need to be educating our kids in the classroom and out of the classroom.
 Okay, and I think the last slide that I'm going to talk about is Something obviously very near and dear to us at the park district as it is to the mayor As I've heard neighborhoods is a top priority for not just the city, but the park district as well I think that this is without a doubt our greatest opportunity for collaboration and impact to this community long term and that is investment in our neighborhoods and
 and investment in our next generation, our kids.
 I'm going to talk just for a quick minute of what life without play looked like last year. I remember getting a call on March 13th of 2020 from the health department, Dr. Martel saying, Jay, you need to take the rims off the basketball hoops. You need to close the community centers, the swimming pools, the youth programs in most of our facilities and operations. And so did the Y, so did the Boys and Girls Club and other youth providers.
 WHAT HAPPENED, JUVENILE CRIME LITERALLY ROSE 100% DURING THAT TIME PERIOD. TO US IN OUR INDUSTRY, THAT'S ABSOLUTELY NO SURPRISE. IT'S ONE OF THE REASONS WHY WE STARTED OUR PARK DISTRICT BACK IN 1909, AND THAT NEED CONTINUES TODAY.
 Our neighborhoods, specifically our neighborhood parks, were absolutely flooded by people last year. That's where they went to to get away from the stresses of 2020. So we know that our neighborhoods and our neighborhood parks are critical. So that is, I think, our greatest opportunity. The bottom right corner there is a great picture of a young lady who lives out by Key Mulquist Park.
 Alderman Quinones has been helping us out out there. It's gonna be one of the nicest playgrounds in the city of Rockford, and we're really excited about that. At the same time, we know we've got issues all over our community. Alderman Durkee, we just had to decommission and take out the playground at Saturn Park.
 Behind Home Depot, we know that your neighbors at Thompson, Mark, want a playground. That's their number one priority. So that, we think, is our great opportunity. And then the last thing I want to do tonight is introduce a video. And maybe you can watch that real quick, and we'll close our presentation and give it back to Lorraine and Bobby. Rated A.G. in the mix. Rockford Park District Youth Sports.
 Well this is our sixth week with our Rockford Park District Spring Basketball League. We had about 160 kids take part in this program which was funded by ICJA. It was for middle school and high school boys. It's been fun. It's very competitive. They get more confidence to play basketball until like high school or college. It's been fun. It's a different experience, you know. Yeah, it's way better than at home.
 This program was actually designed to break down those barriers for our young people to have those crucial conversations with policemen. It's super important that you guys are here. And we want to see every single face, every single time that we have a program. Basketball was something that brought everyone together. Our mentors, our coaches, our policemen and our firemen. And basketball made it easy for them to have those tough conversations. They just said like, stay in school and stuff like that.
 or your parents, stuff like that? Usually when I go to schools and talk to kids, they want to be basketball players or want to be rappers, entertainers. I like for them to see me, to see that I played ball once. It didn't work, and it's a good backup plan. Remember to be humble, because if you're humble, you get bored. When you're out here trying to be coachable, when you're in school, you're a student athlete. The student comes first. A lot of talent comes out of Rockford, but they can't make it because they forget about the student part. So remember the student part. Thanks.
 This was a positive activity for our young people in the city of Rockford. Right now we're ending the program, so we're going to have to find another alternative and another program for these young people.
 We need to continue to secure funding to continue to do this, not just in segments, I mean year-round. So I want to thank the Park District, State Rep. West for continuing to try to bring more funding to the community, but also everybody else that's involved in this particular venture. The more we can bring them together, the closer they can become.
 So now you don't have those animosities, you know, about east side, west side, north side, whatever it may be. You know, at this point, we're just rockin' and we're just playin' basketball.
 So that's a small example of what investing in your next generation looks like. And thank you to Representative Maurice West, who goes down to Springfield and fights for this and got us some historic funding through the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, specifically for programs to decrease juvenile crime. And it's just, it's impactful. It's critical. I want to
 give a huge thank you to the to the police department Randy and the fire department Bo Chaney was out it was just awesome and it's a great experience for kids and we believe that sir our greatest opportunity for children long-term so alright I think I'm turn over to you miss Lorraine so you've heard us talk about everything from mulching snow equipment and people
 And I hope that you join us in thinking that the work that has happened over the period of COVID and has been meaningful because we want to say to you that we think we've just begun. We've seen the interconnectedness that exists among all the organizations who participated and even some that we haven't touched yet. But we think there's so much more opportunity to be had to make us a more effective and efficient region and to have a better place for our residents.
 We really know that the next step will include our elected officials. So we're asking that you continue to support the work that's being done by the teams who have been participating, that you also bring your ideas to them of things that you'd like to see looked at or things you've learned about from other places,
 Because I think for us to be as successful as we have every intention and reason to be calls upon us to know what are the best practices now and in the future and to then adopt those and make sure they become our standard operating procedures.
 because we are a community of tremendous potential, and we really ask your support to be thought leaders with us as we continue. Bobby and I are very willing, Mayor, to continue what you ask us to start, and if it becomes your pleasure that we do that, we're ready to serve in that way. We're proud to be residents of the community who have seen the work that's
 that these staff members have done over the period. It's just been phenomenal to look at them, explore ideas, and to collaborate in new ways, and to just really come up with solutions that are quite commendable, frankly. So thank you for listening, and thank you for the support that I hope you will bring going forward.
 Thank you. I would just add a sincere thank you to both you Lorraine and Bobby. When I first made that call to you, I believe I said it's a 90-day, 120-day commitment.
 Yeah, a year later, you're still volunteering your time and just really appreciate it. Not only is this committee still meeting, a couple of others are still meeting on a volunteer basis. And a big thank you to City of Rockford staff. Carrie, thank you for your leadership. To Jay and the Park District, Rockford Public Schools, Harlem School District, Winnebago County, and all the team members who made it possible. Thank you.
 This is really impactful work. Some you may see smaller savings, but those are efficiencies that we're gaining, and we're not losing. And often you're seeing that we're adding a service for our citizens. So a sincere thank you, and we would love for you to continue serving with the huge price tag of your payroll.
 But thank you. I think Jay touched on it. There's major challenges out of COVID-19, but I think with each one of those major challenges, it's provided us with equally as big opportunities. So it's good to see that in many of those areas we're taking advantage of it. So thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Okay, next up, we're going to move to Roman numeral four, petitions and communications. And I believe Alderman Meeks, you have a host of communications for us. Yes, thank you so much. I'm going to read in nine referrals.
 Number one, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the West Side. Number two, TIF termination and dissolution. All of these will be referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Number two, the memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the Second Amendment to the South Rockford TIF Plan and Project.
 Number three, memorandum from Carl Franzen, community and economic development director regarding the first amendment to the Amarok Hotel Plan and Project. The memorandum from Carl Franzen, community and economic development director regarding an ordinance designating amended Amarok Hotel RDA. Memorandum from Carl Franzen, community and economic development director regarding an ordinance adopting TIF for amended Amarok Hotel RDA.
 A memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding an ordinance approving Kishwaukee and Harrison TIF plan and project. The memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding an ordinance designating Kishwaukee and Harrison TIF RDA.
 I go to number eight, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding an ordinance adopting tax increment financing for Kishwaukee and Harrison TIF RDA. Okay.
 Number nine the referendum from Carl Franzen community and economic development director Regarding the Rockford regrow grant program and all nine of these items are referred to the Planning and Development Committee Thank You alderman meets next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderman Rose. Thank you your honor. I
 We have eight items tonight. The first one is a Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for a meeting to be held on June 15th, 2021, and the minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on June 28th. Item two, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on June 15th, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on June 28th.
 a memorandum from martin bloom project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events which include chow down food truck festival st edward's annual summerfest festa italiana and tamale fest item four memorandum from brad holcomb stormwater manager regarding amendments to the floodplain requirements in articles one and four of chapter 109 of the city of rockford stormwater ordinance
 Item 5 memorandum from Kelly notes, engineering operations manager regarding right away vacation request item 6, the traffic commission's agenda for. Meeting to be held on June 9th, 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on June 28th.
 Item seven, memorandum from Mike Hackinson, the in transaction officer regarding the authorization to place for sale a city owned property located at 1020 North Avenue. And item eight, memorandum from Angela Hammer, city attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rock Valley College for police services response plan, all referred to codes and regulations committee. Thank you Alderman Rose. I'll move to Alderman Frost and finance and personnel committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First, we have a memorandum from Jennifer Jagger, Community Services Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford, Human Services, and Rockford Township for emergency rental assistance.
 This will be referred to finance and personnel. Number two is a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, housing and program manager, regarding the Ida Grant Award for Abandoned Residential Municipality Relief Program, round five. This will also be referred to finance and personnel. Number three is a memorandum from Jamie Rott, water superintendent, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with the Rock River Water Reclamation District for a water service agreement. This matter will also be referred to finance and personnel.
 Committee and if this time you're under I'd like to open a bid for city-owned property I have an envelope here that I'm so open for the first time. I don't know the address of the property Hopefully it's on here the we have enough it was an offer to sell property and located at 17xx Blackhawk Road and the winning bid is from Myburg Inc which principal place of business is located 38 14 11th Street and
 And the amount for the offer is $13,365, and they have enclosed a cashier's check for not half, but the entire amount. So I'm going to tender that now, and I'm not going to put the check in my pocket, so I'm going to give you everything back. Chaz confirmed that it's still there. Which hand? There you go. Thank you.
 And number five is a member from Carl friends and community and economic development director regarding the release of liens to facilitate auction of trustee properties. And this will also be referred to finance personnel. Thank you. Thank you all the men frost. So we'll move next to Roman numeral five was public speakers. We've already went through public speakers, so we'll move to Roman numeral six new committee reports. We'll go to all the men mix for planning and development committee.
 Mayor, for number one, the committee recommends approval of the supplemental marketing services agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, RACVB. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. For number two, I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports. Roman numeral six, subsection A, item two.
 To add to a new section 20 regarding requirements for prevailing wage and certified payroll to the redevelopment agreement between the city of Rockford and urban equity properties as WPD1 LLC for the redevelopment of 700 South Main Street. The proposed amendment to section 20 is attached to the memo. The remaining sections of the agreement will be renumbered accordingly.
 Thank you. So we have two items before you there's an amendment Place before you for item two. So let's take that amendment first. Is there a second to the amendment? We have a motion. We had a second by alderman Bonnie So the second is adding in the amendment to item number two Is there any discussion inside council chambers about the amendment alderman dirt? Thank you your honor. I our good friend Vanita Hervey is a
 not present, but her and I agree a little bit on this issue. Whenever it comes up, I know she spoke up and in her memory of being a council member, and I'll basically speak up to say the same thing, and that's to remind people that the prevailing wage came from the Davis Bacon Act, which was one of the most repressive acts passed by Congress. It was actually designed to prevent minority inclusion in construction projects out east.
 where Alabama startup construction companies wanted to work on a hospital, a US-owned hospital. So while these look good on paper, there's also a dark side to this, these acts and to this concept. And what this does is it prevents startup companies from competing with established companies. So just a little bit of history on these prevailing wage acts.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Any further discussion inside council chambers on that amendment? Seeing none. Any discussion online regarding just the amendment? Hearing none. Clerk, could you please call the roll on simply just the amendment for Roman numeral six, item two? No. All right. I know that. Is Alderman Wilkins with us? He just had to do it. Okay.
 Thank you. Alderman Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Bonney? 12 ayes, 2 noes. Excellent. So that passes. Next up, so now we have two items before City Council. Is there any discussion on those two items inside Council Chambers first? No discussion inside. Or Alderman Durkee? Thank you, Your Honor. I'll continue with my negative vibe.
 You don't have to. I feel compelled. I don't know, there's some demon in my brain that was ignited today. Maybe it's the Diet Coke, I don't know. I just wanted to reiterate my comments regarding the RACVB agreement. This appears to be new territory that they're engaging in as far as marketing the city. I know it dovetails a little bit upon what they were
 What they typically do but this is a new venture and it's my opinion Because it's a new venture that this actually should go out to bid. There may be other people who are Better versed better situated, whatever it is already have something going that allows them to be more effective, but we don't know that because We haven't we haven't taken bids. So that's my negative comment. I
 We appreciate hearing it. So, uh any other discussion inside council chambers none Is there any discussion online hearing none clerk? Could you please call the roll turkey on both correct? There's two items Thank you alderman logan in timber Frost Tarina I prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach
 Quinones, Meeks, McNeely on both. Bonnie. Item number 1, 11 ayes, 3 noes. Item number 2, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Thank you. Items move forward. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a three-hour parking restriction on the north side of 1st Avenue from 7th Street to Charles Street, thus repealing a portion of the existing 30-minute parking restriction on the north side of 1st Avenue from 6th Street to Charles Street.
 Item two, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking any time restriction on the west side of Prospect Street from Crosby Street to 50 feet south of Crosby Street.
 Item three, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the west side of Church Street. From Reynolds Street to Salem Street, thus repealing the existing parking restriction of no parking anytime on the west side of Church Street. From Salem Street to 140 feet north of Salem Street and from Salem Street to 560 feet north of Salem Street.
 Item for the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the current no parking certain times restriction on the west side of church street from Reynolds street to 250 feet south of Reynolds street. We got a little time on these.
 Committee recommends item 5 as committee recommends Sustaining the traffic commissioners approval to establish the handicap parking restriction on the east side of Church Street from 200 feet south of Reynolds Street to 420 feet south of Reynolds Street thus repealing the current handicap parking restriction on the east side of Church Street from 200 feet south of Reynolds Street to 350 feet south of Reynolds Street a
 Item 6, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish no parking any time restriction on the east side of Church Street from 420 feet south of Reynolds Street to 470 feet south of Reynolds Street.
 Item 7 the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation of no action on the following items a to establish traffic control at the intersection of Fitch Road and Blair Street B to establish traffic control at the intersection of Fitch Road and Lyle Street and C to establish no parking anytime restriction on the west side of Tanglewood Lane north of Spring Creek Road item a a
 Committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for special use permit for outdoor storage of rolls of conveyor belting and snowplow edging in an i-1 light industrial zoning district at 5431 54 63 international drive subject to two conditions
 Item 9, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of special use permit on 015-20 for additional mural on the west side of the building in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 603 West State Street. Subject to two conditions.
 10. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 311 South Main Street subject to conditions. 11. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on a building on a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1019 South Main Street subject to conditions.
 12, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 126 North Madison Street subject to conditions. 13, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 117 South 3rd Street subject to conditions.
 Item 14, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 509 East State Street, subject to conditions. 15, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1108 South Main Street, subject to conditions.
 Item 16, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a grocery store in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1120 Broadway, subject to condition.
 Item 17, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification to an existing liquor license to add a different business partner as a 10% shareholder for packaged liquor, beer garden, to a liquor license by the drink in conjunction with a tavern and restaurant in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 2327 Kishwaukee Street, subject to conditions. And item 18,
 The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store in a C2 limited zoning commercial district at 864 West Riverside Boulevard, subject to conditions.
 That's all you did a great job We have 18 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 18 items inside council chambers? Alderman, Toonberg Thank You mayor as stated previously. I would appreciate if the aldermen of the ward where the murals are going to be going up would be consulted on the final drawings of such murals director Franzen I
 thank you alderman we are still waiting on some final designs as those are being finalized certainly a condition of approval is the submission of the illustration for the permit and we'll be happy to share those with the council at large but specifically the aldermen of the ward in which they're being placed okay because currently right now I believe it says staff approval and doesn't say anything about aldermen of the wards being consulted so I just wanted to clarify that
 So are you making a motion that you are mandating all? Well, if it could be done as a simple comment and would be accepted, that would be fine. But I don't know if we need to go to the extent of making a formal motion for commitment.
 i apologize uh in the interest of just the project timeline um we appreciate uh you know the the uh uh the word that we would include council with those illustrations and and prior to those permits being uh issued um and we would work with the applicant to resolve any uh any uh issues that may arise and i understand the expediency of this whole process so i would hope that each alderman that would be a participant in this would uh
 would be as expedient in the answer as well. Sure. Thank you. Additionally, Mayor, if I may, I just want to make Council aware that part of this project is, if it wasn't mentioned on the 24th, was made possible by Council expanding the parameters and permissibility of our zoning for murals into additional districts.
 absolutely great point thank you uh any other discussions inside council chambers on the 18 items alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor i don't recall who's paying for the murals director franson some murals are are part of a grant process i can't remember the entire amounts off top my head be happy to follow up with those but as part of the city is participating as co-applicants with that is that a state grant
 I'm sorry, is that a state grant? It is a state grant. No, I apologize. So let me let me follow up and I'll I will certainly get that information to you. Thank you. Just so you I do know, like several are also provided by sponsors.
 who have donated funds for a mural not for I guess a specific drawing but for a mural let's say I know for example alderman Trina's following us or with us virtually but I believe there's one I believe on South Main maybe 1019 South Main that is focused on STEM education and that was I believe sponsored by the
 the group of black engineers at Collins Aerospace. I believe there's another mural on South Main that was sponsored, I believe, by Workplace. But when they did the press conference, many of them had sponsors associated with them. Perhaps we can get a list of those sponsors for each location. We certainly can, absolutely. Thank you.
 They may have been included also in the ZBA agenda, but I'll make sure that you get it. Any other questions inside council chambers on the 18 items? Any questions online about any of the 18 items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Logaman. Aye. Toomber. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Aye.
 McNeely, Alderman Bonnie. Items 1 through 10, I'm sorry, 1 through 8, 14 ayes. Item number 9, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 10, 14 ayes. Item 11, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 12, 13, 14, 14 ayes. Items 15, I'm sorry, item 15, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 16 through 18, 14 ayes.
 Thanks so much. Next we'll go to finance and personnel alderman frost. Thank you. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of 8,318,500 dollars and 86 cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee held on May 24th 2021. Number 2, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement of $8,318,500.
 Police services between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority, the legal director shall prepare an appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for maintenance of traffic control devices along state routes between the City of Rockford and IDOT. The term of the agreement is for ten years and the city bills the state yearly for signal maintenance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those three before you for vote.
 Thank you alderman frost so there's three items before you is there any discussion inside council chambers about the three items alderman rose just for item two, um The I know they do this, uh in our governmental agreement every few years with rha. Are there any major changes to it or any? Significant challenges that may may have been different from past years. Thank you. Uh chief burke No, there's no changes and there's no issues. We went over it and we're fine with everything. Okay, so
 Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion on the three items that are before us inside council chambers? Is there any discussion online about the three items that are before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. We'll move on to unfinished business. We have no items under A, planning and development, so we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of 240 apartment units and a four-story, 146-room assisted independent living and memory care facility in a C1 limited office zoning district at 66.
 54 Garrett Lane, subject to conditions. Your Honor, I'd like to make a motion to send this item back to committee due to the number of questions. We have a motion and I believe we have a second. Is there any discussion on that motion inside council chambers? Is there any discussion online regarding that item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Aye.
 aye frunty wilkins aye hoffman aye rose aye beach quinones meeks mcneely bonnie
 14 ice excellent i'm going to move officers reports to the end as i know we have some joining us virtually who may have to get off. So that'll allow them if they need to so we can move through more business Roman numeral 9 motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, so I'll move to code and regulation committee alderman road. Thank you your honor the item 1 is request for approval.
 Of a resolution for authority to intervene on the 2020 property tax appeal case for Breckenridge apartments located at 862 tulip lane 979 tulip lane and 7325 meander drive. That's it. I have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item alderman Durkee? Thank you, Your Honor. I'm sorry to indulge everybody's time, but I was late and I missed this in the committee discussion
 Who is the owner of this property? Attorney hammer will get that to us. The other question is that it's this is a Request for us to intervene in their tax appeal. What exactly is our intervention? Attorney hammer will provide that. What are we doing? I?
 So the statute for intervention requires a resolution approved by the taxing body. So we collaborate with various other taxing bodies. We have an intergovernmental agreement to that effect. So this is the case that we were assigned through our collaboration with the taxing body. So it means that the...
 owner has requested a change in assessment of over $100,000. The Board of Review locally has denied that request and upheld the assessed value, and the owner has appealed to the State Property Tax Appeal Board. So what I'm asking, we're not advocating one way or another, are we? Yes, we're advocating that the assessed value remain as is, and as the Board of Review determined it to be. So we're gonna sustain the Board? Correct.
 But do we do we have the property owner name on the information? We have the owner is listed as Breckenridge LLC and Harry Robertson is the managing member of the LLC And who's a member? Harry Robertson is the managing member. I
 Want to say alderman Durkee this was several years ago that we passed this intergovernmental agreement and I'm not calling any businesses out but there was a number of large businesses that were asking for incredibly large reductions and We directed staff to work together with the school district and others to fight those tax appeals on behalf of all the other citizens because when they drop that as you know
 We still all those requests and levies are out there. We're just getting that money from all of our other residents. So we're asking By and large these are larger businesses. I don't know this one specifically though. Yeah, I just want to be clear that we were advocating and Sustaining the assessment. Yep. Good point any other discussion inside council chambers on that one item any discussion online? About that one item clerk. Could you please call the roll? I'll admit jerky. Hi Logum in
 Frost aye Tarina aye Prunty Wilkins aye Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely, so thank you. Can we uh halt that vote? I am so sorry great catch I failed to call that to your attention. I
 So is there a motion to suspend rule 9? Awesome, so we have a motion we have this a second. Is there any discussion on the suspension inside council chambers seeing none? Is there a motion or is there any discussion online? Hearing none clerk. Could you please call the roll on the vote to suspend rule number nine that I failed to call earlier? Turkey aye logemann
 Aye. Toomer? Aye. Frost? Tarina? Aye. Prunty? Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? 14 ayes. Awesome, so this is like deja vu all over again. So, any other discussion on this item inside council chambers? None, awesome. Any discussion online? Fantastic. Clerk, could you please call the roll again for this item?
 Yeah, yeah, it's like voting in Chicago. This is two votes Durkee aye Logum in mayor Lightfoot hurt. Hi, Tim Burke frost Torino I Prunty Wilkins I Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely funny 13 eyes 1 no All right
 Moving right along, we'll go to Finance and Personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of an award of bid for U.S. Business 20 from Mill Road to Buckley Drive to Creston Electric Supply of DeKalb in the amount of $716,915.60.
 The project is estimated to be completed in the fall of 2021. The funding source is the motor fuel tax funds. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an award of bid for fire department storage site roof replacement to H.C. Anderson roofing of Rockton in the amount of $49,500. The funding source is the fire department operating budget.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for Charles Street Rehabilitation Phase 2 to Chastain Associates in the amount of $265,934.88. The contract duration is 2021 and 2022. The funding source is sales tax. Number four.
 The committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Coronavirus Response Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act funds. All Head Start, Early Head Start, and Early Head Start Child Care Partnership grantees are eligible to receive additional funds proportionally based on the funded enrollment levels, Health and Human Services is applying for $854,301.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the youth and trauma supplemental funding for the mayor's office of domestic and community violence prevention for violent crime reduction. I place those five matters up for vote. Thank you. So we have five items before us. None of them need a suspension of rules, which is nice. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those five items? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Youth and trauma number five. Um,
 Staff available to explain what that is. Oh, yes We have a number of staff and I'd actually ask if miss ketchup. Haya would like to use this yellow microphone And you can pick it up if you want whatever you want Okay, okay
 Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't remember it first. I don't know if anyone else wants to. Any other questions or discussion at this time inside council chambers? Alderman Rose. Just for item one, the Mill Road-Buckley Drive, was that part of a development agreement or is that a separate? I remember one coming up that was a part of a development agreement. Director Saunders.
 thank you mayor that's actually part of the state's reconstruction project for state street from milda to bell school so we um we actually are taking on the decorative lighting there and rather than having a contractor installed lighting our actual traffic signal group is actually doing the installation saving us a significant amount of money so that's actually part of the state's project it's a trade-off then
 With the state. No, we would be responsible for the decorative lighting on that project irregardless. Okay, so it's state mandated lighting then correct Yeah, it's it's we made we made the decision to put in our decorative level lighting along that corridor to be consistent with our other corridors Okay, I just I caution and I know this comes up all the time but when taxpayers see, you know, seven hundred sixteen thousand dollars for for decorative lighting and just only certain certain districts, but I
 Other areas have lost lighting. It just comes off. You know, I think something to discuss and I know it's come up numerous times of. Finding ways where we can continue to take a look at lighting throughout the city of Rockford and I'm going to support this because I know it's needed, but. I just think there there's a lot of other places that could use lighting very similar to this. So.
 Just so I'm clear good point is this the same decorative lighting that would be seen if on South Main North Main or West State Street well when West State Street's finalized that is correct Any other questions inside council chambers on the items before us any other questions on the line on? The five items before us clerk. Will you please call the roll Durkee? Logoman, all right, Toomer frost Torino
 Prunty Wilkins go on one. Yes, um, two through five Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie item number 113 eyes one No items two three four or five fourteen eyes. Thank you We'll move to a new business and we'll go to planning and development alderman meets Thank You mayor for item one
 An ordinance approving the supplemental marketing services agreement between the Rockford area convention and visitors bureau Our ACPB and the city of Rockford. Do I have a motion to approve? You don't need to do that yet. If you go to the second one and then we'll do them all at once. I
 An ordinance approving the redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and Urban Equity Properties as WP d1 LLC for the redevelopment of 700 South Main So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion inside council about those two items before us? Yes, it's been amended. Yep. No discussion inside council chambers. Is there any discussion online? I
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No on 10-A-1. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. No on 1, aye on 2. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Item number 1, 11 ayes, 3 noes. Item 2, 13 ayes, 1 noe.
 Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman rose. I get to read all these wonderful things in again number one an ordinance establishing a three-hour parking restriction on the north side of first Avenue from 7th Street to Charles Street Thus repealing a portion of the existing 30-minute parking restriction on the north side of first Avenue from 6th Street to Charles Street. I
 Item 2 in ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the west side of Prospect Street from Crosby Street to 50 feet south of Crosby Street. Item 3 in ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the west side of Church Street from Reynolds Street to Salem Street. Do I have to read all of it? Yeah.
 Thus repealing the existing parking restriction of the no parking anytime on the west side of Church Street from Salem Street to 140 feet north of Salem Street and from Salem Street to 560 feet north of Salem Street.
 Four, an ordinance repealing the current no parking certain times restriction on the west side of Church Street from Reynolds Street to 250 feet south of Reynolds Street. Item five, an ordinance establishing handicap parking restriction on the east side of Church Street from 200 feet south of Reynolds Street to 420 feet south of Reynolds Street. Thus repealing the current handicap parking restriction on the east side of Church Street from 200 feet south of Reynolds Street to 350 feet south of Reynolds Street.
 6 and ordinance establishing no parking any time restriction on the east side of Church Street from 420 feet south of Reynolds Street to 470 feet south of Reynolds Street. 7 and ordinance approving a special use permit for outdoor storage of roles of conveyor belting and snowplow edging in I1 light industrial zoning district at 5431 and 5463 international drive.
 8 in ordinance approving a modification of special use permit number 015-20 for additional mural on the west side of the building in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 603 West State Street. 9 in ordinance approving a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 311 South Main Street.
 10, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 1019 South Main Street. 11, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District at 126 North Madison Street. 12, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District at 117 South 3rd Street.
 13 in ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 509 East State Street. 14 in ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1108 South Main Street. 15 in ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a grocery store in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 1120 Broadway.
 16 and ordinance approving a modification of existing liquor license to add a different business partner at 10% shareholder packaged liquor and a beer garden to a liquor license by the drink in conjunction with a tavern and restaurant. In an eye 1 light industrial zoning district at 2327 kishwaukee street.
 17 and ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store at a C2 limited zoning commercial district at 864 West Riverside Boulevard and 18 was sent back to committee. So there are 17 items. Excellent we have 17 items before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those 17 items?
 Alderman Prunty. I just wanted to thank, I think it was Alderman Tunberg for bringing up the idea of letting us, or at least the aldermen, see the mural. Can we, can more than just the ward aldermen see them? Can we see them? Director Franson. Thank you.
 Absolutely. We'll share with the entire council. Typically when a mural goes through this process, the illustration is in place because of this being a much larger initiative and getting all those artists together. That wasn't possible, so I apologize, but certainly we'll share. Thank you. Any other discussion inside council chambers on the 17 items before you? Any discussion online on the 17 items? Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Frente? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Fonney? Items 1 through 7, 14 ayes. Item 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 15, 16, 17, 14 ayes.
 Thank you, and just I know John grows with us Just want to say thank you to the CVB and the entire team who's worked to bring those murals to our community So thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement for police services between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority. And number two is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement for the maintenance of traffic control devices along state routes between the City of Rockford and IDOT. The term of the agreement is for 10 years, and the City bills the State annually for the single maintenance.
 Excellent. Well, those are the only two items you're on excellent. We have two items before us Is there any discussion inside council chambers on the two items before us? Is there any discussion online regarding those two items clerk? Will you please call the roll? I'm in turkey logan, man Toomer frost Torino, I fronty Wilkins. I Hoffman Rose Beach Kenones Meeks McNeely
 Bonnie 14 ice excellent. We'll move to officers reports and I know I'll go with those who are virtual 1st alderman Trina Logan or Wilkins. Do you have any officers reports? Negative hello. Hello. Hi everyone. No, I do not. Excellent. Thank you. So, any alderman inside council chambers have officers reports alderman Mcneely.
 Thank you. Mr. Mayor, actually it's not a report but a question from the presentation that we received earlier this evening. Wanting to know if we're going to get a copy of that presentation and if any of that is going to be coming before this council for us to vote on.
 Yeah, so you, we can certainly make sure that you get a copy of the presentation. We'll email that out to everyone. Truthfully, much of the stuff that was up there, we've already approved at council for months. But there's some that we have not. Yes, and there's some that we haven't. And we'll make sure that if those are necessary, that they come before us as always. They would. And you do, I guess, have your, do they have the report already? No.
 It is posted on the agenda. So you do have the report. Do you want a hard copy? I'll print it off Okay, whatever you'd like any other officers or reports alderman to work. Thank you very much mayor I had the privilege when line bikes was here and and I know that alderman rose and Alderman Logan and miss it as much as I do but I actually got had the privilege to meet the line bike guy and
 that's the guy that goes around and repositions them and fixes them and all that. So it was an interesting conversation. But now, last week, I had the privilege to meet the bird guy.
 And and he was he had these things in the back of his van and he was repositioning them down by the river and polishing them up. And so I went up and introduced myself. And what a great guy. And I just want to recognize him. James Faustin, as he said, like Austin with an F.
 So if anybody knows James Faustin out there in the community, he was doing an excellent job, and he was excited. And I quote, I'm just happy to be working. And so I gave him a hats off on behalf of the city and really appreciate his work and doing what he's doing. So thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. We've had a great response with the scooters. Alderman Rhodes, did you have your hand up?
 Yeah, I just want to, since John Groh is here from RACBB, we got a new art piece installed off of Huffman Boulevard, so if you get a chance
 to drive by there. The Neighborhood Association, North End Square Neighborhood Association, went ahead and did a poll on the different art pieces that John's group put forward, and I just wanted to recognize him, his staff, Kristen Paul, and also Tim Hinkins from our staff, who worked diligently on getting everything taken care of and behind-the-scenes work on getting the placement for it, ordering the artwork, etc.,
 finding finding a place to put it and working with Vicki from our Nesna neighborhood association on getting it placed so if you get a chance to drive by please do it look it looks fantastic awesome great day here other officers reports alderman Prutty I just want there a couple of things I wanted to think
 Ken Matson and Stephen Sumner for taking me around and driving through my ward and helping me work out or work a bit on the ward plan. I appreciate their wealth of knowledge and their willingness to share and spend their time with me, get me up to speed. So thank you very much.
 I also just wanted to, just before I came here, I participated in Roosevelt Community Education Center's graduation. So I just wanted to take an opportunity to congratulate the graduates and to congratulate all of the class of 2021.
 I hope that Rockford has been good to you and I hope that as you go on and and enter into the next phase of your journey I hope that you will always consider Rockford home a place where you can live play worship and work so congratulations to the class of 2021. Awesome thank you other reports and insight Alderman Bonnie thank you mayor I would just like to
 uh mentioned that i had the privilege of attending the opening of the pasco mercado in at on the grounds of leno's restaurant in the 14th ward it is a great event going on every sunday from i believe the hours 11 11 to 3 until the end of august it's live music vendors there are a number of special days scheduled for each sunday
 And so you can shop, you can have something, some adult beverage. There are plenty of food, plenty of great Italian food and the music is wonderful. And if anyone has a chance, there's no admission, it's sponsored by OSF St. Anthony Medical Center. And so if anyone has an opportunity to stop in the 14th ward and enjoy that, it's a great community event every Sunday and for the rest of the summer.
 Awesome. Thank you other reports. Is there a motion to adjourn? Of emotion we have a second anyone here wanted to discuss it. No Anyone want to discuss it online? No clerk. Could you please call the roll? Logoman, hey Toomer frost Terina, hi Frente Wilkins Hi Hoffman Rose
 Aye. Beech. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bun. Aye. 14 ayes. Have a wonderful night.