Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, June 6, 2022. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Alderman Tarina. Oh, here. Alderman Prenti. Hoffman. Here.
 Rose? Present. Beach? Present. Quinones? Present. McNeely? Present. Bond? Present. Miller? Present. Eleven present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on February 22, 2022? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on April 4, 2022?
 We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Next, is there a motion for approval for the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on April 18, 2022? Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Getting a little harder to get those. But is there any discussion on that? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? All right.
 Last one, guys. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on May 23, 2022? We have a motion. We have a second. Thank you. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. We have no proclamations this evening. We'll go to petitions and communications. Alderwoman Tarina for Code and Regulation Committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items for the Code and Regulation Committee. Item number one, the memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager Permits and Special Events. Regarding upcoming special events, which include Chowdown, Food Truck Festival, St. Edwards Annual Summer Fest, and Labor Day Parade, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 And item number two, Traffic Commission Agenda for the meeting to be held on June 8th, 2022. And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee on June 22nd, 2022. Referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman Torino. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Mayor. First, we have a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the approval for authority to hire a grant accountant. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel.
 Number two is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, public works director, regarding the proposed phase two engineering services for the Whitman Street Rehabilitation Project.
 This will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number three is a memorandum from Michelle Pankow, Fire Chief, regarding a resolution to take proposals for Fire Protection Systems Data Program. It will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number four is a memorandum from Sarah Brinkman, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the acceptance of the AARP Community Challenge Grant Award. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number five is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director.
 regarding their release of liens on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels. This will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. And number six is a memorandum from Jamie Rott, Water Superintendent, regarding the 15th Avenue improvements. In this manner, it will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm sorry, Alderman Frost, did you read the sixth item? Did I just miss it? Yes, that was the water, 57. Thank you, thank you. Next, we'll move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There are five items under Roman numeral 5A.
 The first, the committee recommends approval of the funding agreement with Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau for the years 2023 to 2028 and the continued lease at 102 North Main Street for an additional six years. The funding source is 70% of the 5% municipal hotel operators' occupation tax. The base rent will be an annual fee of $85,382.00.
 88 cents. I like that. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the development agreement leased with Think Big Corporation for a business development center, small business incubator, technical assistance and training, and other similar business development services at 1311 North Main Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the funding agreement with the African American Resource Center at Booker Washington Center for Capital Improvements in partnership with Winnebago County utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $134,080. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Funding agreement with Northwest, this is number four, funding agreement with Northwest neighbors to establish a crime reduction and violence prevention strategy through youth programming utilizing American Rescue Plan Act 20.
 Funds in the amount of $50,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, number five, funding agreement with the Community Life Center of Rockford to establish a crime reduction and violence prevention strategy through community and youth programming utilizing American Rescue Act guidelines.
 funds for $50,000, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. He places up for passage. Thank you. We have five items before us. Alderman Rose? Your Honor, I move to reverse the committee's denial of item number two and item number four to reflect approvals for both of those. Thank you. So we have a motion to reflect just simple approval for both of those. Second.
 Just for Alderman, just so you're aware, what this will do is when you vote yes, you're actually supporting it, and when you vote no, you're voting against it as opposed to the opposite. Is there any discussion on that amendment? All those in favor of that amendment say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. It passes. So we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderman Tunberg.
 thank you mayor uh on number two am i on the right page by saying number two with the think big yes sir all right um you know i'd just like to add a couple things that um you know regarding
 In many ways, personally, I'm for government getting out of the way. But there are also things like that was brought up, the SBA program. Here even locally, RLDC that we subsidize as well, which help companies, small businesses get started. So there is private-public partnerships.
 that are needed at times. I won't get into the wind and solar subsidizations. We may not have time for that. So, yeah, another conversation for another time on that.
 You know as as alderman of the ward and alderman rose brought up the good point that we do think of that area as a convergence of four wards And so we as aldermen of those four wards, uh many times converse and and think of what's better Uh for that area And and the wards there um this
 This has been an albatross of a building for quite a while. And it has come up for discussion recently. And I mentioned previous council as a storage unit. But the neighborhood is looking for that building to come online. And so, you know, it is something that the neighborhood, I think, wants.
 mostly supports and they would like to see activity coming to that building where it has been a a magnet for vagrants and in such in the recent past so I just wanted to add those couple comments Thank you. Thank you. Other woman McNeely or I'm sorry. I'm sorry older woman Trina had her hand and then I'll come right to you All there one. Thank you
 alderwoman torino sorry thank you mayor i just had a comment on item number two think big um this city is in desperate need of minority owned businesses and i'm just grateful that the city is making such an intentional and large investment in making that happen um thank you thank you alderwoman mcneely thank you mr mayor i couldn't agree more that
 Ms. Hurd was here earlier and made the comments that within the minority community we need development, we need some positive changes. And I couldn't agree with that more. For the years that I've been down here, certainly I have been an advocate of making those improvements. Thank you.
 however, I think we could take three million dollars and put somewhere in the 13th fifth or seventh and build a building just as comparable if not more comparable and And do the same activities and that's a big reason why I can't support this I really believe we need development. I've been pushing for development for years as well and so to make an improvement within those communities and
 would be a significant development. And that's the reason why I'm not supporting that. I didn't vote for it either time. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Quinones. Yes, I'm glad on number two. I'm glad that we're in agreement to pass this, the city council. And I look forward to the Latino community, business community to use their services.
 Thank you. Other comments? Alderman Tunberg. Thanks, Mayor. Maybe I woke up on the wrong side of the bed today. I'll let you know when you finish. At least I woke up. On number five, I just wanted to state on the record that I was a little bit offended that they really...
 talk about how it's said to scientifically proven that children learn more when they're being taught by individuals who look like them. And then they emphasized that in dark letters, students who are taught by teachers who share their identities and look like them benefit both academically and emotionally.
 our psychologist as well as his team of counselors are all reflective of the community they will be serving you know just as i just like to point out i was kind of offended by that in the sense that i've spent a good portion of my adult life mentoring minority kids and they don't care what color you are more times than not yes they may i will give that alderman mcneely some may but
 I was personally offended by it. Pretty much telling me, cast me aside because of the color of my skin. And so, you know, I noticed in here too that there are a lot of Hispanic population of students. So I hope that they are representative of the Hispanic population as well.
 if they are going to base their mentoring on skin color and almost skin color alone, like they're stating here. So that's it, thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, your honor. I felt the same way that Alderman Toonberg because I spent a great number of years of my life mentoring people that weren't my same color. They don't, at least the ones I deal with, they don't care. You love them.
 You give your time to them. You go into their families. You buy them McDonald's. You talk to them about character growth and government. And I just don't get it. It means that should we not engage with people that are not our own skin color? What in the world is that all about? Am I that far behind? I don't think so. But maybe they had some other thought in mind, but I wish that didn't have to be said that way. Understood. And...
 I can appreciate your thought processes. I will not speak for the applicant, but my understanding is in the discussions I've had with the applicant and just research, students who do have teachers and mentors who look like them, just data-wise, research-wise, tend to do better.
 That does not mean that no one else can teach or mentor. It just also means that we need to be more cognizant. I think right now at Rockford Public Schools, don't hold me to this, but I want to say like 3% or more,
 7% of the teachers are African-American, when I think the percentage of students that are African-American now, I think, just passed 50%. And I could have these off a little bit, but you get my drift. I think the idea is that we need to certainly make a cognizant, concerted effort towards it. But everyone's help towards our kids is welcome. Sorry. Alderman Rose and then Alderman
 Other woman, McNeely, will be next. Yeah, I just wanted to mention that they're looking for mentors. So if you want a mentor, I guarantee you Bethany will take you as a sign-up. I guarantee it. So that statement had nothing to do about, you know, keeping –
 you know moving in a racial way it's it's really just identifying the science of what the mayor just said and um if you guys want to mentor um sign up we'll they'll glad you gladly take you alderman mcneely thank you thank you for your comments as well and and i certainly appreciate my two colleagues um i'm very happy and and glad that you do both of you do mentor
 regardless of the color of the students. And I think you should continue to. Those comments, and I'm not speaking on behalf of the individuals or the organization. I'm speaking
 Just as African American myself. I've read a number of books and studies that show that that is the case This isn't something per that individual or something just made up But it truly is the case and I believe doing lawsuit Here in Rockford one of the things that was recommended was that they hire more Teachers
 African-American teachers and I don't think they they did that just to be hiring more because there was a purpose because African-American teachers and Hispanic teachers are all needed in the school where all of them are so I'm sorry that the two of you are offended we certainly
 think that your both of you would be just fine in the school setting and I don't think the kids would would look at you any different but they still need that that reinforcement of african-american teachers and principals in their schools thank you thank you alderman Bonnie Thank You mayor um I just want to also voice support for the think big
 project but specifically to address the location issue five of us are just over a year into being on the council and I know a number of times we've we've heard well if you don't want that in your ward I'll take it in mine and so alderman toonberg's point that it is it is the meeting point of four words I think is a good one
 and it you know somebody who represents the Far East side the you know if we're using the river as determinant the determination of whether something is east or west this is West Side but I think the more important factor is the donation of the building and you know were that not part of the equation
 this may be happening but may not be happening at the site I also feel like again for my although I've worked downtown all of my career from my vantage point this is a critical part of town and where where we sometimes you know it's important to you know sometimes it feels like that neighborhood is a
 very interesting neighborhood but sometimes it feels like you know like a lot of us experience in our words one step forward one step back so you know norwegian for example is a great new addition to that neighborhood but yet we lost the rat scholar with which is uh you know his was a historic gathering spot in town so i think it's important to some you know to re to look at
 investing in places that could be tipping points as much as places that have been under invested in and I think that's what this is and so I support it thank you any other discussion all the room in frost thank you your honor with respect to number two the think big program um I just wanted to indicate that I am NOT opposed to the to the concept of the program and I wish it success because based on the comments and I'm sure it's gonna
 the vote will pass tonight. I'm a big believer, especially when it comes to business, to learning to walk before you run. And we're going, and a lot of my questions have to do with the folks that run Think Big. I've done a little due diligence on my own. And going from zero feet to 20,000 square feet in the size of the scope just to me seems rather large. The need to have that much space without really showing us any concrete programming
 I just don't understand why we can't find a way to reduce the budget for this project and to take some of this money and put in extra buckets. We've heard a litany of other issues come before us, especially lately with youth crime. And I just, I mean look, I'm married to an entrepreneur. I mean, I get it.
 Getting caught up on the location is just a waste of breath. If you're an entrepreneur, you're going to go anywhere to get the proper training to work hard, to figure out what you need to do to make whatever you're working on thrive. Any hour of the day, it's a passion. Entrepreneurs are not lawyers, they're not insurance agents, they're not doctors. Entrepreneurs are people with ideas and they want to turn that idea into some way of, in the end, to be truthful, of making revenue, of making it grow and making money.
 And so, no offense to the folks that are behind this, but they have no proven track record of teaching entrepreneurs. This school of business that I keep hearing about, when Alderman Durkee asks the questions, I get the same answers that are not answers. Okay, so who went through the program and what are they doing today?
 Well, they just went through the program, they graduated March of 2022. So it's a very short window to trust someone with $3.1 million. It's like going to the derby and betting on the long horse, and this year, you would have won. But we're not in the business of betting on horses around this horseshoe. We're in the business of taking taxpayers' dollars and spending it wisely.
 cannot, based on the information I know about the businesses these folks operate, who's going to run the place, because I don't think they're going to run the place, what the program is going to be like. People love to throw around buzzwords. Oh, it's an entrepreneur. It's an incubator. It's a think tank. I mean, you know, comparing it to 1871 is like taking the Rockford Christian junior tackle football team and making them play Alabama.
 You got to walk before you run. It'd be, I mean, it's a nice thing to have a dream about, but we're not in the business of dreams. And so I just, like I said, I have no problem with the program. I have no problem with the building. I mean, like I said, I don't think the building really matters. But I just wish we had a way of kind of taking the scope of it and knocking it down a little bit because we're talking about $3.1 million here. We're not talking about $300,000.
 $3.1 million. And on what? I mean, what has the staff shown us on where the money's going to get spent? $250,000 a year on what? An executive director that makes $200,000? I don't know. I have no idea where the money's going. So that's why I just can't vote no. I love the idea, but I just think it's going to pass, so I'd caution everyone here to really hold on to that.
 hold them to the line, hold the group to the line, think big, whatever is going to be the Entrepreneur Center, and to make sure that they're really serving the needs of those that are coming, and that there are actually people coming. So thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. And you do understand that Alderman Tunberg's son plays on that freshman Christian life team? I mean, Rockford Christian, sir. Another thing I think is interesting.
 he's offended well i was offended for it thank you any other uh discussion clerk will you please call the role timber frost no one's here terena prunty hoffman rose beach quinones mcmeeley
 Bonnie. Item number one, 11 ayes. Item number two, eight ayes, three nos. Items three, four, 11 ayes. And item number five, 10 ayes, one no. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. We have 25 items. Let me stretch. Let me get myself together. All right, item number one. Committee recommends the standing the Traffic Commission approval to establish that all traffic be required to stop,
 prior to entering the intersection of Sandhudden Avenue and Maple Leaf Court, Maple Leaf Circle, thus repealing the existing two-way stop control of Maple Leaf Court stopping for Sandhudden Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval to establish a mid-block pedestrian crossing on 11th Street, 330 feet south of 23rd Avenue, thus repealing the existing mid-block crossing of 11th Street, 400 feet south of 23rd Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number three, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval to establish a mid-block pedestrian crossing on 7th Street, 200 feet north of 20th Avenue,
 thus repealing the existing mid-block crossing of 7th Street 400 feet south of 18th Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number four, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height from 6 feet to 8 feet within the required 20-foot front yard setback along Simpson Road in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 3901 Dawes Road.
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for the modification of an existing legally non-conforming billboard, so an electronic graphic display billboard in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 6625 East Riverside Boulevard. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number six the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit For the modification of an existing legally non-conforming billboard So an electronic graphic displayed a billboard and i3 Airport industrial zoning district at 37 10 11th Street subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item number seven a
 The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of a denial for a special use permit for the modification of an existing legally non-conforming billboard, so an electronic graphic display billboard in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 111 South Perryville Road. Items 8 through 18 I'm going to sort of condense because they are all murals.
 Committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on the building of 2067th Street. Item number 9, 2227th Street.
 A mural on item 10, mural on 619 and 707 West Jefferson Street. Item number 11, a mural on 815 East State Street. Item number 12, a mural on 907 East State Street. Item 13, a mural on 917 South Main Street. Item number 14, a mural on 1111 North Avon Street. Item 15, a mural on 1402 North Main Street.
 Item 16 a mural on 1436 North Main Street item 17 a mural on 1316 Auburn Street and item 18 a mural on 1444 myatt Avenue The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I
 Item number 19, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 6905, 6911, and 6943 East State Street.
 Subject to conditions, legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number 20, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for modification of an existing liquor license to add outdoor seating in conjunction with a restaurant in a C3 general commercial zoning district. F4415 Harrison Avenue, the Spider Sushi Restaurant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 item 21 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval for a the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with gas a gas station and convenience store and item B The sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 453 North Springfield Avenue Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances item 22
 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval for the sale of beer and wine seasonally by the drink in conjunction with cable water ski park with an outdoor seating area in a r.e rural estate zoning district at 11 xx and 1420 south pier pont avenue the west wake rock the west rock wake park subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 item 23 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval for a modification of an existing liquor license to add five additional corporate officers in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 6779 east state street storming crab subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 24 committee recommends approval for the authorization to place for sale
 The city-owned parcel located at 1115 6th Avenue, PID number 11-26-288-003. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. City staff is seeking authorization to place the city-owned property with a minimum bid of $1,000 with preference given to adjoining property owners pursuant to State Law 65 ILCS 5-11-76-1. The city will publish the property for sale in the local newspaper.
 And finally, item 26, the committee recommends approval of the request to transfer the state of Illinois' rights to the property encapsulating the public parking lot at the southwest corner of Morgan Street and Main Street to the city of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Well done.
 Well done. Anyone want Alderwoman Trina to repeat any of those? I have to later. She gets to do that later. Okay, so we have 25 items before you. Is there any discussion on any of the 25 items? Alderman Beach. Yes, sir. I'd like just a little more understanding on number 23. It's talking about adding five corporate offices or officers.
 Is that change of ownership here? Director Franzen? That's correct. They're adding additional individuals to their ownership team. That's right. Any additional questions, Alderman Beach? No, I think that answers it. Thank you. Alderman McNeely and then Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We recently had a business SMI warrant where the owner said,
 died and his brother had to be had to come up with our be put on that corporation I don't think he established a new corporation very similar to this with that he had to pay for a brand new liquor license as if it's a totally it was a totally new business
 Is that happening with this? Because they're adding officers. That doesn't make it a new corporation or a new business, but how are we handling the license on this? Director Franzen. So every situation is unique. However, any change in ownership, whether it's a new corporation or additional officers on the organization, requires going through the LTAP process. Thank you.
 Alderman Thunberg. Thanks Mayor. I'd like to thank RACVB John Groh for the transparency that was requested for sending out the mural pictures to the aldermen and I think Alderman Rose and I can speak on behalf of the other two aldermen in the area that I think the
 Mural on my yet is going to be one of the coolest ones in the city So sorry to take that in in that area and leave the rest for the rest of the aldermen. So, thank you Thank you any other discussion clerk. Will you are all the woman front? Just for number seven Why was this one denied and six not I mean why was seven denied I
 Why was item number seven denied? I don't know. Mr. Cagnoni? Answer that question. That location was up in front of city council several months ago, and we had communicated to Lamar that our staff would be recommending denial, and based on the past conversations of city council that that property –
 would likely be denied for a billboard however they did pursue it but they understand that the outcome is likely going to be for a denial at the same time during those conversations related to billboards there was conversations in trying to find locations that either one may have been previously approved for electronic billboards such as the one that's before us on riverside
 or two that were focused on Bypass 20, which is the one that is on 11th Street. So that's why we supported those two locations. We did not support the Perryville and State Street location. Thank you. Thank you. Any additional questions? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. No, I'm sliding to 6th. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. No, I'm sliding to 6th. Aye. Alderman Durkee. Aye. Alderman Durkee. Aye. Alderman Durkee.
 Sorry, that was no on 21 and what? 22. Alderman Quinones? McNeely? Seven. Alderman Bonney? Items number one through four, 11 ayes. Item number five, nine ayes, I'm sorry, five and six, nine ayes, two nos. Item seven, 10 ayes, one no. Items eight through 20, 11 ayes. Items 21 and 22, 10 ayes, one no. 23, 24, and 25 are 11 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next, we have Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $7,861,267.04 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee held on May 23, 2022. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the gifting agreement for the property donation at 1311 North Main Street to the City of Rockford, uh,
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these two matters before you. Excellent, there's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. No on both. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Alderman Bonney. Aye. Item number one, 10 ayes, one no. Item two, nine ayes, two nos.
 Excellent. Next we'll go to unfinished business committee reports that have been laid over and we'll go to Alderman Durkee for planning and development committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 6A, Planning and Development Committee, Number 1, Committee recommends approval of the licensing agreement between the City of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the use of a residence located at 312 Irving Avenue as a stronghouse. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 2, Committee recommends approval of the licensing agreement between the City of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the use of a residence located at
 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance it please cease up for passage thank you we have two items before you is there any discussion on those two items clerk will you please call the roll turkey tumor frost Terina and you wanted I on F&P okay Alderman Prunty Kaufman Rose
 Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Bonnie? Item 1 and 2, 10 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Next, there's no items under code and regulation or finance and personnel. Is there any officers' reports? Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. Most of us around this horseshoe has many calls on panhandlers. And I did call the authorities on the weekend.
 There were people with signs out in the street, causing confusion in my opinion. And I know that the law says they're allowed to be there on sidewalks. Some of those little patches in the middle of the highway,
 there's hardly room at all to stand they're out there on it they're in the streets we're in the signs knock on our car windows something must be done i don't know what can be done what we can do i know it's driving you nuts as well you're out it's nothing nothing new you get more calls than we do but i i just had to say something here to figure out what we can do if anything for the safety of the drivers and the safety of the people in the middle of the street
 And I talked to Nick, our lawyer, and asked him if someone gets hit in the middle of the street, where's the liability? Is it with the driver of the car? Is it with the city? Is it with someone in the middle of the street? Not really a good answer. So I just wanted to make that comment. I know that many of us feel the same way about it, and I don't know if there's anything that can be done. But nonetheless, thank you for letting me speak.
 No, I appreciate it. I certainly share your frustration. That's one of the many things that's taking place on our roadways these days that make me angry. I would say the number one thing or a big deterrent that we can do is talk to our citizens. There are a number of services in our community, a number of really wonderful people and organizations that provide them. The reason why they're there is people continue to give them money.
 I know that's impossible for each one of you and me to talk to every single citizen, but to continue to reiterate that We're blessed with a lot of good people who want to do good work and connect these folks who need help But doing it on the streets. I agree with you alderman Beach. Someone's gonna get injured or worse killed It's gonna be tragic older woman Trina and then alderman Bonnie and then alderman Rose
 Thank you, Mayor. Excuse me. I just want to bring some attention to just some decade-long events. The Juneteenth celebration is next weekend. It's an entire weekend, Saturday and Sunday at Mississippi Park. There's just going to be tons and tons of events from live music,
 Raffles giveaways. It's just a really really good time a great community event for all to enjoy So I just want to encourage everyone to attend if you look for something to do and it's free so Just support that again great event that happens in our community every year. Thank you Thank you. Can you I know we have that information, but can you send it to me? I'll make sure all the aldermen who may have been trying to write it down can get all of that alderman Bonnie then alderman Rose
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm just wondering in response to Alderman Beach if we might consider some sort of funding some sort of public media campaign that would urge people to not support panhandlers as our blue and white signs do, but take it further as we have with the CVB and other organizations for other purposes.
 And in the meantime, I assume we have the ability to expand the number of locations where those signs are because I know in the 14th Ward, I know that there are
 intersections where Mulford and Newberg being one that was not on the list originally, and it wasn't an issue, but it now is. And I assume that we can make those requests to post. We'll get those up, yep. Thank you. And I would just say if any aldermen have requests, certainly submit them in alderman rows, then back to Alderman Beach.
 Yeah, just two items. One is I'd encourage people that if you see any...
 four wheelers or three wheelers or dirt bikes on the street to continue to call our police department. I know there's been a few shooting incidences with young people driving around and shooting while on those. Our police are doing a fantastic job, I think, with all the resources that they have. We just approved some technology for them. I assume some of it will be used for those purposes.
 But we need to know where these people are housing those four-wheelers. So if you have information about...
 where those four wheelers are, where they're parking them. I know there's some ways that we can creatively use to go after these people that are terrorizing our neighborhoods and we need your help to do it. So I'd encourage anyone, if you see those on the streets, call 911, let them know that they're there and we can get either cameras or some kind of response to get these motorbikes off the streets. The second item...
 is I just wanted to share I had a former student her name is Danielle Jury she's out of Rockton but she is playing at the Sinissippi Music Shell on June 23rd and also at Anderson Japanese Gardens July 26th and man if you want to see someone who's who's getting up into that level of
 professional singer. I know she recently made the Grammy Top 100 list. She's a local star. She's touring in England, and I know she's been touring in Chicago and all over the place, but a phenomenal voice that, if you get a chance to see her, Sinissippi Music Show, June 23rd, and Anderson Japanese Gardens on July 26th.
 Thank you. Alderman Beach and then Alderman Durkee. What was your name? Danielle Jure. J-U-H-R-E. Alderman Beach. Alderman Beach.
 Well, a thought just occurred to me when Alderman Bonnick was speaking that maybe some kind of a card of information could be put together for citizens to give as opposed to cash. Saying in the case you weren't aware, this is a place you can go for help or assistance for food, for shelter, et cetera. Maybe that's not a good idea, but a thought just came through. I thought I'd pass that out at this time. Appreciate that. Thank you.
 Alderman Quinones. Yes, Your Honor, the residents of El Coman Plaza want to thank you, Mayor and District 2 Chief Randy Burke and the police officers who were in attendance for attending their monthly meeting. They really appreciate it. Any other discussion? Alderman Prenti. Thank you.
 It's that time of year again where we're getting a lot of calls regarding mowing and overgrown grass. I do want to encourage everyone to go ahead and mow. It's time. And then as well, for those of you who want to report, we do have an online webinar.
 Porter where you can put in your request if you notice that someone is out of compliance as it relates to an ordinance do encourage you to put those in so that we can contact those folks and Get that mode get that lawn mode. Thank you any other discussion alderman bond I
 Sure. I'm going to go out on a limb and elaborate on Alderman Prenti and point out that in the 14th Ward, we continue to have a major corporate offender in that regard being Mercy Health. Thank you. Shocker. Thank you. Any other reports? Okay. Moving right along to motions and resolutions, we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Dirk. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 8, motions and resolutions A.
 Number one, committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission recommendation to award $50,000 of the Rockford Regrow Grant Award to Comprehensive Community Solutions, the Alpha Project. Number two, committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission recommendation to award the $50,000 to the Alpha Project.
 Rockford Regrow Grant Award to 815 Alive Incorporated, 815 Alive Toolbox, backslash 815 Alive Renegade Football Team. Number three, committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission recommendation to award $50,000 of the Rockford Regrow Grant money and award to
 new genres art space fairgrounds boys and girls club digital fairgrounds an innovative art and technology after-school program number four committee recommends approval of the proposed proposal to amend the city of Rockford's 2020 comprehensive plan to include the Auburn Street corridor study and lastly number five
 community relations commission recommends approval of a 150 000 rockford regrow grant award to youth education and equity center please seize up for a vote thank you your honor thank you so we have uh five items before us is there any discussion on those five alderman bonnie thank you mayor um at the request of uh all the persons who cannot be here tonight and who
 I have additional questions and would like to participate in the discussion. I would move to lay over item five motion to lay over item five There's a motion second to lay over item five. So that's been laid over we have four. I'm sorry That's not I believe that's going to require Since the resolution a simple majority vote. Thank you. I
 I'm sorry. Thank you. So we have a motion. We have a second to lay over item five. Is there any discussion on laying over item five? Alderman Bonney. Why does it require a majority vote? By council rule, it's a committee report that can be laid over by two aldermen rule. The resolutions are not the same. Any discussion on laying over item five?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll on laying over item 5? Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Bonner. Aye. 10 ayes, 1 no. Okay, so we have four items before us. Item 5 has been laid over. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 Alderman Thunberg. Thanks. Mayor, I'd just like to say that wishing the best of that 815 alive Renegade football team. What a great presentation they put together, and it was really enjoyable to see and what the impact it has for the young kids. So thank you for whoever put that together. It was cool. Absolutely. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderwoman McNeely. Mr. Mayor, are all the 8151 organization members
 What was the question? Are all the 815 one organization or separate? One organization. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm one. I am one. Toonberg. Aye. Cross. Tarina. Parente. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Thank you. Alderman Bonney.
 Item number one, 10 ayes, 1 no. Items two, three, and four, 11 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee with just one item this time. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of a League of Their Own 30th Anniversary Celebration. This event is scheduled for Saturday, July 2nd from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Byer Stadium and Seminary Street. Place this item before you for review. One item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? No.
 all those in favor say aye aye those opposed excellent next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman frost thank you your honor there are many number one the committee recommends approval of the award of architectural service agreement at 1311 north main to joseph anderson architect rockford the amount of sixty seven thousand nine hundred dollars
 The contract duration is 2022 to 2023. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan Fund. Two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the summer food program to Community Kitchen of Rockford in the amount of $541,500. The contract duration is one year with three one-year extensions. The funding source is the United States Department of Agriculture grant funds through the Illinois State Board of Education.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of a bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group number three to Rockwood Companies with a jams only amount of $1,949,947.84. The project is estimated to be completed by September 30, 2022. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of a bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group number three to Rockwood Companies with a jams only amount of $1,949,947.84.
 the committee recommends approval award a bid for the citywide street repairs group number four to tci concrete of rockford in the amount of 2 million 444 544.21 the project is estimated to be completed by september 30 2022 the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for citywide sidewalk repairs package number two to Northwest Construction of South Beloit in the amount of $315,414.10. The project is estimated to be completed by August 31, 2022. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax.
 Number six, the committee recommends approval and award a bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group number two to Northwest Construction in the amount of $393,338.60. This project is estimated to be completed by September 2, 2022. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number seven, the committee recommends approval and award a bid for the Citywide Bridge Preservation to M&M Concrete of Stockton in the amount of $116,412.80.
 The project is estimated to be completed by July 29, 2022. The funding source is the motor fuel tax. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the North Highland Avenue and Jackson Street water main replacement to end track of Loess Park in the amount of $1,298,437.21. The project is estimated to be completed by September 30, 2022. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax and the water replacement improvement account.
 number nine the committee recommends approval the award of non-competitive contract for emergency medical dispatch software to priority dispatch corp
 of salt lake city utah in the amount of 590 835 dollars the funding source is the winnebago county mental health board grant number 10 the committee recommends approval the award of non-competitive contract for gunshot detection and license plate reader cameras to flock group of atlanta georgia for a contract amount of 294 000 in year one and 260 000 in year two the contract duration is two years following a six-month trial the funding source is the police department operating budget
 Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid of non-competitive contract for police portable radios and accessories to Motorola of Schaumburg in the amount of $245,603. The funding sources, the police department operating budget and the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program. Number 12 is an award of bid for 409, 411, 415 Kishwaukee Street demolition package to N-TRAC in the amount of $25,970. Number 13, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid of non-competitive contract for police portable radios and accessories to Motorola of Schaumburg in the amount of $245,603.
 The contract duration is upon completion of the demolition group. The funding source is the construction services operating budget. Number 13 is approval of the acceptance of the Illinois Department of Human Services Division of Family and Community Services Homelessness Prevention Grant in the amount of $487,000.
 The grant term is from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023 and does not require a cost match. The grant funds will be used to pay for approved clients' landlord, electric and or heating bills, clients' budget education, staff training, payroll, and administration.
 Number 14 is approval of acceptance of the Winnebago County Community Mental Health Tax Board Mobile Integrated Health Mental Health Program grant award in the amount of two million five thousand one hundred and thirty six dollars and twenty eight cents The grant term is from June 1 2022 to May 31 2023 and does not require a cost match the grant will be used to fund the mobile integrated health mental health program which is the collaboration between the City Rockford Fire Department and Swedish American UW Health and
 Number 15 is an approval of acceptance of the Winnebago County Community Mental Health Board Crisis Co-Responder Teen Grant Award in the amount of $1,831,547.21. The grant term is from June 1, 2022 to May 31, 2023 and does not require a cost match. The purpose of the grant is to continue funding the collaboration between the City of Rockford Police Department, the Loves Park Police Department,
 the winnebago county sheriff's office and rosecrans i placed these 15 matters before you for voting on it thank you so council we have 15 items before us is there any discussion alderwoman mcneely thank you mayor on item number 10 are the police department the ice and plate readers we we purchased some on one of these before and wondering what was the effect of the first purchase
 Can you repeat the question? We purchased a license plate reader before and wondering how effective was that for us to be looking to buy another.
 The license plate readers are very effective with the police department. It allows us to put in vehicles that we're looking for. Our guys use it on a daily basis, which lead to us locating the vehicles. What's different in regards to the flock system is it's in conjunction with the gunshot detection. How is the gunshot working? Okay.
 It's working well. I think it would be better with the license plate readers operating in conjunction with the gunshot detection, which is not what we currently have. Right now, this is, we're looking at a six-month trial. They will overlap with some of the locations where we currently have ShotSpotter. So we're looking to measure the, we'll do a comparison, so kind of almost apples to apples, if you will, to see if the system is just as good.
 So when individuals call and say, I've heard a gunshot, I've called the 911 or the non-emergency one. Out of those calls, what percentage of them are picked up by the gunshot? So geographically, it depends on where the calls are coming from because we do not have gunshot detection across the entire city. Okay, for the areas that you do have it.
 You're asking for a layout of the area? No, I'm asking how effective when someone calls into 911 and you do have that system in the area they're calling about,
 what percentage of those are actually picked up by the machine and matching them up? So what we've done is we do, we did an analysis of gunshot detection across the city. So currently we're covering about a third of the gunshots that come in. In regards to for those areas where gunshot detection is located and the accuracy within
 We're in the high 90s percentage of accuracy. Good, good. Thank you all. You're welcome. Before other discussion, and I'll get to you in one second, Alderwoman Prunty, I missed something on item 13. There's a suspension of rule 9 that is needed, and so is there a motion to, and we'll come back, I'm not going to have you vote, but just vote on the suspension. Is there a motion to suspend rule 9 on item 13? Yeah, I'll make that motion.
 We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion simply on suspending Rule 9 on Item 13? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor of suspending Rule 9 say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Sorry, Alderwoman Prunty, the floor is yours. Thank you.
 For item number 11, it says the funding source is the Police Department Operating Budget and Edward Bryan Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, the JAG program. How much does the grant give us? Director Haggerty, do you? No, you're good. How much does the grant give us? You're great. We're pulling it out for you. While we pull that up, is there any other discussion? I apologize. I don't have that breakdown available yet.
 But we can email it to you tomorrow morning or later tonight, whenever it gets to you. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Abstain. To Burke. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Bonnie. Aye.
 Items number 1 through 13, 11 ayes. Item number 14 is 10 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 15 is 11 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to new business or ordinances and go to Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 9, new business or ordinances.
 A, planning and development number one, an ordinance approving the funding agreement with Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau for years 2023 to 2028 and the continued lease of 102 North Main Street for an additional six years. The funding source is 70 percent of the 5 percent municipal hotel operators' occupation tax.
 The base rent will be an annual fee of $85,382.88.
 Number two, an ordinance approving the license agreement between the City of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the use of the residence located at 312 Irving Avenue as a stronghouse. Number three, an ordinance approving the license agreement between the City of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the use of the residence located at 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse.
 Number four, an ordinance approving the development agreement and lease with Think Big Corporation for a business development center, small business incubator, technical assistance and training, and other similar business development services at 1311 North Main Street. Number five, an ordinance approving the funding agreement with African American Resource Center at Booker Washington.
 For capital improvements in partnership with Winnebago County, utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $134,080. Number six, an ordinance approving the funding agreement with Northwest Rockford Neighbors Incorporated to establish a crime reduction and violence prevention strategy through youth programming, utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $50,000. Number seven.
 Lastly, number seven, an ordinance approving the funding agreement with Community Life Center of Rockford to establish a crime reduction and violence prevention strategy through community and youth programming utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds for $50,000. They place these up for vote. Thank you. We have seven items before you, counsel. Is there any questions or discussion on those seven items? Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Durkee No, two and seven, aye. Tumberg Aye Frost No Tarina No, two and three Prenti Hoffman Rose Aye Beach Quinones McNeely Bonney Aye
 Item number one, 11 ayes. Item two, nine ayes, two noes. Item three, 10 ayes, one no. Item four, nine ayes, two noes. Five and six, 11 ayes. Item number seven, nine ayes, two noes. Excellent. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderwoman Trina. Have a big sip of water. Yes. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Calls and regulations committee item number one an ordinance establishing that all traffic be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Sandhutton Avenue and Maple Leaf Court Maple Leaf Circle thus repealing the existing two-way stop control of Maple Leaf Stopping for Sandhutton Avenue item number two an ordinance establishing a mid-block pedestrian crossing on 11th Street on
 330 feet south of 23rd Avenue, thus repealing the existing mid-block crossing of 11th Street, 400 feet south of 23rd Avenue. Item number three, an ordinance establishing a mid-block pedestrian crossing on 7th Street, 200 feet north of 20th Avenue, thus repealing the existing mid-block crossing of 7th Street, 400 feet south of 18th Avenue.
 Item 4, an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height from 6 feet to 8 feet within the required 20-foot front yard setback along Simpson Road in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 3901 Dawes Road. Item number 5, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the modification of an existing legally non-conforming billboard.
 to an electronic graphic display billboard in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 6625 East Riverside Boulevard. Item number six, an ordinance establishing a special use permit for the modification of an existing legally non-conforming billboard to an electronic graphic display billboard in an I3 airport industrial zoning district at 3710 11th Street. Item seven, an ordinance approving a special use...
 ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 206 7th Street item 8 at a mural at 222 7th Street item 9 a mural at 619 and 707 West Jefferson Street item 10
 A mural at 815 East State Street. Item 11, a mural at 907 East State Street. Item 12, a mural at 917 South Main Street. Item 13, a mural at 1111 North Avon Street. Item 14, a mural at 1402 North Main Street. Item 15, I mean 1436 North Main Street. A mural there.
 A mural on item number 16 at 1316 Auburn Street. Item 17, a mural at 1444 Myatt Avenue. And then item 18, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco store in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 6905, 6911, and 6943 East State Street.
 Item 19, an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license at outdoor seating area in conjunction with a restaurant in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 4415 Harrison Avenue. Item 20, an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 453 North Springfield Avenue.
 Item 21, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 453 North Springfield Avenue. Item 22, an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine seasonally.
 By their drink in conjunction with cable water ski park with an outdoor seating area in an R. E. rural estate zoning district at 11 X X and 1420 South Pierpont Avenue item 23 in ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to add 5 additional corporate officers in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 677 90 state street.
 Item 24, an ordinance approving the authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 1115 6th Avenue, pin 11-26-288-003. And lastly, item 25, an ordinance approving the request to transfer the state of Illinois' rights to the property encapsulating the public parking lot at the southwest corner of Morgan Street and Main Street to the city of Rockford. I place these items before you.
 I'm tired for you. 25 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 25 items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm quiet. Toomberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. It was 21 and 22, correct? Thank you. Quinones. McNeely. Fonny. Okay.
 I am number one through four eleven eyes and five six nine eyes two nose item seven through twenty eleven eyes item 21 and 22 ten eyes one No, and it was 23 24 and 25 11 eyes Next we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman frost. Thank you number one is an ordinance approving the gifting agreement for the property donation of 1311 North Main Street and
 to the city of Rockford. Joseph James Partners has offered to donate the property located at 1311 North Main Street to the city of Rockford. I please just one minute before you for vote. Thank you, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 10 ayes, one no.
 Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. No one wants to discuss it. Thank you. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a wonderful night.