Thank you. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, June 17, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Mogelman, Toomer, Frost, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonney, 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the strategic planning session held on April 29th, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on May 20th, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal and proceedings for the special city council meeting held on May 28th, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Next, we do not have any proclamations this evening, so we'll go right to petitions and communications. And we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is a memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding a proposed development agreement with Miracle Mile Rockford, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on June 18, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on June 24, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number three is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, city administrator, regarding a proposed amusement tax to include the permanent casino site, referred to the Quota Regulation Committee. And lastly, item number four is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager of permits and special events, regarding an upcoming special event for parking garage party, referred to the Quota Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. There's a memorandum from... PANIQUA HUGHES, HEAD START DIRECTOR REGARDING A CONTRACT FROM THE CITY OF ROCKFORD HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES AND ROSE CRANSTON NETWORK TO BE REFERRED TO FINANCE AND PERSONNEL. I THINK ALL THESE MANAGE WILL BE REFERRED TO FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE. NUMBER TWO IS THE MEMORANDUM FROM JENNIFER CATCHAPAGLIA, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE MAYOR'S OFFICE OF DOMESTIC COMMUNITY VIOLENCE PREVENTION REGARDING THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE WINDOWAVE COUNTY MENTAL HEALTH BOARD GRANT AWARD IN THE AMOUNT OF $875,000. NUMBER THREE IS THE MEMORANDUM FROM OWEN CARTER, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF OPER Regarding the acceptance of the Illinois Department of Human Services Homeless Prevention Grant for additional funding, number four is a memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding the approval of a professional service agreement with Ryan LLC for tax increment financing consultation for the East River TIF district. Number five is a memorandum from Anna Garrison regarding the approval of a professional service agreement with Ryan LLC, a TIF consultation for the River District, North TIF district. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Next up, we have public speakers. Oh, there's a sixth item to be read in for. Thank you. I'm sorry, I was in addition. Number six is a memorandum from Tabke Gnoni, city administrator, regarding the proposed intergovernmental agreement for certain cooperation and financial assistance on the demolition of 102 West Jefferson Street between the Rockford Public Library and the city of Rockford. And they will also be for the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next we'll move to public speakers. A reminder to our speakers, there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers. You'll have three minutes to address the city council. At the close of that three minutes you'll hear an alarm coming from my phone, I hope. If you hear that alarm, please stop your comments. If you don't hear it, I will let you know that that three minutes has elapsed and ask that you close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Jeremiah Griffin. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Jeremiah Griffin. I am the pastor at Halstead Road Baptist Church and a friend of a few of you, and I love it. It is good to see you this evening. I wanted to come to give you guys some encouragement. I've seen a lot of division and a lot of things going on and people with loud voices. And you need to know that there are people from both sides in every direction. Every petition that you sign, every time that you make a proclamation, everything on both sides. So there are people all around you, and we do support you. We want to give you this encouragement. We're in this together. Part of being a civil servant is recognizing that we need a voice in our community, and we are grateful for your voices. We are grateful for your ability to speak up and to take stands on things. And so regardless of how loud we get, because I can be on the opposite side of you too. Regardless of how loud we get, just know that we are grateful that you are here and that you are doing your job. Proverbs 29 says, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. And I will tell you that in the midst of sorrow of this world, it is good to know that there are people that are working on our behalf. The second reason that I'm here, and hopefully I won't run out of time, I pastor a church alongside Halstead Road. Halstead Road between Conklin School and North Central Avenue, I believe is what it is. There are no sidewalks that are there. We had a young man that was walking down the street and he got kind of shoved to the side of the road because of a vehicle going by. One of our elders ran out and took care of him and got him up. He was okay, but he's a young man going to work, walking to work at Walmart in order to be able to support his family. and I recognize that people speed down that street all the time. I believe the sheriff patrolled that, and so it's going to be a complicated issue, but I wanted to bring it to your attention because it's going to be between the county and the city as that's a patchwork out there, but there are families that are kind of moving from that side of Rockford through that zone and then up to Walmart looking for food, and we want to make it safe for them. So I just want to put it on your radar, and hopefully we'll see more of that coming up. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Galatians, the sixth chapter, the ninth to the tenth verse, it says, Let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the family of Christ. What I want to speak about tonight, a poem about don't quit. When things go wrong as they sometimes will, when the road you're trudging seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high, and you want to smile but you have to sigh, when care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must but don't you quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns as every one of us sometimes learn, and many a failure turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up, though the pace seems slow. You might succeed with another blow. Often the goal is nearer than it seems to a faint and faltering man. Often the struggler has given up when he might have captured the victor's cup. And he learned too late when the night slipped down how close he was to the golden success. His failure turned inside out the silver tint of the clouds of doubt. And you never can tell how close you are. It may be near when it seems apart. So stick to the fight. When your heart is hit, it's when things seem worse that you mustn't quit. Also, I want to tell my good friend, Alderman Rose, State Representative Letitia Watts, and my great niece, who just retired from the United States Air Force for just a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Rashad X. It saddens me when people ask why Palestine should matter to black people. Because when the movement for black lives started in Ferguson, the movement faced the same tear gassing methods that Israel uses on Palestinians. And in the midst of their own occupation, one supported by a black U.S. president, Palestinian organizers taught the movement how to deal with that tear gas without hesitation. This is only one example of our shared solidarity. And I'm calling on the black members of this council to openly join our movement and add to this history and become unapologetic fighters for a free Palestine. Beyond Palestine being a black issue, Palestine is a Rockford issue. The federal money being spent on genocide is the same federal money that this city needs so it can invest in places like Rockford's West Side. The money going into producing Zionist rockets is tax money coming from Rockford's residents' pockets. And the time and energy that this council spends talking about things like U-Haul is the time and energy that they could have been spent listening to you all. Palestine is a Rockford issue because we, the people of Rockford, have said it is our issue. Palestine is a Rockford issue because Rockford is a working class city. And us working class people don't profit from this war machine. So it really begs the question, will the Democrats on this city council represent the interest of the corporate and billionaire Democratic Party donors? Or will you represent the interest of the working class people who elected you? You all have the potential to be a powerful advocate for our city to hire officials in office. From the State House, to Congress, to the White House. So will you begin advocating that our taxes be stopped being used on war and instead be used on Medicare for All or combating climate change instead? Or will the City Council remain silently complicit in our tax dollars being used to kill Palestinians? I know you all can't verbally answer questions during this public comment time, but there's nothing stopping you from non-verbally doing so. So I have questions for the only two people I'll have a chance to vote for next year. Alderman Logerman, please raise your hand if I can count on you to do the bare minimum and support a resolution calling for a permanent ceasefire. Mayor McNamara, please raise your hand if I can count on you to do the bare minimum and help get a resolution for a permanent ceasefire on a future city council agenda. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our audience, and our citizens of Rockland and those who are watching TV. When have lying become the new norm? Ever since Donald Trump has been in office, lying, stenotic racism, and critical race theory has become the new norm. Um, uh, Tom, Michael Mayer, you had a town hall meeting. You asked us our concerns about what can we do to deal with the crime. I want to do what we call political correct. But first, I want to read Proverbs 23, verse Yea, do I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. I should fear no evil, for thy staff and thy rod comfort me and cover me. All the days and glory of my life I should dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Re-Grow Fund by Cannabis is an equality, restoration, justice, and community reinvestment grant program funded by the city of Rockville. 3% local taxes and adult use cannabis retail sales, decades-long war on drugs and related policies led to the disparity of cannabis-related arrests, convictions, and sentencing, which had long plagued our community, was supposed to be going to those who were affected by the war on drugs. Actually, the war on drugs was not a war on drugs, but a war on us. Speaking as the original Nanticoke warrior, the Black Panther Party was formed to protect the neighborhood. We established a free breakfast program, an after school program, a lunch program, even a clinic program. The Black Panther Party was formed to protect the peoples in the community. I have a problem with someone coming here and they said that Jesus was an error. When actually in the Bible, it's stated that Rome controlled Jerusalem and Jerusalem was run by Jews. Herod did his best to try to kill Jesus before he was born. So Jesus was actually a Jew because they were trying to destroy the prophets. And now I'm looking back at him. They celebrated October the 10th. October the 10th, October the 7th was Putin's birthday. Putin got the best birthday present from the Palestinians by attacking Israel and drawing away from what was happening in Ukraine. You went and killed innocent kids, women, and children while they were in their sleep. And you think? that the people weren't going to strike back. And remember the Black Panther Party, if you come in our neighborhood, you kill, you rape, you kill and take people's back hostage, we are coming after you. I am deeply against terrorists for the fact for three times in my life I've been, I had a hit put on me, I've been shot twice in the shoulder, twice in the stomach, once in the chest by a .38, I survived. members with members of the white supremacy and none of them mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Greg Orpit. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. I'm just going to read. This evening you will be voting on the proposed redevelopment in State and Mulford. Before making any further requests, I want to personally thank each of you for your time that you provided to Express your concerns and allow me to provide a response as well as allowing me to respond to some of the inaccurate Narratives surrounding this development for that. I am very appreciative. Thank you all We should respectfully urge the City Council to evaluate the proposed Redevelopment in front of you this evening on its own merits and its benefits to the city of Rockford and the surrounding neighborhoods Project was unanimously passed six is here six to zero in the planning zoning agenda Offers a unique opportunity to transform a blighted property into a vibrant multi-use commercial hub bringing significant Economic and community benefits at no cost to the city of Rockford I encourage you to review the development plan that is in your packet in front of you which highlights extensive landscaping and green spaces compared to other retail developments in the corridor and The 1.5 acre green space and landscaping along State Street combined with new retail outlets significantly enhance the vitality of this 15 acre site and provide a substantial buffer to the proposed storage area. Our team and client are making significant, our team and client are making significant additional investments beyond a typical retail development standards to contribute to the beautification and benefit of the entire neighborhood. This redevelopment is a win-win for the City of Rockford. It will benefit the surrounding neighborhood, increase both sales tax and property tax revenues, meet the market need for climate-controlled self-storage, and eliminate stormwater runoff from the site that has affected adjacent neighbors for many years. The plan will transform the vacant Kmart site and parking lots into four new retail outlets and redevelopment of the currently vacant KFC, generating over $12 million a year in annual sales revenue, creating approximately 125 new jobs and increasing property taxes from $225,000 to an estimated $355,000, supported by letters of intent from national retailers that we have. The project will feature a common outdoor area and art park, eliminate a significant portion of the usual Kmart parking field, increase the screen space by, as I mentioned, over 1.5 acres, and install and extend sidewalks, enhancing public space and connectivity. There is a clear need for climate-controlled self-storage in the area. With the current supply below the national average, the assertion that Rockford's self-storage market is saturated is inaccurate, as there are only 3.17 square feet per capita within three miles and 4.4 within four miles, well below the national average. Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Wilkins. Thank you. Item 1, committee recommends approval of a development agreement with Sigmatic Precision Components, Sigmatic Inc. For the building expansion at 1303 Samuelson Road in support of new tooling capacity, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Council, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? No discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Twelve ayes. Excellent. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is an authorization to place for sale the city-owned property located at 316 Hinkley Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two is a request for an honorary street name change on Montague Street from Montague Road to Johnson Avenue, renaming said portion to Elbert Ray Jordan Way in honor of Elbert Jordan, who started live at Levings, which ran for 38 years. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three is an annexation of 4712 West State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, plat number three of Northtown Mall subdivision. Number five, plat of RMCD Mulberry Street subdivision. Number six, the Cambridge Chase Road dedication plat. And number seven, a text amendment to City of Rockford zoning ordinances article 53-004. Use is prohibited as home businesses. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Excellent council we have seven items before us is there any discussion on those seven items seeing no discussion clerk Could you please call the roll? Toomber Frost Serena Prunty Wilkins Hoffman each Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie I Items 1 through 6, 12 ayes. Item number 7, 7 ayes, 5 noes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Number one, Your Honor, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $11,602,482.61 as approved at the finance and personnel meeting held last Monday, June 10, 2024. And number two, the committee recommends renewal of the private tree removal loan program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these two matters before you. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderwoman Brunty? Yes. I thought we had discussed the possibility of raising that 70,000 number did we decide not to Explore that further or so there has been discussion about it We just would need an amendment from council to Change it. Can I lay that over then? We have a motion to lay over item number two. Is there a second? I We have a motion, we have a second to lay that over. That'll be automatically laid over. Thank you. Now we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Ogerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Frenzy. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. Twelve ayes. Aye. Excellent. Next, we're going to go to unfinished business and go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. Thank you. Item 1, committee recommends denial of the redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and Mulford and State Development, LLC, for 5909 and 5949 East Day Street. Is there any discussion? Alderman Frost? Your Honor, at this time, I'd make a motion to reverse the denial to an approval on the redevelopment agreement. Second. We have a motion. We have a motion in a second to reverse the denial to an approval for the redevelopment agreement between city of Rockford and Mulford and State Development LLC for 5909 and 5949 East State Street. We have a motion we have and we have a second Is there any discussion alderman Bailey? I appreciate all the effort that the developer has put forth in their due diligence and And respect the information and the calls that you made to each representative. I'm pro-development. Pro-development. If that project of U-Haul on that land, I'd like to see it further west. But I cannot envision at that major intersection a development of this sort on that property. Thank you, Your Honor. Thanks. Is there any other discussion? Alderman Vine? No. clarification so this is just to reverse I guess can I ask the motion maker of the motion what's the point so there's a question out there if someone wanted to comment on why the motion is there they could alderman sure I guess the purpose of it's the first step procedurally and what would have to take place if someone like myself was in support of this development so it would require The redevelopment agreement getting approved first Procedurally before you voted on the actual ordinance Thank you. So so the move on II so if that motion fails then we're still Recommending denial that would still be up before you. Yep. Is there any discussion? I'm sorry, and if I'm not in passes then we slept a vote on that motion. Correct. Correct. Okay, so So we do this often so that a no is a no and a yes is a yes. We've done that in the past, so this is just a first step. Any other discussion on the motion in a second before us? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logerman. No. Toonberg. No. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. No. Barrios. No. Meeks. Bailey. No. Bonnie. No. Two ayes, ten noes. Okay. So fortunate for everyone, we still have an item to vote on. There is one item before us, and that is item A1. Is there any discussion on the one item before us? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logaman, Tunberg, Frost, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonney. Ten ayes, two noes. Okay, next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Number one the committee recommends the following in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 59 09 and 59 49 East State Street Mulford and State Development Denial for a special use permit for 105,939 square foot self-storage building and outdoor truck storage. Denial for a special use permit for a drive-through in conjunction with the quick service restaurant. Denial for a variation to reduce the required number of parking stalls from 88 to 81 for the multi-tenant building on proposed lot 3. Denial for a variation to reduce the required 20 feet front yard setback for a parking lot. Ten feet along East 8 for proposed lots 2 3 & 4 denial for variation to reduce the required 20 feet wide frontage landscaping to 10 feet wide along East 8 Street for proposed lots 2 3 & 4 Denial for a variation to reduce the required foundation landscaping from 50% to 29% along the building of a closed lot one and It's a now for variation to reduce the required interior landscaping end caps from 8 to 2 and proposed lot one bus for person the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation for approval and And we'll need to adopt the findings of fact. Excellent. Is there any discussion? We have one item. Before us, is there any discussion on that one item? Mayor, before the vote is taken, we would need a motion to adopt the findings of fact to support the denial. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to adopt the findings of fact. I think we should probably read those in. I know Alderwoman Tarina is chomping at the bit to read those. Yes, I am. All right. Thank you. i moved to adopt findings of fact to reflect denial of a special use permit for 105 939 000 square feet self-storage building and outdoor truck storage a special use permit for a drive-through in conjunction with a quick service restaurant variation to reduce the required number of parking stalls from 88 to 81 for the multi-tenant building on a proposed lot three A variation to reduce the required 20 feet front yard setback for a parking lot to a 10 feet along East State Street for proposed lots two, three, and four. Variation to reduce the required 20 feet wide frontage landscaping to 10 feet wide along East State Street for proposed lots two, three, and four. A variation to reduce the required foundation landscaping from 50% to 29% on the building on proposed lot one. And a variation to reduce the required interior landscaping end caps from eight to two. for proposed lot one in a C3 general or commercial zoning district at 5909-5949 East State Street. The finding of facts shall be as follows. Denial of the special use permits reflects in paragraph A and B is based upon the following findings. Number one, the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use permits will be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort, or general welfare of the community. Number two, the special use permits will be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity of the purposes already permitted and will substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood. Number three, the establishment of the special uses will impede the normal or orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses permitted in the district. Number four, adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and unnecessary facilities have been, are being, or will be provided. Number five, adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets. The special use does not conform to the applicable regulations of the C3 district in which it is located. Because of the particular physical surrounding shapes or topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would not result as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out. The conditions upon which a petition for the variations are based are not unique to the property for which the variations are sought and are applicable generally to other property within the same zoning classification. The purpose of the variations is based exclusively upon a desire to increase the value or income potential of the property. The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this ordinance and has been created by any persons presently having an interest in the property or by any predecessor entitled. The granting of the variations will be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which this property is located. The proposed variations will impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of the public streets or increase the danger of fire and danger to public safety or substantially diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood. Lastly the proposed variations did not comply with the spirit and intent of restrictions imposed by this ordinance Thank you for that We have a motion and we have a second to adopt the findings of fact So we'll take that vote first and then we'll vote on the item Is there any discussion on the findings of fact clerk? Will you please call the roll Logan? timber frost Torino Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Beach Arios makes Bailey Bonnie 12 eyes excellent now We have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item older woman Trina? It's more of a comment just I guess since we don't envision a u-haul there We're just gonna envision an empty lot so that is what we're voting on right now is to not develop at all Thanks, thank you any other discussion see no discussion. I alderman frost thank you i'll just follow up on that you know when this first came out of zba and came uh to us uh i was very reluctant to see this go in with the trucks parked along mulford with the white fence around it uh and i just want to give um credit to the ability of the developer to try to work that out which they did do and they were actually going to move the trucks from to the southwest corner so no traffic would see the truck stored there So I do appreciate a developer trying to accommodate us. You know, I work by the Kmart, former Kmart store at Forest Hills in Riverside that was developed by someone that expressed concern about this. And I will say that that former Kmart store, Think it's called boxed up storage is actually quite quite nice. It's a it's a nice facility. It looks good that they Developed some out lots. There's a Starbucks there There's now an Aldi grocery store that was built in the parking lot So, I mean I've watched that over the last you know decade or so since Kmart's been closed and this turns out rather nice So that that piqued my interest in this and one thing I've heard is you know from the critics are that you're giving up on Rockford And I guess I just, I don't really feel that's really fair to say that. I'd like as an alderman to be pro-business as I can. This is one that we actually can have a say on, which we're about to do, because it requires a special use permit. However, there's buildings like the marijuana store on Perryville by my home that has caused so much problems. for that neighborhood that we didn't get a say on because they didn't require any special use permit or any zoning changes, nor on the Kay's Merchandise Store, which is kitty corner from here, which houses state DCFS and department, I think of a DFS family community resource building, which has caused quite a bit of pedestrian traffic across Mulford to the McDonald's and gas station. Nor did we get a say on the, the Aldi store across the street from this and the former Logli store that you know, I guess Would be considered maybe not an ideal tenant for a quote-unquote Retail quarter it's no Marshall fields or Macy's nor do we vote on the the store? in the forest plaza mall called treasure hunt deals So, you know, for people that think that we're giving up by someone trying to develop this large parcel into this site, I just don't think that's really fair. You know, I'm at a loss for why some people are so against it. I guess, you know, what are you going to bring there? But, you know, if you bring a dope store, I'm not going to be for it. But guess what? I don't even get to vote on it. So be careful what you say no to because you don't know what's around the corner. Thank you. Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Bonney? Thank you, Mayor. So I would also like to thank the developer for working to try to upgrade this proposal with me originally and more recently with Alderman Frost. But the nagging concern I've had from the very beginning is that no matter how much you dress this project up, self-storage and truck rental... It does represent a continuation of a disappointing trend of second-rate use for what should be prime commercial property. Yes, U-Haul does own the property, but U-Haul has let that property sit vacant for six years. U-Haul denies this is a strategy to make the City Council desperate to allow warehousing and truck rental at one of the busiest intersections in the city of Rockford. but they offered as an explanation that when they bought all these Kmart stores, they're just simply getting around to Rockford now. Well, that is indicative of the problem. You know, what they're saying is, you know, all that we really care about is a big national corporation is our bottom line and, you know, it doesn't show any concern to me For the welfare of Rockford or or the neighborhood that I represent and I think we've already heard from you know businesses that surround it One of which had to spent a couple hundred thousand dollars trying to mediate stormwater runoff from this Kmart site because This property, you know six years has been sitting there with no proposal and I Again, just just because you all owns the property and wants what it wants It does require a special use permit because we if they wanted to build as the fourth Ward Alderman is talking about Without council approval if they wanted to do this without council approval approval then they should be at a different site and industrial zoning and and You know, I feel like it's, you know, if I were to buy a vacant house in a residential neighborhood and offer to, you know, bring back some curb appeal to it, that doesn't mean I get to, like, run a hog farm in the backyard. Just because I own it, I'm going to make it look pretty, and that I should just get to do that. I mean, that's why we have approval for some of these things. And it... Yes, it is a bird in the hand, but it is also, it's not about saying that we're giving up on Rockford, but what it is, I think, saying is it is waving the white flag that we are giving up on State Street west of Mulford. And, yeah. It's not a message i'm willing to send to the business businesses that have been there and invested in the area for three generations That and who are already disheartened to see that part of east state street lose ground to perryville and riverside and route 173 I just I think yes, there's risk involved in saying no to this, but we need to stand our ground um, you know you hall's representative who spoke tonight told us previously that u-haul will let this property sit vacant if we don't approve this and preface the comment with this is not a threat but when you press a preface the comment with that then it is a threat and you know i don't think we should allow developers to you know threaten us that you know with and just be pushed around as a council. City administrator acknowledged to us that if this property becomes self-storage, it's likely to stay self-storage for a very, very long time. It is the nature of the business that it's an easy income flow and it doesn't require a lot of money You know, it's an it's an easy business to make money at is reason why it will probably stay there for a very long time and I think you know the idea that Big box retail is dying. You know that I I understand we may not get another big box retailer in there but there are a lot better uses potential better uses of the property for example, I Ortho, Illinois and Riverside was a vacant Eagle grocery store for a long time the Stockholm Inn which anchors Rockford Plaza that previously was anchored by gold plants and even while even the Colonial Village Mall look what the former Heartland Church did for Colonial Village Mall So there and all of those uses would enhance The neighborhood in my opinion not only Detract from it and then a you know a couple other points that I think need to be underscored Is that while these outlaws would generate sales tax you all would not it? There there's no sales tax generated on the truck rental or on the self storage and then this idea about the the market need and this fight over what the saturation is, to me is somewhat irrelevant because who says that we, even if we agree with U-Haul that there's a market need, that doesn't mean that the market need needs to be satisfied in this prime location. It can be satisfied somewhere else and it's not like If there's a thing, you know, if there's such a thing as a self-storage desert, I'm not aware of it. You know, like there are grocery deserts where you would want to, you know, you want to be able to go to a grocery store in a location that's convenient and close to home because most people grocery shop once, maybe more than once a week. How often does anyone visit a self-storage facility? Does not need to be at this location. And I guess, you know, bottom line, Bottom line is the alderman represents the ward. I Would ask for all your support and I did also Because we've received so many emails on this. I didn't want to send another one to the council, but I did receive one from a The retired Rockford Township supervisor, Mickey Goral, who lives nearby but not in the 14th Ward, in the 10th Ward, and is short, but I wanted to read it in the record. As a longtime resident, I've been following with great interest the proposed special use permit application for the former Kmart property at East State and Mulford Road. I too share your concerns regarding this change of use for this property. I do not see allowing an indoor self-storage or outdoor truck rental facility as being an asset to the neighborhood or to the community. As a former member of the Winnebago County Board for 18 years, I had the responsibility to vote on literally thousands of zoning changes and special use permits during my time on the board. I urge you to encourage your fellow colleagues on the City Council to consider the highest and best use of the property as well as the potential negative impact it will have on the area. Thank you. Michael J. Goral. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. Aye. Ten ayes, two noes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we have officers' reports. Any council members have reports? Alderman Logerman. Aye. Real quick, I just wanted to recognize some of the former and current City of Rockford Officials in the Chamber of Commerce's people you should know we recently Lafayette area Vaughn I miss her here in the city legal department. She did a wonderful job Sorry to see her go to the county glad she's just down the street But she was honored and our own director Hagerty was honored there, too we all know the wonderful work that she does for us and then alderman mark bonnie as well providing the leadership for his 14th Ward so a lot of good news that's I like that little endeavor the people you should know just kind of highlighting all the the good work that we do for each other as a city Thank You mayor other reports Alderman Bailey yeah I had the opportunity to attend the RAM event which is a great program I wish they would have had it when I was coming up in Rockford but I want to congratulate all of the recipients of the RAM scholarships particularly Those from Auburn High School, which represented about 25% of the students. And I say that unashamedly because I'm an Auburn High School grad. Thank you. Other woman. Tarina, did you have your hand raised? I did. I want to congratulate all of the individuals that worked on the South Main Mercado. It was incredible. I'm pretty sure the first estimations was about 5,000 people showed up. And it was just a beautiful thing to see. It's exactly, I think that they really achieved exactly what they were going for, was a celebration of Latino culture that included everyone. And you just really saw this whole, I really love the black Latino, Fusion you saw a lot of that and it just it was just a moment of unity that I really haven't experienced in my ward I don't know that we've ever seen it So I just want to congratulate everyone that was a part of of that event everyone that participated and I think everyone that attended and supported it it really was quite successful and It was amazing for our city to see that so, thank you. I Thanks, it really was a great event and was proud to see so many of our so most Group members from our employee resource group volunteering their time. It was great alderman Bailey. Yeah I'd be remiss if I didn't thank Tim group for the grass cutting in war 13 Thank you to your team and the Enforcement coat because I've been driving my community. I And I noticed that there were some high weeds that were a few days ago. So thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. So I would be remiss if I didn't thank Alderman Logerman for the nomination for the people you should know. Honor, and I am honored to be in the company of Director Haggerty and the other – People are being recognized and would also like to thank the people who wrote letters in support of Alderman Logerman's nomination, former Mayor Morrissey, Mary Ann Smith, and Chad Anderson. Thank you. Thanks. Other reports? Alderman Thunberg? That's a tough one to follow. But try. I did win the Swedish pancake eating contest this weekend though. Fourth year in a row. On that note, the congratulations to the Swedish Historical Society for running a great Midsummerfest this last weekend. I just see some familiar faces, Alderman Beach being one of them. They did have a great crowd and hopefully that will continue for many years ahead. This week we have another restaurant opening in the north end, which we know converges on some of our wards, Alderman Meeks and Alderman Alderwoman Wilkins is right close by and alderman rose and myself and So yet another restaurant is opening up there and we've done some great things Obviously in the north end and the city has put in resources to make it very compatible to attract businesses there and That is a big. Thank you to that and but it is this week that the old de raths geller will be opening and it'll be opening under the name of plume and it will be a fine italian uh flair of a restaurant so please put that on your bucket list of places to go and appreciate the businesses up at the north end thank you other Just would say Midway Museum celebrated their 50th anniversary this weekend. If you haven't had an opportunity to get out there, they are certainly adding new exhibits and furthering their existing ones. So I would urge everyone to get out there. Also, Saturday morning at 9 a.m., We have the Rockford Public Library grand opening. So would urge all citizens and council members to get out to the grand opening. I think if you have not had an opportunity to take a tour of the brand new library, you will really want to get out there. It's going to have something for everyone. It's going to look beautiful and I think have incredibly high usage. I would, and I feel bad doing this, but Alderwoman Meeks, could you just share the times for the Juneteenth events? The times are between 1 p.m. and 9 p.m. And location? So we are right now still at Sunissippi, but the possibility of being at Rockford Women's Club could come up by tomorrow. So just everyone pray for us, please. Thank you. Well, appreciate you and all the committee putting the work in to make that event possible. Hopefully the weather also cooperates with you. With that, we are going to... Move on. We'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or codes and regulations, so we'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the parking deck elevator replacements to Schulstrom & Sons in the amount of $1,143,427. Thank you, Your Honor. The project is estimated to be completed in 2025. The funding source are ARPA funds. Number two, the committee recommends approval of award of joint purchasing contract for public safety video surveillance solutions to Axon Enterprise for an annual contract amount of $48,791.82. The contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options. The funding source is the police department operating budget. Thank you. Thank you. We have two items before us. Any discussion on those two items? No discussion. Clerk, please call the roll. Timber. Timber. frost I Tarina Frenzy Wilkins Hoffman Beach various weeks Bailey Bonnie 12 eyes Excellent next we'll move to new business and we'll go to planning and development committee all the woman Wilkins Item one an ordinance approving a development agreement with slide Matic precision components like Matic Inc for the building expansion at 1303 Samuelson Road in support of new tooling capacity I Excellent we have one item before us any discussion on that one item clerk. Will you please call the roll logan to bird? frost Tarina printing Wilkins Hoffman Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 12 eyes excellent. Thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee alderwoman Trina and Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is an ordinance approving the authorization to place for sale the city-owned property located at 316 Hinkley Avenue. Number two, an ordinance approving an honorary street name change on Montague Street from Montague Road to Johnston Avenue, renaming said portion to Albert Ray Jordan Way in honor of Albert Jordan, who started Live at Levings, which ran for 38 years. Number three, an ordinance approving the annexation of 4712 West State Street. Lastly an ordinance approving a text amendment to city of Rockford zoning ordinances for uses prohibited as home businesses. Thank you Thank you. We have four items. Is there any discussion on those four items clerk? Will you please call the roll? Toomber Frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie Hi Items 1, 2, 3 are 12 ayes. Item number 4 is 8 ayes, 5 noes. Thank you. The finance and personnel item has been laid over. Amen. I mean, I'm sorry, is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed have good night.