God, we are reminded to pray for those in authority, that they may have peace. For when they have peace in their deliberation, we as a city will have peace. I pray this day for strength, for wisdom, for our leaders, and for citizens of Rockford to be able to just follow and not follow, but be able to support and uphold in every decision process. We ask all this in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
 And to the Republican League One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty Clerk, will you please call the roll? Here Toomberg Here Frost Here Herbie Here Thompson-Kelly Hoffman Here Rose Here Beach Here Quinones Here McNeely Here Chiarelli Here Eleven present Thank you. We have a quorum and there is...
 two journals that we need to approve so first of the journal uh proceedings is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for city council wonderful uh all those in favor all those opposed june 5th 2017 journal proceedings pass is there a motion to approve a special city council meeting uh journal proceedings for june 12 2017. all those in favor wonderful
 Okay, we will move to public speakers. We have three public speakers this evening. Each public speaker will have three minutes. And our first public speaker is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Nehemiah, the ninth chapter, 31st verse, it says, Thou art gracious and compassionate God. What I want to speak about tonight, fatherless children. The breakdown of marriage and family has brought widespread fatherless to the United States. While only one in ten American children live without a father in the home in 1960, approximately one in four children are growing up in a household without the physical presence of a father to date. This means they are over 30.
 twenty million americans on the age eighteen live without a father in the home the cold hard statistics show that children who grow up without a father are more likely to live in poverty more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol more likely to drop out of school more likely
 become violent criminals and more likely to become single parents themselves. Children without a father tend to struggle in school. According to an Associated Professor of Social Work at the University of British Columbia, fatherless children generally score lower in reading, math, and thinking skills. They are also more likely to be truant from school, more likely to leave school by age 16, and less likely to attain academic and professional qualifications. In adulthood, nine times
 more likely to drop out of school. They're more likely to be raised in poverty. A 2013 United States Department of Health and Human Services report found the poverty rate for children raised in female-headed households was 45.8 percent while the rate for children raised in married couple households was 9.5 percent.
 homeless and runaway children are fatherless. Four times more likely to be raised in poverty and without the guidance of a father. More kids abuse alcohol and drugs. A 1993 United States Department of Health and Human Services report found that fatherless children are at a dramatically greater risk of drug and alcohol abuse. Research at Columbia University
 in a two-parent home were more likely to smoke, drink, or use drugs if they had a poor relationship with their father. Ten times more likely to abuse chemical substance. 71% of all adolescent self-abuse come from a fatherless home, and fatherless kids get into more trouble outside of school. A 2005 study published in the Journal of Marriage and Family Found that a 1% increase in the proportion of single-parent families in a neighborhood is associated with a 3% increase in teenage violence. Twenty times more likely
 to be incarcerated. 11 times more likely to have violent behavior. 70% of adolescent in correctional facilities come from fatherless homes. 60% of rapists were raised in fatherless homes. This also contributes to poor health. A 2005 study published in the Journal of American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry found that middle schoolers not living with
 biological parents were more likely to suffer from a psychiatric and mood disorder. 80% of adolescent in psychiatric hospitals come from fatherless homes. Two-tenths more likely to commit suicide and fatherless kids make more fatherless kids. A 2004 study published in Journal of Family Issues found that being raised by a single mother raises the likelihood of teenage pregnancy as well as the likelihood of marrying with less than a high school diploma. Seventy percent of teen pregnancies happen in the middle of the year.
 and fatherless home. Nine times more likely to be raped or sexually abused. I'm going to name the five causes of fatherless tonight. One, divorced parents. Two, separate parents. Three, widowed mother. Four, mother never married. Or five, orphan or abandoned. My solution to this problem, if you eliminate these five causes, you can solve this problem in America. I've also been... Thank you for allowing me to speak. Okay, our next speaker is Jamie Kessler.
 The city was doing its best to combat the deluge of abandoned homes in some of the most downtrodden neighborhoods in our community. Despite its hard work and efforts, it simply could not keep up. In comes Rockford Corridor Improvement. We are a not-for-profit corporation.
 Our board members were appointed by the city, by the county, the school district, and the RLDC. Our board is comprised of Reverend Dr. Kenneth Board, Pilgrim Baptist Church, myself, I am the president, and I am a partner with Reno Zahm Law Firm,
 John Holmstrom III of William Charles, Sean McCarran of the Flo Lease Corporation, Frank Wuerstein of Dickerson Neiman Realtors, Pastor Maurice West of the Westside Church, and Peg Wilkerson of Alpine Bank. Our coordinator is Eric Lindberg, Associate General Counsel of the William Charles Corporation.
 Our mission is to combat community deterioration and to lessen the neighborhood tensions by facilitating the improvement of key corridors in the city of Rockford. We are doing that by working with the city to acquire and demolish abandoned residences
 and by facilitating the eventual reuse of that now greened property into something beneficial for all of our community. We believe that we cannot move forward as a community with all the blighted neighborhoods. Our philosophy is that there is no way to solve the city's problems without all of us working together. That is why we came together today.
 That is why we created the corporation, and that's why we are giving our time and our resources to this very worthwhile cause. Eric Lindbergh, our coordinator, will explain to the council and to the mayor more of what we've done and where we're going. Thank you. Okay, our next speaker is Mr. Eric Lindbergh.
 My name is Eric Lindberg and I'm the coordinator for Rockford Quarter Improvement. Rockford Quarter Improvement has focused its efforts today in the Ellis Lewis Lemon area. Since 2014, Rockford Quarter Improvement has demolished around 50 vacant and abandoned homes in the Ellis Lewis Lemon area through predominantly private donations and a strategic partnership with the City of Rockford.
 In 2016, Rockford Court Improvement and the City of Rockford each invested $50,000 in sidewalk improvements utilized by the United Way walking school bus route.
 By the end of 2017, Rockford Corps Improvement will have invested in private donations over $500,000 to the Ellis-Lewis-Lemon area. In 2016, RCI secured a $1,190,000 grant from IDA to demolish vacant and abandoned homes in the Ellis-Lewis-Lemon area and the Kishwaukee area in partnership with the City of Rockford. In 2016, RCI supported Zion West Neighborhood Association in the development of Neighborhood Mowing Program.
 RCI looks forward to continuing to work with the City of Rockford and local partners to make a material impact in the Ellis-Lewis-Lemon area and the Kishwaukee area. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, for petitions and communications, we'll start with Alderman Shirell. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have four items this evening. The first is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on June 20th, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on June 26th, 2017. The second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on June 20th, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on June 26th.
 The third item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events which include Kiwanis, Brat Day, Tour D, North End, Passports to the Art, Toughest Mudder Competition, Screw City Beer Fest, and Parking Fee Waiver Request by the RACBB on behalf of the Jehovah Witness Convention.
 The fourth is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager for Community and Economic Development Department regarding transfer of city-owned properties to Rockford Corridor Improvement, RCI, under the Blight Reduction Program and Partnership Agreement. All four of those items will be referred to the Codes and Regs Committee meeting. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. And I'm sorry, Alderman Durkee, I passed you up on Planning and Development.
 Thank you, Amarok. I have one item, and it's a memorandum from Carrie Partridge, Interim Legal Director regarding the development agreement with RLDC for construction of the Amarok Convention Center. This memorandum will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. And Alderman Beck's absence, Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 Thank you, Moyer. First off, I'll read in the memorandum from Jeremy Carter, traffic city engineer regarding a memorandum of understanding with the Rock River Water Reclamation District for the intersection of West Jefferson Street and Main Street. And this will refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Next, I have a bid for the sale of property located at 5085 Browns Beach Road from, and Alderman Hervey was going to make the drum roll, but she's not here. Thank you. Thank you.
 And it looks like the proposed winner of the bid is Kathy Like of 5087 Browns Beach Road, which I presume is the adjacent property owner, in the amount of $5,500. And this will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee, Purchasing and Legal Department. And I will submit the check to Madam Clerk. Thank you. Run over there and get that right away. Thank you, Alderman Frost.
 We have two proclamations this evening. The first proclamation that we have this evening, accepting the proclamation for Project 1013 week, will be Pastor Randy Young. One second. We've got a lot of reading, and then you get to say a couple of special words.
 Whereas, Project 1013 started seven years ago and is a coordinated partnership between Rock Church and West Gateway Coalition. And whereas, the purpose of Project 1013 is to bring hope and encouragement to the residents by helping them with their neighborhood cleanup, light maintenance, projects on their homes, and yard work.
 And whereas the Project 1013 coalition is made up of churches, businesses, and community organizations that are providing volunteers and donating materials and or funding, and whereas this year Project 1013 volunteers will clean up, beautify, and improve the living conditions of Ellis Heights neighborhood. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of June 21, 2017 to be Project 1013 week.
 Pastor Young, would you like to say a few words? Sure. Thank you, Your Honor. Project 1013, we're in our eighth year. We've actually been down there for a couple days working already, cutting down trees and getting ready for everybody to come in on Wednesday. We'll have about anywhere from 300 to 600, 700 volunteers that will come in, Ellis Heights, starting Wednesday through Saturday. We'll put in about 8,000 man-hours.
 all donated and then the United Way, ComEd, a lot of different companies have also come alongside of us to help us get this going so we appreciate all the city's help and we just the whole point of it is to make a relationship with people and then to build a better city. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next is we have a proclamation for Rockford Yoga Day and Kerry Knutson will be accepting this.
 How are you? Thank you. Good to see you. Whereas in 2014, at the call for adoption by the Honorable Indian Prime Minister, Mr. Narendra Modi, the United Nations General Assembly declared June 21st as International Day of Yoga. Whereas...
 As part of his address to the General Assembly, Prime Minister Modi stated, Yoga is an invaluable gift of India's ancient tradition. It embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action, restraint and fulfillment, harmony between man and nature, a holistic approach to health and well-being.
 It is not about exercise, but to discover the sense of oneness with yourself, the world, and nature. And whereas the city of Rockford has a strong yoga community, home to several yoga studios and a large number of organizations that offer yoga classes. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim June 21, 2017 to be Rockford Yoga Day. And Ms. Knutson, would you like to share a few words with us? Thanks.
 Yes, sure. Thank you. Thank you very much for this honor. We're really excited for International Yoga Day, which is going to be this Wednesday held at Women's Base of Rockford. And yoga is about community, and this day and this event is about yoga. And this is Rockford's commitment to that ongoing effort. So thank you very much. Appreciate it. Okay, under new committee reports, Alderman Durkin. Thank you, Your Honor. Under the line...
 The development agreement with First Midwest Group, also DYN Rockford LLC, for the rehabilitation and redevelopment of 326 West Jefferson into a mixed-use historic building, the interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place that up for passage. Wonderful. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toonberg. Ross. Hervey. Rapp.
 Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Chiarelli 11 ayes, your honor Thank you Alderman Chiarelli Roman numeral 5D
 One, the committee recommends approval of the final plat of Sports Factory Subdivision. Two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval subject to modified conditions for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant video gaming and for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with outdoor seating area, beer garden, and a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 4846 E. State Street.
 Subject to conditions, the interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The third committee recommends approval of the authority to use eminent domain pursuant
 to 65 ILCS 5 11 they have 61 dash one to acquire 2672 2672 square feet of 81 X North Main Street and 364 school 364 square feet of 8 X X North Main Street for the North Main and Whitman intersection project.
 The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The fourth is the committee recommends approval of an honorary street name change request for Green Street from Church Street to Winnebago Street for Tim Dimke Drive in honor of the former Park District Executive Director Tim Dimke. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place all four of those committee reports up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. Is there a discussion? Alderman McNeely? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number four, I thought we had changed that during the committee meeting, not going as far west as Winnebago Street, but going from, I believe, Green Street. Mr. Stockman, we'll answer that for you. The agenda reflects a Scribner's error. The staff memo actually states from Main to Church Street. Main to Church? At the Park District Building. Okay, great.
 Wonderful is there other discussion on any of the four items seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Toombered frost Herbie Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Kenones McNeely cheer Ellie items one three four eleven eyes item number two seven eyes four nose
 Thank you. Those items will pass. Alderman Frost with Finance and Personnel. Thank you. By number one, the committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,455,123.13 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on June 12, 2017.
 Second, the committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request to reduce the fine for 2904 Kenmore Avenue to $1,000 as property is in compliance. All outstanding mowing and cleanup liens must be paid prior to a reduction in the fine. Three, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the Cherry Valley Fire Protection District.
 for the rental of a fire engine on an intermittent basis through May 31, 2018. Cherry Valley Fire Protection District will reimburse the city for the use of the fire engine at a rate of $150 per day. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place all three of those items up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Is there a discussion? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Just a curiosity on number C3, the rental rate, the typical rate, it seems like maybe a little bit low, but I don't know. I know that was discussed. I'll give it to Fire here in one second. I know it was discussed, but I believe they went out and talked to several vendors who do this, and that's the rate that they came back. But that's correct? Okay. Alderman Hervey? With regard to number two,
 I don't know if staff can help with this. I was trying to, in reading through this, determine how long, during which time the property was under the ownership of Wells Fargo or some other mortgage arm when the larger number of fines was assessed. The narrative is just a little confusing. Yeah, Mr. Cagnoni can answer that for you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The majority of the fines that have been assessed against the property were prior to the bank
 and engaging in control and maintenance of the property. However, there was, the bank was working with us and appearing in code hearing after we provided them notification. They did miss a code hearing, which resulted in a fine against them as well, and then immediately re-engaged after they realized they missed that hearing. But predominantly, the bank has been responsive and brought the property into compliance.
 We certainly can. Mr. Cagnone. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure all of them and
 and the City Council is aware, we are reviewing that matter as a result of some of the requests that came up in previous weeks, and our staff in the coming weeks will be putting together an assessment of what's happened in the past and what we may want to consider as we move forward.
 number of challenging issues to take into consideration because we, to Alderman Hervey's point, is exactly correct. We don't want to be in a position where we're rewarding individuals for not maintaining their properties.
 where we're struggling with is that the alternative to that is making sure we're not punitive, that we don't get the banks to step in, clear the title, correct the code violations, and get the property back on the market. So I'm not certain what that balance is right now, as well as we've had some past practice that we've been trying to be more efficient related to getting properties from, you know, violation to code hearing. So we've seen our code hearing violations shrink.
 and get multiple fines versus large fines. So we want to bring that into consideration as well. So it's not just like it could be a percentage of the overall fines. That could be unequal in essence. So it should be coming in the next three to four weeks. Thank you. Wonderful. Is there any other discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly agree with my colleague regarding the,
 The reduction, I was talking to one of my constituents this week, last week, and one suggestion that she came up with is that some kind of way, not only we do have the fines but not reduce them.
 because if we kept the fines where they currently were, then we'd have enough money to hire more people to get out there in code enforcement to do some other work. So there's gotta be an answer. Maybe there's some kind of incentive, maybe.
 Sort of like a bounty hunter or something where they come and and as many properties as they can turn in Legally with all the information we require and therefore they get a higher amount back to them Sounds jokingly, but seriously we had to do something. Thank you the other comment Mr.. Mayor number three
 How much does it cost us per day owning that piece of property for the fire department as opposed to the $150 per day that we're charging Cherry Valley to use it until 2018, May 2018? Ms. Eckman will answer that, the latter of the questions.
 We don't have a cost per day necessarily for operations. The vehicle would only be made available to Cherry Valley if it wasn't needed for our purposes. So it would be sitting, it would be a reserved vehicle that would be sitting otherwise.
 we based the rate on what the going rate was for rental from other outside companies. So if it was, if we did the math and our rate was significantly higher,
 then the agreement wouldn't have made sense for Cherry Valley, certainly. So this is a way for us to make that piece of equipment productive in some small way. I know Alderman McNeely at the last committee meeting, they mentioned, Chief Bergson mentioned that we have four reserves. We would only allow Cherry Valley to utilize one of our reserves if we at least had two reserves not out in the field. If I may... Yeah.
 If Cherry Valley, I don't understand, but if Cherry Valley is in need of such a vehicle for fire, if for some reason we are using that particular, our reserves, all of our reserves, what are they going to do in case of a fire? I think I'll let fire answer that, but I believe that they have other backups in place. Sure.
 just running really low on vehicles right now. They've got a very old fleet. They're in the process of trying to upgrade. While they are, we've allowing them to use one of our pieces of equipment only when it's not in use by us or when we don't expect to be using it. If there comes a time where we need all of our reserves, we'll be pulling them back and they're going to have to find a replacement for their truck from somewhere else. Mr. Mayor, then should we not
 be selling this to them? We have three reserves. We actually have four reserves. Four, I'm sorry. And there does come times that we utilize the four reserves, so I don't think that's the recommendation from the fire department. Alright, thank you very much. Is there further discussion? Okay, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alright, thank you. All those items pass and officers report
 I have no officers' reports. Seeing if any of you have any items that you would like presented. This is a quiet evening.
 Alderman Frost is going to ruin that. Alderman Frost. Mayor, in recognition of National Yoga Day on June 21st, and I know that our Wellness Center has had some wellness activities, including the Lunch and Learn program. I was just wondering perhaps maybe if you could lead a Lunch and Learn activity and learn and demonstrate some yoga for the city staff. Second. My flexibility does not allow any of that.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'll get you out of that. Thank you. Refreshing to hear your voice. I would like to congratulate Swedish American Hospital, the state of Illinois, approve their application. I think this is something very positive for our city and certainly for individuals within. Yeah, thank you. Wonderful comment. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. On the 27th,
 of June, that's Tuesday, a week from this Tuesday, the 10th Ward will hold a meeting in cooperation with three of their neighborhood groups
 you are going to be in attendance as a speaker along with frank harney the county board chairman uh to answer questions about how we're moving forward with collaboration certainly it's open to every ward every citizen to come out at the salvation army church 500 south rockford avenue five o'clock for treats and the event starts at 5 30 and it lasts only about one hour so
 So I'd like to just make sure the media gets that attention and broadcast it and invite every one of you colleagues to come and join and invite your residents as well. Thank you, sir. I'll tell Frank. Alderman Beach is an expert at that. He puts the treats before people speak like Frank and I because if Chairman Haney and I spoke and then there were treats, no one would eat them. Alderman Rose. Yes.
 I just want to recognize there's a group of Guilford students that won a $5,000 grant from the Ford Foundation for the work they're doing on green energy. And I also wanted to recognize our staff for attending a meeting with them. They're heading off to Michigan to present their work to the Ford Foundation. So I wanted to thank Wester Worry for his efforts in working with those students. Thanks.
 Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Rose. And Alderman Thompson-Kelley? Your Honor, I would like to recognize the members of RCI and their board explaining their mission and some of the things that they are working with. I do appreciate their efforts to be able to provide the information that they need. I would like to thank them for their efforts to be able to provide the information that they need. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 that they would work more with the residents as well as other members of the community. But they're doing a wonderful job as far as looking at the Ellis Heights area. I greatly do appreciate that. I also want to thank the police department. It was a rough weekend this weekend. For the support that I was given by the officers and the administration as far as all the activities that was taking place, I greatly do appreciate that.
 Thank you. And Alderman Tunberg? Thank you, Your Honor. I'd just like to say thank you to the third ward and the residents, especially the Churchill's Grove neighborhood. We had an unfortunate incident last Wednesday night amongst some residents
 individuals that had no business to be in our neighborhood. And the rising up of solidarity amongst our residents against this type of behavior has been nothing short of miraculous. So we are gonna have though a neighborhood, a neighborhood gathering tomorrow night, awareness and action gathering on the 1600 block of camp.
 and we're inviting those within the neighborhood and surrounding neighborhoods if they'd like to attend. Again, it's just an awareness and action gathering to show that we are unified to fight against this kind of behavior that seems to happen too often in our city. And we're going to now be in a position to try to be more proactive instead of reactive.
 Wonderful. Any other? Alderman Quinonez. Yes, I'd like to thank the Rockford Police Department and United Way for having a successful block party in my ward. Everybody had a good time. There was a lot of city employees out there and we all learned a lot. And I urge anybody else, any alderman here that when the next block party comes, if you got time to attend it, there's a lot to learn at the block parties. Wonderful. Thank you. Any further discussion?
 Okay. Unfinished business planning and development. Alderman Durkee. Thank you. I move that one item under Roman rule of the first amendment to the annexation of the Union of the Main Development and Community Health System Corporation, the interim meeting of the Director of Social Care, the appropriate ordinance, and the tax. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Alderman Frost. With regard to this item, I move to amend the committee report.
 under unfinished business committee reports, Roman numeral 7A, item 1, approval of the First Amendment to the annexation agreement, development agreement between the City of Rockford and Mercy Health System Corporation to reflect the following changes. Number 1, strike the recital on bottom of page 1 which reads, quote, whereas as provided for in the city's published fee schedule,
 construction observation fees for the completion of public infrastructure on private property and for the completion of roadways are normally due on filing of a plat, end of quote. And, number two,
 Strike the recital on the top of page 2 which reads quote whereas the city has determined that a reduction of the standard fees for construction observation for the roadway project would be appropriate as the city is executing the construction directly as a condition of the grant funding end of quote and 3.
 Strike the last recital on the top of page 2, which reads, colon, quote, whereas the city and owner desire to confirm that any fees due for the construction observation relating to the road project are subject to the total fees limitation of $900,000 set forth in the agreement, end of quote. And 4, strike subsection C.
 construction observation and permit fees, enrollment numeral two, scope of services, dash owner, open paren, page four, close paren period, end of quote. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Or is there a... I placed this item as amended for passage. We have to approve just the amendment first? Okay. Just a discussion first on just the amendment. My apologies.
 Alderman Herbert. Thank you, Your Honor. So, having just, you know, received this, I'm trying to look at it side by side with the annexation agreement. So what is the net effect of the four amendments? Net effect of the four amendments is at this time we're only considering the annexation agreement without the reduction in fees.
 So there's no discussion in that amendment. The amendment's taking away the $200,000 of fees so that we can discuss that at a later time. So the amendment at this point is just relating to the construction of the road itself? Yes, ma'am. Because we already took care of the amendment that was necessary to adjust the boundaries with Loves Park, Mr. Partridge? Mr. Cagnone on Loves Park.
 I recollect that the first annexation agreement did have to do with that, but, Todd, do you want to take it if you can? Mr. Kagan. Thank you, Chairman. That is correct, Alderman Hervey. The previous action taken by City Council was to amend the special assessment between the city, Rockford Memorial Hospital, the county, and the city of Loves Park. Okay. And, you know, as stated by...
 The Mayor, the proposed amendments removes the provisions related to an adjustment of the fees that were set forth in the original annexation agreement, understanding that there was a number of questions related to the previous language
 and what was being proposed within this first amendment. So that conversation's continuing, but understanding that we're quickly coming...
 to a point in time that we want to keep the road construction advancing forward. We thought it was best to move forward with the remaining portions of the agreement to set forth the process and procedure related to the Illinois Department of Transportation grant, and then we'll be bringing that award of bid forward shortly in the coming weeks as well.
 Alderman Hervey, follow up. And that brings me to my second concern. There are two provisions in here which are problematic and that has to do with, and I read the agreement from IDOT, in the event that the General Assembly does not appropriate money for this project, IDOT has a provision in their agreement that says they're done.
 they have no further obligation. That is concerning because I'm not sure where the state is right now with their allocations. And the way this reads, the city of Rockford will be undertaking the expenses and contracting, which makes sense,
 pending receipt of these funds. So two questions. Have we received the funds? Have they been appropriated? And do we have the $10 million before we start spending city money? And what is the legal effect if the General Assembly does not pass a budget, which means there is no appropriation for this project? Mr. Kagnon?
 So you had two questions. One, do we have the $10 million in hand? No, we do not at this point in time, nor was it anticipated that we would. This would be a reimbursable expense through the Illinois Department of Transportation. There has been notification from IDOT related to transportation.
 projects that are funded throughout the state and the impacts that might happen related to a budget freeze going into the month of July. We understand that this grant will not be impacted because of how it's funded through
 the state, but we will bring further clarification to you as we advance forward any award of bid for the road project. We do not have that in writing at this point in time. Set forth within this agreement, it does clearly state that the cost of the road project, the owner agrees that these costs for public improvements of the road project is the sole responsibility of the owner as set forth in the annexation agreement.
 So it is still their responsibility and further goes on to talk about reimbursables to the city from Mercy I just noticed it also said that they were reducing the amount of the letter of credit by the ten million dollars, which again makes sense and
 My concern, this has nothing to do with any of my objections to Mercy Rockford, but I am concerned that the state, that the money is allocated to IDOT. I know we don't get the money in hand until we actually...
 perform the contract. I just want to make sure that with the six and a half million dollar deficit, we cannot be stuck with ten million dollars in fees while the state of Illinois continues to fight over its budget. I just want to make sure that IDOT actually has the money and that the comptroller is authorized to release that money upon the presentation of our construction invoices. Understood. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Can you bring them, Mike? Sorry. So with those concerns, as well as I do, why would I vote for this with the uncertainty in Springfield? Mr. Cagnoni.
 This is not the award of the contract for the road construction, but the First Amendment to the annexation agreement that talks about how the grant and how we are going to move forward collectively. It should also be noted that this agreement provides further clarification from the original First Amendment that also talked about the Illinois Department of Transportation grant.
 This is not the award of the contract for construction, which is going to create the liability concern that Alderman Hervey raised. And secondly, this won't be final action tonight. This is the committee report, and the final ordinance will be scheduled next week. Further discussion? Alderman Frost? And maybe Mr. Cagnoni or Mr. Partridge can clear this up, but I do have a copy of the original agreement in front of us with regard to the roadway issue. Okay.
 Specifically says that the interstate boulevard extension shall be built concurrently with the development of the owner's hospital and medical campus and at the owner's expense and that the roadway will be constructed. It talks about that they're going to be applying for a grant, but I don't see anywhere in there where it actually obligates the city for any funding at all for any of the roadway improvements, unless you can correct me on that. Mr. Dagnoni?
 Thank you, Your Honor. That would be correct. The original annexation agreement in the First Amendment that's proposed and under consideration, the responsibility is on the owner. So their ability for the city, the owner to obtain the grant doesn't release any liability from the owner as it relates to the overall public improvements. Alderman Hurley. I'd like to propose an amendment to the amendment because they need to be considered in tandem.
 And that is that, and I didn't have time to write this down, but the owner, I'm going to use the owner, to apply to Mercy Health or whatever the name of it is, shall be responsible for all construction observation fees without limitation and that the owner specifically recognizes and agrees that,
 It also is responsible for any fees due for additional fees above $900,000 that are due for permits. I don't know what other items could be there. Permits, services, construction costs, or any other expenses related to the project. Second. There was a second second.
 We have an amendment, now we have an amendment to the amendment with the second. You guys are really testing me on my first month here. Alderman Durkee. Just a quick point of clarification for our parliamentarian. In order to amend something on the floor, we have to have it in writing, correct? Yeah. So, legal, what is your recommendation?
 I would recommend that we have it in writing. I've got a little bit of the language here, but I'm not sure I've got everything. I also need to know what part you would like to add this into in the agreement. Is there further discussion on the amendment that's on the floor right now? Okay. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. No. No. No. And it passes, correct? Okay. Okay.
 Moving forward under appointments, that's a oh, I'm sorry Thank you, is there a discussion on the amended item that's up for passage seeing no discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? Okay appointments have do you have a question Alderman Neely I
 Okay. Under appointments laid over, just making you aware that there's been an appointment made by myself for Marvin Hightower to serve a three-year term on the Community Action Advisory Board. This item is going to lay over and will be up for passage after July 5th. Under motions and resolutions, Alderman Chiarelli.
 this evening and under motions and resolutions. B1 is Solo Italiano, scheduled for Sunday, July 23rd from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. at Francesco's Ristorante, 7128 Spring Creek Road. The second is the Rockford Chamber Business Networking Event, scheduled for Thursday, July 13th
 from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. at 100 block of South Main Street between West 8 and Elm Street the third is transfer of city-owned properties to record or improvement RCI blight reduction program the addresses are a follow as follow
 to 11 Irving 1325 Magnolia 317 Marvin 1319 10th Street 1424 15th Avenue 725 maple 1816 West State Street 933 what an avenue for all 7 South independence in 943 Woodland Avenue close place those items up for passage on thank you and Sarah discussion on any of these three items
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed say aye. Okay, all items passed. Alderman Frost.
 The first item is an award of bid for a skid steer purchase with attachments to Bobcat of Rockford of Cherry Valley, Illinois for their bid of $112,986. The funding source is Central Supply Fund. Number two, award of bid, maintenance, repairs and operations supplies to Tri-B Hardware and Supply of Rockford
 For an estimated annual amount of $28,000, the funding source is the property fund. Number three, award of bid. The Woolshire Day Avenue Water Main Loop to Northern Illinois Service of Rockford, Illinois,
 for their bid of $77,105. The funding source is the Water Replacement Improvement Account. Number 4, award of bid for the Shiloh Road Extension to Northern Illinois Service of Rockville, Illinois and their bid of $346,060.06. The funding source is sales tax.
 Number five, award of bid, weatherization labor materials to total plumbing of Machese Park, Illinois for an amount not to exceed $783,302. The funding source is Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Combination Federal, HHS and DOE pass through and state funds.
 Award of Bid, Emergency Furnace Program Labor and Materials to Total Plumbing of Machesney Park, Illinois for an amount not to exceed $82,000. The funding source is Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program funds. Number seven, Award of RFP, Investment Brokerage Services to Fifth Third Securities of Chicago,
 In RBC Capital of Lincoln, Nebraska, the funding source is the General Investment Account. Number eight, award of RFP.
 ISO fire hydrant flow and field testing to be enough construction code services of Elgin, Illinois for an estimated value of $43,620. The funding source is fire department and water division operation budgets on a 50-50 split. Number nine, award a sole source contract overhead utility relocation between North Main Street and Latham Street to AT&T of Waukesha, Wisconsin for a contract amount of $57,216.28.
 The funding source is sales tax. Number 10, resolution to take proposals, I-2 analyst notebook social network analysis software. Funding source is the Criminal Justice Information Authority grant for $20,000 and the Justice Assistant grant, 2014 in the amount of $15,000. Number 11, resolution of the City of Rockford ascertaining the prevailing wages for laborers, mechanics and workers employed by said city.
 12. Tax abatement on foreclosure properties located at 925 North Rockton Avenue, 827 Whitman Street, 716 Ashland Avenue, and 943 Woodlawn Avenue. 13. A resolution reaffirming that elected official positions meet with 600-hour requirement for IMRF eligibility. Your Honor, I place those 13 items.
 Upper passage does anyone else need alderman to repeat those? Okay, thank you alderman frost is there a discussion on any of those 13 items Alderman Beach. Thank you. Number nine is the utility. There's 18 teams. Is that correct? It's not comment That's what it looks like Mr. Stocker see it, but I just want to hear it. I
 Yes, it is AT&T for that short section between North Main and Latham Street. These minor utilities, as they call them, as opposed to a ComEd or a water utility, always wait until the end to decide where they're going to bury theirs based on the proximity of the others. So, yes, this is AT&T. Wonderful. Alderman McNair. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Number 12, the tax abatement on the foreclosed properties.
 Will the city be in ownership of the property? Mr. Cognoni? I believe that to be the case, Alderman McNeely, that we're petitioning for those as we're pursuing ownership, but I'm not 100% certain. I believe Attorney Partridge could confirm that. Understanding, yes, that we're pursuing ownership. I'm sorry. We are pursuing those to, I believe, hone and to also turn over as part of the quarter improvement.
 Other discussion? Seeing no other discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Sting. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 11 ayes. Item number 10, 10 ayes, 1 abstain. Wonderful. Item number 7, 10 ayes. Thank you. All items pass. New business, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 10A, we have one item. In ordinance approving the development agreement with First Midwest Group,
 DYN Rockford LLC for the rehabilitation and redevelopment of 326 West Jefferson into a mixed use historic building that places up for passage. Wonderful, is there a discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you Mr. Mayor. DYN Rockford LLC is that subsidiary of First Mint Westworld? Yes. Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Hervey.
 Just part of curiosity, does the building already have historic designation or are we grant, I don't know, recognizing that or something? It does have historic designation. It does have it already. Okay, thank you. Other discussion? Okay, clerk, will you please call the roll? Tunberg. Aye. Brost. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach.
 Chiarelli, 11 ayes. Excellent. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 10B1 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming. And for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an outdoor seating area slash beer garden in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 4846 East State Street.
 The second is an ordinance approving the authority to use eminent domain pursuant to 65ILCS511-61-1 to acquire 2,672 square feet of 81X North Main Street and 364 square feet of 8XX North Main Street for the North Main and Whitman Intersection Project. And third is an ordinance approving the honorary street named
 change request for Green Street from Church Street to South Main Street to Tim Demke Drive in honor of former Park District Executive Tim, Director Tim Demke. Place those three ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Well, is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. All those opposed? Any other no's on B1's? Excellent. You want to take a roll on just that one or all of them?
 We'll do a roll call on just item B1. No. Toonberg, Frost, Hervey, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. Eight ayes, three noes. All items pass. Alderman Frost.
 in respect to NC Finance and Personnel Committee number one, an ordinance approving the Intergovernmental Agreement with Cherry Valley Fire Protection District for the rental of a fire engine on an interim, as needed basis through May 31, 2018. The Cherry Valley Fire Protection District will reimburse the city for the use of the fire engine at a rate of $150 per day. I place that item of passage. Wonderful, is there a discussion?
 Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll timber frost herbie hoffman rose beach quinones mcneely cheerily thompson kelly 11 eyes runner So that item passes Is there someone who has a motion alderman? Your honor I move to go into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation manner your honor before we um
 I don't know if it's appropriate for us to reconsider under unfinished business item number A1 or after full session.
 you want to reconsider item number 781 yes i have uh legal i had asked legal a question regarding that item that went through but there was a comment made alderman hervey had wanted to make amendment to the amendment and i my understanding is that she had the legal opportunity to do that
 So I think maybe if there's some kind of way that we can reconsider this. Not reconsider it and then... Alderman Chiarelli, do you want to withdraw your motion? I'll withdraw that motion at this time. Thank you. Director Partridge, do you want to give me some guidance on how we'll go back and reconsider item number, Roman numeral 7A1? There's a couple of points. I don't know if the motion to reconsider is in order. I think it needs to come from the prevailing party.
 That's the first point, just from a parliamentary standpoint. Secondly, Rule 14 of our council rules does require that any petition or communication to come before the council has to be in writing. So those are the two points that I would make in regard to Alderman McNeely's comments. So is there someone from my understanding then, someone from the prevailing side would need to make this and also is it in writing? Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I did not want to reconsider. I wanted to reconsider, but not in the legal sense of reconsidering the item. My understanding was to put the item up again because of the misunderstanding of the legality of being able to make that amendment that wasn't in writing. I know in the past...
 We have as a body several members made amendments that were not in writing that went through. So if there was a misunderstanding, that's why I wanted to review it, not necessarily reconsider. So if I'm not saying it right, please forgive me. But my point is to give her the opportunity to make that amendment. The city attorney is saying that she couldn't anyway.
 When she did approach me the first time, I hadn't yet found the rule. And then when Alderman Thompson-Culley approached me, I had to find the rule and let her know. Let her know. No, I've done what I've done. That Rule 14 requires that petitions and communications be in writing. Okay. So we'll go back. Is there a motion to go into closed session? Motion to discuss pending litigation matters. All those in favor? Aye. Those opposed? We'll take a brief recess. Durkee. Aye.
 Toomberg, Frost, Hervey, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. 11 ayes.