10 present thank you so we have a quorum looks like the chair is gone for finance and personnel and that's the only items that we have uh alderman logeman would you be willing to read that in or alderman hervey perfect thank you yes this is a resolution of the city of rockford ascertaining the prevailing wages for laborers mechanics and workers employed by the said city any discussion
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? No. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones? Chiarelli? Aye. Ten ayes, one no. Excellent. Item passes. Next up, we have officers' reports. I don't know if any of the other committees went over that. Does anyone have a pressing officers' report?
 alderman rose just real quick there's uh two neighborhood meetings in the ninth ward uh we have uh nezna coming up on thursday um and the northwest neighbor neighbors uh coming up tomorrow so um if anyone can attend those i believe they'll start at 6 00 p.m uh both of those um there's uh details on the uh facebook pages of both of them so alderman can you notice yes i want to i had a meeting with west award and uh
 the residents of eighth avenue want him to thank uh want me to thank him for doing a good job on that eighth avenue bridge uh he did an excellent job out there and i want to commend him for doing it and all the people on eighth avenue thank you alderman kianos alderman hervey just very quickly with regard to bridges i'd like an update on the
 can't remember if it's second or third street or first street the bridges over uh dividing hate village and the orchid neighborhood all three bridges are closed and it really shuts people off from being able to access downtown no it's not that far to go up to kishwaukee and come back around
 But going through the neighborhoods, especially for pedestrian and bicycle traffic, was a very good thing in not having to do that. So I understand we're working with the railroad. I appreciate their willingness to work with the city to get that rebuilt. But I would like to keep an update because people ask weekly. Thank you. All the time. And that's definitely a pain. We can get you a memo out to all other reports. Seeing none, thank you.
 Alderman Shirell. I have the privilege this evening to move to convening closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 you known as shirely aye eleven eyes thank you we'll recess