Kaplan Roy Whitmore. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for bringing us back together again. Lord, look favorably upon this council, Lord, that we may do the people's business. And God, we give you the honor and the praise in Jesus' name. Thank God. Amen. The United States of America is a great republic for which it stands. One nation, indivisible, with justice for all. Clerk, can you please call the roll? Dirky. Dirky.
 logeman toomber frost thompson kelly hoffman beach quinones mcneely shirelli 10 present thank you so we have a quorum is there a motion to approve the journal proceeding for the city council meeting held on june 3rd 2019 we have a motion in a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign
 Motion passes Next week is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on June 10th? 2019 if a motion in a second, is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same time motion passes next up we have one proclamation and is an Antonio Turner with us this evening and I
 Please, anyone that you'd like can come forward as well. Well, thank you for being here. Thanks for all your work. Whereas, on May 19th, two special graduation ceremonies took place in Rockford. And whereas, these ceremonies were designed by Antonio Turner and the Conscious Coaching Team to address issues many black students face. The education deficit and the...
 the urban community being one of the lowest in the state mental health issues crime and the lack of opportunity to see successful peers and Whereas students graduating from eighth grade and from the twelfth grade participated 62 students in total and whereas local african-american teachers and professors were also honored for their years of educational contributions to the community
 And whereas empowering our youth and acknowledging their persistence and dedication to education is key to transforming our community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2019 to be Black Graduation Celebration Month. Thank you so much for joining us and thank you for all of the work that you've done as a team, but also you individually for your tremendous efforts. Would you like to share a few words?
 No words? Can we get introductions from the kids? Hi, my name is David Day and I graduated from Auburn High School. Oh yeah, I'm also a legal intern here at the city, so hi everybody. Hi, my name is Najma Reed. I also graduated from Auburn High School and I work with the Rockwood Park District.
 Hi, my name is Nya Taylor. I also graduated from Auburn High School and I work with Magic Waters. Hi, I'm Latia Turner. I'm the wife of Tony and this is our daughter Timberland and this is our son Traylon. And we're here to support Tony in whatever he does and help him follow his passions and stick by his side. Excuse me, I'm Traylon and my dad's son and my sister's...
 Thank you, Daddy. Thank you, Daddy. Hi, I'm Bonita Hayes. I'm a substitute teacher in the Rockford and here to support my son in everything that he does. He's real passionate about young people, and I'm really proud of what he's doing, and so I want him to continue. Thank you.
 Next up we have petitions and communications planning and development committee alderman Durkee Thank you, Your Honor There are three items under Roman numeral for a first one is a memorandum from Todd Cagnone a city administrator regarding a proposed development agreement with International Women's Baseball Center for the establishment of phase one of International Women's Baseball Center and outdoor museum at 16 1 1 through 17 1 1 Seminary Street and
 adjacent to buyer stadium this will be referred to planning development item number two is a memorandum from todd cagnoli city administrator regarding a proposed memorandum of understanding with national resource network for neighborhood strategy development and community engagement process this is also referred to planning and development lastly item three memorandum from mark stockman director of public works regarding an application for better utilizing investments
 to leverage development or also known as a build grant this is also referred to planning development thank you alderman durkee next up we have code and regulation committee alderman cherello thank you
 Five items this evening. The first is a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an amendment to Section 16-127 of the Code of Ordinances, Notice of Violation, Administrative Education Procedure, Parking Ticket, City Declares No Emergencies. Second is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed amendments of the City of Rockford Tobacco Ordinance, Chapter 3, Article 2.
 Number three is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan again regarding the pre-annexation of 4640 Charles Street. Number four is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan regarding the annexation of 2115 through 2117 Angela Avenue.
 And number five is the memoranda from Martin Bloom, project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming special events, which includes Solo Italiano, Festa Italiana, and Ramp River Run. All of those items will be referred, Your Honor, to codes and regs committee. Thank you, Alderman Torelli. Next, we have finance and personnel committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have two items. First is a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the adoption of unclaimed property checks policy. In that matter, we refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, our Legal Director, regarding the proposed amendments to Minority and Women Business Enterprise Procurement Policy. And that item will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Alderman Frost.
 Next up we have public speakers. Just remind the public speakers that you'll have three minutes to speak and there's microphones on the back right and back left. First public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Job, the fifth chapter, the sixth to the seventh verse, it says, For mischief comes not out of the earth, nor does trouble spring out of the ground. But man himself causes mischief, as sparks fly upward.
 What I want to speak about tonight, the 17 causes of criminal behavior and my 17 solutions for this problem. 1. Fatherless children. 2. Hopelessness and despair. Hopelessness and despair is the mother of crime. 4. Negative self-image. 5.
 alcohol addiction, seven drug addiction, eight unemployment, nine poverty, ten homelessness, eleven financial problems, twelve legal trouble, thirteen health problems, fourteen domestic violence, fifteen relationship problems, sixteen gangs, seventeen illiteracy.
 Also the police in Rockwood should patrol the area more on the west side. The police should walk beats on the west side. This would help reduce crime by visibility patrol. Police with their squad cars isolate themselves from the community and the people lose trust in the police. If you want community police to work in Rockwood, use my idea. This will help the police in Rockwood to solve homicide crimes and other crimes because the citizens of Rockwood
 We'll give you information who is committing these crimes. If you eliminate these 17 things in America, you can reduce crime in Rockwood and America. You done tried to rest. Now it's time to try the best.
 Also, I've been wanting to tell Alderman Bill Rose and State Representative Letitia Wallace this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your families. Happy birthday to you.
 Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. And I wish you many more. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Dan McCurdy of Rock City. I spoke last week, but I didn't have enough time to say everything, so I'm just going to finish that one up. Last week I was talking about the...
 I was talking about the Pride, our gay pride movement, that comparison. I looked in the Bible, and I have another Bible book here. There's a comparison in the Bible of that, Sodom and Gomorrah. That's what you would have expected there, not here. Now, I have some, you're always praying. You had another prayer here. You're always praying at these committee meetings and the city council meetings.
 but you never use the Lord's wisdom. You just shuffle it off to the side. We got that process done. You don't need to do that. You need to listen to the Lord. He's got information for you to listen to. Here's one. I forgot about you, God. It wasn't until late in the afternoon that I suddenly realized I hadn't consciously thought of you all day, Lord, since my morning prayer.
 What a busy day I had, too busy to remember. Forgive me, Lord, of course, of my faith was not asleep.
 I'm still in your care and grace, even when I'm unconscious. But please help me to be more aware of your presence as I study your word. Converse with a Christian friend, enjoy the blessings of your good earth, and do my work. And thank you, Lord, for watching over me, even when I'm temporarily forgotten about you. And then hurt but healed. Oh, Lord, you allow hurt.
 but bring healing you permit pain but cause relief you send stress but also your spirit you test me but strengthen me you reprove me but encourage me you try me but never deny me your power is boundless o lord please be the name of the lord
 And what I'd like to say is the whole council and your committee meeting people, if you're going to be praying to the Lord to be involved, you can clean up this city real easily. You've got the answers. I've already given them to you, and Yusuf gave them to you. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Moving right along, we have new committee reports, Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, under Roman numeral five, new committee reports, A1, the operating agreement between City of Rockford and Rockford Park District for Davis Skate Park. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place that up for passage. Thank you. So, Alderman, we have one item up before you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Steele.
 Feach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely.
 9 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. That item moves forward. Next, we have Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirell. Thank you, Your Honor. Under 5B1, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store at 2514 South Alpine Road. Subject to conditions. Number 2, the committee recommends approval of the right-of-way dedication plat, Guilford Crossings.
 Number three the committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of city-owned parcel located at 4xx short horseman Street and number four the committee recommends approval of the proposed ordinance amending chapter 19 article 1 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances to prohibit electronic sweepstakes machines within the city of Rockford and the legal directors shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances your honor and I place those up for passage I
 thank you alderman trellis so alderman we have four items before you is there any discussion on any of those four items seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll durkee logan toomberg frost thompson kelly hoffman beach quinones mcneely and shirely item one nine eyes one no items two three four five ten eyes
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $4,785,647.03 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on June 10th, 2019. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the request for exception to the fine reduction policy for the property located at 3138 9th Street. Introduce the fine from $2,500 to $1,000 as the property is in compliance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the proposed transfer of eight city owned properties to the adjacent property owners under the city of Rockford's mode owned program. The properties are 12 XX Grant Avenue 5XX South horse Avenue 1921 South Main Street. Ohio Parkway 324 Salter Avenue 1329 school street 452 North Avon Street.
 And lastly, at 1535 Andrew Street, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval to authorize the chief of the fire department, Derek Bergsten, to execute agreements for the following private ambulance providers to assist with ambulance response when internal resources are unavailable. Metro Ambulance, Superior Ambulance, ATS Ambulance, and OSF Ambulance. The terms of the agreement with the private ambulance provider shall be consistent with the agreement for ALS ambulance services between the City of Rockford and OSF healthcare system.
 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number five the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the winnebago county for the services of a coordinator in the winnebago county emergency service and disaster agency known as esda the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and i place those five items before you thank you alderman frost so alderman we have five items before you is there any uh discussion on those five items
 i see no discussion clerk we all doing man beach i'm sorry thank you um did we not have an agreement uh with the ambulance providers or is this something that comes up every year director burke
 So we had agreements with the ambulance providers up until about 2015. It was never formalized. We had an incident with one of the private ambulance providers that we were directed at that time with legal to develop a formal agreement. Since then, we've signed a couple additional, and one of the recommendations from the legal department was have city council approve that agreement. So that's where we're bringing all the ambulance provider agreements in front of city council for your approval. Thank you. Does this then...
 Is this ongoing then, or comes up every year, or how does that work? No, it would just be that you're approving the agreement, and typically we sign these. We meet with the providers twice a year just to go over updates on call response times, any issues we have. But once it's approved here is that it would be a standing agreement. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 And I think more to your point, Chief Berkson, will you be able to provide, if there are any issues that arise, provide that feedback back to Alderman so they know that? Yes. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Is there a reason why that we could not at least go for a trial period of 12 months? Trial period for the ambulance providers? Yes. Yes.
 For the new ones. I mean, OSF, we've worked with OSF for a number of years, but have we worked with the other ones in the past? That's my concern. Yeah, we've worked with them probably the last 15 years. All of them? Yes. When we had an incident in 16, we never had any formalized agreements. It was basically just e-mails or phone calls. We had an incident where we didn't have a –
 um a conflict resolution agreement that led to some issues and then that's where we got legal involved to have an agreement so we could actually have a formal signed document but we've have had relationships with all the providers for quite some time that's my concern so um i hope that if if we find that we're we're not
 satisfied with some of them, then we would easily be able to walk away from that agreement. Oh, definitely. And like I said, we monitor the data as far as response times, feedback from our crews and patients. If we have issues, we bring it up to them right away. And if we do not have any remedy to that, then we would stop using that provider to provide backup to us. And I'm sure it's somewhere in the agreement for us to be able to walk away. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Any further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Ten ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. The item passes. Next up, we have appointments laid over. The only item that'll be voting on because the appointment to the Community Action Agency is not until after July 3rd is the first one, which are the department heads. Carrie Haggerty for Finance, Cherise Hunter for Human Resources, George Davis for Human Services, Glenn Trommels for Information Technology.
 Nicholas Myers for a legal director, Mark Stockman for public works, Carl Franzen for community and economic development. Is there a discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelly. No, Your Honor. You just overlooked officers' report. Oh, I am sorry. It was right at the bottom of my page. Let's go back. Or do you mind if we do this and then go back? You can do this and go back. I'll go right back. Thank you. Thank you.
 Any discussion on the department head's appointments? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Milgeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Eleven ayes. Thank you.
 Thank you. The item passes next up. We're gonna go right back to officers reports alderman Thompson Kelly I will give you the stage first. Thank you. Your Honor. Appreciate it. I just want to add to This evening we gave a proclamation To an individual Tony Turner, I want to add a couple things that mr. Turner has done last year. He had the trunk a treat at Andrews Park, which was hundreds of
 hundreds and hundreds of kids that he serviced. And on July 7th, he will be having a community wellness fair at Andrews Park where he will have, it will be on July 7th, starting at 11 in the morning, where he's going to have religious service, games, food for the children to play.
 And I do appreciate all the efforts that he's doing. I appreciate the park district and their assistance in helping him because he's doing a very, very, very worthy cause. And this is what you really call a partner in this community. I also want to mention that on March the 20th, the West Side Business Association, we will be meeting. I wanted to remind everyone, the speakers have increased.
 with Senator Severson as well as Steve Stoudelman as well as Mr. West. Our state representatives will be speaking at the 20th meeting at Fuzzy Mexican Restaurant, if legal don't close them, at 2515 Kilburn Avenue. I also wanted to thank you, Your Honor. I did attend the Winnebago County Board Meeting.
 to where they're speaking of the land bank and i want to thank the rockford park district as well as yourself pastor copeland and the board of education and supportive of it because it's something that is going to benefit this entire community and i hope that if anyone has any comments to with the county board members please encourage them to support something that's going to support this entire community thank you
 thank you and alderman thompson kelly could i ask that you email me the information about the july 7th event that way we'll make sure it gets all to the all of the aldermen and also uh do what we can to promote it thank you okay thank you alderman beach and then i'll come back to alderman logan thank your honor i received a letter uh from a resident
 outliner concerns about a recent special use permit that we granted and would like to have us check up and see while the debris is not picked up except for the things that were outlined as the conditions and so I'd like to refer this letter to your office to our legal director to our director of public works and to the neighborhood standards for review
 Perfect. We will grab that. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Thank you. Next up, Alderman Mogman. I just wanted to thank Mr. Turner as well. I think he left, but for his great efforts with the students of Auburn High School, good to see a few students of Auburn High School back here. Like I see Mr. Day back there. So it's a great asset for the city of Rockford to be having him in the city legal department. So I think, I don't know, might have a future mayor or governor in the house here. That'd be awesome.
 Yeah, he was a state champion in speech or state finalist? Yeah, yeah. He was fourth place in the state. Oh, hum. No, we are fortunate to have him. Other comments? Alderman Thompson-Kellett.
 I think you yonder for allowing me to speak again. I did make a mistake Todd corrected me maybe because I voted for him Yeah that my meeting is not in March is June 20th at 7 p.m It's pussies. Thank you time like a beginning of a beautiful relationship there, right? any other officers reports I
 Seeing none, we'll move forward. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. I don't believe we have anything under planning and development, so we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Your Honor, first is approval for a proposed sale of city-owned parcel located at 1116 24th Street. The second is Booker Fest. The event is scheduled for Friday, July 12th through Sunday, July 14th. The third is Alpine Kiwanis Brat Days, scheduled for Friday, July 19th and Saturday, July 20th.
 Number four is tour de North End event is scheduled from Saturday July 20th and the fifth the st Edwards annual summer fest which is scheduled for Sunday, July 28th And I placed those items up for passage runner. Thank you alderman Trelli So we have five items before you is there any discussion on those five items saying no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Logoman tuber frost Irving's Thompson Kelly
 Hoffman, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. 11 ayes.
 thank you those items pass next up we have financing personnel committee alderman frost thank you first is an award of bid for commercial vehicle body repair to dom paris and sons collision center and auto enhancers both of rockford illinois for an estimated annual value of 110 000 based on unit pricing the contract creation is one year with four optional one-year extensions the funding source is the central garage operating budget
 Number two is an award for bid for the 2019 neighborhood water main replacement to N track group in the amount of 1,315,974 dollars. The funding source is the water replacement and improvement account. Number three is an award of sole source contract for the purchase of additional software licenses to Hansen software. The software is used for permits, building permits, planning code, enforcement, customer service. In asset management, the cost is 78,000 for the software.
 And $15,600 for maintenance, the funding source is the information technology operating budget. Number four is an award of RFP for the ISO fire hydrant flow and field testing to M.E. Simpson Company of Valparaiso, Indiana for an estimated contract amount of $48,570.
 Based on unit price of $48.75 per hydrant, the contract duration is one year. The funding source is the fire and water department operating budgets with a 50-50 cost sharing.
 Number five is an award of RFP for the Head Start Transportation Services to first student of Naperville, Illinois in the amount of $1,021,939.16 for transporting 460 students for 166 days per school year. And $2,246.40 for 32 field trips for a total of $1,034,185.56.
 The contract duration is one year with two one year extensions. The funding source is the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Head Start. And lastly, number six is the approval of the Abandoned Residential Property Municipality Relief Program grant. And it says round number four.
 I place those items before you. Thank you. Alderman frost. So we have 6 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 6 items? Alderman McNeil? Thank you Mr. Mayor item number 6 is what grant is that? Is that a federal state? Director friends through the Illinois housing development agency that state any other discussion on the 6 items before you. Yes. Alderman McNeil.
 Number three the software is this a new software or do we currently have? This company for the same software and there's a upgrade I believe it's existing software and we've added new users in our property and code enforcement division. I
 Would the new users be within the city? Yes. Okay. All right. Thank you. No problem. Any other discussion on the six items before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. 11 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have planning and development. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 10, new business A1, an ordinance approving an operating agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Park District for Davis Park Skate Park.
 First, the need to suspend rule number 15. We have a motion to suspend rule 15. Is there a second? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor of suspending rule 15, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. It's been suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like to place the ordinance up for passage. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost.
 Urbans, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli.
 10 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Item passes. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 9B1, an ordinance approving the sale of package beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store at 2514 South Alpine Road. Number 2 is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned parcel located at 4XX Short Horseman Street. Thank you.
 Number three is an amend an ordinance amending chapter 19 article 1 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances to prohibit electronic sweepstakes machines within the city of Rockford place those three ordinances up for passage your honor Thank You alderman Trelli. So we have three items before you is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Berkey Aye Logeman Aye Thunberg Aye Frost Aye Irvins Aye Thompson-Kelly Aye Kite Aye
 Hoffman? Beach? Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Item 1, 10 ayes, 1 no. Items 2 and 3, 11 ayes. Thank you. Thank you. Those items passed. Next up we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost.
 Number one is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at 12XX Grant Avenue under the City of Rockford's Moda Owned Program to Weiland and Pamela Parks. Number two is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at 5XX South Horace Avenue
 To Judith Perez and all these items under the city of Rockford's Moda own program. Number three is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at 1921 South Main Street to Jimmy and Ernestine Henderson. Number four is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at Ohio Parkway to Nancy Martinez. Number five is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at 324 Salter Avenue to First Christian Church of Rockford, Illinois.
 Number six is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at 1329 School Street to Murcio Elrano. Number seven is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at 452 North Avon Street to Carol Yoho. Number eight is an ordinance approving the transfer of property located at 1535 Andrew Street to Shirley Evans.
 Number nine is an ordinance authorizing the chief of our fire department, Derek Bergsten, to execute agreements for the following private ambulance providers to assist with ambulance response when internal resources are unavailable. Metro ambulance, superior ambulance, ATS ambulance, and OSF ambulance. The terms of the agreements with the private ambulance provider shall be consistent with the agreement for ALS ambulance services between the city of Rockford and OSF healthcare system.
 Number 10 is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County for the services of a coordinator in the Winnebago County Emergency Services and Disaster Agency known as ESDA.
 Number 11 is an ordinance approving a collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Firefighters, known as IAFF Union, from 2018 to 2021, which includes a 2% general wage increase effective on January 1, 2018 and annually thereafter to January 1, 2021. And it's indicated that we need to suspend rules 9 and 15 of this matter.
 Director my Leave a requesting. We'll need to go to closed session on item number 11 at least so we're asking to hold out 11 and 12 until we Reconvene from closed session. Okay, so you're asking us to vote on items 1 through 10 and item 13 and hold out 11 and 12
 And so 13 is an ordinance approving the purchase of the property located at 4801 Shepherd Trail for the purposes of the police department property and evidence ID unit in processing and evidence storage. And again, it indicates that the items rule 9 and 15.
 Should be in a vote. We have a motion to suspend Rules 9 and 15. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on the suspension of Rule 9 and 15 for Item 13? Seeing none, all those in favor of suspension say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. We have one opposed, so the item passes. So, Your Honor, we'd have Items 1 through 10 and 13 up for passage. Yes.
 Thank you. So we have 1 through 10 and item 13 up. Is there a discussion on items 1 through 10 and item number 13? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Urbans. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Items 1 through 10. 11 ayes. Item 13. 10 ayes. 1 no.
 Thank you. So next, Director Myers, do you want me to ask Alderman Shirelli or Alderman Frost? Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Okay. I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiation matters. So we have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? We'll move into closed session.
 Bloomberg here frost here Irvins here Thompson Kelly Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely Hoffman 11 present excellent so we uh we still have a quorum that's great uh next up uh I'm gonna turn to Alderman Frost Alderman Frost I'm gonna turn to you for the next two items items 12 and 13 of the finance and personnel agenda you're gonna need to
 your honor back uh on number 11 is an ordinance approving a collective bargaining agreement with the international association of firefighters iaff union from 2018 to 2021 which includes a 2 general wage increase effective on january 1 2018 annually thereafter january 1 2021.
 Number 12 is an ordinance approving a 2% general wage increase for non-union employees for 2019, excluding Head Start employees that are funded by the Head Start grant. The increase shall be retroactive from January 1, 2019. Excellent. So do you want to provide us a motion to suspend the rules? Yes, Your Honor. I'd also provide a motion on both those matters to suspend Rules 9 and 15. Second.
 so we have a motion and a second to suspend the rules on those two items is there any discussion on suspending the rules of those two items seeing no discussion all those in favor of suspending the rules for those two items say aye aye aye those opposed to suspending the rules say aye and we'll move forward so now do you want to place those two items up before council yes alderman frost would like to place those two items before council so uh we have items 11 and 12 before you is there any discussion on those two items
 Alderman Durkee Thank You Your Honor just as it relates to number 11 the firefighters union I you know, I commend that you know yourself your honor and Attorney Myers for getting a you know, a very good contract that historically was but it's been very difficult sometimes to negotiate however
 given my reticence to the contract as has always been and I Said this on the floor before but I am now not going to support this collective agreement because I've said on the floor before and other aldermen as well that if we were in a times of austerity and while this is a good contract and
 We still suffer from the callbacks and the fact that we have a minimum Manning standard there that gives us very little latitude in some of the the Overtime and some of the overages in the budget and without us having that ability at which I think is a big one and I think it has a lot of implications in the city where the poverty rate is between 14 and 16 percent and the median income is somewhere around $39,000 that these
 costs have to somehow structurally have to be addressed and while this is a good contract I think without and I know I'm asking for a lot when we discuss this issue and it probably never will happen in my lifetime But but it really needs to be considered And so although this is a good contract that cannot be in support of it because of Just my comments and my observations in the past and
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. As it was mentioned in closed session, I believe this is the first firefighters negotiation that did not result in an arbitration. So I wanted to commend both the city staff. I know Chris here and the union representation that took place in those
 in those meetings that that you know when an agreement comes out like this it's similar to a mediation either side left something on the table but did it for the benefit of the city so I do appreciate both sides and negotiating this contract thank you thank you alderman Frost any other discussion seeing no alderman sure yeah I just want to repeat what alderman Frost said I think that's a very good statement when you say when both sides came to the table and agreed to
 to agree on this contract i think it's a good contract for our city and i'm glad to see both parties came to agreement on that thank you thank you seeing no further discussion clerk will you please call the roll dirk no one 11 9 and 12. logan hi timber hi frost hi irvins all right thompson kelly hoffman beach quinones mcneely shirely hi
 Item number 11, 10 ayes, 1 no. Item 12, 11 ayes. Thank you. That concludes the evening. Is there a motion? Second. We have a motion and a second to adjourn. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.