one another and to serve you. Help us to come to understand that real peace, the eternal peace comes from a right relationship with you. Help each one of us, Lord, to light the way so that we can see clearly to do the things that please you the most. Father, during this time of reflection, may we be drawn closer to you. We need your help, Father.
 Your word teaches us to clothe ourselves with compassion, to clothe ourselves with kindness, to clothe ourselves with humility, gentleness, and patience. Help us never forget, Father God, that love is the greatest force in all of the world, and that force can bind us together in perfect unity. Now, we ask you to lead and guide our leadership team, our city staff, whether it be our city council, our mayor, our first responders,
 that our ultimate responsibility is to serve you, and we pray this now, this evening, in the name of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Now I'll unmute everyone, and we can attempt to do the Pledge of Allegiance together. Are you doing the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes. Pledge of Allegiance. Jesus Christ. I come.
 I think we're getting a lot better at that. So, Chad, could you please call the roll for us? Turkey. Turkey.
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Can you say it one more time? I'm sorry. Hoffman? Here. Thank you. Rose? Present. Beach? Here. Kenona? Here. Stanley? Here. McNeely? Here. McNeely? Here. You're muted. Can you take your- I hear you now. Here. Thank you. Shirley? Here. Thank you. 12 present. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, so we have a forum. Is there a motion to approve the general proceedings for the city council meeting held on May 18, 2020? So moved. Second. We have a motion and we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed, same time. Okay. Next, is there a motion to approve the general proceedings for the special city council meeting held on May 26, 2020?
 Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Next up, we do not have any proclamations. Alderman, would you prefer me to read in the petitions and communications or go around?
 Finally, your honor, you can read them. So, planning and development committee on their petitions and communications, we have a memorandum from Kyle Saunders. Public works director regarding an application and award acceptance of the 2020 department of commerce and economic opportunity. We build Illinois.
 competitive public infrastructure program grant that's been referred to the planning development committee next we have a code and regulation committee zoning board of appeal appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on june 16 2020 and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on june 22nd 2020 that's been referred now
 Next under codes and regs, liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on June 16th, 2020 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at code and regulation committee meeting on June 22nd, 2020. That's been referred to codes and regs. The following are from finance and personnel committee. We have a memorandum from off the Curia Vaughan assistant city attorney regarding lease agreement between the city of Rockford and Redland Inc.
 doing business as Blue Line Sports Pubs for the property located at 211 A Elm Street for a one-year term.
 And that's been referred. Item number two, memorandum from Chief Ertz and Rockford Fire Department regarding the approval of the request to seek goods for the replacement of an ambulance referred to financing personnel. Item three, memorandum from Chad Baker, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the waiver of reduction of liens on several properties to be sold to Region 1 Planning Council for reimbursing.
 for the land bank purposes referred to finance and personnel item number four memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding the intergovernmental agreement with rock river water reclamation district for ex-brook neighborhood spaces one and two referred to finance and personnel committee at this time i'm going to ensure i unmute glenn down there on the
 on city hall chambers because we have one public speaker and that's mr john pack bradley uh mine is mr brantley with us yes mr brantley is with us wonderful we uh if you give me two seconds here we are ready when he is my kick we got you john thank you ready okay
 Okay. Good evening, Mayor McNamara and all the persons. I always like to read from John chapter 10, verse 10. The thief does not come to steal and to kill and to destroy. I come that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly. But I came so that my sheep will have life and so that they will have everything they need.
 I am with you and no one is going to be able to hurt you. You have no idea how many people I have on your side in this city. Amen. I'm freestyling today. I'm glad to hear that the library is open.
 the district, not the main library, but they branch libraries. It's got a special openness. I'm glad to hear that the Boys and Girls Club will start bringing in folks. But one of my main concerns is not only talking about the coronavirus,
 But this here weekend, we got Juneteenth coming up on the 19th, and we also got the Great America Cleanup that I have 30 people signed up for. And then we got Father's Day Cleanup. I want to back up and talk about Juneteenth. I was at, I've been at all these rallies and protests. I've been averaging 30. The first two, we had over 100 people that was at the protest. It was interesting to hear one of the teachers from East, East Carolina.
 uh high school so he never heard about the um the tuskegee tuskegee tuskegee oklahoma massacre until two weeks ago we have donald trump to thanks for that because that we've been knowing about that been uh uh next year will be over 100 years
 and then the fact that Donald Trump wanted to do it on Juneteenth. So we're going to have a protest and what have you. I was glad to hear some of the congressmen talking about making Juneteenth a national event.
 Holiday. But what about the thousands of family members and the black Wall Street families that was killed? Where's the restitution coming in at? I want to go back because we've been talking about the cameras for years. This is not the first time. Glad to hear the mayor and the chief of police is talking about wearing cameras.
 But what I'm concerned is this weekend, Miss Holloman said they came back from the park and the officer came up and asked where was A.J. at. He wanted to talk to A.J., accusing A.J. of being involved when they was looting.
 AJ was not there when they were rooting. I had three other youths come up to me telling me about being harassed. We had a staff meeting Wednesday and we had quite a few family members just calling me
 that's calling me about being harassed by the police. My concern is what eight people that you have, but we not at the table. We should be at the table so you can hear from us to have nots. A lot of our people will not talk to those people, those individuals who that you mentioned.
 After we have our staff meeting, half of my staff is highly upset with the chief of police. I'm not looking at finding the chief of police. Finding them is not the resolution to the problem. What the resolution is to the problem is that we're going to have to do it. Thank you. Yes. Appreciate it. We'll give you a call after our staff meeting. I would love for you to have a meeting with our staff so we can hear their concerns.
 We'd be happy to meet with your staff for sure. Thank you. Next up, we have new committee reports and we have Code and Regulation Committee. That goes to Alderman Trellis. Thank you, Your Honor. I have just one committee report this evening. The committee recommends approval of the flat of Rockford Public Library Campus subdivision. I place that committee report on the passage, Your Honor.
 We have one item before us and, uh, just want to let you know, Chad, that I believe Alderman Durkee is on with us. Just so you're aware he has gotten on. I don't see that Natavious has. I am here. Awesome. We got Natavious as well. So we got a full house now. So we have one item before you, Alderman, under codes and regs. Is there any discussion under that item? I don't see any questions. Okay.
 Seeing no questions, all those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Next up, we'll have finance and personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Eric. Okay.
 So, Your Honor, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $3,139,213.74 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on June 8, 2020. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Intergovernmental Agreement to the State of Illinois under the Second Amendment to the City of Rockford for an extension of the lease.
 OF OFFICE BASE AT 303 NORTH MAIN STREET FOR A FIVE-YEAR TERM. OF OFFICE BASE AT 303 NORTH MAIN STREET FOR A FIVE-YEAR TERM. OF OFFICE BASE AT 303 NORTH MAIN STREET FOR A FIVE-YEAR TERM. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHOULD MAIN STREET FOR A FIVE-YEAR TERM. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHOULD MAIN STREET FOR A FIVE-YEAR TERM. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHOULD APPROVE THE APPROPRIATE THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHOULD APPROVE THE APPROPRIATE THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHOULD APPROVE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. APPROVE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. APPROVE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. NUMBER TH
 For a five-year term the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement for dispatching emergency services between Harlem Roscoe Fire Protection District and the City of Rockford E911 Center. The anticipated revenue is $26 per call. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership non-federal share waiver request in the amount of $143,628 for the grant period of July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'll face all five of these matters for approval.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Alderman, there are five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? I don't see any hands raised, but just wanted to make sure. Seeing none, clerk, could you please follow up? Gerke. Aye. Jeff Rainey. Aye. Humbert. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Ervin. Aye. Ervin.
 TAMSON KELLY. TAMSON KELLY. AYE. THANK YOU. BOTHMAN. AYE. ROSE. AYE. BEACH. AYE. CANONAS. AYE. HANLEY. AYE. MCNEILLY. AYE. SHERELLY. AYE. 14 AYE.
 Thank you. So those items passed. Next up, we have an appointment that's to be laid over, appointment of Reginald Alexander to the Community Relations Commission to fill that vacancy amount for that park. Term will expire July of 2022.
 Your Honor, I'd like to make a motion that we suspend the rules to approve Reginald Alexander to the Community Relations Commission. Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend the rules to a, so there's a motion and a second. Can I have a voice vote for those who are in this person on the ask? Is there any discussion on this item? Yes. Alderman McNeil?
 Okay, thanks Why why are we the rules why are we pushing it forward I? Would like to suspend the rules alderman because the Human Relations Commission has recently just met I think it's imperative that we get this rule appointment on that commission For one week matter
 So the one thing I can add to that is so we met last week, the Community Relations Commission did and they began reviewing the use of force document that we had them reviewing for the community. And so we don't want someone to fall two weeks behind and they do have a meeting later this week and they'll probably be meeting weekly to review that. So that would be the only significant thing.
 That's significant enough, but that is the only significant item on their agenda is to review that at this time. I'm trying to understand. Will one person make a difference in a vote or moving the other item forward? Joe Alderman, McNeely, I don't know. It's one person. Okay.
 I was just going to say, I don't think one person would change any voting item. We just want to make sure as they do review the use of force documents, all of them that they have a full board and that they start at the same baseline so that they're not trying to reteach someone halfway through it. And we want them to continue to work as quickly as possible. That's all up to you guys. Hi,
 One second Alderman Hervey, Alderman McNeely, did you have anything to add? That's it for now, thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, I think that was you. Yeah, I wanted to kind of respond to that a little bit. I know Mr. Alexander personally. I previously worked with him on some committees, particularly having to do with youth and community issues.
 He's involved with an organization called 100 Strong, and that group has done a lot to address everything from crime prevention among juveniles. They provide safe haven. I guess an easy way to say it is I think he's involved in a lot of the things that I think we're looking at right now, including the use of force and some of the other community-wide issues. Okay.
 And I just think he would be an excellent voice to have on that committee as they move forward. I just kind of felt like Joe beat me to it. I'm sorry, Alderman Chiarelli beat me to it. But I wanted, as soon as I saw his name, I thought I'd like to get him on there quickly so he can hit the ground running. Because I think he adds a lot to it.
 that community with his perspective. And I don't say that just because he's a Fifth Ward resident, but he's also a Fifth Ward resident. Thank you. We're trying to get him approved. Let's not, you know. Okay. Any other discussion? There's just a motion and a second to suspend the rules. We'll take the motion and the second to suspend the rules first. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Those opposed? Okay. So now we'll bring up the item of the appointment of Reginald Alexander to the Community Relations Commission. Is there any discussion on his appointment? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Item passes. Thank you. Next item, William.
 Next up, we will go to motions and resolutions, and we'll go to for planning and development committee. Okay.
 So motions under item one, that's the authorization to apply for and accept the Rebuild Illinois Public Infrastructure Program grant funds from the Illinois Department of Commerce, an economic opportunity for $5 million if awarded. Place that motion up. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Was there any discussion on that one item? No.
 Alderman Hervey, I see your hands raised. I don't know if it's from last time. It was, but I also just wanted to amend that to add that the city will offer a 34% cost match. Not amend it, but that was...
 I think it may not have been on the older agenda, but the new one does have for that item. The city will offer a 34% cost match. That is on, yep. Any other discussion? I don't see any. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Yes, Brainy. Aye. Schindler.
 Aye. Irving? Aye. Irving? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Thompson-Kelly? Oh, aye. Thank you. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirelli?
 aye 14-i thank you the item that's next up we'll move to financing personnel with alderman frost
 THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. NUMBER ONE IS AN AWARD OF BID FOR THE 2020 CITYWIDE PAVEMENT MARKING THERMAL TO COUNTRYMAN INC. OF RACKFORD IN AMOUNT OF $59,896 TO BE COMPLETED IN 2020. THE FUNDING SOURCES, THE MULTIFUEL TAX. NUMBER TWO IS AN AWARD OF BID FOR THE EAST STATE STREET OVER RACKFORD WITH BRIDGE REPAIRS TO MARTIN AND COMPANY EXCAVATING OF OREGON IN THE AMOUNT
 THE ESTIMATED COMPLETION DATE IS OCTOBER 30 2020 THE ESTIMATED COMPLETION DATE IS OCTOBER 30 2020 THE FUNDING SOURCE IS SALES TAX THE FUNDING SOURCE IS SALES TAX NUMBER THREE IS AN AWARDED BID FOR NUMBER THREE IS AN AWARDED BID FOR ARCHITECTURAL MECHANICAL AND EMERGENCY ARCHITECTURAL MECHANICAL AND EMERGENCY FURNACE WITH A 2020-2021 FURNACE WITH A 2020-2021 WATERIZATION PROGRAM TO TOTAL PLUMBING AND HEATING WATERIZATION PROGRAM TO TOTAL PLUMBING AND HEATING OF MICHESNE PARK FOR AN ESTIMATED OF MICHESNE PARK FOR AN ESTIMATED ANAL CON
 OF THE $1,278,501 BASED ON UNIFICATION. OF THE $1,278,501 BASED ON UNIFICATION. OF THE $1,278,501 BASED ON UNIFICATION. THE OF THE $1,278,501 BASED ON UNIFICATION. THE CONTRACT OF THE $1,278,501 BASED ON UNIFICATION. THE CONTRACT DURATION UNIFICATION. THE CONTRACT DURATION UNIFICATION. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS UNIFICATION. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS ONE UNIFICATION. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS ONE YEAR UNIFICATION. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS ONE YEAR WITH THE CONTRACT DURATION IS ONE YEAR WITH THE CON
 I was the best. Thank you all of them. And also, all of them, and there's three items, but for you, is there any discussion on those three items? I don't see any hands raised. Without seeing any discussion, could we please call the vote? Gerke. Aye. Yes, Rainey. Aye. Tinderman. Aye. Ross. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvin. Aye.
 Captain Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we'll go to new business, and under that, we'll go back to finance and personnel and all the new thoughts. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the State and the Department of Central Management Services in the City of Rockford for the extension of the lease of office space at 303 North Main Street, Fort
 For a 5 year term number 2 is an ordinance approving a lease agreement from the city of rock and 303 North Main Street LLC for an extension of the lease of office space at 303. With name for also the same 5 year term number 3 is an ordinance, improving an intergovernmental agreement for dispatching emergency services between Harlem Moscow. Fire protection district in the city of rock for the 9 when one center.
 The anticipated revenue is $26 per call. The number four is an ordinance approving the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership non-federal share waiver request in the amount of $143,628 for the grant period of July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020. And I place these four matters to the ordinance's ad hoc approval. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So there's four items before you, Alderman. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 I don't see anyone with their hand raised. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Yes, Brainy. Aye. Tim Burton. Aye. Scott. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Urban. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 aye quinones aye stanley aye mcneely aye shirelli 14-9 thank you uh last but not least we'll go to officers reports and because we received a number of complaints last week we will begin with
 oh thank you your honor you were listening i appreciate that so yeah thank you um this past week we received a lot of different correspondence from citizens the 14th ward and around the city about different uh code violations and their forestry concerns so i appreciate the staff and their hard work addressing those in
 issues. Sometimes it's we don't say it enough. I'm sure we do every week, but again, I want to say thank you to all the staff. It puts a lot of dedication into the jobs. It makes life a little easier for the citizens to know somebody really cares out there. Second, I also received some inquiries
 inquiries, Your Honor, from citizens, individuals, and from groups that are thinking about the Fourth of July coming up, and they want to be able to show their patriotism on the Independence Day, either having car parades or other like similar events, either private or public property in light of the Fourth of July cancellation of the fireworks and the parade. Could you even
 Either have staff make a comment on that and how we can direct these calls to the city. Why are these about doing something other than an organized event such as the 4th of July committee? Thank you. Mr. Cagnone, would you have anything to add on that?
 Thanks, Your Honor. Sure, any inquiries related to activities like that can go through our special event permit process, facilitated with our legal department and our public works department, and we'll be happy to give guidance on how they can proceed based on the governor's executive order and the city's ordinance on special events.
 If a special event permit is needed, what would you suggest that the time when these inquiries are in? Mr. Cagnoni. If there's inquiries that are out there now, I would suggest we start communication so we can understand the scale and scope of the event that they may be proposing for later in the summer and we can give them guidance on how we would move forward.
 subject to, you know, the advancement of the Governor's Restore Illinois plan. Okay. I appreciate it. Thank you. That's all, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trevelyan. Alderman McNeely? Thank you, Your Honor. I'm not sure if the report that we get from the Health Department is made public or not, so I wanted to comment on some of the numbers that were presented to us.
 By zip code 61101, these are a number of cases. There was 1,537.5. 61102 was 1,285.2.
 61103, 1224.7, 61104, 1572.5, and 61108 was 1467.6. Those were the highest numbers by zip code in the city of Rockford. The least highest was 61111 at 438.4.
 Also, if I can show the number of the percentages of cases for African Americans was 23.9%, and this was as of yesterday, 6-14. Hispanics were 20.6%, whites were 26%, and Asians was 2.1%. I wanted to...
 Give those numbers because we have to stay. Cognizant of the fact that we're still in a pandemic. And I think those numbers tell us a lot for each one of those zip codes. Also, Mr mayor, I want to.
 announced the summer meals for the kids, the federal summer food program that's still going on that we passed last week. And the places that people can go and get the food is at Alpine Hills Park, Booker Washington Center, the House of Grace at 518 North Court, Lincoln, Lockwood Park, St. Elizabeth Community Center,
 Washington Park, the YMCA at 200 Y Boulevard, Northwest Community Center, Patriot's Gateway, Bloom Playground, Highland Park, Key, Malquest, Ridge Park, and the YMCA at 5804 North Main. So I hope people were listening, and if they need more information,
 on me or they certainly can call the City of Rockford Human Services to get more information. And I think that's it. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Walderman McNeely, and you're correct. That report, Winnebago County Health Department publishes it every day, and then the city for residents, they can also take a look at it at the city of Rockford's Facebook page, but also Winnebago County Health Department's Facebook and website. For the food program, it's a great point, just to update that if somebody's,
 Someone wanted to find a site and they didn't know where to go. They obviously could go to the City of Rockford's website, but they could also go to food IL. They could just text food IL at 877-877 to get that information. And just a quick update since we were brought up on the items discussed today. We've approved that microenterprise loan program.
 that all the aldermen approved. And just to give you an update, we are now starting round three of that program. And that program to date has received more than 50 applications. And to give you some breakdown of those applications, 70% are minority owned and 49% are women owned businesses out of that group. So with that, I will go to Alderman Henry.
 Hi there. Pretty quiet week in the 12th Ward. I don't really have anything to report. All right. Thank you. Alderman, can you hear us? Yes. I want to commend the Neighborhood Code Enforcement, 11th Ward. They're doing a very good job, as busy as they are. But I want to commend them for doing a good job in the 11th Ward. That's it. Thank you. Alderman Beach? Yeah, a couple of things. So, number one,
 I got a rather lengthy letter from one of the constituents complaining about the turkeys
 that trot through the woods and blow the grass, eat flowers, and then they attack automobiles and dent them because they see their reflection. And asking if there's anyone in the council that would know how to deal with that problem, and I said that I would bring that up to the council this evening as what we can do with those fine-feathered friends.
 The other thing I want to mention, I want to defer my time for Ann Thompson Kelly to report on Wednesday night's activities. Thank you. I would suggest Alderman Beach, maybe a Thanksgiving in July. Do they need a bow and arrow? Take care of the turkeys. Okay.
 I would say things are going pretty good in your board if that's the big issue.
 alderman beach we had a turkey issue as well so um i i asked um our uh uh traffic commission to look into uh turkey crossing signs at one point so you can give jeremy a call up if you need to but thank you very much no just one thing i just wanted to share uh ernie and helen redfern um both amazing residents in the rockford area
 They've been putting together the flower installments at the
 uh veterans memorial on maine and auburn and they've been doing this now for a few years and just wanted to say thank you to them uh for organizing that each year um there were numerous numerous volunteers yesterday and throughout the weekend that they organized uh alderman tunberg was there and with his family and um it's just it's such a wonderful uh experience that we have um
 Just people like that in our community putting forth that effort to beautify and, you know, really recognize the work that our veterans have done for our country. And I had the opportunity to help them yesterday. But kudos to Ernie and Helen for putting that together. A great family. I got a chance to work with their son and put some in. And just a fantastic family. So I just wanted to say thank you to them.
 Awesome. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Alderman Hoffman? Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Beach and Alderman Rose, I think I have your answer. I have a couple of boxes out back if you'd like to come and get them. Thank you. I'm sorry I can't deliver, but they're yours. But I want to say thank you to the street department. I finally got some roads fixed, and we are excited over here. So thank you.
 And that's it. We've had a pretty – oh, where's Wood? We've had a pretty good week also. Wonderful. Alderman Johnson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. Well, Alderman Rose and Alderman Beach, all you've got to do is shoo them geese over to the 12th Ward because she's not having any problems. I want to –
 FIRST MAKE AN ANNOUNCEMENT. FIRST MAKE AN ANNOUNCEMENT. FIRST MAKE AN ANNOUNCEMENT. KATHY BROWN AND COMMUNITY KATHY BROWN AND COMMUNITY KATHY BROWN AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS ARE SERVING ON MEMBERS ARE SERVING ON MEMBERS ARE SERVING ON THE 4TH OF JULY OUR THE 4TH OF JULY OUR THE 4TH OF JULY OUR FIRST RESPONDERS LUNCH, FIRST RESPONDERS LUNCH, FIRST RESPONDERS LUNCH, THE ONES THAT HAVE TO BE WORKING THE ONES THAT HAVE TO BE WORKING THE ONES THAT HAVE TO BE WORKING ON THE 4TH OF JULY FOR ON THE 4TH OF JULY FOR ON THE 4TH OF JULY FOR THE FIRE DEPART
 and we're going to serve all the first responders. So Chiefs, help me send out an email to all of our first responders. Also, our first listening session with the aldermen will be June 17th.
 At the Salvation Army, 500 South Rockford. Any aldermen, but I would like to see the majority of the aldermen there to hear what the community has to say, because it will affect all of us.
 We will have a series of four listening meetings to hear what this community has to say. And hopefully at the end of the information, we will come up with an action item that we would be working on or we would solve some of the problems in the community. Thank you.
 And if anyone has any questions, please don't hesitate to give me a call or Alderman Beach or Alderman Chiarelli. But everyone is definitely welcome. I greatly appreciate all that can attend this meeting, these meetings. Thank you. That's it. Thank you, Alderman Irvin. Yes. What time is this session again?
 To sign up to speak from 4.30 to 5.30, the speakers will start at 5.30 and end at 7.30. Okay. Awesome. And I do need help. Okay. Okay.
 All right, we'll be in contact. No, so I just, I guess today I want to share my word for the day, and that word is rejoice. To rejoice, it says, the scriptures say that the joy of the Lord is our strength, and he says when we encounter various trials and tribulations, to counter it all, joy. I know we come together and talk business, but I believe that, you know, the emotional stability of our people are also our business.
 And what I want to encourage, you know, our city is to learn to manage our emotions, um,
 You know, I just want to go through my cycle of life, right? What you're exposed to the most will determine what you think in our thoughts. That's where our emotions go. How you think or what you think about will determine your feelings. And your feelings will determine your decisions that you make. And then your decisions will determine your actions that you take.
 And then your actions will determine your habits. And then your habits will ultimately determine your character. Um...
 The value of knowing the word of God and knowing that there are certain things that the Father has promised and just knowing it's there and being able to go and bring it forward. The word of God allows us to master our emotions. And he tells us, you know, there's many parables where Jesus was in the boat with people during a storm and they were...
 screaming their head off, Lord, Lord, don't you see that there's a storm? He said, rejoice, for I'm with you. And so, you know, I want to speak to the believers today and just remind them that, you know, it's the trials and the tribulations, it's the enduring, it says that Jesus will give us peace that surpasses understanding, you know, and that
 We are to be a peculiar people, those that trust and believe in the Father. And then, you know, the Scripture tells us that we overcome by the blood of the Lamb and the word of our testimony. And I just want to share a testimony of a young man by the name of Aaron Boone, who went to go to his hearing today. He's a young man. Back when I was 24, I had a youth group, and he came out for about six months. And I saw that God had a gift on his life, and he was—
 There was something special about this young man, and he had to move away to go live with his grandma. And he didn't meet his mom at that point in time, but his great-grandmother is what I meant to say. He had to go and watch her die from cancer. But beforehand, he had to watch her go through Alzheimer's. And he comes back and falsely accused her.
 armed robbery no evidence and was faced with uh charges today you know thank god uh not only was those charges dropped but any or any of his vehicle fees fines and things were dropped and and it's like you know this young man i thank god for him i really do it i've been blessed to be able to put him to work uh and and it's it's these are the things that we ought to be
 to be Joyce about is, I mean, this, this young man who's going through, uh, the, the answer of incarceration wouldn't be, it'd be a transformed mind. And so I, I, I, I just want that, but, uh, I just want to encourage everybody that, uh,
 Yeah. Out there in the city that we could start to control the way that we feel if we start to change the way that we think and if we start to think upon the things of God. That's pretty much all. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Herbie. Nothing tonight. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Cross. Thank you. I just want to personally thank Matt Flores for doing an outstanding job over the last...
 Probably three or four weeks I've had a number of requests from residents asking about code violations, property violations of all sorts, and nuisance violations. And Matt has done an awesome job. I'm sure working remotely and getting back to myself and back to residents and getting the job done. So I wanted to thank him for going the extra mile, especially during a difficult time of logistics. So thank you. Thank you.
 If he didn't do a good job, you probably wouldn't be able to be sitting outside on such a beautiful night with your neighbors yelling at you. Alderman Toonberg. Yes.
 Thank you, mayor. Uh, I'm surprised Alderman Shirelli doesn't fall asleep by the time officers get to him. I've kind of, now it's full circle. So, uh, now that, uh, I was going to say the Turkey complaints, I'm surprised that they weren't meeting you or frost when they called in for Turkey complaints, but, uh, Ernie and Helen Redfern, Rick and West, Rick and Lisa Westlake, uh,
 what Alderman Rose referring to them as well. Great job up there. And just a fun time. And we were getting our hands dirty and it's going to look great. Once everything blossoms and blooms and spreads out. Director Saunders. Thank you. I have had him on speed dial for a number of days now. Unfortunately, unfortunately,
 100, 120-year-old pipes don't hold up forever. And it seems like in the third ward there is plenty of them, more than I'd like to find out. So, Director, thank you. You've been on top of things, and I really appreciate that. Again, piggybacking on Alderman Frost, Matt Flores, Jessica Schaefer. If I'm not calling the Director, find out.
 if i'm not calling the director it's it's them so there's been a lot of that and uh thank you and also thanks to the uh the chief for keeping me up to date sorry guys uh thank you thank you alderman timber uh alderman guest granny thank you man um just a couple little things you know what i i see where uh alderman steroli is
 is feeling the pain because frost stole it from me um i want to thank matthew flores for this for this week i think that in some cultures him and i will be married so um i love him and kyle saunders too thank you very much and taylor henley uh did a lot of work for me this week also so thank to those three um and i think that's it mayor thank you very much
 Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got my list here. Actually, it's a holiday. I have nothing to say. Right on. Oh. Your Honor, we should continue this lineup because it goes a lot quicker. I actually may just do that. Okay.
 Thank you all. I hope you have a wonderful, safe and healthy rest of your week. And be in touch. It sounds like we all have a very busy week, an active week of meeting with constituents. So thanks for all that you're doing. Look forward to seeing you this week. Is there a motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. We have a motion to second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Have a wonderful night. You too. Thank you.