Thank you so much. We have a quorum, and I'm sorry, Alderman Hervey? Yes. A couple things I just wanted to acknowledge. First, ShareFest wrapped up on Saturday. I regret I was not able to attend the celebration on Sunday, but...
 Levings Park is, if you haven't been there, is reborn. Levings got hit hard with the Emerald Ash Borer. And those folks took down hundreds of trees that were really defacing the park. It's sad to see them gone.
 it really kind of tears at the heartstrings, but they've also started the replanting effort. So I want to thank the hundreds, probably in the thousands of volunteers who came to Levings Lake to give that park a facelift. I mean, they painted, we painted shelters, dragged tree limbs,
 Everything you can think of, every picnic table was repainted, shelters were re-roofed. It's just amazing what was accomplished. So a huge thank you to Sharefest and the Rockford Park District for choosing Levings.
 uh perks family for the contribution that they've made and to everyone else who's invested in livings lake livings park with the lake and for those people who don't know i want to do we're going to do some things this year to try to get people to come over to livings can't tell you how many people said absolutely beautiful never knew it was here it's rockford's lake i'll let you jump in i just wanted to say i have a chance to talk to you
 what share fast completed I heard a park district employee say what they did in two weeks that
 we couldn't do in three years, which was just astounding to see the work that they did. I wanted to recognize a few young men that I got a chance to work with. Ben, Malik, and Gabriel were three youngsters, 18, 19 years old, who came out, volunteered through various organizations. And these are the kind of opportunities that I think as a city we want to continue to promote
 and grow that youth leadership in our community because they all came from different backgrounds, they all came from different organizations, and this is something that I think our community can rally around. And plus the park just looks just fantastic. So And there were several people, Mayor, you were there one day, I think that last Sunday was sort of Rockford.
 Alderman Thunberg, we work side by side beating up trees and dragging limbs. He actually bench pressed a real big log. I was impressed. But took it all the way over to the chipper over his head. It was really quite amazing. So thank you for that. The other thanks I'd like to give...
 Last week, I can't remember what day, if it was Thursday or Friday, but the St. Angel family, long-term family in Rockford. We had the dedication of the St. Angel Children's Reading Room at Montague Branch Library. And it was just absolutely beautiful. So I want to recognize the family. Mrs. St. Angel still lives in the southwest ward of Rockford.
 one of our founding families, I like to say, that made our community what it is. The children were there, the grandchildren were there, and it was really nice to see that dedication. The family made an ongoing endowment, if you, probably a good word to use, to Montague Branch Library.
 because of what it's actually meant for us. And one thing I wanted to ask, when the library is torn down, I don't know if many people know this, but the library was built around the original Carnegie Library. And I'm hoping as they tear down the building that they keep some of the artifacts. Rockford is terrible at preserving its history.
 So, I want to make that request, and I don't know who with the city would follow up with them, but during that demolition process, to capture some of those, the architectural artifacts and incorporate them into the new building or take them out to Midway or, you know, go store them in the Barbara Coleman building or something. But I do want to make sure we preserve part of that history. Thank you. Wonderful. Alderman Frost.
 Last Monday, the Rockford area lost a wonderful woman named Debbie Wright. Debbie was someone I went to school with pretty much my entire life. She has three lovely children, Alexis, Sydney, and Linnea, and she's married to Gary Wright. This was a bicycle accident that did not happen in the city of Rockford, but it's close to our homes. We've all discussed, and I think this council's tried to talk about bicycle safety, adding bike lanes, multi-use paths throughout the community.
 Again, this one didn't happen in the city of Rockcutt, but it happened on Harlem Road when Debbie was trying to ride her bike to Rockcutt State Park, a place that she rode to often. Unfortunately, she was struck by a vehicle traveling the same way. It's been very tough for the community for the last week. Again, she was a kind and gentle soul, just a wonderful wife, a wonderful mom to her kids.
 Register Star yesterday did an editorial on bike safety and some of the issues that involve our community. So it is important to all of us when we talk about these issues that they truly are life safety issues as well. They talked about sharing the road and one thing that wasn't mentioned, the bike, and I just wanted to mention to members of the community is that there actually is a state statute.
 a driver of a vehicle that you are, when you're overtaking a bicycle, you are to give at least three feet, which is a yardstick, to that bike. That law was enacted in 2011 and unfortunately the paper didn't mention it, but it is a law. So I would just ask that when motorists are out there and they see a bicyclist and the
 is not on a multi-use path, but is on the road, to try to share that road and to yield and or get at least three feet around the bicycle. And I would ask for a moment of silence if we could. Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to, I have mentioned to a couple of the staff, as far as the Landlord Register,
 I had a very difficult time not being able to access it this weekend and I hope that can be corrected very shortly. I want to thank Assistant Deputy Chief Carla Redd for helping me this week. Last week was a very horrible week. No resident should have to live and put up with what the residents of Royal Avenue put up with last week.
 in the middle of the street, the fighting, the shooting, and those type of things. So I greatly appreciate her looking into and correcting that situation for my constituents because it was a very rough weekend for them. And I do appreciate the officers stopping, getting out of their cars, and working in the area. I would greatly appreciate that to happen because it certainly did not happen last week.
 Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Gross. Just real quick. Tomorrow there are two neighborhood meetings representing the 9th Ward and 12th Wards. One of them is a new neighborhood group trying to start along the Halstead area neighborhood, which will meet at 1925 Halstead at 5.30 p.m. The second one is the Northwest Neighbors Meeting, which is on 1829 Rockton, which will start at 6 p.m. Wonderful.
 Any other? Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to say a thank you to my colleague Alderman Frost on those kind words. Condolences do go out to the Provy and Wright family. And bringing awareness to the biking community. We can't do enough for it in that sense. This weekend is the Midsummerfest of the Swedish Historical Society.
 Just to let you know, the gates open up at 4.30 on Saturday, and the bands start at 6. They go until 10. They have a tribute band, an ABBA tribute band, so I know that's a big hit. If it's the same band that I had heard years ago, it is identical. It's worth coming out. Saturday is...
 Vikings to Volvo Day. So it's gonna be a great event there. There will be the traditional events going on, dancing around the maypole, et cetera, but there should be some real cool old cars out there, some cool old Volvos.
 I know there's a lot of stuff going on Friday night, some great things. Also in other, Paint the Town Green, some other events too. So it's, if anybody thinks that there is nothing to do in Rockford, they must be living under a shell. So thank you. Mayor. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. We have a 10th ward meeting coming up on June 21st.
 Seventh, you might want to mark your calendars on that. You are going to be, along with Frank Haney, County Board Chairman, guests at that, talking about collaborations going on, and that's sponsored by three of our neighborhood groups, Calvin Park Hills Neighborhood Association, Alpine Ridge, and Palmwood. So if you can mark your calendars, it's 5 o'clock, Salvation Army, 500 South Rockford Avenue. There's plenty of coffee and cookies and good conversation. Thank you, sir.
 I'm going for the cookies. Speakers, I don't know, but the cookies sound good. Any other comments? Wonderful. We'll move right into motions and resolutions and Alderman Turelli. This evening, the first is the Midsummer Fest.
 Alderman Toomer just described, scheduled for Friday, June 16th from 4.30 to 10 p.m. and Saturday, June 17th from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Erlander Home Museum, 404 South 3rd Street. Just one question. Am I pronouncing that right? Mid-Somar Fest? Summer Solstice. You can say that, but it's spelled wrong. I want to respect your tradition.
 Thank you. Second is support the troop schedule for Saturday, June 17th from noon to 2 a.m. at Murphy's Pub at 510 South Perryville Road. The third is a resolution to confirm the appointment of members to the Legislative Lobbying Committee and naming the chair and vice chair. And the fourth is a resolution to confirm the appointments of members to the Housing Committee and naming the chair and vice chair. Place those four items up for passage, Your Honor. Is there a motion to approve?
 Okay, is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor? Aye. All those opposed? Motion passes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? Thanks. All those in favor? Aye. All those opposed? All right.