One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, may you please fill the roll? Durkee? Here. McNamara? Frost? Here. Purvey? Here. Connell? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Here. Newberg? Here. Beach? Here. Elliott? Here. McNeely? Here. Ten present, Your Honor. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal?
 It's been a motion second to accept the journal. Are there any proposed amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. There's no public hearing scheduled for this evening. We do have several speakers lined up for public participation. I got one late notice that I think one of the speakers may not be here this evening, but I'll go ahead and just ask just in case. First speaker signed up this evening is Pablo Corona.
 I'll remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments and can use either of the microphones in the back. If they start going over, I'll ask them to wrap up. Mr. Cronin? All right. Our next speaker is Bruce Roberts. Mr. Roberts? Thank you much, Mr. Mayor and members of the City Council. I would like to initially congratulate this young lady over here in the green top, Ann Thompson.
 for having everybody get together over at Rockford Memorial Hospital and thank all of the elected and appointed people in the room that were there. I thought that was just the most wonderful thing, getting out and talking to folks in the community. And I applaud your initiative on that. It'd be nice if we could do that on an ongoing basis. Some of you don't know me. I'm Bruce Roberts. I'm a retired Rockford policeman. I have a great concern for members of the police department on,
 New Year's Eve 1980 I listened to the police radio and heard officer Randy Blank calling for help. I listened to the shot that took his life. That had a very deep impact on me and I have come down here many times over the years to ask the city council to have enough policemen to handle the job.
 Right now Rockford has a crisis situation. The public's scared. I've had a couple of folks call me in the last two days wanting to know how to get a firearms card and where to get a gun and everything else. People are afraid and I think with justification.
 About two or three weeks ago, I was down in Joliet, Illinois at a meeting and one of the individuals there happened to notice I had a Rockford Police Department shirt on. He says, are you a Rockford cop? I says, yeah. He says, I'm a retired Chicago cop. He says, geez, you know, it's really getting bad over in Rockford, isn't it? The guy's from the south side of Chicago. He's a retired cop. That's not good. He says, well, I'm a retired Chicago cop.
 I'm at church last Sunday. A guy at church says to me, you know, we're talking about the problems in Rockford. He had a family member and a friend of that person pass away from a heroin overdose. We've known about these things for a long time. Sufa Dushas talked about the heroin epidemic we have in the community. I'm going to get out of here in about two seconds, but I would ask you, please, whatever you can do to help the guys on the police department, hire some cops,
 Do whatever you possibly can and talk to the people in the community and do something that's a little bit crazy out there. I thank you all again for the work that you do. Have a good evening.
 Thank you. Oh, I usually don't need a microphone, that's for sure. Thank you so much for allowing me to speak tonight. First, I would like to thank you, the City Council, for the vote to amend the development agreement that allowed the Gorman project at Amrock to move forward. This truly has taken a committed and visionary group of people. It started with Friends of Zioc and has gained momentum with City Council, the Mayor, and Gorman & Company. And now the Rockford Area Arts Council is pleased to be part of this project.
 We organized 40 artist meetings with Gorman on June 2nd. It was a very proud day for the Rockford Area Arts Council to show off the talent within our community. Gorman representatives are impressed with the quality of work and our search continues. We're still accepting calls and hope to match artists to the vision of the Gorman of their industrial chic atmosphere. REC is honored to carry the torch of one leg of the relay which will ultimately ignite the flame for the completion of an extraordinary downtown hotel.
 We are also thankful to the city and city council as a funding partner to help us carry out our mission for arts for everyone. Rack camp started today at Ellis with 53 young creatives most of which are from the fairgrounds in Ellis Heights neighborhood, a program that has been in existence in some form for over 20 years.
 Rockford Area Arts Council's Arts Place program starts June 29th at various locations, including our partners Mendelson and the Rockford Dance Company. With a culminating performance and art sale August 7th and 8th, mark your calendars and watch your mailbox for invitations. We would like all of you to be there.
 We're working on another mural project to accompany the piece that our Arts Place apprentice did last year on Madison. And we're working also on an installation of a public art community arts project. And in conjunction with City Market, our friends are allowing us to do a CD drive. So all those, I said CDs are now the 8-tracks of the new millennium. So if you want to donate your CDs, you can either drop them off any day of the week at City at
 the Arts Council or at City Market on July 3rd and 10th at the Bin by the Information booth. Then on July 17th at City Market we'll be painting CDs so bring your kids down or if you have the urge to be creative, you can come down and participate.
 On Monday, July 27th, we will be installing them at the Scandrolli Fence at 823 Madison from noon to 3. And if you get a chance to drive by, we've already installed one tree, but that whole chain link fence will be filled with CDs that will transform it into a really cool community art project. So far, Holy Family has participated in painting and some of our youth program at Fairgrounds have painted some of the CDs.
 Last month, the mayor and I bestowed the Mayor's Arts Award on Rebecca Smith of Keith. Keith's art students painted the Arts Council's picnic table on planters. So I just wanted to thank you all for your service to this community and assure you that those of us that work for other organizations are doing everything within our power to make this a better community. And as we talk about crime and education systems, I just attended the Americans for the Arts Conference and so many communities have the same challenges that we do
 and it just so happens that the arts can solve most of these issues in some way so we will there's my time so thank you again for your service thank you thank you one final speaker this evening good evening ladies and gentlemen in the book of Psalms the 30th chapter 5th verse the psalmist says for your anger lasts only a moment God but your favor lasts a lifetime weeping may remain for a night but joy comes in the morning what I want to speak about tonight
 Mr. Ryan, how many days in a week? How many days in a week? It's seven, right? It's seven causes of domestic violence. And I got the solution because the military is using my system. The first cause, men who are misogynists. They hate women because they hate their mothers. The second cause, men who go with women who are lonely. They don't have tough brothers in their life. The third cause...
 Men who have post-traumatic stress disorder. Four, men who are drug addicts. Five, men who are alcoholics. Six, men who are unemployed. Seven, men who have a negative self-image of themselves. They hate themselves so they
 can't love anyone. If you eliminate these seven things, you could eliminate domestic violence in the United States. And also the judges and police must come down hard on domestic violators and child abuser by pressing charges themselves because most women are afraid and you should have a register for domestic violators and child abuser like you have for sex offender to let you know that my system is working.
 The United States Army and Navy is using my system and I wish Rocky would use it. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening, Petitions and Communications, Alderman Thompson Kelly.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a request for service for the 1400 block of North Avenue. I also must say that I submitted a request for a curb at the intersection of North and Auburn Street, and I submitted the wrong information. So I wanted to make sure that Public Works know that what they're doing is exactly what I submitted, but it wasn't the correct information. So I submitted a new one. Thank you.
 Thank you for the petitions and communications. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, I have two items. The first is the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, or also known as RACVB, their first quarter report for 2015. This will be referred to Planning and Development. The second item is a memorandum from Seth Sommer, Building Code Official.
 and also in charge of construction development services regarding destruction training program. This is also referred to planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor. We have the Sordham Board of Appeals agenda and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for June 16th to be referred to codes and breaks. I also have the Traffic Commission minutes that was held on June 10th to be referred to codes and breaks.
 I have another note from Mark Rose Land Existence Officer regarding the fact that the city personnel has reached a tentative agreement with the owner of 2000 Harrison Avenue. That will need to be considered and approved by the city council. That's also being referred to the codes and regs. There's another staff is in process of amending Chapter 29, Article 3 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance regarding taxi cabs. And also proposing an ordinance for the Transportation Network Services Company. That's...
 To be notified, there's a public hearing scheduled for June 18th, 2015, from 2 to 4 p.m. right here in the council chambers. And then there's some upcoming events. Do I need to read them all?
 you know, if you could just reference the name of the event. Alpine Kiwanis Bras Day, July 17th through 18th. St. Edward's Summer Fest, July 26th. Festa Italiana, July 31st. Midtown District Ethnic Parade Festival. There doesn't seem to be any date there. Edward's Cider and Cinnamon Festival, October 3rd through October 4th. That's my report, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further petitions and communications. Proclamations. We have one proclamation seeking.
 Evening we have one proclamation this evening I'd invite the participants that are here for project 1013 week including pastor Jared Katke to please come forward to accept the proclamation Whereas project 1013 started five years ago and as a coordinated partnership between Rock Church and the West Gateway Coalition
 Whereas the purpose of Project 1013 is to bring hope and encouragement to the residents, helping them with neighborhood cleanups, light maintenance, projects on their homes and yard work.
 Whereas Project 1013 Coalition is made up of churches, businesses, and community organizations providing volunteers and donating materials and or fundraising for the event. Whereas this year, Project 1013 volunteers will clean up, beautify, and improve the living conditions of the Alice Heights neighborhood. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of June 15th
 2015 to be project 1013 week and we urge our citizens to applaud and support the hard work of everyone involved with the project To learn more about that. We have pastor here this evening. Thank you mayor and thank you City Council for supporting our project Once again this year. This is our fifth year and
 To give you a little bit of the background, in year one, we were on three blocks of Blaisdell Street. Now in year five, we're in a 24 block area this year. We'll be working on 150 properties, accomplishing 200 projects, and having 7,000 volunteer hours in four days. The dates are June 24 to 27.
 I'd like to thank Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly for helping to coordinate a lot of things. Tim Hanson, Mark Stockman, the city has been great to work with once again this year. I think it's always good to start a meeting with a little bit of good news. I have some additional good news to share with you in the sense that when we began this project we really desired to see it duplicate and to not be something that would happen for a short period of time and then go away.
 And some of the residents that we've been working with now for the last five years, they're beginning to form their own neighborhood association called the Church School Neighborhood Association. And in a year, we're gonna hand the project off to them. They will continue the work on and we'll move into another portion of the neighborhood to bring help to those who are in need. So we're excited again about this year
 How many great things are happening. This is another demonstration of the fact that, you know, Rockford is a community that cares and that is willing to kind of roll up its sleeves and get in and get the hard work done. And we couldn't do it without your support. So thank you so much. Thank you so much for your hard work. Thank you for your continued hard work and support and vision for the neighborhood. Reports to committees. Paul Maderke. Thank you, Your Honor. One item that I will ask to suspend rules on.
 This is a committee report recommending approval of the amendment to the development agreement with Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, also known as RACVB.
 Regarding the Forest City Beautiful Initiative, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'd like to suspend rules on this. Thank you, there's been a motion second. Motion second to suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, so have the rules be suspended. And I'd like to place this up for passage. The matter will be placed up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye.
 Thompson, Kelly, Newberg, Beach, Elia, McNeely. It's not here. Ten ayes are under. Thank you, matter passes. Further reports, committees on Beach. Thank you, sir. Under 5B, number one, committee recommends approval of the final plan of Rockford Rescue Division, subdivision located at 715 West State Street. Number two, recommends approval of final plan of 2929 North Main subdivision.
 Number three, final plan number one, the ZIOP subdivision located at 416 South Main. Number four, recommends approval of the sale of part of the city owned property at 1015 First Avenue for a minimum bid of 1500 with preference to the adjoining property owner. And this concludes advertising as well. Number five, recommends the proposed sale of real estate
 at 200 north johnston avenue which is henrietta school for a minimum bid of a thousand dollars which includes advertising and then the sixth one has to do with the city of robert ordinance section 1742 the residential quality support ordinance i'd like to have a motion to spend rules on these reports second there's been a motion and second spend the rules on 1 1 5 b items 1 2 3 4 5 and 6. all those in favor of suspending the council rules please signify by saying aye
 I suppose no I said it will be spent so I like to place of the first five up for vote and then we can discuss number six so what are the guys think you did the first five items and we will hold off on the residential quality support ordinance for now so we'll do under Roman number five the items one two three and four and five are up for discussion discussion of those items all the number thank you sir number five
 I mean 200 North Johnson Avenue the Henry out of school in previous I know they've talked a minimum bit of a thousand but when we were discussing it two weeks ago or last week I remember we talked about fifteen hundred dollars so what is it back to a thousand dollars the trace your honor fifteen hundred dollars replies to the ten fifteen first Avenue yeah and that was the only at the fifteen hundred dollar discussion
 But I don't believe that that was the discussion on the Henrietta School property. Thank you all. Thank you. I certainly do not want to disagree with our legal director, but I do remember it was put on this particular property here. Yes. That's why I do remember that. So did they, so there's, just as a point of order, is the recollection of the council members that we actually amended the report before it was voted on? Or was that just part of the discussion?
 I was on the impression that it was put at $1,500 and the reason I remember it that way is that for a single house plus a block $1,500 I thought it was legitimate. So I mean it's a I have to tell you I don't recall that we did amend it to be honest with you I do remember we discussed it. We discussed it. Yes. Okay.
 Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I don't recall that there was a change, perhaps discussion, but certainly not a change. All right. So I'm going to rule just based on the fact of the comments that were made that the report is presented given the fact that the legal director and some of the council members seem to recall that it may be discussed but not changed.
 that the $1,000 is accurate. And if somebody wants to change it to $1,500, certainly it'd be appropriate to make a motion to amend. But otherwise, I'll just assume that the $1,000, the minimum bid was accurate. Holden, Herbie. Just by way of disclosure, Pond's Funeral Home is a cousin. They're related. But my question just goes in general. For the businesses that are being displaced on East State Street,
 Aren't they provided with relocation assistance? And I guess part of my concern is, I don't want to see a business, I don't want to raise the minimum bid on the business that's trying to relocate because we're taking their property. And they very much want to stay in the Ellis Heights neighborhood. I don't remember the discussion. I'm not even sure I was here. Yeah, I was.
 I just, I would ask that we give some consideration to that. This is a business that's being forcibly kicked out of a building that they've owned for a number of years and ask that the council take that into account because we need to keep every business we can in that area. Just as a point of information with regard to your first question, yes, Ponds Home, Fuel Home is getting relocation assistance from the current location.
 They are also, have been working diligently with our staff, specifically Mark Rose from the legal department on that process. And I would just make the, as a reminder, the point that what this, what we would be approving would allow us to put the proposal out there.
 And there is an opening for other alternative proposals to come in as well. We're aware of the PONS proposal, we're anticipating that coming in, but this would certainly also invite other proposals if someone wanted to submit one. So the minimum bid would apply to anybody. That's my whole point of saying. Ms. So is the decision on who gets it based on price or is it based on what the city wants to see for redevelopment?
 I would defer to Mr. Hayes on that but I think it ultimately could be a combination of whatever the council would want to consider but I defer to either Mr. Hayes or Mr. Cagnoli on that. And the reason I ask is for the other city-owned property, we've put it out as an RFP, not as a minimum bid sale. So I guess, and again I want to be careful here because they are
 related but I'm not sure why there's a difference between this one and the track building of chick building so essentially when we do what else so essentially what we already have an old best Mr Hayes to clarify if I screw this up but generally speaking if we already have someone identified we're not aware of other proposals we can
 put it out as we are here and invite other alternatives we were required to put out an option for alternative proposals to come in as a rule of state law we can also choose an RFP process as an alternative to doing this kind of approach but I'd ask Mr Hayes to fill in any elements that I may have misspoke on
 So we will be laying this out to the public to bring in beds we can consider all elements of any of the beds including the dynamic that you've mentioned which is the relocation issues and the uses so this leaves Council with a full field of options whatever bids come in and then we don't have to select the highest
 bid by way of remuneration to the city. In fact, whatever cost goes to PONS for acquisition will come out of one of our capital budgets. So there is a, you know, the city can take that into account against the other bids. Did you have follow-up, Alderman Hurd? No, I was just trying to, I don't want to belabor it tonight, no. Alderman Thompson. Why, tell me why the RFP wasn't chosen versus the bid?
 So I could just tell you from my conversations with Mr. Rose and staff on this, because I asked the same question, it was because unlike the Chick Hotel, for example, or the Trek building, we did not have an immediate, I guess, plan or concept for it, like the O'Connor Funeral Home came to the city with.
 So in the process, we started working with PONS as a part of the relocation. We didn't have a use and vision for Henrietta at the time. There was different ideas that had been kicked around. But since we already have them and they're interested, we certainly could decide, as opposed to this, to go out to an RFP, but that would take a longer period of time, and I think this is one in which
 We can move forward on if the council would like to amend it to go out to an RFP, we're certainly able to do it. But I think this would expedite the process and help solve the problem if there's no alternatives that the council would rather prefer with the relocation issue that we're already dealing with on West State with their business. Again, Mr. Cagnone, if you want to embellish or Mr. Hayes on adding more, but that was my understanding. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. Okay, I need guidance here.
 Amend this to for a minimum bid of $1,000 from Carle Ponds, which includes advertising. Could we specify in this? No, we cannot. I don't believe so, Mr. Hayes. So we could put the Ponds out there as an agreement and have alternative bids against it. But between the discussions of staff and Ponds, the idea was developed just to put it out for bid. And they'll make a submission. Other submissions may come in or may not.
 So that was just the method that was, you know, arrived at. PONS is comfortable with approaching it this way. So that's why the decision was made. When we have a preferred entity, we can do that, you know, put their description out there. We did do that for, we do do that on a number of occasions. We just haven't done that in this occasion.
 So Mr. Rose had the direct interaction with Pons and this was their, the way that they formed the conversation and decided to proceed. Thank you. Alden Beach. Thank you, sir. If we own the building and it's part of relocation, are we required, even if we own the building and it's part of relocation, to go off of this? Yes. We are required to do this? Under state law, we're required to seek alternatives. Okay, thank you. Then I call the question.
 Is there any further discussion on any items one through five? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. And again, I don't want to stop conversation, although Alderman Beach, I think, meant to call the question on item five. One through four, we're still open for discussion. If there was no further discussion on those, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? McNamara? Aye. Foss? Kirby? Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye.
 McNeely? No on 1 and 3, I on the remaining. Roman numeral 5B1, 9 I's 2 0, Roman numeral 5B3, 10 I's 1 null, the remainder 11 I's 0 null. Thank you, manage to pass. Item 6 then, Holman Beach? Put up number 6 from 55B, number 6 then, right? Correct. So you want that up for? Yes. Okay, so up for passage then is, I'm sorry, we would need to suspend the rules on that first? I think we already did. We did.
 Did we? Yes. All right, so the matter's up for passage then. Under Roman numeral 5B, item 6, this is the residential quality support ordinances, their discussion. Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to make a friendly amendment that we add that the city council receives a quarterly report related to qualifying properties and the outcomes of those properties.
 So I think that would just be a motion because I don't know. It would be a friendly amendment. There would have to be one pending, I believe, on it. So I would just take that as a motion, which is in order. And it was seconded? Second. So there's been a motion and it's seconded to add a requirement that the council get a quarterly report on qualifying episodes. Okay.
 I don't know the operative word, I can't recall. Qualifying properties and outcomes. Qualifying properties and outcomes related to the ordinance. Any discussion on that item? Alderman Thompson-Kelley. And so this report would consist of companies that have had violations? In the outcomes, if they're going in from the housing board, if they're not,
 Oh, Matt, can you pull your microphone? Yeah, I'm sorry. If the properties are going in front of the housing board, if they are not, what outcomes come of this? So there's been a lot of, I guess a whole bunch of this of the motion is we've all had a number of phone calls and a lot of anxiety on the part of some of the landlords that I think this will allow us to keep track of as their representatives and just be able to follow through on what the spirit of this ordinance is meant to be.
 I'm in terms of. Could I add to that after a year that this council will review this ordinance? Certainly do if you want to. So there's a pending motion. Yeah, like not a sunset closet but I want to be reviewed by the council to see if there's any tweaks that needs to take place and get feedback from the landlords. So since Olerman.
 So that would be a friendly amendment. So since his motion was already pending, if you want to take that as a friendly amendment, you certainly can. And who had a second on it? Second. You accept that as well? So there's been a friendly amendment so there would be a quarterly report on the properties and the outcomes that would fall under the chronic nuisance elements of the ordinance and a review of the entire ordinance after a year.
 And so that's on the floor as an amendment, a proposed amendment. Is there any further discussion on the proposed amendment? All in favor? Thank you. May I ask, the housing board has discussed in this, do we have a housing board set? We do. Could we get a updated or final list of the members of that place? Certainly. Thank you. Just ask our clerk if you could work to get that distributed to our council members.
 for discussion on her well and would they be on the date of call was reading something else or be our date of call for all we would know when they were getting maybe in the head so it's my understanding and correct me if I'm wrong Mr Hayes that is a subordinate body one by this body to review these cases these would be published meetings although it fall under the purview of the meetings act but Mr Hayes correct me if I'm wrong you're correct
 Thank you. So, yes, they would be posted. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on the Old American Marriers Amendment, which was also added to by the friendly amendment of all women, Thompson-Kellin? Hearing none, we'll take a voice vote on that amendment. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. So it's been amended, and the matter is still up for passage over discussion. Any further discussion?
 Hearing no further discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Ten ayes, one no, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. Thank you for all the time on this, too. For the Reports Committee, it's Alleman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four under Roman Rule 5C.
 First is the committee of approval of the vouchers, the amount of $4,568,672.03. Next is approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Park District for construction of a general stormwater detention facility located in Hermann Park. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Next is approval of the execution of an agreement granting temporary and permanent easements in Harmon Park with the Rockford Park District. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And then the fourth is approval of the Head Start Collaborative Agreement with Hand in Hand Child Care Center. And again, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these four, I'm sorry, as for suspension of rules on these items. Thank you. There's been a motion. Is there a second? Second. There's been a motion, second.
 Finance and Personnel Committee reports. That's from number 5C, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Aye. Please, those up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? All the men, back to Mary. Thank you, Mary. There was an expenditure on the vouchers, I believe, and
 for the city market. Did that come out of the River Edge grant or was that coming out of a different fund? Mr. Black, do you happen to know that? Thank you, Mayor. I'll have to check exactly what the funding source was on that. I believe there could have been a mix and it's just charged to the CIP fund which gets revenue sources from other areas. So if you can provide me the specific expenditure, if it's not in the summer, I'd be happy to look it up. Thanks. Any further discussion? Alderman Beach?
 thank you are just up just need to understand once again all why this is going on the last part of nothing against arm and in hand child center but it is in another community and arm but someone just gotta help me through that one more time if and I will not be in a discussion over mister are sorry are like in services director George Davis for detail on that but generally speaking the
 The department does work in Boone and all Boone and Winnebago counties. Head Start program is a little bit different and I'll ask for Director Davis to give some detail on it. Thank you, Mayor. The Head Start program is funded by the Office of Health and Human Services to serve children and families in Winnebago County. And so our service area has never been limited strictly to Rockford.
 The number of slots that we are talking about in this particular case, which would be a total of 42, represents approximately 6% of our total funded enrollment, the balance of which would remain in Rockford.
 the slots that we are talking about in this particular case, you know, put us at risk if we don't find another partner in a timely manner of being under enrolled for the upcoming school year. Thank you. Ms. O'Maharby. Just a point, I think I made it last week. I'm not going to not support it because I understand the service area for the grant
 But if we're going to continue to be the fiscal agent and shoulder some of these costs, my understanding is that the federal government does not pay interest, they do not reimburse us for the interest on money that we have to advance to cover the costs of Head Start. So if it's a countywide program and we're just the administrator, then there should be countywide contribution.
 And if we are going to have sites in other communities, we need to have a conversation with those communities about some form of support. I'm just tired of Rockford being the cash cow for every program that we support. If that's the case, we need to look at splitting off some of the agencies. And if it's not, then before we go and look at putting
 places in another site or in other communities, we either have that discussion or we should keep them within Rockford. And I'm not trying to be mean. I know children all over need the service, but Rockford's got the lowest median income of any of these communities. And I just don't understand why we keep widening our service area and not asking for contribution from other municipalities and villages that are the recipients of those services.
 thank you thank you for the discussion all over the community I have to agree with Alderman her being this I feel we are the city of Rockford Council we are supporting this but it's been it's in one of a one of a lot I would like to see municipality that is located in and
 the county to do some support of this too. If they are, I apologize to them because it hasn't been pointed out to me that they are. But I, again, also do not like the idea of a city. The city of Rockford taxpayers are paying for something that is in Winnebago County outside the limits of the city of Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. We have another discussion. I'll go to Tom Scully. One of the facts that has been on the catwalk for quite some time
 would say is the very thing that the city being fiscal responsible for employees and the way the structure is set up. In service counties that we serve because the board makeup is from all these counties. We have a seat at the table just like the city of Rockford does. What I do have a problem with is the fact that we have city employees
 and city ordinances, city rules that is hindering real human services to the individuals that we're servicing. There's been talk of separating the two and have human services as a standalone, which I think is a great idea on it because a lot of the things that we've had, that cap board never sees. They never have input yet.
 They don't know it until after city council has passed it. And that was my objection when I was on the board, was that's no way to run an organization, nor is a way to put the city augment up front, not knowing that the cap board is not aware of what city council is doing. So, you know, I'm looking forward to the discussion of the separation myself. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
 Hearing none of for both that are the memorable five see items one two three and four clerk, please call the roll jerking McNamara frost curvy tunnel Thompson Kelly, I knew Berg Beach le a back Neely
 Roman numeral 5C, 4, 7 ayes, 4 no. Roman numeral 5C, 2 and 3, 10 ayes, 1 abstain. The remainder, 11 ayes, 0 no. That is passed. Thank you. Officers, reports. I'm sorry, were there any additional committee reports that I missed? Officers, reports.
 I have a couple items this evening. Number one, there's a memorandum from Tim Holdeman, Water Superintendent, on the L.O. EPA Public Water Supply Inspection Report. It was good news that for the first time in recent history there are no deficiencies noted within the system. There's additional information that Mr. Holdeman and our public works staff can provide with regard to that if there's any additional questions.
 I also have a reappointment I'm putting forward this evening to the Traffic Commission for George Zawislak for another five-year term that will be laid over pursuant to council rules and that's all I have this evening. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 there were many activities going on this weekend it was hard to choose where to go and what to support but I made a choice to go to an organization that was called play it forward
 It is an organization that feeds the hungry and clothes the hungry. I want to personally think Heather Evans, which is the founder of Play It Forward. And I also want to think Hope Church. They open their doors to feed the hungry and clothe the hungry. It was over 100 individuals that came through that Saturday. And as well as feeding them, they also clothe them.
 I can remember in the state of the city's address, one of the things that Your Honor pointed out is there would be no more homeless in this community. This is an organization that I think that we could definitely partner with to help accomplish those needs. Anytime
 an institution that opens its doors and its members of Hope Church open their doors to feed the hungry and help to provide clothing for them.
 The heartbreaking thing was when the children came in and was hungry. So I would greatly appreciate it. Todd and I had a conversation earlier today that we would at least have a conversation with the founder to see if there's something that we can do to achieve the goal of the homeless in the community.
 So I would like to forward Heather Evans' phone number to Todd, so hopefully there'll be a contact and a conversation. I don't know what possibly could happen, but everything starts with a conversation. I think that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports, Alderman Newberg. Thank you, sir. Everyone knows today it rained a little bit. Streets were flooded in certain areas, and when I was out in the Ninth Ward,
 Of the 11 drains I went to that I got calls on, out of those 10, the citizens hadn't cleaned the drain.
 I understand the drains are on city property, but if every person would clean the drain by your gutter, you would be surprised how much money the city would save on workers that don't have to go out and, I guess the word is an un-flood the street, but make the water go away. If your drains are covered with debris,
 they're going to build up water and your street is going to flood. That street is city property, but if it gets above the gutters, it's going to come into your property. So, come on folks, let's clean our drains up, please. It's summer, go out and clean the drains. Thank you. Thank you. Over to Frost. As most people know, there was a substantial amount of crime activity that's taken place in the City of Rockford.
 including a homicide that took place in the fourth ward at the Walmart. And I don't know exactly where the homicide took place, but that's where the victim was found. Last night, Alderman Herbie had a drive-by shooting on her block for the third time in a month. We've had an issue on Brendan Wood that happened Friday in broad daylight.
 I'm not here to blame anyone for this, and it's easy to blame. You know, President Obama spoke last month at the Catholic Evangelical Summit at Georgetown on overcoming poverty in America. And he talked about the need for character formation, the role of values in certain parts of the community. But the poverty rate has increased during his tenure, and there are more people today than there ever was in poverty, and it's disproportionately African American under his tenure.
 So could I blame the president? Absolutely. Would it matter? No. Could I blame a failed Department of Corrections? I could. We could. Who are constantly dumping people into our community that aren't from our community. We had the issue on Broadway, which we had criminals from, I think it was Peoria, Cook County, they came here and committed another heinous crime.
 We could, and we need to work with those folks. I don't have the answer on how to work for it. I know the mayor and the chief are getting that ball in motion, and I appreciate that. And I'm not blaming the mayor. I'm not blaming our police department. I'm not blaming our parole system. I'm not blaming our judicial system. I'm not blaming the U.S. Attorney's Office or the State Attorney's Office. But somehow or another, we really need to work on this more as a community. We can't continue to have a level of crime
 we have. As we heard from retired officer Roberts today, he went to Joliet and had some talk about Rockford. Just last week I had a chance to depose an orthopedic surgeon in the suburbs of Chicago who said that he was considering coming to Rockford to join a group in Rockford, but his wife Googled Rockford and that was about the end of the conversation. And so we lost a talented
 orthopedic surgeon that we don't have in this community, in his specialty, and he's not coming. Oh, he wanted to come because of, you know, I guess the speculation, the rumors, whatever it may be, but truth is a reality, and perception is a reality. And so what I'm asking for, is I don't want to blame anybody,
 But I really want to have and find out a way to work on the perception of safety in our community. I went to a graduation party on Saturday night, and there was a gentleman that wasn't there. And they were texting him, why aren't you here? Why aren't you here? And the answer was, because my wife's afraid to stay home with the children if I leave. That's a sad day.
 It's a sad day in any community, but unfortunately it's the saddest day in Rockford because we're all shareholders in Rockford. And we need to do something to make a difference on this. And I would implore for us to seriously consider this matter on a serious notion to work with whoever we need to work with.
 to work with, it seems to be the same group of people. We're not trying to overanalyze sophisticated criminals. The crimes that are taking place in our community are that of thugs. And so we need a better way to control the thugs. And if that means we need more Impalas or more Chevy Tacos rolling through our neighborhoods, then I suggest that's what we do. I don't know if we need 90,000 square feet of office space for our police department,
 I don't know if that's the right thing to do or not. I'm just saying I really think we ought to really put our heads together and figure out a way that we can address this problem and the perception of this problem, which is really an unfortunate event, and driving people out of our city. Thank you, Mayor.
 just a follow-up on alderman frost's comment I'm losing two more long-term residents of the fifth ward it's interesting that people call me to apologize when they move out I
 Last night, I'd spent Friday night in the emergency room, was still in quite a bit of pain. Those gunshots were so close, I hit the floor. I don't do that most of the time. I just kind of lay still. But last night, I actually hit the floor. You have to make your way in the dark. They always tell you don't turn on the light when you hear the shots. So you make your way in the dark to the telephone and call 911 to let them know that shots are fired.
 I got a note from the CSO, our community services officer this morning. They're working on it to their credit, but it's the third time in a month. The second time that it occurred, I heard the shots, but when I jumped up, I got dizzy. By the time I got into the telephone, the flashing lights were already there. To their credit, the police were close enough. Same house, same house, three times in a month. I'm sorry, they should be gone.
 They should be gone. We shouldn't have to put up with somebody whose boyfriend is a thug or a drug dealer or a gangbanger who's destroying the rest of our community. There's something wrong when a community has so little control over its destiny that we can't shut down a house that's got that kind of criminal activity occurring. In the old days, we would have shut it down ourselves, but we don't do that anymore.
 We have got to get a better way of managing the criminal activity that is occurring in our community. Unlike Alderman Frost, I don't know if that means hiring more police officers, but I no longer believe that we have enough police officers to deal with the level of criminal activity that is an ongoing enterprise in our city.
 Two more people gone. The Fifth Ward is becoming unstable. And I think one of the reasons we've had a lower crime rate for this long is because we had a lot of long-term folks like myself who still anchor large parts of the city. These are people who've lived in their homes for 50 and 60 years, as I have.
 And they're not the only two, it's just two more within a very short period of time. If Rockford doesn't start to address the level of criminal activity, and I know people are going to say, our crime has actually gone down. Not for me. Not for me. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. With that said, thank you. I appreciate what both of you have to say.
 So I would like to suggest, this is not a friendly amendment, that we have our fifth Monday at the end of this month. And we usually have an agenda, and Mr. Ryan has sent out an e-mail requesting agenda items. I think this should be at the top of the agenda for discussion. Thank you, Alderman Connell.
 This weekend, I actually received three phone calls from residents in Ward 6 that they can't even walk around their own neighborhoods because of drug houses that are there. They walk past them and they're threatened that if they ever walk by them again that they'll be dead and they'll be in the gutter and they won't ever be in existence anymore. We would have crime in every single ward and I have to agree with both of your comments that we need to do something about it because it doesn't matter where you're at.
 our residents deserve to have a home that's good to live in. Thank you for the discussion and for the officers' reports. Just wanted to add, you may recall last week there was a presentation that I was part of along with several members of the Rockford Police Department
 a forum that was hosted by the Rockford Chamber of Commerce on the specific issue of violence in the community. There's also been a number of neighborhood meetings that various council members have held. We're happy to continue those conversations, but there were some specific proposals that were laid out, which I've also mentioned my state of the city address, to try to address
 tough challenges about the community engaging at all levels to try to support our efforts in reducing violence. You may have seen over the last week, Crane's Chicago Business Magazine came out with an editorial asking for the resignation of the superintendent of the Chicago Police Department. You know, the issues we're dealing with in Rockford certainly aren't singular. They're challenging issues.
 for the most effective strategies, and this is one of the topics that we discussed last week, are happening when there's broad-based community partnerships involved in all levels, state, local, and federal, when it comes to both law enforcement as well as prevention. And we can talk offline with any of the council members who want some of the suspects that are currently in custody,
 with regard to the recent events, but I will just raise as a general issue that Alderman Frost also alluded to. This isn't about pointing fingers or blame. This is about trying to work as effectively as we can to make sure we make the best decisions with the information we have.
 And right now, the gross observation that I would make, the broad observation is that there's still a lot of silos where information isn't being effectively shared, and a lot of silos where our prevention partnerships aren't as effective as they otherwise could be. This is particularly difficult when we deal with juvenile justice, where many times the information is even more opaque, harder to share. So I look forward to following up on all these questions.
 points made by council members and I know the chief shares your passion as do I in trying to do as much as we possibly can to reduce violent crime. For the office's reports, unfinished business. Holden Durkee. Mr. Senator, I'm punching up my... Tokyo spies will have that agreement in two weeks. I got those terms from the chairman this afternoon and we'll have a resolution in two weeks to firm up what we're doing at Tokyo spies. Thank you. We'll hold that all for now.
 Yes, Your Honor, thank you. The first is the appointment of Mr. Seneca Gordon to the Community Action Advisory Board, filling the vacant client sector position for a three-year term. And the second is the appointment of Mr. Jeffrey Kirk to the Historical Preservation Commission for a term of three years, which would expire June 2016. That place holds up for passage. The two appointments for Mr. Seneca Gordon and Jeffrey Kirk are up for passage as they're discussing.
 Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Kirby? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Newberg? Beach? Aye. Elliott? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Ten ayes, one no, Your Honor. The matter is passed, thank you. Motions and resolutions? Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. For 9a, we have number one,
 Special use permit from the Brooker Washington Association for Brooker Fest scheduled July 17th through Sunday, July 19th. Number two, we have a request for the River District and the element as part of the downtown implementation for a program on Friday, July 3rd, Saturday, August 8th, Saturday, September 12th in the downtown area from 3rd Street to the river. Number three is a S permit request.
 By the Vietnam Victims Honor Society with the 3rd annual River Jam scheduled for July 11th at the Verde Club, 782 North Madison Street, number 4, special event and liquor permit for Wired Cafe's 5th anniversary party in the alley. Scheduled for Friday, July 10th at 414 East State Street. I place all these up for passage tonight, your honor. Thank you. For passage, under motions and resolutions,
 Roman numeral 9a items 1, 2, 3, and 4, those matters are for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing, I'm sorry, Alderman McEmeary. Thank you, Mayor. Just a comment on A2. I'd urge my council members to support this. I know there was a tremendous amount of discussion at last week's committee meetings, but I just wanted to reiterate that this...
 We approved as a city council foreign associates and foreign associates then created an implementation plan for our downtown and to me this is simply our staff economic development and our other community partners like the River District following through on what we wanted them to do and this being a city sponsored and economic development department sponsored event, I'd urge my council members to help and support this activity, thank you.
 Thank you any further discussion Mr Hayes On the special event for the River District and Element the last date is going to be September 5th instead of September 12th thank you Your Honor Thank you so note that the resolution should read on the list of dates for item 2 September 5th instead of September 12th is that accurate Yes Your Honor Thank you any further discussion Hearing none clerk please call the roll Durkee
 McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Newberg? Aye. No, on two. Aye, on the rest. Beach? No, on two. Aye, on the rest. Elliott? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Roman numeral 9A2, 9-9-2, no, the remainder 11-9-0-0. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, sir.
 Next, finance and personnel motions and resolutions. I'll go back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a ward of sole source contract with Starcom Radio Software Upgrade, agreement to Motorola Solutions for a cost of $448,200 over a 10-year period. Next is a resolution to take proposals for the lease of 211th and A Elm Street.
 Next is a change order for Citywide Street Repairs Group Number 2 for commercial to Rock Road Companies of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $90,000 and a new contract amount of $1,247,299.94. Next is a resolution of the City of Rockford ascertaining the prevailing wages for laborers, mechanics and workers employed by said city.
 Next is a committee approval of the Harrison Avenue, the 20th Street to 9th Street application of the ComEd Rider LGC as funding source for relocation overhead utilities. Item 6 is recommendation of approval of the North Main Street, Riverside Boulevard to north of Auburn Street application of the ComEd Rider LGC as funding source for relocation of overhead utilities.
 Items 1 through 4, I'd like, actually, items 5 and 6, I'd like to hold out for one more week as there was some additional information we received today from the Chamber of Commerce. So with no objection, I would hold out 5 and 6 and ask for suspension of rules on 1 through 4. We actually don't need a suspension of rules. Oh, I'm sorry. Since there are resolutions. I would place up for passage items 1 through 4. I'm sorry, was there a question? All of them are for us. Thank you.
 On number five and six, this has been laid over now at least once, maybe twice. Was it laid over or held out? I'm not sure. So it's up for vote from a procedural standpoint. Can the chairman just lay it over, or can we take a vote on it later? So procedurally, a chair can request or just ask that a matter be held out if there's no objection. Generally speaking, the...
 The practice of the council has been to respect the position of the chair to hold the matter out. If there is a challenge to that, then we would entertain a motion to lay the matter over. I would challenge that. Why don't we separate five and six, vote on number one through four? So we'll separate five and six and take one through four first. So the items one through four, the building line B, are passed to get their discussion. All the minutes, Thompson, Kelly. Item one, this is 440.
 Is that going to come out of the police budget for 10 years? Let's explain that, Chief. It will become out of our budget, the PD's budget going forward. It's a radio service that the PD needs to communicate. It's somewhat similar like we had with our prior radio frequency RF that we had years ago. So is this at 448,200?
 Total or is that per year? It's a total over 10 years. And is it paid out one-tenth each year or how does that work? Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion on item 24, I'll read you. Yes, sir. Thank you. On that same issue, are there computer or software upgrades included in that $448,000 over the 10 years?
 This new cost is the upgrade that we're paying for. In order for us to continue to communicate, there's going to be an upgrade for us to communicate with the 911 center. They're also having an upgrade, and then we're having an upgrade on our portable and our mobile radios. So would this cover any upgrade costs over the 10-year period? Yes. Okay.
 Excuse me, the total price is the upgrade now Alderman, that's the cost is the $400,000 and they're giving that to us over 10 years instead of paying all the $400,000 now.
 Well, I guess the question that I'm asking is that as technology changes each year, I'm just saying is the upgrade that we're getting now, that's what we're going to have in place? And we get 10 years to pay for it? Or as we go along, year two, year three, or four, if there's something new that comes out to augment that program, does that include it in the $400-some thousand that we have to pay for it?
 I don't have an answer to that. I'll have to get that back with you. Is there also maintenance included in that number? No. I'm sorry, I didn't hear that answer. Does that... The current maintenance is included in that. I don't know about any new upgrades, if it's three or four or five years. So are Star, TACCON, Starcom, radio, are they under warranty? Are they covered for a certain period of time? Do we renew that?
 periodically or how does that work? The radios are not under warranty now unless we buy brand new radios. We have been buying those the last couple years. Our initial purchase of the radios, the warranty ran out. So we have been over the last couple years buying new portable radios and going less mobile radios. Thank you. Any further discussion on the item? Hearing none, let's pass on the Roman Oral Line B123 and 4. Clerk, please call the roll. Dirke? No.
 Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? No. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Newberg? Aye. Beach? I'm going for aye on the rest. Elia? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Roman numeral 9B48I3, no the remainder 11Is here are no. That is all passed, thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would move that we lay over 5 and 6. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 There's been a motion to lay over Roman or Roman will 9B, 5 and 6. Is there a second? Second. There's been a motion to second the lay of those two as our discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll on the motion to lay those two back on. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? No. Frost? No. Hervey? No. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? No. Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elliott? Beck? Aye.
 McNeely? No. Four ayes. Salvin, no. We got a no. The motion fails, and so the manager is still at the passage. Good discussion. Hearing none, please go over. Durkee? McNamara? No. Frost? No. Hervey? No. Connell? No. Thompson-Kelly? No. Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elliott? Aye. Beck? No. McNeely? No.
 three guys no matter matters your business all across I have a motion to consider the last time I was there a second motion second reconsider items room 09b 5 and 6 discussion under what from the planning and development point of view I know this is a contentious issue I'm I'm very in cable
 When you look at data and you look at communities and you look at how people perceive these, well over 70% of people who are presented with the ability to bury cable in their communities actually support it, mostly from an aesthetic point of view, from other points of view.
 It sounds like this is going to go down, but I would urge the alderman, if they haven't already, I hope they have, I know that they're taking positions out of good principle, but I would urge them to look at surveys of citizens when they're presented with a choice to bury cable and whether they would agree to pay a little bit more on their electric bill to do that. I understand it costs a lot of money to live in Rockford.
 But I think this is worth the investment. It does fit the 2020 plan. It fits community improvement. It fits a number of our agendas that we've set forth in trying to improve our community. Plus, we're getting the ability to bury fiber optic cable along with the electric cable. So...
 I think it's a good thing to bury these cables. Joe Castro Giovanni, I won't bore you with the letter that he wrote as he's representing the business community out by his establishment, is very much in favor of it. Chamber of Commerce has come out in favor of this unanimously.
 There is a lot of support for this. The way the costs are driven, it does go to the homeowner as well as business owners who don't sometimes contribute to the CIP fund among other things. So I don't know how this is going to go. With a vote, I would urge my colleagues to reconsider or at least let this lay over.
 and maybe take a fresh look at it. There was some information, misinformation disseminated regarding what the actual cost is.
 with regard to burying the cable. One study that I wish I could reproduce at an alderman's request, I can't find it again, but basically said as cable goes underground, the typical homeowner will lose more in food spoilage than they will pay to bury the cable.
 The other interesting point is we talk about power outages, aesthetics, and things like that. We also happen to live in the Midwest, and as we lose power, people also lose heat. So while there's a front-end cost to it, the cost directly benefits the homeowner, directly benefits the business that is paying this, and each project has a sunset to it.
 Each project has to be approved by us. This is not something that we would embark on willy-nilly. These are specific projects in specific areas that would specifically help folks in those areas. So I urge the council to whatever parliamentary thing we're doing here to let this be held over, reconsider.
 That's it. So just to clear up the procedural issue, there was already a vote on the motion to reconsider the matter. It passed and so the matter is up for a final vote on this position. So it passed and Alderman Frost had second thoughts and he moved to reconsider it.
 I'm joking. You've moved to reconsider it, right? Because he wants to put a knife or a stake as they want to kill a vampire. He wants to kill it off tonight. So he was successful in that motion to reconsider. The matter is up for reconsideration. So if it gets executed, deceased again tonight, then we would have to. We couldn't bring it up again. Thank you. Alderman Newberg.
 Okay, I was originally, I think it's a great idea to bury these lines, but I am against having concurrent charges put on an individual's electric bill.
 Thank you, Mayor. I agree with Dr. Durkee that we should be burying the lines when we can and we should certainly plan for it as he mentioned in the Planning and Development Committee. I just happen to disagree with the way that this is currently being funded via this proposal. I think we first heard that this was for safety reasons.
 Well, when you look at 2013 stats, we had more than 3,700 accidents. Only 51 of them were with an electrical pole. So that's about 1% of those accidents. Then we heard it was for commerce reasons, and we have to rush to do this to get North Main and...
 Harrison done well these are streets that have been in the planning for years and to bring this now I just don't think it's the right time I think if you look at what we already have today with high property tax rate high sales tax rate many of us aldermen have been in discussions about water rate increases being something that we need to potentially consider.
 I just don't think we can simply afford to add another backdoor tax to citizens to live here. We lost 3% of our population already and I don't think policies like this would help us. I think burying the lines is a good thing. I think incorporating them and planning for them in our CIP and current fund allocation that people approved in 2007 and I hope to God they approve in 2017 is a better way to do this.
 Hold on, Thompson Kelly. I just want to thank the public and the staff. What we ask for out of staff is to do exactly what they're doing, think outside the box and look long-term.
 And I do appreciate them doing that. I don't want the committee to think that I don't appreciate the work that they're doing, but I think Matt thought I was the hardest person to explain it to. But I do appreciate the work that they're doing. As I personally feel, looking at the CIP and looking at the projects that's going to take place, and looking at my board and other boards not being on the map for the next four years,
 go to my citizens and honestly say to them that I would agree to something like this. I think if it was a more fair way to finance it, I would be in support of it. But this is not the way. Further discussion? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think that the businesses, if they would like to do this, certainly they can come up with the cost of doing that. If the businesses are not willing
 On North Main, West State Street, not West State, but East Street, South Main, wherever the businesses are that would like to see this, there's no question. It's an extremely significant improvement to any business district. And I would love to see that, especially on East State Street when you drive through there.
 not to see those lines. So I think that the businesses that truly want this, and we as a city should encourage them to carry the cost, to carry the cost for the improvement of their area. It's no different than homeowners when the streetlights were removed were told that they could pay for their own streetlights, and some people did.
 So I would suggest that we talk with businesses and see if there are enough of them that are willing and if it's viable to do it. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. And just as a point of procedure, Mr. Hayes whispered over me to correct me, our first
 The motion to lay over which failed. The second vote was the actual underlying vote on the item as it appeared, which also failed. And then what we're debating right now is the motion to reconsider that Alderman Frost. So the way it works is we have to first take this question of whether or not we will reconsider the matter if we do decide to reconsider the matter now.
 then the matter would be up for another vote immediately in the interview. So right now is again still the debate on the motion to reconsider. Any further discussion on that matter? Should the motion to reconsider fail, would there be another opportunity later on to reconsider it again? So the letter, I believe state law,
 We would have one more opportunity. You have the opportunity as late as that meeting can immediately follow. So, yes, something good at the next council meeting. As late as the next council meeting, we'll reconsider the matter. Again. Mr. Hayes, I get that. Thank you.
 correct the motion to reconsider fails tonight under it could be reconsidered at the next council meeting if the motion to reconsider carries under our local rules of motion to reconsider the matter may only be reconsidered otherwise if somebody wanted the same idea they could bring it back to the committee but this item on these reports would be done
 So just as a point of information, there was a couple of questions that implicated our CIP. The capital plan calls for both of these corridors to move or vary the lines. So I don't want to give the impression that if this will be, but this is just a question of how we pay for it.
 Just like South Main, just like West State, just like Main and Auburn, we have moved or relocated those lines off the main track. We pay for them out of our existing program funds, which are our sales tax, our total field taxes. This is simply a question of whether or not we're going to bring in new additional revenue.
 We have, by the way, debated this issue in the past and never got a committee, frankly, if my record serves me correctly, to come up for a full vote on some of those other areas that we have considered. This is simply a question about building capacity to do more programmatic work with that.
 I think if this vote fails and there is no support for the LGC writer it doesn't mean that we would diminish our standards or standards are going to be more meaningful and remain the same and we'll still be moving on North Main and are still on the goal of North Main and Harrison is to move those both but will come out of our program plans. Thank you sir. So as I understand it this is going to be done in Harrison or North Main but these two proposals
 our recommendations are a way to pay for it but it will be done so just remember that what time comes up about where my dollars for neighborhood streets yes because you know you can only spend a dollar once and if we don't grow the pot that limits our ability to projects owner is real concerning to me because my understanding is we don't have to do this the state is not requiring us to bury the wires correct
 So where are we saying that we're going to do it one way or the other? If city council says not just that we don't want to pay for it with the comment writer, but we don't want to do it, is there some process where? Yes. Those items will come up for vote. And so when they come up for vote, and correct me if I'm wrong, either Mr. Ryan, Mr. Hanson, but just like on South Main and West State, we actually have to enter into a contract to move the polls.
 And when we do that would be the opportunity for the council to say, as a matter of fact, we don't want to move the polls, we're happy with having polls, but that is not this vote that would come up after. I'm not sure time-wise, Mr. Hanson, Mr. Vintner, when you would expect that to happen. I would bring that to the next meeting. Could you step off the microphone? I would propose an expalible opportunity to relocate that with our own CIP funds.
 No, that's not my question. It's something very, very different. Not whether we're voting to relocate it with our CIP funds, but whether we're required to relocate it at all. We're not required to move it as we're proposing.
 There is a base level of move that ComEd has to pay for just to get out of the right of way. Our goal, as we discussed, was to do more than just the basic move. So the basic move, they will cover the cost. They have to do that under the franchise agreement that we have. What we were hoping to pay for was something to go beyond the basics because all they're required to do is the lowest reasonable
 expense. Right, but what I heard Mr. Vittner just say is it makes it sound like we're going to do something no matter what. And I don't think so. So because these poles are where our road is now going to be because the road's going to be widened, we have to move them. Yeah, I understand. They have to get moved back.
 But we don't have to take them off the street. We do not. And we don't have to bury them. We do not. So how is that impacting the CIP? Well, if right now the plan was to do the same thing on North Main as we've done on
 the plans to be have been to do the same thing on North man Harrison as we've done not only itself mean but also what state the council get this decided wants to do a different standard and not build those levels of the city to the same okay standard all right he's all the time so Kelly I just want a clarification on the reconsider motion yes if you want to reconsider the man that's correct thank you any further discussion
 very much please call thank you very much I certainly want to have understanding that for West 8th Street in the final stages covering from sunset to horse that's done and paid for subject to that would be subject to a future vote of the council like we're talking
 that we'll need to do both on North Main and Harrison when it comes time to make that, decide that question. So the state has not agreed to allow that to move forward? No, the state is moving with us to, we're still doing acquisition, there's a number of steps, the Ponce Funeral Home for example is one of the steps that we're moving for that next phase of activity. The point is that when the question comes of whether we're going to
 bury the lines or move them back into a different area along the main right of way to make a more attractive street. When that question comes up, it will be on a future date when we're at that point in time with the project. We're just not at that point in time with
 however it's already in the plans to do that that's not it is our expectation that project and it has been our expectation and our standard of design that we want to get those polls on the right but it's a multiple if the council decides they want to change courses the council's discretion based on its consensus and majority vote to do so and that's the only thing that
 and that would be the same for South Main as well word some things are in it some things are in it so we agree we did here and have no problem we had made a bonus to approve moving tell all the tools out of the right away I'm not going to ask them to talk about those and that's already been contracted and I thought it was the same with the state street
 So what state in the first phase of it was done, we haven't paid for phase two, that's probably going to be in a year and a half. And Mr. Mayor, the section that's going to be widened stops at Horse, but the streetlights would go to Pierpont or Springfield? On what state? Yeah. Mr. Binder, Mr. Yerman, Mr. Hanson, Mr. Yerman.
 The second phase will go out. You will have the streetlights that will be out there. The question is about the utility poles, if you're going to move them just back behind the right-of-way or are you going to bury them? That's the question that will come up later in the future.
 Councilor? I want to see an example of what it looks like where you've got new street lights, but you also have a utility pole. I know. You can look at Kishwaukee, well, you can look at Kishwaukee where we have the last section when you get closest to downtown coming from the airport driving north. You can see what that looks like. Thank you. Further discussion? Thank you. Further discussion? Here you are. Clerk, we're just going to roll. Jerky? No. Gatches? No. McNamara? Yes.
 Frost? Yes. Hervey? Panel? Yes. Thompson-Kelley? Yes. Newberg? Beach? Yes. Ellier? No. Beck? No. McNeely? Yes. One vote. Boom. Six ayes, five noes. One abstain. The matter will be reconsidered. Is there discussion? More discussion on the matter? Move to adjourn.
 I heard a thought from someone about adjourning we can't adjourn it's pending vote so the matter is up for reconsideration if there is no further discussion just to be clear a yes vote in this case would be approving the item a no vote would be disapproving the items and so for passage a yes is the only one for the report line B items 5 and 6 please
 Gatchas? Abstain. McNamara? Frost? No. Hervey? No. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? No. Newberg? Beach? No. Ellier? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? No. Four ayes, seven noes, one abstain. Matters fail. New business. Yes, Your Honor. I got a punch with my deal here.
 I have one item under new business I would ask to suspend rules it's the amendment to the development agreement with Rockford area convention and visitors bureau regarding the forest city beautiful initiative I might like to suspend rules first motion and second to spend the rules that are 10 a 1 all those in favor please say aye aye motion all those in favor please spend it thank you your honor then I would place this up for passage that is up for passage is there discussion
 Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Bost? Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Back? Aye. McNeely? 12 ayes room. That addresses, thank you. H? Move to order.
 under 10b three items number one sale city-owned property located in 15 first avenue for a minimum bid of fifteen hundred dollars number two san jose state located 200 north johnson avenue a handwritten school for a minimum bid of a thousand dollars number three is the city rockford code of ordinance uh for the residents of quality support and all three of these are for passage and i vote to suspend the rules and a motion second spend the rules on the world 10 bms 1 2
 All right. Opposed, no. I say. Place these all at the back, Your Honor. I mentioned them in the past in just their discussion. Mr. Hayes. Your Honor, I point out to the members present that the items B1 and 2, the sale of the real estate, to go to ordinance requires the affirmative votes of 12 members, 12 aldermen. So it would require the affirmative vote of every member present. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. And does that include me or no? No, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you. We would need an unanimous vote. Yes, Your Honor. Those two items. Is there further discussion? Hearing none, could the clerk please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Duchess? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Beach? Aye. May? Aye. Beck? Aye. The matter is passed. Thank you. All in favor?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. First is an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Park District for construction of a general stormwater detention facility located in Harmon Park. Item two is an agreement granting temporary and permanent easements in Harmon Park with the Rockford Park District for construction of a regional stormwater detention facility. And item three is a Head Start collaborative agreement with Hand in Hand Child Care Center. And I ask for suspension rules on those three items. I'll suspend motion. Second to suspend rules.
 I'm sorry, there was a second from Hervey to spend the rolls on Roman numeral 10 C-123. All those in favor of spending the rolls please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Aye. I just have the rolls be spent. Plays them up for passage. Plays them up for passage. Is there a discussion? If you're not clear, please fill the roll. Durkee. Getschus. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye.
 Roman numeral 10 C 7 8 eyes for know the remainder 12 by 0 now I