Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Shirelli. Twelve present. Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. We have limited items on our agenda, but first up we have committee reports under code and regulation. Alderman Shirelli.
 thank your honor we have one item under committee reports the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for an artist's live work space on the ground floor of an office use that provides goods or services such as food clothing resources and other forms of assistance to
 to those in need in a C2 commercial zoning district at 1121 5th Avenue. Subject to amended conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place that up for passage, Your Honor. Excellent. So we have one item before us, Alderman Quinones. Yes, I'd like to amend. I move to amend the committee report under Committee Reports, Roman No. 2, Item B.
 Item 1 to reflect, sustaining the zoning board's appeals recommendation of approval for a special use permit for an artist's live workspace on the ground floor and an office use that provides goods or services such as food, clothing, resources, and other forms of assistance to those in need in the C2 limit commercial zoning district at 1121 5th Avenue.
 Jacob Rush, applicant subject to additional conditions number 10 as follows. Compliance with the application statutes and regulations governing individuals deemed to be a sex offender is defined as 730 ILCS 1502. I place this item as amended up for passage. We have a motion before you. Is there a second?
 We have a motion and a second before you. Is there a discussion on the amended... I'm sorry. There's a motion and a second. Is there a discussion on the amendment? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. No. Ten ayes, two noes. Okay, so...
 are you placing now the yes i placed that revised amended committee report up for passage so now before you there's an amended committee report is there a discussion on the amended committee report alderman thompson kelly on just a point of notice did did um
 It seems like for the last two or three weeks there's always been a revision coming up is someone sitting down with With the owner and getting all this established before we start making Changes to know if the owner can make these changes. Is it reasonable? Have that conversation been had I'm just curious Turn to
 I reached out to Attorney Ewing earlier today. She advised that she was aware of the potential amendments and had discussions with a few of the aldermen. I greatly do appreciate that. Thank you. Is there further discussion on the amended item before you, Roman numeral 2B1? Alderman Durkee. Yeah, just a couple of comments to reiterate some things that I raised before.
 as far as zoning goes and approving this i certainly laud anybody's efforts to help the underprivileged i think when it comes to some of these things there at least needs to be some type of formal neighborhood impact study that's done and i haven't seen this done yet um so that that troubles me a little bit i also am troubled that they are not on the registry
 We have had numerous discussions on the council floor historically regarding the fact that Rockford in Northern Illinois is becoming more and more the resources that are allocated to those underserved are stretching the ability to deliver those services.
 There's there's a number of churches missions things like that and I understand that there that some of these folks have difficulty there but sooner or later
 We're going to reach we're reaching a tipping point where we're going to cease to be able to handle the volume of some of these challenges that we face in Rockford. The median income in Rockford is about $39,000 to $41,000. We have well over 4100 subsidized housing units.
 To give you an example in the city of Naperville their median household income is somewhere around a hundred and ten thousand dollars and they have about 600 subsidized units so we struggle and as we have folks that require Certain services where we're at the point where we almost have an inability to do this and to attract more more of these challenged folks into the area and
 is really may put us over the edge. I find it a little bit disturbing in the state of Illinois that we just passed a budget with no, nothing for mental health. Mental, as long as the folks with some, let's face it, many of the homeless suffer from schizophrenia. It's not their fault and there's some mental challenges that they have and it is a disease. It needs to be treated and it can be treated, but they don't have a pack.
 They don't have, you know, a lot of voice. They don't vote. And because they don't, they get, they're not a special interest group. They have no cachet. And so we close Singer. And when we constantly treat addiction as, you know, somebody, you know, yeah, they're just an addict, instead of treating addiction as an illness,
 Felly, mae hyn yn edrych i mi fel, rwy'n gwybod beth yw'n cael ei wneud, ond mae'n edrych fel ein bod yn rhoi band-aid ar broblem yw ein bod yn colli'r gwartheg. Ac hyd yn oed, hyd yn oed, byddwn ni'n allu cyflogi adnoddau i'r ddwyloion, hyd yn oed byddwn ni'n dechrau cymryd y heriau hynny, ac yn y canlyniad o rai o'r pethau sy'n digwydd, byddwn ni'n edrych ar band-aid amser. Ac mae gwahanol ddewr ar draws y Deyrnas Unedig
 lle nad yw hyn yn cael ei wneud, a bod adnoddau'n cymryd niferoedd o unigolion heb-draffydd a chynharach, maen nhw'n cynyddu eu gallu i gyfrwngo'r pobioliaeth.
 Ac mae hynny'n anodd. Mae angen i'r bobl hynny fod yn cael eu cyfrannu'n dda, yn ôl i ffyrdd o amgylcheddau ar draws cymunedau. Ac yn fwy na chyflawni, mae'r Deyrnas Unedig wedi cael ei wynebu bod pobl â chyflawniad mentol yn ei fod yn ei fod yn cael eu trafod ac mae angen i ffyrdd gael eu cyflwyno i helpu'r bobl hynny, yn ogystal â phobl sydd â chyflawniad. Maen nhw'n ei fod yn cael eu trafod fel bobl sydd â anodd yn hytrach na chynnyddion o gwmpas o'r stryd corno.
 ac nid ydym yn gwneud hynny erbyn hyn. Felly, rwy'n gwybod nad oedd yna gofynion i'r gwasanaeth yno, ond nid yw'r gofynion i'r gwasanaeth yn arwain arweinydd, maen nhw'n arwain arweinydd ac rwy'n ychydig yn bwysig am beth efallai y bydd y ffwrdd o'r hyn rydym yn ei wneud i helpu'r bobl hynny yn dechrau ymlaen. Rwyf wedi siarad gyda'r Alderman yn y Gweinidog sy'n gwybod y maes hynny yn well na fi, a mae'n eithaf hyderus
 y mae hyn yn ddiddordeb da ac rwy'n ymddiriedol oherwydd ei fod yn yno ac rwy'n ymddygiadol o hyn. Y peth arall yw, i'r rhai ohonoch sydd wedi darllen y adroddiad cymunedol, mae llythyr o'r Amgueddfa Amgueddfa Cymdeithas Cymru yn yno. Mae hynny'n llythyr sy'n cael ei ddod o'i ffwrdd.
 fel yw llawer o'r llythyr sydd yno, nid yw'n ymddangos fel eu bod nhw wedi'u hysgrifennu. Mae'n cael ei hysgrifennu ar ddwyledd Swedig. Rwy'n gweithio ar gyfer Swedig. Rwyf wedi cymdeithas â'r
 arweinyddiaeth Cymreig, mae'n gwybod, er bod nhw'n gallu neu ddim yn ymddiriedol o bethau arbennig yn y ddinas, nad ydyn nhw'n cael cymwyso'r pethau. Felly, i chi sydd wedi gweld hynny, mae hynny'n fy wneud i mi, yn ôl arweinyddiaeth Cymreig, fod yn ffri i fwydo ar hyn oherwydd nad ydyn nhw'n cael eu cymryd. Felly, dim ond ymwneud â chyflawniadau. Nid yw Cymreig yn ymwneud â hyn yn ffomaliol.
 Yn fawr, rydych chi'n dod â'r pwynt diwethaf hwn, oherwydd yn amlwg, rydych chi'n ymdrech ar aelodau ac felly, nid ydych chi'n rhaid i chi ymdrech. Ie, dyna'r gwrtaith. Diolch. Aelodau eraill? Alderman Irvine. Nid wyf wir wedi parhau i siarad ond mae fy nghefn yn cael ei ddynnu. Pan dwi'n meddwl am y sefyllfa a'r ddau ffordd gwahanol ohono, mae gennych chi un
 individual here who's trying to do a good work and then another side of the body who thinks that It could potentially draw and bring on more potential problems you know and I'm compelled to think about how Jesus described the kingdom of God and how it that that those that are poor and those that are not as fortunate that they will inherit the kingdom and
 they will inherit the kingdom. As bad as it may seem, you know, all these people coming to the city that can't take care of themselves or are receiving less than others, you know, I think of it as a blessing that we're able to be able to provide that assistance to these people that can't provide that assistance to themselves. Like you said, they don't have a voice, you know, and it's like
 If we look to the city or the state or the government to try to take care of it all the time, and we see where that's going to get us, nowhere. We have a body of people here who's trying to take responsibility for themselves and give back into the community despite as to how it look. You know, at least somebody's stepping up to the plate and seeing a need. My mentality when it comes to ministry is you see a need, you meet a need. Yeah.
 You don't red tape it. You don't duct tape it. You come together. Many hands make light work. And if we can all come together and be like-minded and put the support as the body of this committee, come behind them and support, that's really what – because no one's going to dig us out of the ditch. We're going to have to dig ourselves out. And, yes, this is, I believe, the first type of something like this going on.
 There's always potential risk. There's always going to be something that that can go wrong, you know, but I myself, I guess I like to have hope. If there's no hope and there's nothing and we have people that are suffering, we have people that are hurting. And Jesus committed to all of us to do something about it. He said, if you clothe them, you're clothing me. If you feed them, you're feeding me. If you provide shelter to them, you're providing shelter to me.
 And that's the heart I believe our community should have. How it's outlined, it's beyond me, but I don't think that this is a bad thing. I believe that there's great potential to make a huge impact and a great opportunity for the city to show support in those that are less fortunate in the city.
 Thank you. Alderman Rose. I just wanted to mirror what Alderman Irvins had mentioned. There's a really great action researcher, Mitch Dunier, who wrote a book called Sidewalk. If you haven't read it, it's one of those books that you should read if you live in a city or an urban area. But I really think what Ms. Carley is doing is reaching a crowd that—
 needs those services and She's got obviously a huge number of people that are behind her because I've received more emails and phone calls on this one single issue Than most others. I hope that that work continues
 But as a council, we also have to look at ways that we've given them probably more leeway than we have in other situations. And there are times where we have to come to compromises as well. And so that's why I think that amendment was pushed forward. But I do want to reiterate that the work that she's doing and her husband is doing in those –
 those that are volunteering for her. It's much appreciated, and it's something that I wish all of our local churches were doing. Because if our local churches were doing this, we wouldn't have a need for Ms. Carly's. Thanks. Next comment. Thank you. Any other further discussion? Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, item will move forward next up. We have motions and resolutions. We have one item Code and regulation all their men surely. Thank your honor. I have one item It's the Jurassic Park our KFD finals watch party the event is scheduled for Thursday, June 13th place that up for passage Thank you. We have one item before us and Is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion all those in favor say after I?
 I'm sorry, Attorney Hammer, what was that? We need a rule suspension of Rule 15. Motion to suspend Rule 15. Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend Rule 15. All those in favor of suspending Rule 15 say aye. Aye. So that rule has been suspended. Now we need a vote on the item. Sorry about that. Thank you. Is there any further discussion on the one item before you? Seeing no further discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Thank you.
 Those opposed? Item will pass. Next up, we have another item under code and regulation under new business ordinances. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the special use permit for an artist's live workspace on the ground floor and an office use that provides goods and services such as food, clothing, resources, and other forms of assistance
 to those in need at 1121 5th Avenue. Place that ordinance up for passage, your honor. Thank you. We have one item before us, Alderman Quinones. Yes, I want to place this ordinance to prove it a special use permit for an artist's live works. Alderman Shirely just did it. Is it over one? I'm sorry? You just placed it up, right? Yeah, it's up for passage. Yep, it's up for passage. Okay.
 As amended. Yep, as amended. Is there any further discussion on the item that's before us? Seeing no further discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Shirelli.
 12 ice. Thank you. We have one additional item under finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of not to exceed $2,500,000 in Water Works revenue bonds series 2019-20.
 of the city of Rockford, Winnebago, and Oval Counties, Illinois, for the purposes of paying the costs of the necessary improvements to the waterworks system of said city, prescribing all the details of said bonds and providing for the collection, segregation, and distribution of revenues of said system for the payment of said bonds. Please accept for passage. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Excellent. That item passes Alderman Chiarelli. Your Honor. Yeah. I'm sorry. We can do an officer's report. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Thank you.
 I would like to announce the Westside Business Association meeting will be June 20th at 2019 at Fuzzy's Mexican American Restaurant at 2515 Kilburn Avenue. Appetizers and dinner, you're on your own. But my good friend, Senator Dave Severson, will be the keynote speaker addressing the issues in Springfield. Thank you. Thank you.
 Really crossing the aisle Seeing no others will move forward alderman Shirely. Thank you. I just have one item tonight. That's just to say go Raptors So, let's see I moved to convene into closed session in order to discuss real estate transaction matters I
 Second second we have a motion in second any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye Those opposed we'll move into closed session