start our council from Pastor Samuel Serpia of Rockford Community Church. Let us pray. Gracious God, thank you for this great city and the leaders that you've entrusted to serve and to guide us. I ask that you give them wisdom today and the days ahead and for our city may we be citizens that support our leadership and support the city in general.
 Thank you because we know your presence will be here and always be with us. We ask all this through Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Of the United States of America, for which it stands, for the justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Hogeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Herbie. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here.
 Bec? Here. Chiarelli? Here. 12 present. Thank you. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on May 29th, 2018? We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Same sign. Do we have a motion for the journal proceedings of the city council meeting held on June 4th, 2018? So moved. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes.
 Do we have a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on June 11, 2018? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have one proclamation this evening. The proclamation is for Project 1013 Days. If Pastor Randy Young would please come forward. How are you? Great to see you. Thanks for coming. Good morning.
 Whereas Project 1013 started eight years ago is a coordinated partnership between Rock Church and the West Gateway Coalition.
 And whereas the purpose of Project 1013 is to bring hope and encouragement to the residents by helping them with neighborhood cleanup, light maintenance, projects on their homes, and yard work. And whereas the Project 1013 coalition is made up of churches, businesses, and community organizations that are providing volunteers and donating materials and or funding.
 And whereas, starting June 20th through June 23rd, Project 1013 volunteers will clean up, beautify, and improve the living conditions of the Ellis Heights neighborhood. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim June 20th through June 23rd, 2018 to be Project 1013.
 I just want to say on behalf of all of the city of Rockford, and I know on behalf of Alderman, how much we appreciate the work that you're doing to improve our neighborhoods and the quality of life of so many residents. Would you like to share a few words?
 Just a real quick story. So this is my second year being project manager and last year, I think it was on Friday, these four black suburbans pull up to come into the barricades. And I thought it was kind of weird. I thought maybe the president was here, had heard about it. But so we let them in and about 30 to 40 people pile out of these suburbans. This gentleman walks up and he says, I'm, I think he was the city council person for the city out of Pittsburgh area.
 had heard about Project 1013, brought almost all the city people with him, worked a full day, and then flew home and took the idea back. So that's what we want. We want to see other cities, other communities rise up, clean up their neighborhoods, create health and safety. We're great to partner with the city, with United Way, with so many. I want to thank Mark Stockman and Rob Willoughby and Mitch Lodaby, who have been great to work with. So thank you, Mr. Mayor. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 I just want to add one thing to that. I hope that tomorrow, Wednesday, we will be serving the volunteers that will be coming from all over several states. We will be serving lunch at the house on Irving Avenue. So if any of you have time to help volunteer and come and join us, we greatly appreciate it.
 Thank you. And Alderman, would you be able to send us an email with that information just so we have it? Sure. Thank you. Next up, this evening we have a public hearing for a pre-annexation agreement and I will turn that hearing over to Alderman Chiarelli who's the chair of codes and regulations. It's set up for you to do it right there if you wish or you can come up here. Very good, Your Honor.
 Tonight a public hearing is being held pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5, 11 through 15.1-3 for the pre-annexation agreement of the following property. 6400 Auburn Road and 15XX Laclede Avenue. Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre-annexation? Are there any other questions or comments from the public?
 Hearing none, this hearing is now closed. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Shirell. Next up, we will move to petitions and communications under Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Rost. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to read in the proposed Community Development Block Grant Development Agreement between the City of Rockford and Bergstrom Incorporated and refer to the Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have Codes and Regulations. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on June 19, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on June 25, 2018.
 Second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on June 19, 2018 and the minutes for that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on June 25th, 2018. Third is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding the review of closed session minutes for the City Council on Codes and Regulations Committee.
 the fourth is a memorandum from lafakiri avon the assistant city attorney regarding the pre-annexation of 69 69 69 south main street the fifth is a memorandum from kelly noakes deputy operations manager regarding the upcoming special events which include tour de north end
 Labor Day parade and head of the rock regatta the six is a memorandum from Lafayette area Vaughan Assistant city attorney regarding the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford Rockford Housing Authority and Rock River water reclamation district for street vacation surrounding the Orton Keys housing complex all six of those Referrals will be referred to the codes and breaks committee your honor. Thank you. And if my notes are correct we don't have any finance and personnel items and
 Next up, we have public speakers. Just want to remind our public speakers that you have three minutes to speak, and you'll hear an alarm go off when your time is up. Alderman Shirelli. Is it appropriate if I can go back to the referrals you're on? I had missed one. Of course. Okay. Okay.
 I have one more memorandum from Nelson Schulstrom, building code official regarding the proposed code amendment. That also be referred to the Code and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, now, we'll have the public speakers, and just remind public speakers, you have three minutes, and you'll hear an alarm. First public speaker we have this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Isaiah, the ninth chapter, the sixth of the seven verses, it says, For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. And the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. What I want to speak about tonight, a poem for Rockford citizens, the name of the
 of it, don't quit. When things go wrong, as they sometimes will, when the road you're trodding seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high, and you want to smile but you have to sigh, when care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must, but don't you quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learns, and many a failure turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't
 up though the pace seems slow you may succeed with another blow often the gold is near then it seems so a faint and faltering man often the struggle has given up when he might have captured the victor's cup and he learned too late when the night slipped down how close he was to the golden crown success is failure turned inside out the silver tent of the clouds are down and you never
 can tell how close you are. It may be near when it seems so far. So stick to the fight when your heart is here. It's when things seem worse that you must not quit. I also been want to tell State Representative Letitia Wallace and Reverend Shelby this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like y'all loving. You can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more, and God bless you. I also want to say happy birthday to Alderman Bill Rose.
 and my great great niece and I wish you many more and God bless you and your family happy birthday to you happy birthday to you happy birthday to my good friends happy birthday to you thanks for allowing me to speak okay next up we have mr. John tech Brantley the evening there more time back in there
 Our awesomeness and our citizens of Roxville, Illinois. Larry must be talking about me. Proverbs 28 say, God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restarted positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people
 blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God would supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? I want to talk about this weekend event for Father's Day and how one individual tried her best to stop one of our events. This Tuesday will be our 28th anniversary for Juneteenth, a celebration of freedom.
 I will hit that hard next week. I want to speak today, we want to talk about the worst city for black Americans. Back in 2015, 24-7 Wall Street special report had Rockford as number two. The next year, we was number three. Now this year, we are number 16. Here are some of the reasons why
 what can be done and what has been said. One factor contributing to racial inequality is residential segregation, discriminatory lending practice, and housing policy have historically separated blacks and white residents along geographic lines. In many of the cities with the worst radical inequality, poor black neighborhoods and wealthy white neighborhoods are physically separated by a highway or other infracted streets,
 like here in Rockford, it's the river. Such residential segregation hurt education outcomes for African Americans. Most public school funding comes from property tax, with less than 10% of the school budget coming from federal sources. This means that schools in poor black neighborhoods tend to be drastically underfunded. Despite the outcome of Brown v. the Board of Education Supreme Court case banning segregation in the public school more than 50 years, many of the system remained
 divided along racial lines. For example, some 8.3 million of the city workforce is out of jobs, and 22% of our area residents live below the poverty line, each among the highest share in the US. African-Americans make up more than 80%.
 Like many other cities on this list, Rockwood also struggled with crime. The Northern Illinois City annual violent crime rate at 1,585 incidents for every 100,000 residents is over four times the national violent crime rate among the 10 worst out of the 551 cities considered. Just look at the number of businesses that have closed or moved from the west side of the river. On July 8th,
 Snooks is set to close two more of their stores. Why in the devil's name would they close the one on Rockton Street? The community is pissed off with Snooks closing the one on Rockton Street, and I have been asked by others, what can we do to get another food store in its place? They moved the public aid office, child support office, just to name a few. Thank you. Next up, we have a new committee of reports. The first item is in Plain and DeVolma, Alderman Rosen.
 Your Honor, we're going to hold out the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Second Congregational Church of Rockford Foundation. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have Quotes and Regulations. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. The committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to the Section 3-102 of the City of Rockford Tobacco Ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place that committee report up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Moggeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. That item passes. Next up, we have financing personnel. Oh, here he is.
 Sorry about that. I just remembered I left my lift down on my van, so here comes the rain. All right. We are on committee reports. Committee reports, new committee reports. C1 through 5? Yep. Okay. Recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $8,553,277.11.
 Next is recommending approval of the Head Start COLA application in the amount of $37,805 and the Early Head Start COLA application in the amount of $8,013. Additionally, the Human Services is requesting a waiver of the amount required for non-federal local in-kind match in the amount of $11,455.
 Next is the approval of the Early Head Start Child Care COLA application in the amount of $14,414, and request a waiver of the amount required for non-federal local in-kind match in the amount of $3,603.50. Next is approval of the Intergovernmental Agreement for Temporary 911 Emergency Operators. And then finally, we have the approval of an agreement to allow Cherry Valley Fire Protection District to rent a fire engine intermittently over the course of the next two years.
 uh these five items are up for passage thank you so we have five items before us is there any discussion on the five alderman ervin's on uh number five i got two questions uh how much are we renting these trucks out for and if something was to go wrong with it are would we be responsible for replacing say whatever big tech machine is on the truck excellent so two questions uh
 Chief Berkson. So the fee is $120 for a 24-hour day and your second one is if something breaks on the truck they're responsible for those repairs then. Any follow-up questions? I was just wondering. Any further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Urbans. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 There's going to be autograph signings, and they're going to be handing out Portillo's for Good flyers. And with this, you can then, after you've bought all your jewelry, go down to Portillo's and buy something for your family. 20% of the sales will go to IWBC to help build the International Women's Baseball Center. We only need $7 million more.
 Then everybody goes on to the Rockford Rivets. The game is at 6.30, and at the Rivets, they will be selling peaches and IWBC merchandise just inside the gate. So the 21st is going to be a pretty busy day. So on the 21st, Clodius, and then where? Clodius is at 1 to 4, Portillo's 5 to 8, and Rockford Rivets at 6.30. Are you going to get your wife a necklace? Just don't let her know about the...
 About the sale. Other officers reports. Other men back. Thank you, Your Honor. Most of you know my other...
 job is working with the park district and i get the honor and privilege of coordinating the music in the park series at the synesthetic music show which kicked off last week with phantom regiment uh... just a perfect night had almost four thousand people there and so it's a great way to kick off the season i'll be going for the next including this week will be seven more weeks tomorrow actually is a special day because we also help coordinate the juneteenth annual event that tommy meeks
 He's had it up for almost 30 years, I think.
 And so that'll be at the music show from 3 to 6, and Juneteenth is a celebration of emancipation of slavery. So Tommy feels passionately about continuing that event and making sure that people understand what it means. And so the Park District is really happy to be able to help support that. And then at 7 p.m., then it'll switch over to the concert, which will be Big Daddy Woo Woo. And then we'll have got a great lineup of other – well, that's what Tommy wanted, so –
 We've got a great lineup of concerts throughout the rest of the summer, ending on August 2nd with American English, the Beatles tribute band. So come on out and visit me on Tuesday and Thursday nights at the music show. Awesome. Thanks. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to take this moment. There was a, I had received a few phone calls regarding a home between the Spring Creek and High Crest area.
 So much so that there was some confusion on the tall grass and aesthetics, and so I actually stopped by and spoke with a resident and then filled in the other residents on what was going on a little bit. I received an email correspondence from one of the residents, and one of them felt compelled enough to go over there and take care of the situation themselves.
 brought over a mower and apparently five other neighbors joined in. And they wished to remain anonymous, which I said, that's fine. But I told them I was going to point it out at city council. They used a riding lawn mower, two hand mowers and a rake. They spoke with the individual when she had brought water out to them and thanked them. She lost her job.
 and doesn't have a vehicle, just ran on some real hard times. And so had paid someone to come over, they did the job, about half of it, and then left and never came back. And so the neighbors stepped up and took care of it, and they feel that there is a feeling of compassion now for this neighbor and with that better communication.
 that happened and so I know with all the calls that we get for tall grass and all sometimes it's just neighbors going over and talking to neighbors and we've said it multiple times many of us here on council but this is a situation that that proved itself this person was just on hard times and
 not only one neighbor stepped up to the plate but five neighbors stepped up to the plate and all pitched in so those uh neighbors in the Alta Vista part of the neighborhood I commend you and you're an example for the rest of us here in the city thank you Mayor thank you for Chairman other officers reports
 Yeah. I guess one item I just mentioned is there was the ribbon cutting that I believe I saw Alderman Thompson-Kelly and maybe Alderman Beck at for cliff breakers. It looks phenomenal if you haven't had an opportunity to go over there.
 brought back clip breakers to be that anchor of the northwest side that I think we all had gotten used to it being and then it hadn't been for some time. And it was also interesting running into one of the owners of the stockyard there. Um, and talking to him about why he chose North town mall to invest in, uh,
 There was a whole host of reasons from the reconstruction of North Main to the Swedish American clinic and Rose grants moving in. But Cliff Breakers was certainly a big item on the list of why they chose that location. And between the two, it's about 120 to 130 jobs at varying levels of pay. But exciting nonetheless and a lot of work due to many of the folks around the horseshoe for approving a number of important projects.
 Moving right along. Under unfinished business, we have Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, your honor. Unfinished business committee reports laid over B1A and B. There's been a request to hold that out, your honor, this evening. So I'm going to hold that out as chair of the committee. So that's B1A and B being held out.
 Second, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of light equipment sales and rental, heavy equipment sales and rental, and outdoor storage of light and heavy equipment of 60 foot by 50 foot.
 Storage building addition a seven foot fence with barbed wire in the front yard along Russell Avenue and variations for building setbacks fence height and barbed wire in the front yard along Russell Avenue at 3108 Auburn Street 3110 Auburn Street and 13 XX Russell Avenue the applicant is JBT properties subject to conditions and
 The third is a committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a variation to decrease the required front yard setback from a parking lot from 20 feet to 10 feet along North Trainer Road and Weaver Road and a denial for a variation to decrease the front yard setbacks
 for a parking lot from 20 feet to 2 feet along Weaver Road, and an approval of a variation to decrease the required front yard perimeter landscaping from 20 feet to 10 feet along North Traynor Road and Weaver Road, and a denial of a variation to decrease the required open green space along a portion of the east property line.
 From 4 feet to 2 feet and approval of a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the front yard from 4 feet to 6 feet along North Trainer Road. And Weaver Road and the C3 General zoning district. At 6625 East Riverside Boulevard. JBT properties is the applicant that's subject to conditions.
 I place those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you have an amendment? Yes, Your Honor, I do. I have an amendment on item two. I would like to move to amend the committee report under unfinished business.
 for to reflect the following changes committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for development consisting of a light equipment and sales rental heavy equipment sales Alderman I'm really sorry I have your volume all the way up and I think it's because of the rain over here none of us can hear you can I say yes okay sorry hear me now can you hear me now yes
 Okay, sorry, I'll just start all over. Thank you, sorry. I'd like to move to amend item number two under unfinished business to reflect the following changes. Committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a light equipment sales and rental, heavy equipment sales and rental outdoor storage of light and heavy equipment.
 B, 60 feet by 50 feet storage building addition. C, a variation for building setback. D, a variation for fence height along Russell Avenue.
 Committee in a 7 foot fence along the front yard of Russell Avenue committee recommends reversing the zoning board of appeals for approval of a variation for. Bob wire in front of the yard along Russell Avenue in a C3 commercial.
 Zoning District and Light Industrial Zoning District at 3108 Auburn Street and 3110 Auburn Street and 33XX Russell Avenue.
 with two exceptions given under two additional items, that the fence be a wood privacy fence. And item 11, work with city staff to address the area owned by the city along the banks of Kent Creek and the encroachment in the area in which fence is outside the storage area on exhibit D. And to say all that to say,
 second all the men back once you repeat it no no with the second um i like those amendments your honor and this is a long-standing business that has been in the community for years it's been a great part of the community i met with the owners and we came up with a few changes that we need to make that we should have made some time ago so i would appreciate the support on approving these amendments
 Certainly. Thank you. So first, we have that motion on the floor. We have a motion and a second. Is there a discussion about the amendment? Alderman Hervey. I just wanted to be clear. Does that mean that the barbed wire is eliminated totally? Yes. Okay. I just wasn't sure if it was one area or more. Thank you. Is there other discussion about the amendment? No discussion. Ask clerk for a roll call on just the amendment. Logan. Aye.
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Furby? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes. I like to place that up for adoption, overriding the chairman. So now we have items.
 2 and 3 only up before council. Is there any further discussion on these items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll on items 2 and 3? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McMeeley. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes.
 Excellent moving along to motions and resolutions Alderman Trelli you're at it again Should have just stayed up standing up. All right The first is an approval of a pre annexation of 6400 Auburn Road and 15 X X Laclede Avenue the owners are subject to
 have requested pre annexation to the city of Rockford. Number two is IDOT resolution for the 4th of July parade and fireworks. Number three is Midtown ethnic parade and festival. Number four is Solo Italiano. Number five is the River District 12.
 and number six you're on i'd like to separate because i need a suspension of rules on that one we could do that right now i'm asking for a suspension of rule 15 on item number six fv shop grand grand opening second we have a motion a second uh on the suspension of rules uh we'll need a clerk will you please call the roll
 A voice vote is fine. All those in favor of suspending the rules for number six, FV shop grand opening, please say aye. Those opposed? Okay. And we'll suspend the rules. I place all six of those items up for passage, Your Honor. All right. Alderman Hervey. Just a quick question. With item number six, that's for this weekend? Yes. Yes.
 And I noticed that there were some payments that were still pending and they're using Rockford police for the staffing of it They're using private security. Okay, cuz the memo said Rockford police So this has been a an event that came to us late late last week And our staff has done a tremendous job to get a lot of information So that was probably something that just came even a little bit later. Okay, I just I
 i was just concerned about the timing i knew it had to be pretty late and i was just concerned about taking you know four to six rockford police officers on a weekend when there's that late of an amount of notice no they won't be using rockford police it'll be privately contracted but just for the record i am concerned about that kind of late closure for east state street because that's
 I mean, obviously we want to support grand openings and events downtown, but I hope we've got good detour routes because I don't want to see other businesses get hurt. Certainly. Chief, could you please? Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, in regards to the security plan, they are going to be contracting.
 With a local private security provider to provide security inside this event. What we're going to do is what we would do normally when there would be a concert downtown. We will have some additional officers paying attention to the area. We probably will deploy some officers on bikes to the whole River District area because it should be a little bit busier down there based on the weather regardless. So no change. They are going to still be covering it on their own.
 And this will be the, I think, the third event or second event downtown at the same time, correct? That is correct. We have the River District 12, I believe, that same evening. When we have special events like that, and again, I'm totally supportive of the events, but are we increasing staffing for the rest of our areas? Because I know that was a bone of contention a couple of years ago. You know, everybody loves City Market, but, and downtown development.
 but some of us felt really pinched on calls to the point where even theft i mean we had people having to let thieves go that were caught because the police couldn't get there to respond i mean it was two or three hours and i just want to make sure if we're going to provide this kind of support for contained events
 then are we increasing staffing for the rest of our neighborhood protection sir chief could you add a some commentary to that uh sure you got it um in this case we were we would normally be committing these resources to the river district because of the increased activity over the course not just with this event with everything else going on downtown
 what we have though we give our supervisors our commanders the authority that if they do see call volumes increasing citywide in certain areas they have the ability to pull and move resources around as needed so it's kind of a continuous flowing process and that's what our commanders are
 overseen during the course of these time spots. So it's up to them, but again, we are pretty confident that this should not have a negative impact anywhere else. Again, I want to have both, but it's a pattern that I've seen now. This isn't just one year. And I want to keep developing the events that we have, but from noise complaints to street parties, that pop up at 2, 3 in the morning when the bars close.
 It's a problem because we don't have the coverage that we need. I understand they have that flexibility That doesn't always help a lot when you've got something going on at the exact moment. So Thank you alderman urban, you know, I just want to echo a little bit of what? Alderman Hervey is speaking of. I mean, I know that I
 What I'm going to refer to is not even during eventful hours or something that's going on, but I constantly get phone calls, and my mother was also a victim of police not showing up for almost four hours. So, I mean, I don't know if there was a distraction then, but if we can't even maintain or put out the necessary people during regular business hours, I would be concerned.
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. I have a question. Chief, every summer we go through this rotation and hopefully trying to provide protection throughout the city. Are we going to be taking our community service officers this year, putting them on bikes and putting them downtown from the residential communities?
 Throughout, just so he's clear on the question, throughout the week or are you saying on market days or event days? I just want to be clear. Event days. Okay, thank you. It usually happens on event days that they're reassigned downtown out of the community.
 Chief, would you like to add to that? Sure. Thank you, Your Honor. No, there is no plan to take the community services officers assigned to your areas and bring them into regular day-to-day patrol operations or to provide police coverage on these special details. They have their own assignments and need to attend to those. Thank you. Is there further discussion on the six items before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Turkey.
 Logerman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. All items passed.
 A special thank you to Mark Stockman and Kelly Noakes and the whole team for putting a number of these together fairly quickly. Next up, Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. We have eight items, I believe. Thank you.
 At least on this page we'll get to it. All right, first is the um award of bid for kishwaukee street roadway rehabilitation to william charles construction of rockford illinois an amount of 648 134 11 cents Next is the award of bid for citywide sidewalk repairs package number three to miranda construction of rockford illinois in the amount of 35 584 dollars
 Next is the award of bid for Cedar Street parking lot to William Charles Construction of Rockford in the amount of $762,782.81.
 The funding source for this is the River Edge Redevelopment Zone Grant Funds. Item four is award of bid for Market Street improvements and alley reconstruction to Norwest Construction Incorporated of South Beloit, Illinois. In the amount of $190,779.36. And also the funding source is the River Edge Redevelopment Zone Grant Funds.
 which would go pay for $164,416 of the project, and the remainder would be paid by sales tax. The next is the award of bid for Auburn and Pierpont traffic signals to William Charles Electric of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $225,575.
 Next is the engineering agreement for Kishwaukee Street resurfacing for construction engineering to CMT Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois. And the amount was $66,707.54.
 Next is a supplemental resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for IR bridge conversion to multi-use path Which requires City Council authorization for use of motor fuel tax funds in the amount of three hundred and seventy one thousand five hundred and twelve dollars and forty nine cents
 next is the supplemental resolution for improvement under the illinois highway code for citywide general maintenance 2018 for street light electric energy road salt and arterials resurfacing and the amount of three million three hundred thousand dollars for the use of motor fuel tax funds and that's it thank you we have eight items before us is there any discussion alderman frost thank you your honor i don't remember if it was for both or one or the other last week but with regard to number three and number four
 With the wording being that the funding source was the river edge. There's flash flood warning. Good. I thought there was a modification made to those items that in case that the river edge funds was not available, it would be come back to city council. Your honor. Alderman Frost, if you recall, we decided to separate the issues. So at this point, they're going forward.
 These projects will only go forward if they're the rivers edge funding is is provided if that is not provided. And I'm not sure if there's a timeline of what we're expecting to hear. But if at some point, then if staff felt they needed to ask us for permission to use sales tax, they'll come back at that time and make that request. And if staff could confirm whether there's a timeline where we're expecting to hear from the state, Mr. will you add to that?
 Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. Just to add to that and some clarification, because I know we had a pretty comprehensive conversation, our River Edge Redevelopment Zone grant requires us to encumber the
 the funds through a contract prior to the end of this month, June 30th. So this is set forth for both of these projects to utilize River Edge Redevelopment Zone funds. However, the state has not funded a capital plan, so we're uncertain whether we'll receive those dollars or not. If we don't receive those dollars, it will be the utilization of sales tax dollars to construct them.
 both of those projects. The parking lots are a requirement of the Gorman development agreement and the alley has been proposed because of the improvements and failure of the alley that have taken place over the last couple of years. Okay just to clarify then so we are voting on the projects to move forward
 Regardless of the funding source, correct? The the concern was if we said either or that we weren't fully encumbering the river edge redevelopment zone fund dollars and we didn't want to jeopardize our ability to recapture those funds should the state ultimately provide the dollars. So just for my clarification, I'm going to go back to frost for.
 So, Mr. Cagnoni, just for my clarification, these river edge dollars have to be encumbered.
 by the at the time to which the state, if they ever do, opens those doors again for those monies to outflow. If they're not encumbered, we more than likely will lose our ability to use what remaining dollars we believe we have. So therefore, we're using the river edge first. And therefore, and if we cannot use those dollars, then we will move to the other fund. That is correct. It hopes that will be reimbursed for those dollars.
 Alderman Frost, you had a follow-up. No, I just was curious because I obviously still have a problem with the multi-use rails to trails, and it kind of sounds like that, that we're voting on it. We're kind of voting on it for the last time tonight, and if it changes and there's a dollar change or a source change that we're not really going to get a chance to vote on it again, correct? You are correct. That's correct. You are correct. These are contracts. But tonight's the last time we're going to vote on it regardless of how it's funded. Correct. All right.
 so just for the record we're kind of creating another problem similar to what we did what we're about to do uh with regard to the rails to trails project where where there's a vote on an item on a funding source we really won't know speak up or speaking sure we're we're sort of creating a situation like like with the rails to trails where we're going to vote on something tonight that's going to regardless of what the funding source says we'll never see it again correct
 You are correct in regards that these are contracts for construction, understanding that we're trying to preserve the opportunity to use the River Edge Redevelopment Zone grant funds. Certainly, it would be the desire, or if it was the desire of City Council to change that to sales tax, they could. We just would not have the opportunity to pursue the River Edge Redevelopment Zone for reimbursement.
 I'd argue that it also is not similar to what happened when I was on council for the rails to trails. What's the basis of your argument? The basis of my argument would be right now we are saying the dollar amount isn't changing.
 Right.
 in your opinion, not be like what happened previously. We're just forgoing those monies and never have the opportunity to recapture. When I raised this last week, all I asked for was a modification in the amendment to reflect that. So my understanding on the modification, Alderman, is that
 in our documents we can't have that modification so when those dollars come through we are very strict as a body stating we are going to use these monies and we want these monies from the state if we muddy those waters my understanding is we could jeopardize our ability to get that money back okay so it really could just not so it can't read tonight that if in fact the river edge funds don't come through that it will be used by the sales tax we can't put that in writing tonight
 The concern is if we put that in writing, we didn't fully encumber the River Edge redevelopment zone. And it was just a question that we couldn't give you a solid answer on, not knowing how the state may interpret those regulations.
 i'm going to go uh alderman or alderman frosted do you have follow-up no i have nothing further alderman hervey i want to make sure too with this with these two number one we're obligated on the cedar street parking lot because that was part of the gorman agreement yes so if we get the river edge redevelopment zone funds that's great but if we don't we're still obligated doesn't matter whether it comes from sales tax or general fund right with regard to the markin street improvements
 If we didn't get the River Edge redevelopment zone money, there's nothing that would stop us from simply not doing that project right now. So, Mr. Cagnoni, did you hear the question? Staff would always have that option. Yep. So, let me make that. Can I amend just one quick thing that he can answer? Could you repeat it a little bit? We're all having a hard time. Yeah. It's the...
 storm. My understanding is we won't know about River Edge redevelopment money until the state passes their capital plan. So that could be a year from now. It could be 18 months. It could be this fall, but we're not going to know. So if we don't do something based on the state's failure for capital plan, we'll be paralyzed for a long time and we can't do that either.
 And the first portion of your question was that the parking lot we are that we're doing with River potentially River Edge is in the agreement that we have to do it. The second portion of Alderman Hervey's question, if I understood it correctly, was the alley. We don't believe or Alderman Hervey does not believe that we are.
 encumbered to do that via any other agreement am i classifying your question correctly right so if we didn't get the river edge money there's nothing that stopped staff from coming back and saying you know what we're going to deep six that project for now okay you got those questions
 I believe so, Your Honor. So you are correct, Alderman Hervey, that we don't have an obligation under a development agreement or otherwise to improve the alley next to the market. Our staff, understanding that we needed to have the project encumbered, designed, out to bid prior to the end of the month and awarded, which we're discussing tonight,
 Our staff tried to identify a project that they felt that they could move forward in that time frame and also was within the same scope of dollars that was remaining in the River Edge Redevelopment Zone funds. So that's why they identified that project.
 because one, it was within the River Edge redevelopment zone, which was a requirement. Two, we could capture job creation to the improvement by talking about the city market development agreement and the standard building improvement project and we could get the project completed or committed prior to June 30th. I am unclear if we would have to move forward with that project.
 now to preserve those funds. It's my understanding that we do have the award to contract, which would encumber us to move forward. Okay. I guess the other thing I would say is that I haven't seen anything from the state and I follow River Edge pretty closely because I want the next one all for me.
 All mine. I haven't seen anything that indicates that the state is disfavoring the River Edge allocation. They just haven't done their capital plan yet. I don't know if that's a correct interpretation. I'm not as worried about it because I think we're going to get it. It's just going to be a question of when they're going to move forward. So it's just typical Illinois paralysis that is happening, but I don't think there's anything that puts our funding in jeopardy.
 Thank you. Is Alderman Rose? I just wanted to touch base with what Alderman Frost had mentioned. Are there any protections on this project where, you know, if there's some overcost that it wouldn't be put off onto the city, similar to the bridge project, is there any kind of protection on that? Or, you know, in the bidding process, did you guys notice anything that maybe seemed off a little bit or
 mr cagnone you know we have had some internal discussions specifically related to the parking lots um we did not we did not anticipate or received any information that our our engineers estimates um were out or whack as it relates to the the bid proposals um certainly if there's any unexpected overruns we'd follow the procedure of bringing it forward to this committee um
 advising our council on the changes making sure that we stayed within our authority should those changes you know go beyond what was originally anticipated in the project.
 Because just one of the concerns that I've had from citizens is that, similar to the bridge project, when you have a $500,000 addition to the project, that's where doing a river's edge project, and then all of a sudden there's a half a million dollars put on the table for extra that the citizens are worried about. So I think that's what Alderman Frost was trying to go at there.
 I mean, I'm concerned too about any project that would have an additional amount that is half a million dollars and just want to make sure that that's something that we're not going to move forward with. So I mean, you would think that that wouldn't be the case in this, with this development
 We do not anticipate that. Certainly, should we run into something unexpected, we'll bring it back to this council. Okay. Thanks. And I'll just make one comment, just seeing faces around. No one can hear anyone, including myself, so please make it a point to speak as close to the microphone as you can. Alderman Hervey, did you have a follow-up? This parking lot is at the old Warshawski's lots where –
 They also had underground storage tanks. That's probably the biggest risk. Have the environmental assessments been done to determine whether there's any environmental remediation, especially underground storage tanks?
 Yes, you know we did environmental reviews prior to taking ownership of those properties and there has been some removal of that information or the remediation but I'll defer to Director Stockman to may have a greater level of detail than I have.
 Alderman Hervey to my knowledge all of the any remediation that needed to be done Let me speak up a lot louder any remediation that needed to be done to those Lots was done under the demolition process as director as City administrator Cagnone had noted. Thank you alderman back Yeah just as far as the rivers edge should we move forward with these projects and they're completed and
 and we still haven't found out about Rivers Edge, so we'd pay for them. Is there any time frame down the road where we would not get reimbursed should they finally refund the Rivers Edge program? So if it was a year from now, would we still get that money reimbursed? Mr. Cagnoni? Our plan, and we're hopeful to get reimbursed, but I can't say for certain what the state may do. Okay. I mean, the Fed...
 Is there other discussion on any of the items before us? Alderman Thompson-Kelly? I just have a question. It's in regards to 3 and 4 and the type of questions that's been happening. Is there any way we can just add an amendment if there's any major changes that the staff would bring it back to the council under informational purposes or advisement purposes? That is certainly appropriate, I believe, Mr. Stockman.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly I've had discussions already with internal staff members regarding a reporting mechanism to track not only Change orders on the two parking lots that you're alluding to at the moment But also every project whether it's a city sponsored project I not sponsored project to provide you something in the form of Similar to our bid status log that you receive with the committee reports every week that would highlight any change orders that were made were they made within the scope of work and
 Was it something that needed to come back to Council and an estimated cost? That is fantastic. And would this include contracts as well?
 Any construction contracts that Public Works engage in would come to you in that form. They would all be listed. Change orders would be denoted, whether they were made in the field because the decision had to be made to move forward on it immediately. Obviously, we'll be looking at a cap on how much we would authorize in the field without at least contacting the committee chairs and letting them know that we have a serious problem that we need to address immediately.
 Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Under the Gorman agreement, is there a time and a date that that parking lot is supposed to be completed? Mr. Stockman. Their target date to open, if I'm correct, was November of 2019. I'm sorry? Spring of 2020. I don't know that there was a time limit.
 Set that we had to have that done prior to the opening of the hotel But this is an opportunity to again once hopefully leverage the river edge funds. We did have the these parking lots in our CIP to be paid for out of sales tax in 2019 as well that was already budgeted in the five-year plan Alderman Beach were you able to hear it? Were you able to hear him? I
 I think I heard them say there was no specific time limit but to coordinate with the completion of the hotel. He stated that, you're right, and he said it was approved in our CIP for 2019, but this is an opportunity for us to leverage the River Edge funds as opposed to our sales tax funds. Okay. Any other further discussion? But we have to do the construction to leverage the funds.
 No, I have a contract. We have to submit the contract. We have a contract in place. Okay. All right. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I've had extensive conversations on this subject, and so I think just using the KISS method, keep it simple, stupid, and correct me if I'm wrong because sometimes I even get the KISS method wrong. Okay.
 Alderman Frost getting me on that one. Open your door up. So, yes, as aldermen of the ward where some of this project, some of the projects are taking place, not the parking lot, but the alleyway and some sidewalk issues there, they are in dire need of repair to say the least, especially with all the development that is happening and that's going to create more traffic, not only vehicular traffic but foot traffic.
 That in order to stand a chance to get the River's Edge funds, the contracts have to be put into place by June 30th. If not, we don't even stand a chance to get those funds. Correct. Then it really is on us as a city to pay for those projects. So I guess just to keep it.
 Simple. Yep. That's that's my understanding in a nutshell. And hopefully to those maybe viewing it's it keeps it more simple on that. Thank you. Other further discussion saying no further discussion on the eight items. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Logan. Tumor. Frost. Three, four and seven. Thank you. Herbie. Irvins. Thompson. Kelly. Hoffman.
 Rose. Aye. Beach. 7, aye. The rest? Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Items 1, 2, 14, ayes. Item 3, 4, 13, ayes. 1, no. Items 5, 6, 14, ayes. Item number 7, 11, ayes. 3, noes. Item 8, 14, ayes. Excellent. All the items pass.
 Next up we have new business ordinances first up. We have planning and development alderman rose I believe you already held that out. I'm sorry Next up we have codes and regulations Alderman Shirely. Thank your honor. I have an ordinance amending section 3-1 or 2 of the city of Rockford tobacco ordinance number two, I have an ordinance approving a special use permit for a plan unit development and
 At 3108 Auburn Street, 3110 Auburn Street and 13XX Russell Avenue as amended previously. And number three, I have an ordinance approving the variations and denying the variations for, let's see, North Trainer Road and Weaver Road at 6625 East Riverside Boulevard. And I place those ordinances up for passage, your honor.
 Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on the three items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye.
 Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. The first is an ordinance approving the Head Start COLA application in the amount of $37,805, the early Head Start COLA application in the amount of $8,013, and a request for a waiver of the amount required for non-federal local in-kind match in the amount of $11,455.
 Number two is an ordinance improving the early head start child care COLA application in the amount of $14,414. And request a waiver of the amount required for non-federal local in-kind match in the amount of $3,603.50.
 Item 3 is an ordinance approving intergovernmental agreement for temporary 911 emergency operators. And item 4 is an ordinance approving an agreement to allow Cherry Valley Fire Protection District to rent a fire engine intermittently over the course of the next two years. I place these items up for passage. Excellent. So we have four items before us. Is there any discussion on the four items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Okay.
 Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toomer? Frost? Herbie? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelly? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Kinones? McNeely? Chiarelli? 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. I know a couple people wanted to go into closed session. I'm joking. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second? All those in favor say aye. Aye.
 Hope you have a good night and safe travels home.