Time is filled with swift transition. An oasis of promise turns into a desert of distress. This happens often to a people whose primary aspiration is merely to assimilate. For the largest society will always assume the right to define possibilities according to their benefit, not yours and not ours. Start seeking to do well for your primary benefit and the winds quickly change on us.
 The sky is the limit when you determine your own destiny. How appropriate is our discussion of who benefits and who doesn't, given the activities concerning the Westside No. 2 TIF and related matters now under consideration by this body, which must be vigorously challenged? It excludes wide swaths of Westside Rockford, our main focus for development. Where is the Westside TIF for this neglected area?
 This seems an example of the largest society defining possibilities for their benefit, not ours, and must be challenged by all means. Time indeed is filled with swift transition. Thanks so much. Reverend Johnson, our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom.
 All the persons and citizens of Rockford Illinois, Tom McNamara, me and you have known each other for a long time.
 everything I say and do is not personal but I represent the peoples in the community I'm going to say I left out the part yeah I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I should feel no evil I love that song I hear every day welcome now and I shoot just today in this weekend we had domestic violence incident we had an incident that happened in Ordon Keyes yes we know about Tom Macamara
 I'm glad to hear that you want to work with the minority crimes and law and black on black crimes, but that cannot happen unless we work together. The Peace and Justice Center, we see as a dinosaur. We need to upgrade it.
 and bring it into the now. We have domestic violence and black on black crime. All of them and each one of them is different. I'm dealing with a domestic incident right now as we speak. So we need to find a way to work together just like what happened to Orlin Keyes.
 the deputy chief of police already know that brother john is uh engaged in a lot of things that go on in the city and know a lot of things is happening we need to find a way to work together but one of the main things reason i'm coming here is because they made june 10th a state
 holiday. Me and Tommy makes. I'm glad to see him sitting here have been working with the June 10th for over 30 years. Last year, June 10th was canceled because of the Corona. Well, my staff decided to do your teeth anyway, and they working on doing June 10th this year. June 10th is not
 Tommy Minks holiday is not a giant tax holiday. It's when we celebrate the day that we found that we were free from slavery. In Chicago, they celebrate it all over Chicago. Rockford is small. Rockford is very conservative and what have you. And we respect. We met with Tommy Minks.
 in August, December, and January, discuss how can we work together. So now I'm glad Tommy Lee's here, because next month we're looking at doing June 10th again. We got speakers coming from California, Atlanta, but we're looking at having a parade.
 A parade for Juneteenth. And we tell him they're sitting here and we're heavy. I'm glad he's sitting there because I don't believe he's talking behind nobody's back. And by him sitting here and we're heavy, we can find a way to collaborate with the city. I talked with my alderman. What it would cost, what steps we would need to take and with the police department to do a Juneteenth.
 a dual duty with our young people's marching in it. And the bulk of my staff members are young. We got a tiny then working at our orca period at the Crusader clinic. There's 27 years old. We need to embrace our young people. Don't tell them, no, they can't do this. They can't do that. We need to encourage them to do. We always complain about the crime and the, uh, and the, uh, and the violence.
 but we don't talk about the people that are doing positive things in our community and that's what we need to work with our young people thank you all right uh next gonna go just off of uh the council agenda just for a moment alderman if you'd oblige me as uh mr john tack brantley said he's glad that tommy meeks is here i too am very glad that tommy makes us here tommy meeks could i uh bother you to join me up here for one moment right
 Yeah. Who do we got here? He's a little shy. He won't be. Good to see you. Good to see you. So Tommy Meeks is a Rockford native, graduate of Auburn High School, an athlete while he was at Auburn High School, played a little track, basketball, and some football. He went on to Eastern Illinois University, where he also lettered in football. Wow.
 Tommy Meeks first established Juneteenth celebration in Rockford in 1990, after learning about the holiday while visiting family. Since then, he has engaged in partnership and collaboration to expand the reach of Juneteenth celebration, thereby increasing the cultural and historical competence throughout Rockford and surrounding communities for the past 31 years. The longest known Juneteenth celebration in the state of Illinois.
 Juneteenth celebrates the emancipation of slavery in the United States and commemorates June 19, 1865, when the last enslaved African Americans held in Confederate states were freed by the Union Army. Six months later, the adoption of the 13th Amendment officially abolished slavery in America. In addition to this incredible accomplishment, Tommy Meeks is the founder of Inner City Reconstruction Group.
 As part of this organization, he has worked to mentor and assist returning citizens once incarcerated in various areas, including employment, counseling, and other mental wellness needs to return to our community successfully as contributing citizens.
 As part of Inner City Construction Group, Tommy has hosted the TV show, It's Time for a Change, on Comcast Xfinity's public access channel. And for over 30 years, this show has helped facilitate critical conversations on race relations, equity, and has been a resource to numerous nonprofit organizations to share the resources that they can provide to our citizens.
 In addition, his career remains focused on giving people second chances in life. Through a partnership with Winnebago County, Tommy's company, Wake Up Consulting Services, has provided mentorship to those on probation. So, Tommy, you are truly an inspiration. You are thoughtful, you're an incredibly good listener,
 And I think anyone who meets you knows you don't just talk the talk. You walk the walk, and you do it every single day in your life. Literally hundreds, if not thousands of people have been personally impacted by you throughout your work in our community. And Rockford's a better place because of you. On behalf of myself, on behalf of the city of Rockford City Council, and 147,000 citizens, it's my honor to provide you a key to the city and say thank you for...
 Some actually thought there was an exciting item on the agenda, but everyone's here for Tommy. So if you'd like to share a few words. This is really a surprise. Honestly, it is. When I started Juneteenth 31 years ago, that woman back there, Evelyn, was with me. Evelyn Meeks, my wife, she's been with me all these years. My daughters are here. And this year, we lost our mother, my mother, last year, and I was really down.
 And I don't know how this woman named Marticia Brown came around and said she just wanted to help her and Austin Taylor and Gina. They helped me make this year another, I think, should be a successful Juneteenth celebration. I would just ask everybody to come out, come to ours, come to John's. Just realize Juneteenth is not just for African-Americans, it's for our country. Our country really woke up.
 after that Civil War and gave all the citizens the rights they deserve. And we just got to appreciate it as a people. I just can't thank you all enough for recognizing my family, because that's who's been with me, and me, for doing this event for 31 years. Thank you very much.
 All right, I'll move it. So with that, we're going to move to the information only item on our city council agenda. And we have an update on the Rockford Police Chief and Rockford Fire Chief selection process.
 I would call Sam Schmitz, the Chairman of the Fire and Police Commission, forward. And I believe we also have representatives from IOS with us this evening. And just a reminder to council and those at home, we have three citizens leading the Fire and Police Commission. We have Sam Schmitz, who's the chairman, we have Ingrid Hargrove,
 and Mr. Rudy Valdez. They're tasked with a host of different responsibilities. One is hiring new police officers and firefighters, but that also includes hiring a police and fire chief. So with that, Mr. Schmitz, I think you could come forward. Do you want to add anything, Mr. Cagnone? No, you got it, Your Honor. The consultant, Chad Legal, can come forward. Oh yes, I'm sorry. Yes, Chad.
 well thank you mayor and thank you members of the city council for allowing us to come forward tonight and give you an update on where we're at with the process of selecting a new fire chief and a new police chief the board of fire and police commission has been pretty busy the last 60 days we interviewed 35 candidates for the position of police sergeant we named appointed
 interim chief vertes and interim chief burke into the respective fire and police positions to provide leadership until we find those two new chiefs to fill the position so i want to thank all the aldermen and all the persons i should say that have submitted comments to industrial organizational solutions ios who's represented here tonight we'll get to that in a minute
 And if you haven't submitted your comments as to what we're looking for in a new fire chief or a new police chief, I would encourage you to do that. And at the same time, I would offer both myself and Commissioner Hargrove and Commissioner Valdez, we would be more than pleased to meet with you one-on-one to get your feedback as to what you're looking for in the next fire chief and the next police chief. So that's an open invitation.
 The board is committed to an open and transparent process. You're going to hear a little bit more about how that's going to work going forward and also what it might look like at the end of the process. So with that, I will introduce Chad Legal. He's the president and CEO of IO Solutions, and he'll give you an idea of where we're at and what to look forward going forward in the next steps. So, Chad. Thank you. Good evening, everyone.
 All right, I just wanted to give you a quick rundown of what the process looks like, the main steps that we're pursuing in terms of this selection of recruitment process for police chief and fire chief, and then entertain any questions that you have. The process started when the Police and Fire Commission gave us a profile for the fire chief and the police chief position in terms of the background, knowledge, skills, abilities, characteristics that would be ideal for police and fire chiefs here in the City of Rockford.
 The city has also reached out to community and city stakeholders to encourage them to share opinions about the position as far as qualities background qualifications that would be ideal. For these positions so that that can inform our recruitment and selection process advertisements for the positions went live on the week of May twenty fourth and we are currently in the process of receiving applications for both positions.
 Advertisements were posted to general job boards through the internet, as well as regional, state, and national professional sites for both fire service and law enforcement. IOS is also actively reaching out to a network of law enforcement and fire service professionals across the nation. Our primary goal is to both increase the quality of the applicant pool for the city, as well as increase the diversity of the applicant pool.
 The application for both positions is scheduled, the deadline that is, is scheduled to close on July 1st. And as we near that deadline, IOS will be vetting candidates. They're submitting a background qualification questionnaire as well as their resume and some personal statements that we can vet to identify a group of finalists that we can then take through deeper into the process.
 Engagement of the community and city stakeholders in both processes has been a top priority as we've planned out this process. We plan to conduct web-based question and answer sessions to provide a convenient forum for interested parties within the community to have some ability to question candidates for both positions, the police chief and the fire chief positions. We chose a web-based approach because it allows broad participation and it will also help avoid some of the COVID-related concerns that we might otherwise have to tackle.
 We'll solicit those questions ahead of time and then IO Solutions will moderate those Q&A events. We'll then solicit feedback from the participants of those Q&A processes, not the fire and police chief applicants but the individuals that submitted their questions, to get some input that we can then provide to the commission along with other data that we're gathering about the candidates along the way. Those sessions will occur in late July. That's what we've got slated at this point.
 IOS is also going to conduct an assessment center to evaluate the knowledge and skills of each of the candidates for the fire chief and police chief position. An assessment center is essentially a series of simulations of things that they would be expected to do on the job, as well as some structured oral interviews.
 The finalists will be evaluated by fire service and law enforcement executives in that assessment center process as well as city administrators. We'll bring those individuals in from other cities that are similar to Rockford in size and demographic, and they will act as the unbiased evaluators of those candidates through the assessment center process. Those assessment centers are slated to occur in mid-August.
 In that same timeframe in mid-August, we also plan to set up some meet and greet sessions for both positions, where we invite community and city stakeholders into a venue that we're still in the process of selecting, and we'll set up opportunities to meet with each of the candidates, ask them questions, get to know them. We will collect feedback from those individuals that attend those sessions as well as additional information that we can provide to the Police and Fire Commission in their decision-making process.
 WE AT THE END OF THIS PROCESS WILL COMPILE ALL THE INFORMATION THAT WE GET FROM THE Q&A SESSIONS, THE ASSESSMENT CENTER, AS WELL AS THOSE MEET AND GREET SESSIONS AT THE END OF THE PROCESS, AND WE WILL COMPILE CANDIDATE PROFILES TO TURN OVER TO THE COMMISSIONERS, AND THEN AT THE END OF THIS PROCESS, WHICH WE PLAN TO OCCUR AROUND MID-AUGUST, WE'LL BE ADVISING THEM IN ANY CAPACITY THAT THEY CHOOSE TO ENGAGE US TO MAKE A FINAL DECISION AS TO THE POLICE CHIEF AND THE FIRE CHIEF.
 Are there any questions I can answer about the process for you? Any Alderman? Alderman Thunberg. Thanks, Chad. I'll never forget your name either. Could you disclose some of the pier cities that you will use? For the assessors? Yes. Or is that something you cannot disclose?
 There are no specific cities that are selected at this point. When we're gathering assessors to help as evaluators for the assessment center process, we're going to reach out to all medium and large-sized cities throughout the state of Illinois and also some surrounding states.
 cities like Peoria and maybe larger suburbs around the Chicagoland area. Our big challenge is just going to be to find people who are available on the particular dates that we're selecting. But we always go about the process of soliciting a lot of individuals who can potentially get involved.
 And then we take that whole slate of individuals that we've identified as available and what we're looking to do is establish a composite of individuals who are the best qualified ones from cities who best mirror Rockford in terms of size and demography. And then are looking for a diverse group of assessors as well. We try and we're establishing typically two or three person panels to rate multiple exercises. So ideally we want those panels to reflect the diversity of the city.
 All that said, it would be all the cities you would naturally assume that we would reach out to, and then we're going to try and find the best collection of people from those cities. For police and fire chief positions, they're going to have to be chief executives from police departments or fire departments respectively, and then we also will try and get some city administrators from similar cities. Thanks. Absolutely. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor.
 If the person you choose is not from Rockford, are you going to require them to move into our community if they wish to be chief? That's a question for Senator. I think that's referred to legal, but I think that's a requirement. Mr. Cagnoni? Thank you, Your Honor. That is a requirement of the Rockford Code of Ordinances. They would be required to live in the city of Rockford. Thank you.
 other questions by annie alderman yeah thank you uh commissioner valdez is in attendance as well any other questions from alderman uh alderman tunberg inquiring minds want to know can you give us a number of how many applicants just out of curiosity i'm sure some people are curious uh you mentioned that i think you've interviewed 35
 That was for a police sergeant in Rockford. Okay, that was the police sergeant. Yes. Okay. I can give you a bit of a rundown of where we stand currently. Just out of curiosity, I mean, how many...
 Yeah, I know, I'd expect you to be curious about this. We're about halfway through the application process, and typically you get a handful in the front end and then a handful very late in the game, and our deadline is July 1st, so we've still got a couple weeks to go. But right now we have 11 complete applications for police chief and six incomplete applications, so 17 people in process. I expect that number will close to double by the time everything is said and done.
 For Fire Chief, we currently have five complete applications and seven incomplete applications. And I suspect that went a little bit more than double. But typically you see a rush at the end, and we're not close to the end yet. So more to come. Otherman Meeks. Can you tell me if any of those applicants are already working for the department now in-house?
 I can tell you that we have not yet received any applications from RPD candidates, either completed or incomplete, and one from an internal RFD candidate. Okay. And does that also apply for the fire department? The last point was the fire department. Oh, you did. The fire department, we have one application that's in process, not yet complete, but it is from an internal candidate of the fire department. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions?
 alderman bonnie just following up on alderman mook's question do you find that unusual lack of internal applicants at this stage of the game
 I don't personally find it unusual. I think typically, and IO Solutions helped with the last police chief selection process, and most of the internal candidates that put in applications put them in very late in the recruitment process. So at least from that perspective, it's a limited sample size, but this seems fairly normal. Any other questions from Alderman Wilkins? Thank you, Your Honor.
 In your professional opinion and what's happened in the past, and I'm sorry, not your professional opinion, but some of the outcomes that have come in the past, have you noticed that there has been more success when you do have the chiefs coming in from different areas to work in critical areas like this one? Or have you seen more success when those candidates have really come from that area and are more familiar with the people that they serve?
 I guess what I would say is that I've seen both situations be successful. Some cities only promote from within, other cities will open up the process and consider both internal and external candidates. And both situations can be quite successful, so I don't know that I'd say I prefer one over the other. Our responsibility in this process is simply to find the best qualified candidates and then evaluate them to see who has the best set of skills to succeed in a position like this.
 At the end of the day, I might offer that internal candidates in a process like this will have something of an advantage, and it's not necessarily an intentional advantage, but they know the city, and they know the policies of the police and fire department, and they know how the, you know,
 police and fire departments serve the community and we're not intentionally gearing questions or the selection process to favor those internal candidates necessarily but the types of questions that would be natural and prudent to ask of candidates like this will
 for better or for worse favor the internal candidates because they should be able to put together very competent responses based on their experiences. So I expect that they will fare well in a process like this. And I personally don't have a stake in the game, but I hope if there is an exceedingly qualified internal candidate that they are seriously considered for the position. Thank you. Alderman Quinonez? Yes, I'd like to, how many applicants that you got?
 Are the same size as Rockford? Could you tell us or bigger? Are you asking how many of the applicants that we've- I think those that have already applied, he'd like to know, do you know how many are coming from departments that are the same size or bigger? I unfortunately do not know the answer to that question at this point. We're still in the process of vetting candidates and at this stage of the game, we really haven't dug into their background significantly. We've started to look at relatively little of their profiles.
 as the next week week and a half rolls on as we get closer to the applicant deadline, then we'll really start digging in and I'll probably have a better answer to a question like that. Alderman Printy. This is not directed to you all but maybe to us. We've known that Chief O'Shea would be leaving since the day he came and I'm a little I don't know if the word is surprised but shocked that
 at the number of internal candidates that have applied or that feel ready to apply. I guess I would say going forward, it would seem reasonable to be preparing for the future and training the next set of leaders. Yeah, I would just say just from my experience, yeah,
 from watching what is taking place. I would be shocked if there isn't a number that come in towards the end. I think one of the things Chief O'Shea did very well that kind of went under the radar as he shifted people around and provided them expertize or experience to gain expertize in either different districts or different aspects of the police department. So I would be really shocked if we don't see a couple come through. Thank you.
 Any other questions? I think we are letting you off a lot lighter than we hope that you let off the applicants. So Appreciate you Chad for the work that you're doing in this and we certainly hope that you bring in a host of candidates to our community high qualified candidates and To Sam and to Rudy and Ingrid just a sincere. Thank you. It's a it's
 incredible amount of work that you're undertaking for a huge price tag of zero. So I Myself and all council members are deeply uh appreciative of the work that you guys do on behalf of our community. So, thank you Thank you. Thank you. So next uh at this time I would ask if there's a motion to adjourn We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed