Okay. Thank you all. Good afternoon. Good evening. All right. I call the meeting of the City Council tonight, June 21st, into session. Tonight for the invocation, we have Chaplain Norma Borrero.
 Father God, we just ask for your presence today, Lord, through your wisdom, knowledge, and integrity, Father, of those that you have elected to this city council to make the decisions to embed Rockford and the citizens of Rockford. In your name we pray. To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which one nation, the invisible, would ever be in justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Logum in timber here frost. Terina 20 Wilkins. Hoffman rose beach. Meeks, Bonnie 11 present. Thank you. We have quorum next we go to acceptance of the journal.
 uh number one journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on May 10 2021 do I have a motion second all in favor opposed motion passes accept that uh item number two journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on May 17 2021 is there a motion thank you all in favor opposed thank you and passes
 Tonight, proclamations. We have a proclamation proclaiming the week of June 21st to June 25th, 2021, to be National Boys and Girls Club of the Week in Rockford, Illinois. Those here, Chip and Denise? Chip Stoner and Denise Noe? Noe? Thank you for all you do, Chip. You do a great job in the Boys and Girls Club. Thank you.
 Proclamation. Whereas the young people of Rockford are tomorrow's leaders, whereas many young people need professional youth services to help them achieve their full potential, and whereas there are six Boys and Girls Club sites in Rockford that serve more than 6,000 young people annually, and whereas Boys and Girls Clubs do whatever it takes to ensure every young person in America has the skills needed to graduate high school and be well prepared for life and work,
 Through programs like Academic Success, Character and Leadership, and Healthy Lifestyles, clubs help youth develop the soft skills and hard skills needed to succeed. And whereas Boys and Girls Club of Rockford will celebrate National Boys and Girls Club Week with some 4,000 clubs and more than 4 million children and teens served nationwide.
 Now, therefore, I, Chad Toonberg, on behalf of Mayor Tom McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim June 21st and 25th, 2021, to be National Boys and Girls Club Week in Rockford, Illinois, and encourage all citizens to join me in recognizing and commending the Boys and Girls Club of Rockford for doing whatever it takes to build great futures for the youth in our community. Thank you, Chip. Would you like to say a few words? Yes, thank you.
 On behalf of myself and the kids that we serve and our staff, I'd like to thank the City of Rockford for this proclamation. And it comes at a very exciting time as we're kicking off our summer program at all six of our sites. And this summer, we're not just focusing on a fun, safe place for our kids.
 but academic recovery for what they've been through this past year. We've extended our hours. We have tutors, and we're partnering with the District 205 to get our kids back on track, make sure they're academic and they're ready for the fall. So thank you very much. Appreciate all your support. Thank you. Thank you.
 And Chip, as we have a few people on council that work with RPS and we're all rooting for the success of our youth and our community, part of it is getting kids to graduate high school. And I know that some of the programs that these kids participate in, if I'm not mistaken, have a 78% rate locally,
 for kids that graduate high school that are involved in these programs. Am I wrong on that?
 This year the percentage is a little different, but the kids that our academic data shows through the math scores, that the kids that attend the Boys and Girls Club, over 80% are on grade level, compared to about 18% who did not attend the Boys and Girls Club on a regular basis. And we know that our teens that are involved in the program and our Targeted Success Program do exceed the graduation rate for the city of Rockford. That's terrific. Thanks for all the work you do, Chip. Thank you.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. All right as we move ahead Roman numeral three petitions and communications We do not have anything for planning and development committee nor codes and regulations tonight but as we move on to item C finance and personnel committee none other than alderman frost and
 Thank you, Mayor. You're welcome. Number one is a memorandum from John Posey, police business manager regarding a resolution to take proposals for the development of an outdoor training facility for the police department. This will be referred to finance and personnel.
 Number two is a memorandum from Lisa Warren Health and Human Services Head Start regarding the request for consolidation of Head Start Early Head Start Grant and Early Head Start Child Care Grant. This law is to be referred to finance and personnel. Number three is a memorandum from Nick Meyer, Legal Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County for reentry focused terms program.
 This matter will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number four is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding proposed updates to the City of Rockford investment policy. This will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number five is another memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the approval of the final ordinance for Well 39 IEPA loan agreement. In this matter, it will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost.
 Next, we have a presentation with the Youth Leadership Council Vaping Project presentation. Those in presence, Raneem Kassam? Raneem Kassam. Kassam. Okay. And Puran J. Gupta? All right. Thank you. Do you – I'm sorry, one second. Would you like them to come up? Yeah. If you could come up here, that would be great. All right. Thank you, council members and aldermen, for your time.
 We are representatives of the Chairman and Mayor's Youth Leadership Council. My name is Paranjaya Gupta. And my name is Raneem Qasim. And we are advocating for a change to the Rockford event application to limit smoking and vaping in public outdoor events. We believe this is beneficial to the city's health because it will reduce the harm caused to both the users of these smoke and vape products as well as those in the vicinity of these products.
 The current statewide regulation for smoke-free Illinois applies only to indoor settings. So this change to public outdoor events is the crucial next step to reducing the presence of smoking and vaping. According to the CDC, smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in America, with over 480,000 deaths annually.
 Additionally, smoking leaves people in a much weaker state to face respiratory diseases, like the current coronavirus pandemic, along with increasing the risk for certain cancers. People around these smoke and vape products are also heavily affected. For instance, these nicotine-containing e-cigarette products have an extreme appeal to youth due to their multitude of flavors and their extreme portability.
 By potentially eliminating the use of these e-cigarette and cigarette products at public outdoor events, we would also be reducing the number of underage users of these products. Other cities and states, such as Los Angeles, Michigan, and New York, have already recognized the ill side effects of these smoke and vape products and have implemented restrictions on them. In Rockford specifically, we've proposed changes to the event application.
 FORM THAT WOULD ASK WHETHER OR NOT EVENT ORGANIZERS WANTED THEIR EVENTS TO BE SMOKE AND VAPE FREE. WE BELIEVE THAT ALLOWING VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE, SO GIVING EVENT ORGANIZERS THE OPTION TO OPT OUT OF THIS WOULD BE A CRUCIAL STEP BECAUSE IT WILL ALLOW, IT WILL HAVE AN IMPACT AS WELL AS NORMALIZE THE CULTURE OF VAPE AND SMOKE FREE OUTDOOR EVENTS. IF EVENT ORGANIZERS WANT TO MAKE THEIR EVENTS SMOKE AND VAPE FREE, WE WOULD ASK THEM TO
 sorry, we would ask them to designate a person to be in charge of enforcing this, and they would also have to submit maps designating smoking areas 15 feet from their event perimeters. We've also designed signs. We have a sample over here for everybody who wants to see, that we would hand out to event organizers that would want their events to be smoke- and vape-free. We've been working with the city project manager to figure out the distributions of these signs and how that would all go.
 We hope to start with this change within the City of Rockford, but then move on to Winnebago County for any future legislation that would be passed so that we can normalize this within the county as a whole.
 And although we recognize that some bigger events like Strong State may already be smoke and vape free, we hope to normalize this culture within smaller events, especially as things are opening up due to lessening restrictions because of COVID. We hope that you find our concern for the well-being of the citizens in our community, especially our youth, to be as reasonable as we do. Thank you again for your time and for allowing us to present here today. SECRETARY POMPEO Thank you. Does anyone have – would you be willing to take a few questions just in case? Council, any questions we have?
 Alderman Turia. Thank you. Would there be, I like the idea of the freedom of doing it, but I also at the same time don't want to promote vaping either. So would there be a way to even maybe campaign it in a way that was such as if you must vape, then you need to do it, you know, 15 minutes.
 feet from the door or something. I just, I'm looking at it as I don't want to promote vaping for young people. So it's almost like I'd like to see something added into the campaign or some sort of campaign that would sort of tell people to not do it at all. Just comment. I guess not really a question. I don't know if that's something you guys thought about.
 I think mostly the designated smoking area being 15 feet away was more for like people who smoke on a regular basis and who can't, you know, go without it so that they'd have somewhere if they wanted to still, you know, attend the event. Yes, all the movies. This might have been said and I missed it. I'm sorry, but I just wanted to know, is there, do you know if there is a risk to vaping outdoors? Does that pose the same risk as indoors? Yes.
 Well, so vaping itself is a nicotine-containing device. So as for the effect on the individual who vapes, there would be no difference. As per the secondhand effect, in an outdoor environment, you know, you could say that it's an open area, maybe less than effect, but the CDC actually published a study that
 some statements stating that secondhand smoke is really dangerous. It contains, I believe, like 70 toxic chemicals. So even in an outdoor area, that's something that you really don't want to expose younger children to.
 And if I may add, we were talking in a meeting before this and Alderman Rose brought up that you two have been working on this for quite some time. How long? It's been since last year. Wow. We were supposed to finish it at the end of last year and then COVID hit and so we had to postpone it until this year. It was originally an ordinance and then we changed it around to be an event application change. All right. Impressive. Thank you.
 And what schools are you going to? Auburn. We're from Auburn. Okay. I'm graduating and he's a junior. Okay. Well, good luck. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. On behalf of the council. Do you see Alderman Logerman cruising the halls? They're good kids. Okay. Good kids, good teacher, huh? All right. We move on to, let's see, public speakers.
 We have three public speakers tonight. You have three minutes. And then after three minutes you'll yield to the next speaker. First up is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph. And she said, lie with me. But he refused and said unto his master's wife,
 How can I do this great wickedness and say it against God? Historically, the founding principles of America have been subjugated to the power elite, racism, and wealth. This infidelity to these noble principles have wreaked havoc on poorly educated, self-defeated, and frustrated black males, especially those 18 to 35 years old. Life seems an unfruitful compromise without hope.
 They are there to achieve, simultaneously annihilated when they go against the grain. Systematically dialed prevents much black success. Black citizens never recognize that this constant illusion renders the American dream a cruel hoax. Nevertheless, black citizens must appeal to this unprincipled and oppressive system for legitimate privileges and rights, which is oftentimes demeaning.
 Confusing, dishonoring the American way as announced to the world. But real men and women know that one's integrity is not for human motives only, but also in relations to God. And unless one sees other human souls in their full dignity and our duty towards them, our moral structure is built upon saying, Americans do better than this.
 It will take more rectitude like that exhibited by Joseph. We, our organization, seek to challenge this community, indeed America, by seeking to redevelop the west side of Rockford by, for one thing, reacquiring church school to train black citizens, especially males, to help restore the manufacturing grandeur that once was Rockford.
 This will help to lessen our reliance upon foreign companies that are sometimes our hostile adversaries, notably China and others. This reliance upon foreign manufacturers has disrupted our supply chain and has cost billions, closing down factories. We don't have to do that. Today, I was in a meeting with Congressman Danny Davis yesterday.
 and Congresswoman Lynn Schankowski, they talked about pressing the Biden-Harris administration to bring some of the American manufacturing back home. And thank God, President Biden and the Congress are working on something like $50 billion to do just that. And some of the things that Schankowski and Davis talked about, because our... Thank you.
 Is that over? Yeah, that's time. I'm sorry. All right. Thank you. All right. Next up, John Tack Brantley. Deja vu all over again. You know Tom McNamara of the Third Ward was sitting in that seat as the author person, and now all of a sudden we got Tom, I mean we got Chad.
 and the third ward, the most powerful ward in the city of Rockford because John Tack Brantley is the precinct committeeman in the third ward. Now we look at a Chad sitting up there in that seat. Just one of the days y'all, what do you think about running from there? Because you know, back a few years ago, people wanted Brother John to run from there. But my calling is not up there. My calling is out there in those streets.
 So that's not part of my three-minute speech. I hope not. But anyway. I picked up the short straw, Johnny. But anyway, let me go into my three-minute speech. Racism is so America that when you protest it, people think that you are protesting America.
 In the Sunday newspaper before the coronavirus epidemic was the drug epidemic. Opium ripped through the U.S. workforce in relentless toll added a record number of 90,722 overdose deaths in the United States for the year through November 20th, a grand number obscured by coronavirus casualties that recently topped 600, according to the data released today.
 Wednesday. I do know a year ago the mayor and others was talking about suing that pharmaceutical about the opium but I want to go into what I want to go into what happened this weekend. This weekend was a beautiful weekend because we did Juneteenth all
 over Rockford. It was not only at Davis Park, we did it at Center City Band Show, they did it at Andrews Park, and they did it at Leavens Lake. Andrews Park had over 200 people to show up. Juneteenth is a national holiday. I'm blown away by my staff members at Davis Park. Guess what? They charged $25 adult, $15 for youth. The VIP section was $100, $150, $10,
 Guess what? All the VIP seats were sold out. We had groups from California, Atlanta, Chicago, and even from New York that performed at the Juneteenth ceremony that was at Davis Park. The staff came to me and people in the community came to me and said, John Buck, John Tech, we need to have a Juneteenth parade. Guess what?
 We working on having a Juneteenth parade. I talked with Tommy Nates and his wife, and they said, you know what, Brother John? We've been talking about that for years, but we said that's a little bit too much. I said, well, anybody that can pull that off, we know it's you that can pull this Juneteenth off. So we looking at finding out from the city
 What steps we need to take? I'm talking with Tom because Tom is over the 4th of July. Me and him is real close. So I got enough sense to reach out to those who's already doing parades. We wanna do the parade starting from 7th Street like we always do. And where it always end up at is David Park. And so I wanna end by saying, taking the page
 Out of my, by the way, my staff paid $425 for my business plan. And in part of my business plan, some companies that offer similar service are following. United Way, Local Faith Organization, Youth Organization, United Way. These organizations have established a reputation and positive reputation over the years. Many of them have served our mission for a long time and many regarded as one of the leading organizations.
 However, Renewal Turning Point has taken all of these into proper consideration and has concluded that this must be done to uplift peoples in our undeserved and disadvantaged communities. And I know that my time is up.
 And so I'm going to leave on this note. I talked with George Davis, and he said everything that you're trying to do, that's what Community Action Agency is about doing. So I'm going to hold Antoinette's feet to the fire about working with you. Oh, my time is up. Yep, sorry. I'll be back. All right, next we have Alberta Walker. Good evening, everyone.
 Good evening. The small business owners and the workers are the golden egg-laying geese of the city of Rockford who keep Rockford running. When I was young, you couldn't, used to be able to, excuse me, when I was young, you used to be able to go out and,
 on Sunday afternoon, take a drive at a car lot. Someone decided that one car owner decided that he didn't want to work on Sundays. So he decided that I'm going to talk to my legislature and I'm going to make sure that nobody works on Sunday. His competition didn't work on Sunday as far as going in to get a car. So that was the political thing. So the second thing is this fast forward to June 21st, 2021 political.
 There are 736 machines that are going to be with the group of 43 who's going to be in our casino. Because now Rockford does have a casino. First we didn't want to have a casino because we didn't want to be like Los Park. Casinos in the laundromat, casinos in the scuba place. But now we have our very own casino. But in the end what I want to say before you buzz me is that we need to
 To preserve the little people, the little people who need those machines as well. There's 537 left. That means she 537 taken. That means there's 33 left. So we're not really shouldn't be worried about those 40 out there in the never never land because you guys are all intelligent people. You can come up with something to say, hey, that wasn't in the original agreement. We're only dealing with the 600 here in the city. So.
 to just end by saying don't kill the golden goose. Allow the small business owners to make their money so they can keep the golden eggs coming that keeps the city of Rockford running. Thank you, Alberta. You didn't get the wrath of the motorcycle noise. You still had a minute and 15 left. Yeah. All right. As we move forward, new committee reports. We will go to planning and development with Alderman Meeks. I'm sorry, yeah, yeah.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Your Honor, the Planning and Development Committee, item number one, the committee recommends approval of the Kishwaukee Harrison Tax Increment Financing, TIF, redevelopment plan and project. Item number two, the committee recommends approval of designating the Kishwaukee Harrison Tax Increment Financing, TIF, district redevelopment project area.
 item number three the committee recommends approval of adopting tax increment allocation financing for kishwaukee harrison tax increment financing tip redevelopment sorry district redevelopment project area and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance for all three of those right we have three items for passage any discussion other immediately
 one by one or all three you can go by all three if you'd like we can make it more efficient i would prefer one by one okay you can do that i have um economy are you talking about discussion or vote discussion okay all right perfect so on item number two i think it's number two here i forgive me i um have voted no on this last week on the committee
 And now this week, I think I understand it. My concern last week was that the developer had paid for the TIF and I had not in my 20 years recall a developer doing that, so that was my concern. Since then I've talked to some individuals and found that this is not uncommon and so therefore I'm willing to support number two.
 Thank you. Good. Thank you, Alderman McNeely, for clarifying that and putting your input. Any other discussion on items 1, 2, or 3? Seeing none, clerk, please call the vote. Hillgaman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Aye. Fahny. 12 ayes.
 okay thank you clerk guidance pass let's move on to the code and regulations committee none other than alderman rose thank you your honor you're welcome we have five items the first one is the committee recommends approval of the authorization to place for sale the city-owned vacant parcel located at 1020 north avenue
 Item 2, the committee recommends approval of the amendments to the floodplain requirements and articles 1 and 4 of chapter 109 of the city of Rockford stormwater ordinance. Item 3 is the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rock Valley College for police services response plan.
 Item forward the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation for the following item a approval of a variation to allow a 24 feet by 24 feet attached garage addition to the north side of the residence in the front yard along National Avenue and
 And item B, denial of a variation to reduce the required side yard setback from 6 feet to 3 feet along the west property line for the 24 feet by 24 feet attached garage addition to the north side of the residence. And the front yard along national avenue in an R1 single family Sony district at 1731 national avenue.
 And then item five, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2525 Auburn Street. I'll put those five items forward. Great, thanks Alderman Rose. We have five items up for passage. Is there any discussion? Alderman Logman.
 One quick question. I see the I was not here last week. I just see the the memorandum for item number five The euro house is I just want to make sure I understand it correctly Looking to approve to VGTs instead of four. Is that correct? Okay. Thank you. Great any other discussion questions anything? Alderman Beach you chairman If I remember right last week
 A question was asked if staff still recommended denial, even with the changes that was made. And if I'm not mistaken, the answer was yes. I want to verify that for the vote. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome, Alderman Beach. So there would be two terminals at that location. Any other discussion? Questions?
 Seeing none, please call the vote. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. No. On all five. No on five, aye on the rest. Alderman Quinones. Aye. Alderman Meeks. Aye. McMilley. No on three, aye on the remaining. Bonney. Aye.
 Item number one, two, 13 ayes. Item number three, 12 ayes, one no. Item four, 13 ayes. Item five, 12 ayes, one no. Thank you. All items pass. We move on to item C, finance and personnel. Back to Alderman Frost. I'll attribute $10,405,163.01 as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting on June 14th, 2021.
 number two the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford human services and the rockford township to provide emergency rental assistance funding the legal director shall provide the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement with rock river water reclamation
 To clearly define the city and the RRWRD ownership and maintenance responsibilities for the existing water service located within the property known as 3333 Kishwaukee Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of the property located at 17XX Blackhawk Road to Myborg Holdings in the amount of $13,365. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number five, the committee recommends approval of the release of liens to facilitate auction of trustee properties located at 728th Avenue, 1233 School Street and 1618 Mulberry Street. The legal director shall again prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Please those five matters before you. Thank you all the men for us. We have five items up for consideration any discussion of the Monroe's for staff and for item number To the intergovernmental agreement with the township and just so The public is clear. Why is it that the city has an intergovernmental agreement? with the township with
 With funds that we're receiving is that is that how I'm understanding it or is there can there be some clarity on what that intergovernmental agreement entails? Dollar township for emergency rental assistance specifically for folks that have been displaced as a result of condemnation. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Neely.
 not on but is that right now a year month okay thanks any other questions comments right back at you Alderman Keneally thank you on item number five what's the total of the liens per property
 fourteen hundred and four dollars for 1233 school street there is six liens totaling five thousand six hundred and thirty eight dollars and for sixteen eighteen mulberry there is one lean totaling 308 dollars these are all three vacant lots oh okay thanks thanks thank you other nearly anything else no that's it thank you very much welcome any other questions comments all right
 Clerk, please call the roll. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Bun. And no on, no aye on all, I'm sorry. Okay, Bonney.
 13 eyes on all thanks for all the items pass Next we go to item 7 officers reports alderman Bonnie's favorite part of council Do we have any officers reports Alderman McNeely? Thank you very much Forgive me. I want it to be tonight. I would ask for the council indulgence as I read from
 Rockford Register Star, the article is titled, Controversial Former Cop Seeks to be Sheriff. Otto Poole was involved in 2009 fatal shooting. A former Rockford Police Department officer, the city tried to fire and for years paid to stay home, wants to be the next sheriff of Boone County.
 Odo Poole was one of two officers who in August 2009 shot and killed Mark Anthony Baumor after pursuing him into a church while children and daycare workers huddled in a corner. Baumor, a 23-year-old wanted for questioning in connection to domestic violence, had fled into the basement of the church in downtown and hid inside a utility closet.
 Poole and former officers stand north, forced their way into the closet and engaged him in a deadly struggle. Barmore was not armed, but according to court testimony, fought with Poole over Poole's service weapon. An independent review commissioned by the city and released 10 months after Barmore's death found that the shooting was consistent with the department policy.
 At the moment, deadly force was used. But it also found that the officers had used poor tactics, risked the lives of officers, daycare workers, and children. And their actions prior to the shooting violated department policy and training. The incident cost Rockford millions in legal judgments, fees, fines, and settlements. It led to racially charged protests,
 Rockford police reforms, and the creation of the Winnebago Boone County Integrity Task Force. Poole recently announced on Facebook that he intends to run for Boone County Sheriff following Dave Earnst's decision not to seek a third term as sheriff after a nearly 40-year career in law enforcement. Poole in May filed documents with the Illinois Election Board forming
 election committee and other documents that show he showed that he contributed $10,000 to his campaign. Boone County Sheriff's Lieutenant Scott Young, a 33-year-old law enforcement veteran, has announced he will run as the Republican for sheriff. And then it goes into petitions. But my point of reading this is that this is highly important.
 unbelievable that this individual would then seek public office given what had happened here in a city next door to this county and I would think that this would arouse individuals in this city to challenge it even though they're not voters in Boone County. If I may read just a little more
 The city defended Poole against wrongful death and negligence lawsuits in court while simultaneously arguing against his fitness for duty in arbitration. And throughout a lengthy legal battle, Poole was unpaid administratively for years while the city agreed to pay Bombers Estate $1,115,500 to settle a wrongful death lawsuit.
 A jury in 2016 found Poulin North had recklessly endangered daycare children and workers, awarding them a combined $360,000. My point of reading this is that we have, throughout this country, a number of organizations and individuals that have brought forth policies for policing, nationally and locally.
 Springfield Black Caucus delegation has put forth a plan for policing, and I believe that we as a council should support it. And I'll be introducing a resolution for us to support it. We need to, this is something we never want to happen again. At the time this was happening, there was information coming out saying that whether true or not,
 the city knew of Poole's background coming from, I believe, the District of Columbia, and we still hired him. And we don't need this. The African-American community certainly were hurt.
 by the incident and everything that unfolded afterwards. So I hope we, as a council, as I said, when during our swearing in ceremony, we have the wind at our back and it is up to us, the 14 of us to take advantage of that wind and move this city forward with the rest of the nation. Thank you very much. Thank you, Alderman McNeely. Officers reports continue. Alderman Rose.
 I'll give a lot of praise to Tommy Meeks, and I know Gina, you've been a part of the Juneteenth celebration as well. But seeing the Facebook posts and the celebrations that went on this past week here out of Rockford and how Rockford natives have led that charge in Springfield to push forward for state holiday
 Now a national holiday. I think it speaks loudly of our community and just wanted to say congratulations to your to your dad and your family and But also and and kind of just going back to some of the comments from John John Tech Brantley. I think that Rockford would love to see a parade of something like that and
 Having been a part of the Irish marching society for many years and them having one of the longest Irish parades locally Any help that you guys would need on that? I would love to help with so I think that is
 It brings more more togetherness for our community and I think it opens up that discussion about the history of our nation, the history of our nation and the rights of people being denied for so long. So, um, anything that this council can do, I think, to to have that conversation locally is beneficial.
 in order for there to be healing in our nation, but also to move forward and really teach the history that took place, not to whitewash it, not to put it in a small paragraph on page two. So thank you to your family, but also I'm looking forward to seeing what comes of the celebration for next year. Thank you, Elder Monroe's.
 We have on deck Alderman Beach and then Alderman Quinones after that. Take it away, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Mayor. I've got several calls.
 We fireworks being shut off now. It's close to 4th of July understand There's going to be some of that going on But on the other hand say there's a large kinds that really are disturbing the peace Especially 10 11 12 o'clock at night may there may bear police. Excuse me a fire of Department right now could give us an update on what the law is regarding these kind of things absolutely
 alderman i'd be glad to uh comment on that so as of uh before the the same uh state laws do apply uh that are so applicable from previous years the department the rockford fire department will have uh personnel outside uh during that time i'm sorry could you speak more directly into the mic i'm sure people the millions that watch want to hear sure
 Alderman, we will have personnel out during the 4th of July. These will be personnel from our inspection bureau. Nothing has changed laws wise. There have been no changes and we'll still be sending people out to ensure that the community is safe.
 We will be going out with Rockford police officers when we do need additional assistance. As you may know, situations may change very quickly, so we will have people helping from Rockford PD. Thank you. Is there a number of the patient call direct to you or for someone to do that enforcement? Because we've identified some locations and we want to have the law with us.
 yeah if we're aware of the hot spots we'll definitely take uh precautions with and send people out to those areas just to keep an eye on them in terms of who should they be calling it's dependent on the severity of the incident taking place if it's an ongoing situation and there's been very little i guess if there's been relations with the safety i would call 9-1-1 if it's something a little less severe i'd call the non-emergency line 966-2900
 Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Thank you, Mayor. Interim Chief Burke. Yeah, I think Interim Chief Vertes explained it well. They do participate in the extra patrols, especially as we get closer to the 4th, that we do participate in. It's obviously, as everyone can attest to, especially on July 4th, the calls for service are extreme.
 So we do do our best to send the officers through, but it depends on the specific call load and the officer availability and how quick we can get to those certain calls. But like he said, nothing has changed. They still are legal. We would certainly encourage everybody to go and watch a.
 Show that is put on either by City of Rock or some of the other locations as opposed to take it upon themselves And set their own off. It is a it's a public safety issue I
 Not only for people around the areas, it's a fire hazard, especially with the drought that we're experiencing right now. But we get plenty of calls even from pets that have a difficult time dealing with it. So we are aware of it. We try to be as proactive as we can. But just a regular call load for service is draining on the department, especially we have just about every available officer working at the 4th of July festivities.
 all right any other questions uh for the interim chiefs on this matter i know it's a hot topic no pun intended but uh around this time of year we and for the new alderman uh get ready to get ready to take some calls so yeah um okay thanks thank you too appreciate that uh alderman crononez
 The Sixth Street Neighborhood Association and me would just like to thank Carl Francine for putting on an excellent program at the Neighborhood Watch. Everybody enjoyed his comments, and we've got good people working here on staff. And that'd be it. Thanks, Alderman Cronin. I think we have Alderman Wilkins next. Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. So I wanted to extend a thank you to Todd Stockburger with the Rockford Fire Department and AJ, I cannot remember his name, but he let me annoy him for about three hours last Saturday as I listened in on some 911 calls just to get some transparency on what's going on and what the response is and things that can be improved in the department. So I just wanted to thank them for allowing me to come down and welcoming me and let me pick their ear.
 so thank you great and i think that's something to uh we can all take advantage of is to uh is to get in and get some experience with these folks and realize the jobs they do and i think then being able to relay that to our constituents and it's a good thing uh i think was yeah oh yes ultimately thank you do you have my mic on yep
 Reason why I keep asking is because people that watch City Council a number of them complain that they can't understand us The millions worldwide that watch and I certainly want the individuals to hear what I'm seeing Now there is a store on South Main and people think that that's a cannabis store That is not a candle So I want people to understand that I
 And that's it. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Uh, yes, hold on the front. And we get, yeah. Um, thank you. Um, I wanted to thank everyone who, um, from the city who has met with me or spoken with me to help me understand how things work in city government. I understand that you all are busy and short staffed. So please know that I appreciate your help and patience and look forward to working with you to improve our city.
 I do have some concerns. The one that I would like this body to consider at this time is regarding the protesters who have spent numerous days and nights around City Hall criticizing our systems, our work, our policies and practices. They say and write a lot and they put up pictures and signs. City staff takes the signs down and clears the chalk and sometimes clear the people and their stuff.
 It's my understanding that some of the protesters have been arrested recently and in the past. I would like to know what laws the protesters that are just outside our doors, what laws are they breaking? Why are they being arrested and heavily fined? What do their fines total? And what does the city do with the money from the fines? The city is collecting
 and set to distribute a lot of money to restore, repair, reinvest, expunge, renew, and generally help. So it seems strange to me that we would expend so many resources on what could be construed as creating criminals out of our critics, our constituents, our citizens.
 and using our powers to saddle these folks, our neighbors, with unbelievable debt and a criminal record. Is that really how we want to use our powers? I do not want to misunderstand a thing, nor do I want those who I hear from to misconstrue what is taking place.
 So again, I would like to know what laws the protesters are breaking. Why are they being arrested and heavily fined? And lastly, are we enforcing these and all laws and ordinances equally? Please keep me and any other member of this council who cares to know posted. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Parenti.
 Think that would be a worthy discussion to have with attorney Meyer city city administrator Todd Cagnone and If you would like to reach out to them That'd be I think you'd be that would be open to that discussion Yes, good. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other officers reports seeing none? Okay. I
 Let's go on to number Roman numeral eight, motions and resolutions. Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Planning and Development Committee item number one talks about the Rockford Regrow grant program. The committee has recommended denial. However, I just want to say voting yes on this would be to approve the grant process.
 and voting no would be to deny the process. And I think that's all I have to say. Okay. Thanks for clarifying that, Alderman. Do you—okay. We have one item up, discussion. Alderman Neely. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. On this item, the committee recommended denial. So if you vote yes, you're in agreement with the committee. No. And I ask for clarification.
 Yes, attorney buyer. Sure. I can clarify a bit. So when we vote on these resolutions and motions, it's a bit different than voting on a committee report.
 Because the committee reports an actual item that we're actually voting to approve before it goes to an ordinance. This, when it's a resolution, it comes out as a recommendation. It's just sort of a note from the committee as to what they recommended. So the matter comes before council as it was motioned and seconded at committee. So the motion and second at committee was to approve.
 It was denied, but it still comes to city council as though a positive vote will be approved and a negative vote will be a denial.
 i'll try to explain a little better maybe in an email it's a bit confusing because of the way our our council system works with committee reports um which are just a bit of a different uh scenario than recommendations it's easier frankly for everyone to understand if a yes vote is approval on all items and a no vote is denial rather than having the situations where a yes means a no and a no means a yes so that's why we asked alderman meeks to clarify that this evening
 all the remaining we follow so i'm not sure that i do so let me repeat what i think i heard which is that if i vote no on this i'm agreeing with the the finding of the committee last week that's correct okay thank you sorry okay any other questions discussion seeing none clerk please call the vote logeman aye toomber aye frost no terena aye
 Prenti? No. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? No. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? No. Fonney? Nine ayes, four noes. Item passes. Thank you. We go on to B, Code and Regulations Committee with Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item one committee recommends approval of the Chow Down Food Truck Festival. This event is scheduled for Saturday, July 24th from 1 to 9 PM. The event will be held at 3915 East State Street in the old Magna parking lot. Item two, the committee recommends approval of the St. Edwards annual summer fest. This event is scheduled on July 25th from 11 AM to 8 PM. The event will be held on the grounds of St. Edward's Church located at 304 11th Street.
 Item 3, the committee recommends approval of Festa Italiana. This event is scheduled on the following dates and times Friday, August 6th, Saturday, August 7th and Sunday, August 8th. On the 6th, it's 5 to 11 PM on the 7th. It's noon to 11 PM and on the 8th, it's 11 AM to 9 PM. The event will be held on the grounds of oil and Catholic high school located at 4000 St Francis drive.
 Finally, number four, the committee recommends approval of Tamale Fest. This event is scheduled for Saturday, September 11th from 1 to 10 PM. The event will be held at 3915 East State Street, none of them being held in Ward 3. I motion to adjourn. I was going to actually mention that Alderman Rose. I'm 0 for 4 on this one. I'm a step ahead of you. Thank you. You're quite nimble.
 We have four items and we have four items up for consideration. Any discussion? Seeing none, clerk please call the vote. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Twice for Ward 10.
 Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 13 ayes. Item passes unanimously. Next we'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award for the 2020 demolition group 19.1 in Northern Illinois Service in the amount of $74,000 for the demolition of various properties.
 The funding sources, the community development block grant. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the bid for the 2020 demolition program, 19.2 to Northern only service the amount of $82,875 for the demolition of other properties. The funding sources of the community development block grant and general fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for citywide street repairs group number one, residential to William Charles construction.
 $2,289,614.30. The project is estimated to be completed by September 17, 2021. The funding source is Sales Tax. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for West State Street Phase 2 Demo Packet L, I'm sorry, 1, to N-TRAC Group of Loves Park, the amount of $109,210. The project is estimated to be...
 Completed July 30, 2021, the funding sources sales tax and I dot number 5, the committee recommends approval of the award a bid for the West side sidewalk and 80 repairs package. Number 1. To end track in the amount of 113,000, 69 dollars. The project is estimated to be completed. Later this week on June 25th, 2021, the funding source sales tax number 6, the committee recommends.
 approval of the award of bid for Sandy Hollow Road reconstruction of William Charles Construction in the amount of $1,392,000.
 $830.73, the project is estimated to be completed in the fall of 2021, the funding source is sales tax. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Wealthy Avenue water main replacement to Northern Illinois service in the amount of $594,175.50. The project is estimated to be completed September 24, 2021. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account.
 Number 8, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the 22nd Avenue and 10th Street water main replacement to Stenstrom Excavating in the amount of $660,881. The project is estimated to be completed by September 24, 2021. The funding sources the water placement improvement account. Number 9, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for Well 39 Water Treatment Facility at Larson Larson Builders in the amount of $4,944,000.
 The project is to be completed by July 31, 2022. The funding source is an IEPA state revolving fund. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for Harmon Park phase eight design and construction observation to Ouellette Hoffman of Rockford in the amount of $73,726.71. The project is estimated to be completed in one year. The funding source is the CIP general fund.
 Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for well 39 water treatment facility to fair Graham in the amount of $288,000. The project is estimated to be completed in the fall of 2022. The funding sources, the IEPA state revolving fund.
 Number 12, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the Kylemore East Detention Basin Study Phase 1 to IMEG of Rockford, the amount of $29,950. The project is estimated to be completed in six months. The funding source is the CIP General Fund.
 Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for logistics Parkway extension to will that Hoffman the amount of 76,567 dollars. For the roadway and 13,889 dollars and 22 cents for water for a total of 90,456 dollars and 34 cents.
 The extension will extend Logistics Parkway from Milford Avenue to Samuelson Road, resurface the Logistics Parkway from Samuelson to Airport Drive, and resurface Milford Avenue from Logistics Parkway to 11th Street. The improvements will include drainage and flood mitigation measures for the region. The project is estimated for completion in 2021. The funding source is sales tax and the water replacement improvement account.
 number 14 the committee recommends approval of the illinois housing development authority grant award for an abandoned residential municipality relief program round five in the amount of 75 000 in 15 the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of winnebago county i'm sorry yeah winnebago county community mental health board grant award in the amount of 2 million 46 826.10
 This grant does not require a cross match. The grant term is from June 1, 2021 to May 31, 2022. The grant award will provide funds for the equipment and expansion of the Rockford Police Department's crisis co-responder team. I place those 15 matters before you. We have 15 items up for consideration. Alderman Beach, discussion.
 15 I would like at some point in time know who's on this community mental health board and also if we can get some clarification on how this money is going to be says here for equipment and expansion of the department's crisis co-responder so how much is going into prep into personnel and how much is going into equipment
 i can't ready meyer uh alderman we can i can get you that information uh actually i'd be requested if we could hold this my uh this item out tonight and bring it up next week there's a couple of things i need to work out with uh loves park uh technical issues but i'll make sure that when it comes back that we have all that those numbers for you right thank you do we have a motion to lay over number 15. second thank you uh number 15 will be laid over at the current moment
 So we have items 1 through 14. Any further discussion? Alderman Bonney, anything? Okay. Seeing no questions. Oh, Alderman McNeely, please. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. You're welcome. On item for the West State Street, item number four, the use of sales tax. I thought that this project was state funding, but we're using sales tax?
 Director Saunders, please. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, each component of this project does have local match percentages. So in this case, it's a 75-25 split for the demolition of those properties. So we are using sales tax for our local match percentage. Okay. I don't remember seeing this before. Thank you. Any other discussions? Alderman Prenti. On item 9 and maybe...
 i think there was another one that mentions uh well 39 um can i'm i'm sorry for my ignorance it can you tell me where world well 39 is located director saunders alderman prunty well 39 is going to be located in the northeast quadrant of our city so right where bell school and spring brook road intersect so it's right by the rock valley college early education center thank you thank you director uh any other discussion
 Questions on 1 through 14. Seeing none, clerk, please call the roll. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Abstain on number 4. Aye to the rest. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Bonney. Aye. Brown.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 13 ayes. Item number 4, 12 ayes. 1 abstain. And items 5 through 14, 13 ayes. Great. Thanks, Claire. 1 through 14 passes. Alderman Frost, that was quite a lengthy one there. Winnebago County Chairman Shirelli would be proud. We move on to new businesses ordinance. Planning and Development Committee, we go back to Alderman Meeks.
 thank you your honor um planning and development committee item number one an ordinance approving the kishwaukee harrison tax increment financing redevelopment plan and project item number two is an ordinance approving the designation of the designate of designating the kishwaukee harrison tax increment financing redevelopment project area
 And item number three is an ordinance approving the adoption of tax increment allocation financing for Kishwaukee Harrison Tax Increment Financing District Redevelopment Project Area. Those are all the items. Thank you, Alderman Meeks. We have under items 9A, 1, 2, 3 are up for passage. Any discussion? Questions? Seeing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 hogeman hi timber hi ross hi terena aye prunty aye wilkins aye hoffman aye rose aye beach hi quinones aye meeks aye mcneely aye bonnie aye 13 eyes great items pass next on to code and regulation committee alderman rose please
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have five items. And ordinance number one, an ordinance approving the authorization to place for sale the city-owned vacant property located at 1020 North Avenue. Item two, an ordinance approving the amendments to the floodplain requirements in Articles 1 and 4 of Chapter 109 of the City of Rockford Stormwater Ordinance. Item three, an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rock Valley College for Police Service Response Plan. Item four, an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rock Valley College for Police Service Response Plan.
 item four an ordinance approving a variation to allow a 24 feet by 24 feet attached garage addition to the north side of a residence in the front yard along national avenue in an r1 single family zoning district at 1731 national avenue item 5 an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming terminals in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 2525 auburn street
 That's it. All right. Thanks, Alderman Rose. We have five items up for passage. Any discussion? See, oh, Alderman Hoffman. I should have asked, thank you, Your Honor. I should have asked this before, but I'm just curious, what is the police services response plan? Is that similar to what RHA has, or is it something completely different? Interim Chief Burke.
 It's different than that. We have an agreement with them if there's a significant incident that happens on campus such as a homicide or criminal sexual assault or some other incidents of that magnitude that we would be the lead agency in that. And then also there's a couple of hours that they do not have officers that are working. So if there's an alarm or something like that on their grounds that we would respond to that.
 Do they have a contract with us then? Do they pay for those services or is that just something we do? I believe that's just something that we do. What are those hours that they are not? Is it one to five in the morning? Yeah, it's a few hours overnight. I can't recall the specific hours, but it's early morning or later. I think we're only about a three or four hour gap there. Any other questions? Oh, Alderman Wilkins.
 think about it but would this be excuse me but the officers be working overtime in this response no no we it would not be it would be on duty personnel with the exception if there's like a homicide or something like that then we would be calling in our detective so if it was in the middle of the night they would be coming in for that on time and I have okay thank you thank you Wilkins any other questions or comments discussion seeing none
 We have items 1 through 5 up for passage. Clerk, please call the vote. Ogeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Arena. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. No on 5. Aye on the rest. Pinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. No on 3. Aye on the remaining. Fonny. Aye. Rappaport.
 items 1 2 13 eyes item 3 12 eyes 1 no item 4 13 eyes and 5 12 eyes 1 no thank you burke bailey items pass uh we go to c finance and personnel committee back to alderman frost thank you
 Number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and Rockford Township to provide emergency rental assistance funding. Number two is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation District to clearly define the city and the RRWRD ownership and maintenance responsibilities for the existing water service located within the property known as 333 Kishwaukee Street.
 Number three is an ordinance approving the sale of property located at 17XX Blackhawk Road to Myberg Holdings of Rockford in the amount of $13,365. And number four is an ordinance releasing the liens to facilitate the auction of trustee properties located at 728th Avenue, 1233 School Street, and 1618 Mulberry Street. And I place these four ordinances before you. All right, we have four items up for...
 Passage, any discussion on these four items? Seeing none, clerk, please call the vote. Logeman. Tunberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Frente. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes.
 items pass all four thank you uh before adjournment i'd just like to say thank you to all uh todd and uh carl you helped out a lot on some stuff from the third ward in the past uh nick and chad and and chad thank you for making this all up here pretty painless and thank you to all for uh making this pretty painless for me so uh and i had to keep an eye on alderman bonnie just to make sure so uh do i have a motion to adjourn
 This meeting is adjourned.