We are doing the impossible in Rockford, Illinois, USA. Number one, we have documented more great people in Rockford than anywhere else in the world. Number two, there are more fishy whales in Rockford than anywhere else in the world. Unfortunately, many continue to hide in their closets in the river. This week I heard words that I don't remember ever hearing before.
 It is easy to forgive for this or that, but I forgive those who killed my friends and kin I don't remember ever hearing before. I knew that to stop revenge would be the most difficult of the impossibles to do. How many would have to die if nine Zionists were killed? How many would have to die if nine Rush Limbaugh's were killed?
 And don't forget the minister who forgives the person who burnt down his church. No one should ever forget these words from South Carolina. And to forgive all those smart humans who hate you. Wow. I am now convinced that the impossible will be done sooner than later. Yes, we cannot be stopped. I, Fishy Wales. Thank you.
 Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Several months ago, Chief Epperson was at our neighborhood watch meeting and someone asked him what the police were going to do about all the stores on Broadway that are illegally buying link cards for 50 cents on the dollar. Chief responded that if you have knowledge or information on stores that are illegally engaging in this criminal activity, you should give that information to the Department of Agriculture, for they are the ones that handle the link program.
 And that being said, the Rockford Police Department does not have the resources to go after these stores that are operating in an illegal manner. Excuse me, Chief, but I couldn't disagree with you more. And as the Mayor said, the Chief is doing exactly what I want him to do, so I'll put this in the Mayor's back pocket.
 The Rockford Police Department doesn't have the resources to go after illegal criminal activity or to join forces with another government agency to go after criminal activity. Let me tell you what happens while the city lets this illegal activity thrive in my neighborhood. This is just one example out of many. Please use your imagination.
 Somebody with a link card goes into one of these stores, gets $100 or $200 cash, goes into a liquor store, comes out with their purchase, consumes it as they continue their stroll down Broadway. They then go to another store, purchase single cigarettes and a Chore Boy, pick up a prostitute on their way. They go to the drug house, they pick up their crack. Use your imagination. What happens next? Public urination. I've seen it, my mother has seen it. Has your mother seen it?
 My alderman has seen it. The fishy whale's wife has seen it. Public urination, broad daylight. So now these people have no more link. What do they do? Aggressive panhandling, purse snatching, robberies, burglaries, home invasions, victim, carjackings.
 Well, Chief, Mr. Mayor, when all of this crime happens in my neighborhood, what are you doing but spending resources to go after this illegal criminal activity? Please help us clean up Broadway before the police station is put in.
 Just this afternoon, I saw a prostitute on Broadway in Parmalee. She started running towards the car. They pulled over for her. I picked up my binoculars to get the plate number, but they pulled back out into traffic. BMW, probably a local doctor or attorney, out to lunch. When will the insanity end? On a final note, my mother turned years old on Saturday. Happy birthday, Mom. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you, Arun. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, 23rd verse, the psalmist says, The steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, people of Rockford don't just sit there, stand up.
 No matter how bad the problem is you may be facing today. No matter how far under the circumstance you may be in. 24 hours you can be back on top. Oh, Prophet Eustace, that would be impossible. That's what the Samaritans thought in 2 Kings, the 7th chapter. Their land was being ravaged by famine. Enemies troops had surrounded them. They cut off all source of supply. Mothers were eating their own children just to survive. But right in the middle of that,
 The Lord told the prophet Elisha that in 24 hours the whole situation would change. Flower and barley would sell for just a few pennies and there would be abundance for all. What did God use to turn that situation around? Four lepers. Four lepers who instead of sitting around feeling sorry for themselves and waiting to die, decided to arise and take their chances in the enemy camp.
 When they got there, they found it abandoned. All the wars had been frightened away by the angels of God. And they left enough food behind to feed all the Samaritans. Sometimes the children of God are like the fishers in that story. You get problem-centered instead of word-of-God-centered. You let yourself be so surrounded with the loud voice of the world that the vision of your victory is pushed out of sight. When that happens, faith and power begins to subside and life cave in on you from every side.
 that's happened to you, stop crying about it. Stop looking at your problem and feel sorry for yourself. That won't change anything. Just like he did for Elisha. God will do the same thing for you. God's given you a word. He's promised to make you an overcomer. So don't just sit there till you die. Don't accept defeat. Rise up in faith. Stand on God's word and fight for your life. Get mad at Satan. Cast him out. Get mad at that sickness. Cast it out. Get mad at that condition you are in. Rise up
 and receive the deliverance of the Lord today. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good afternoon, Mayor Marcy, our members, our servants, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs 17, verse 27 and 28 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. First, it's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause, to think, and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something very important to say. I have something very important to say, and I'm going to freestyle on that. This past weekend, we arrived with...
 between forty and sixty you've got to figure out how to marry we use for example mountain giant church uh... had a bite by was that the obvious week they were at the fairground liquid like it one i'll see uh... uh...
 adult or youth to participate in that. I went in there, I collaborated with Mount Zion Church. I was averaging between 30 and 50 youth and adults every day this past week, bringing them out of fairground. I want to hear that new town.
 and whatever. I remember when I was 10 years old, 50 years ago, I sat in the basement of Ebenezer Baptist Church. I visited Dr. King, Reverend Anthony, I could go on and on with the famous people that were down in that basement, and they were talking about Garfield. They were talking about the march that we was going to march down Garfield Park. The reason we was doing that march was because for fair housing and better housing and jobs and education.
 Okay, the Civil Rights Bill was passed by Lyndon B. Johnson, who said that we had the right to live anywhere we want to live in. You as lawmakers, you as politicians, and what have you, must follow that law to the letter. If the land is bought, we have a right to live where we want to live. First of all, I was against moving out to new townships.
 That wasn't my concern. But what brought me on the side of housing authority, when you try to tell me where I can and cannot live at, you label all of us as criminals, label us as thieves and robbers. I got a BA in social justice, physical education, and I got a master's in cross-cultural and race relations and what have you. I don't work for the system, but what I do work for, I work for the peoples and what have you. I can't work for the system because the system will tell you what you can
 and cannot do. I look at the Salvation Army. What we doing there? We got an open house coming up on the 11th, but before we can have that open house, in order to have a leadership at the Salvation Army, if they're looking for a youth director or an engineer director, he got to be a director that can relate with the peoples in Fairgrounds and the Ellis Heights area, that have a working relationship.
 you just can't put anybody in that spot. That's just like if I look at Ann Thompson. I'm gonna go to Ann Thompson's house and I'm gonna tell her what she can and cannot eat, what she can and cannot go to bed. No, that's not right. The same thing in New Township. Even though we eat and bleed the same way they eat and bleed, the people that live in fairgrounds, everybody that live in fairgrounds do not rob, steal, and kill. If they look at the,
 If I'm going to finish it up, we're talking about Chief Epperson. If you come to the CompStat meeting, 90% of the crimes that are done in and around RHA property is done by people that do not live in RHA property. So don't blame the residents who live in RHA when you see one or two people fighting.
 and can't say all the rest is fighters, all the rest is drug-givers, all the rest is thieves, all the rest is killers. No, we are not. We want to live the same way y'all want to live, by peace, justice, and harmony. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Rudy Valdez.
 The South Main revitalization project is a very positive initiative heralded by many, especially businesses and residents in Rockford Southwest Quadrant because it will reestablish South Main as the premier gateway into downtown.
 While project completion is highly anticipated, the SWIFT organization would like to bring to the attention to the City Council a concern related to the construction. Today I'm joined by Joe Bovee, SWIFT president, as well as many supporters of El Tanampa, a small business located in the corner of South Main and Island Avenue.
 For over a year, El Tanapa has seen a dramatic decrease in revenue as a direct result of access problems created by the South Main construction. The once profitable business has depleted its reserves and is on the brink of closing its doors. While there is an understanding and expectation for
 For businesses to endure some sacrifice during construction, Entenapa customers have had to detour for up to a mile through residential neighborhoods to get into its parking lot. This lack of access seems to be a deviation from what was done with other businesses.
 When the, what they did in other business, they placed gravel roads. When the gravel roads were removed, they caused a few days hindrance for customers to directly enter South Main. No gravel road was placed in front of El Tanampa. A lack of temporary gravel road has resulted in El Tanampa to have access problems, not for a few days, but for over a year and counting.
 Though this is an IDOT project, IDOT states that the City of Rockford was responsible for the access situation for the El Tanampa business. The access problem also resulted in delivering trucks refusing to transport product during most of the winter season because the residential roads to El Tanampa were icy and there was a concern that they would not be able to safely navigate to and from the parking lot.
 The product was dropped off at the Chiquita Food Mart across the road, where El Tanampa staff had to pick it up in smaller four-wheel drive vehicles. Upon completion of the road, the business will still have some of the same access issues and diminished property value resulting from no direct access to the northbound lanes of South Main Street. IDOT has stated that there was an opening in the median that was planned in front of El Tanampa, but it was removed by the request of the city.
 In addition to access problems, the construction has damaged the structural integrity of the building. Heavy equipment has been placed alongside the building where severe pounding has created cracks in the foundation with pieces of basement dropping onto the floor.
 Water enters the building through the cracks whenever it rains. This caused damage to the material stored in the basement. The amount of rainwater in the once dry basement has increased to the point where a couple of hours of cleanup with a shop vac is no longer adequate. A sump pump is now required. Water also enters because utility work created large holes next to the building.
 Poor workmanship on the subsequent concrete work resulted in the sidewalk having multiple cracks and replaced twice in the past year, and it's cracked once again.
 Almost done. The latest concern is potential contamination from the fuel tanks found alongside the building on the South Main side. The tanks were removed last week and the holes were covered within three hours. Three hours doesn't seem enough time to do soil samples. If there is contamination, the foundation cracks will allow contaminated water to enter the building the next time it rains. While the past year or so has been very difficult and stressful for El Tenampa, the revitalization of South Main Corridor is a very welcome initiative.
 situation and future conditions of the road will continue to adversely impact the financial viability of the business.
 There is a substantial risk that the business could be forced to close and therefore not be able to participate in the revitalization of this important part of Rockford. Please help us retain this business by either putting back the opening in the median in the Island Avenue entrance or relocating the business to another location along South Main Street. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening.
 We have just before moving to our strategic planning session, just have one committee report it looks like to go through this evening. I'll call on Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor.
 woman number three new committee reports number one the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of packaged beer and wine conjunction with the grocery store in a c2 limited zoning district at 6640 and 6650 east 8th street as known as all these subject to conditions your honor i move to suspend the rules motion second rules on the new
 New Committee Report, Room 3, Item 1, related to 6640 and 6650 East State Street. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. Rules be suspended. Your Honor, I place that item up for passage. That is up for passage. It's their discussion. Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it.
 That is the only item under new committee reports. Looks like it also was up under new business. Alderman Shirelli? Yes, under new business ordinances, move to suspend the rules on item number one, Your Honor. May I just vote it on? There's been a motion, second to suspend the rules. It's the same matter, same subject matter, but it comes up as the ordinance under new business. There's been a motion to suspend the rules. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye.
 Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, Savin. The rules be suspended. Your Honor, may I place that ordinance up for passage? The matter is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the rule. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Harvey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. No. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Allee. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. Fortinai, Your Honor.
 Thank you very much, Minister Haas. Thank you. Before adjourning our regular meeting to go into our strategic planning session,
 I would just ask if there are any officer reports. All in terms of . Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to bring to the attention of one of our police chaplains that's been with us for quite a while, the Reverend Perry Bennett of Macedonia Baptist Church. We celebrated his 43rd birthday at Macedonia, I mean anniversary at Macedonia Sunday, and we want to wish him happy anniversary. Congratulations.
 I just wanted to request that a copy of the swift letter be entered into the record for today. Certainly. Thank you. Thank you. Any further officers reports? Also just wanted from my desk to note that I did get and I apologize for the delay the additional appointments to the specific community committees for council assignments to those committees if there's any questions please let me know.
 correction that was made to legislative lobbying based on what information I had available. If there's other questions about any of the committee assignments, please feel free to follow up.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to make sure everyone on the council was aware that there was a passing of Susan Robertson, former fire chief Bill Robertson's wife. As I think everyone around the table knows how much spouses give to people who hold this position, and she certainly did so with grace. So please keep her and her family in your thoughts and prayers. Thank you. Any further officers' reports?
 All right, we will, Mr. Hayes, do we need to formally adjourn before moving to our strategic planning? All right, so we'll ask for a motion to adjourn our... Second. We'll adjourn our special meeting. I'm sorry, there's been a motion second to adjourn our special meeting before going on strategic planning session. All those in favor of adjourning, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. That meeting will adjourn. And I will call to order the strategic planning session.
 We have a number of questions.