Wonderful. We have a quorum. Alderman Shirely. Number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming with an outdoor seating area at 307 South Main Street. Place this item up for passage. Excellent. It's their discussion. Alderman Frost. I primarily...
 Like an American diner breakfast type restaurant. At the Kerr hours, we're on the business plan at 2 a.m., I believe now. Alderman Beck can answer that. She's a Reclin customer. It's a half block from where I work. Her primary customer base has been certainly breakfast and lunch, but she's from day one, I know I've had lots of conversations with her. She really wants to...
 expand and grow. She's got half of her restaurant that she's still going to build out. So she really wants to be more of a destination place downtown that would definitely go into the evening hours. It just appears to me that it's a, I've been there before, it's a breakfast facility, but now getting a liquor license so that they can obtain a gaming license to increase the revenue of their business.
 What was that, a 30%? They would still need to meet our 50% requirement, just like any other business would for the gaming industry.
 Alderman Hervey. Just a little bit of background. I've known Stephanie for a long time, and since I can't cook, I go there quite frequently. She is looking to open up in the evening. The other side of the restaurant is vacant. She told me specifically she would not put video gaming machines in the current room that she has where the bar-type diner place is.
 So down the road, if she's able to expand, we've talked about it at length, she'd want to have to come back and come back for another permit. So she is asking for the beer and wine because, especially with the hotel coming, she wants to start building her evening clientele.
 So it's a good purpose. Wonderful. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly have talked with the owners as well that's in my ward, and they have been for breakfast and lunch, and they do want to expand. Certainly I understand that, wanting to increase their revenues and also to provide more food
 more of a service for the community, especially given that the hotel is coming. So I certainly support this. And I do hope that my colleagues will support it as well. Thank you. Wonderful. Is there a further discussion? Seeing no other further discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach.
 Q. Nones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 12 ayes, 2 noes. Wonderful. Now to one of the most fun portions of our city council meeting, officers' reports. I have just three comments I want to make. First is...
 Thank you to Alderman Toonberg and to our police department for holding a neighborhood-wide meeting over in Churchill's Grove. I was in receipt of the petitions and have sent them on to legal as well as our neighborhood standards department. So thank you for those efforts.
 Secondly, I want to state that unless there's an objection from council, we will not have a meeting on July 3rd. We've heard from a number of aldermen stating that they would not be able to attend, and therefore it would be really close to us getting a quorum if everyone we haven't heard from actually does attend. So unless there's objection, we will cancel that meeting and then just meet on the 10th.
 Lastly, I want to touch on what's been, I think, on most residents' minds over the last 24 hours and just say for one, I do think it's a loss to our entire community with the current fire and it's disappointing what has taken place down at the Hanley building.
 I'll also say it's disappointing from the other end of the spectrum when just over the last several weeks we've had a number of discussions with the owner about redeveloping that site in particular. And knowing his track record of getting projects done, I thought we were on a good track.
 good footing and had a lot of really wonderful prospects for that southwest quadrant. I'll say from just a new mayor's perspective, in one of the first kind of larger scale events, to see our staff and your staff and the city staff working in such a coordinated way was really remarkable and inspiring. To see that the
 Fire department was coordinating with Public Works and the water superintendent was involved and city administrator was so integrally involved. Just seeing everyone work in concert, I think was really wonderful. And I think all the aldermen, if you saw the back end of it, would be equally as proud.
 But certainly our thoughts go out to the owner of the building as well as the adjacent property owners and adjacent business owners as obviously they are dealing with a very difficult time period and we hope that there'll be a quick resolution. With that I will open it up to any alderman that has time. Alderman Thompson-Keller. Thank you, Your Honor. And thank you for a week off.
 Last week you was given a proclamation to Project 1013. Yeah. And against doctor's orders, I went out and served lunch in Project 1013. And I am very, very, very pleased. This is our fifth year of Project 1013.
 And I can't tell you the hundreds and hundreds of volunteers to put this project on. I served so many hot dogs, I didn't even want to eat one after serving the volunteers. And the most remarkable thing is we've had more residents to come out and volunteer their time. The residents of the 13th, 7th, 5th,
 6th, you name it, 9th Ward, did an excellent job of coming out, supporting the community and supporting Project 1013. This is your shirt that I was given, and I had to sign a release form for this, so you better wear it, for Project 1013. It is for you. And thank you very much for the proclamation. That's wonderful. Alderman Rose, and then you.
 I just wanted to say I had a wonderful opportunity to do a ride along with our police department with an officer, Kylie. She responded to numerous calls in the time that I had a chance to ride along with her. And I always get people who are asking, what is the city doing to take on crime? We don't.
 And I'm proud to say this, that we have officers out there that really care about our residents, like Officer Kiley. And I know just from responding to different calls, two of them being domestic calls, that our police department is doing a world-class job. So I wanted to say that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you Alderman Rose, Alderman Hervey. Thank you. Several things. First, the Fifth Ward, monthly Fifth Ward meeting will be this Thursday at 6 o'clock at the Bonnegue Branch Library. Our own Mark Stockman, proud Fifth Ward resident, will be there to talk about replacing trees
 We've got a number of requests from people because we lost so many of the ash trees. So again, 6 o'clock at Montague Branch Library. Wayne Dust will be there. We're going to talk a little bit more about what's going on at Barbara Coleman and some of the industrial cleanup, not just at Barbara Coleman but in some other places.
 I'm also going to talk about the electrical, the municipal aggregation. The scams have already started. I've gotten three calls from people who said, did you get something in the mail recently about your discount? And you know, I'll play along, yeah, I got that. What is that about? Well, you're eligible for a discount, and they go on and try to get you to sign up for their discount.
 If you want to accept the rate that the city negotiated, which is the lowest that was offered out there, do nothing. You don't need to talk to anyone on the telephone. You don't need to sign anything. If you don't want the lowest rate or the rate that the city was able to negotiate, send in the form. But that's only if you don't want the rate that the city negotiated.
 They also put in, and I want to thank them, these little cards that say no solicitation and you can put that on your door. It's sort of unobtrusive, it's black and white, and they're not allowed to knock on your door if you have that no solicitation.
 That's a big one. I wanted to say thanks to New Zion Baptist Church. When Mr. Marino was murdered in his home, he is the father who heard someone breaking into his son's, they live in a duplex upstairs. He went up to see what was going on with his son and he was shot and killed. This was right across the street from New Zion Church and less than a block away from King School. We've really had it with these folks.
 I would like to ask that the police department and the city and the homeless coalition... I don't know how Hanley got started, and I'm not gonna point the fingers, but I had a homeless gentleman who was killed by another homeless gentleman in a building on South Main Street.
 It's just out of control. The number of people who have no residence, who are behaving badly in public. We have our new service station down on South Main. And I went the other night, and there were a couple of women who were afraid because these guys are getting very aggressive. I'm more aggressive, so they left. But it's just ruining our community. So we've got to get some interdiction for that.
 Thank you. Wonderful. Alderman Hoffman. Hi. I have two thank yous for this evening. One is to Winnebago County Sheriff Caruana. He and his TAC team visited the Rolling Green area this week on the 22nd.
 And after their visit, they took two people with them and confiscated 86 grams of heroin and got it out of our neighborhood. We're very grateful for that. So thank you to the sheriff and the TAC team. On June 23rd and 24th, the sheriff and his group came back to visit us again. And this time he brought, sorry, I have to read it to get it correct. He hosted a patrol that included
 Illinois State Police, Loves Park Police, Department of Homeland Security, South Beloit Police, Village of Winnebago Department, Police Department, Cherry Valley Police Department, and our own Rockford Police Department.
 They were able to get 147 traffic stops, 92 citations, 81 written warnings, 37 arrests, 4 arrest warrants, 3 DUIs, 9 suspended and revoked driving arrests. Let's see, what else? They also confiscated 76.7 grams of cannabis and 2 grams of heroin.
 There were six vehicles that fled from the police during the attempted traffic stops. Five of the people were apprehended, or five of the vehicles were apprehended. Two men wanted for connection with a home invasion committed in Rockford were caught by the K-9. So we want to thank the chief and everybody else that worked with this. Thank you. Wonderful. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor.
 I told Kevin I wasn't going to talk anymore tonight, but he insisted I may. I'd like to say that my colleagues, I respect each and every one of you. I know we don't always agree, nor even our constituents. We're not always going to agree. The good thing, though, that's democracy. We get to sit around the horseshoe here and talk about it and listen to our constituents on both sides of issues.
 and try to make the best decision. One thing, though, I would say we are unified on, no question, ifs, ands, or buts is crime. And so, with that said, I am so proud of our residents in the Third Ward. We had what we called a neighborhood awareness and action gathering. The mayor touched on it briefly.
 The feedback has been phenomenal. Our police did a great job in helping out. Thank you, Chief, and everyone who was involved in that. And so I think the neighborhood is very optimistic. We've heard people that said that they haven't had hope.
 on tackling some of this crime issue, but boy, we tackled it head on on Tuesday night of last week, and people have some optimism now that maybe didn't before. To Carol, who helped head it up on camp over there, who assisted with me on that. To Mark, that took some initiatives into his own hands that he wouldn't have probably prior to Tuesday.
 to Maria and Stacy, who the mayor touched on, 191 signatures they got to take it to the landlord to say enough is enough, we need these people out. I want to reiterate, not every landlord is a bad landlord by any means, nor is every tenant a bad tenant in a neighborhood.
 But when they are, we need to do what we need to do. And in this case, the neighborhood at Churchill's Grove is ready to do what they need to do going forth. So thank you. Wonderful. Alderman Irvings. I just want to take a moment to brag on the carpenters training center for a moment in their efforts to provide Rockford with quality carpenters.
 One of them being myself, we were sent out to Las Vegas this past weekend, and it was an experience that I never thought that I would receive in this career, being a carpenter. The amount of training and the quality of training that they are providing and the amount of money that they're investing into us as coaches
 workforce is is outstanding and even in their efforts in diversifying the the workforce I was looking there was about 600 of us were in total between apprentices and journeymen and when I looked in the room it was it was really diverse and I say that to encourage those here in Rockford because I'm
 Unfortunately, Rockford isn't as diverse as that room was that night. So I encourage with the opportunities that's coming to Rockford as far as work is concerned to get involved and go down to your local Carpenters Training Center. I'll give you the address.
 to Bella Boulevard and fill out an application if it's not just carpentry, then whatever trade you're looking to get into because there's plenty of opportunities here and I would love to see a more diverse workforce here in Rockford. Wonderful. Is there Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. Just again another announcement that tomorrow night we'll have a 10th Ward meeting.
 at 5 o'clock, 5 to 5.30 refreshments, 5 to 6.30 meeting. You, your honor, and County Board Chairman Frank Haney will be our guest talking about working together. And I certainly invite all my colleagues and all the residents to come up and join us at 500 South Rockford Avenue. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Alderman. Alderman Quinones. Yes, I'd like to introduce
 I attended a ribbon cutting and I'd like to thank Russell Lane from the north side of Chicago to come here and open up a company in my ward. I hired 14 people, but I'm looking for more companies to come into the 11th ward. Also I attended, well I grew up at Explore Rockford's Roots in the 5th ward, I want to
 Good credits for SWIFT were put on a good show. I went to all three locations that they had on the list, and a lot of people came out that day to see Tinker Cottage, Clem, Alderbrim, and the Ethnic Museum on South Main. So I want to congratulate them for doing a good job. Thank you. I skipped all of those and went straight to the Mudos where I got the Lucranita. Alderman McNeil?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would like to join in with Alderman Hervey. I received a call this morning from an elderly lady regarding the electric. She had received phone calls asking her to change over and that her city had worked with them and decided to give them a discount.
 And this obviously was not the company that the city had decided to go with with the lower rate. So I would encourage the seniors that receive those phone calls or receive anything in the mail to contact the city or your alderman and check with them before you sign off.
 or verbally agree over the phone to anything, or certainly have your children or someone in your family review it before you give an okay. Certainly do not give an okay by phone if you're uncertain. Secondly, I attended the funeral of Jamie Taylor, the 16-year-old that was murdered, and his body was found in the alley within the Fifth Ward.
 Rogers. I'm sorry, Rogers. I'm sorry, I don't know if we're good. Taylor. And I talked to a number of people that said that the body was shown on Facebook. And it wasn't just for a day, it was for several days. And I thought, or I've heard or read in the past that Facebook takes things like that down.
 My understanding, that never did happen. I don't know at what point it stopped. I do know that there was information, and I'm sure that our police department was able to make use of whatever. But my concern is not with our police department. I'm sure they're doing a fine job with that particular case. My concern is with Facebook. Why was that up?
 for so long and I hope that we as a city can address this. I was told this was not the first time that there was a killing and the body was shown on Facebook for several days. So I hope we can address that. I'm not sure how we address this violence. It's just unbelievable. He's only 16 years old.
 and then killings after his killing. It's just unbelievable. I'm not sure how to address this. I don't know how to address the parents, the grandparents, the siblings. I know that the police department here as well as throughout the country are doing the very best that they can. There's gotta be some kind of way to
 to get those guns. I'm just talking now, so forgive me. But it is heartbreaking to see the families. I believe, Mr. Mayor, you did come to the viewing of the body. And there were a number of other individuals within the community I've seen at a number of funerals.
 So we do care, and I know there are programs, the Park District has programs, the police department, the fire department. There are so many programs for kids, yet we still see these killings. We still attend these funerals. So I do hope that we can do something about it. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Is there other reports?
 Seeing none, we'll move to motions and resolutions. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items under Roman numeral 4C. One is the award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs, group number 4, to TCI Concrete of Rockford for their bid of $1,583,953.10. Thank you, Your Honor.
 funding source of sales tax. Next is the award of bid for Mercy Way and Lyford Road improvements to William Charles. Construction of Loves Park, Illinois, for their bid of $9,814,822.71. Funding source is the State of Illinois Grant Funds and Developer Funds.
 And the third item is a construction engineering agreement for Mercy Way and Lyford Road improvements to Fair Graham of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $804,714.30. This funding source is a state grant funds. I place this up for passage. These three items. Thank you, Alderman Beck. And Mr. Partridge, due to the conversation that we've had over items two and three, does it make sense or is it within...
 Are rules that I can separate item one and then have items two and three? I can just go ahead and place item one up for passage by itself. I think it makes more sense so that we can move one forward and then continue with the dialogue on it. So item one I place up for passage. Okay. Is there a discussion on item one? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Tuber. Aye. Frost. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye.
 Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shearer? Aye. Wonderful. That item passes. So Items 2 and 3 will take together Alderman Frost. I have a rather lengthy amendment to make to, I believe it's Item 2. Which one? It'll come under 5A1. Oh, 5A1. I'm sorry. Is there a discussion under...
 I had Roman numeral four, C, two and three. Seeing Alderman and Logman. So just to be sure, when we see that in the paper, in the letter that Mr. Bay sent where it says the city agrees to reimburse Mercy on receipt of funding or financing and we don't get any of the funding from IDOT, when does the city of Rockford...
 Become on the hook for paying for this project here. I just for the record. I want to be completely clear Mr.. Tag, no, thank you your honor a lot of moving pieces on this project so The the two items that are immediately up for consideration is the award a bit And so that'll be a contract between the city of Rockford in the contractor so once they start to perform the work and
 They'll start submitting their invoices and we'll need to make timely payments of their work under the contract. Should IDOT not have the funds to reimburse us, we would then bill Mercy Health Systems for the cost that we incur for the project as a whole and then under the amendments that are scheduled for later tonight, should they be approved, Mercy Health would have 30 days to reimburse the City of Rockford.
 for the costs that we've incurred under these contracts. And we understand that Mercy Health, this kind of general line of credit, is in the amount of $3.9 million from what we were talking about earlier. Is that correct? Correct. Within the...
 agreement that's scheduled for consideration tonight, it would set a value of the letter of credit in the amount of $3.9 million. Alderman Hervey's amendment, should that prevail in the discussion at council tonight, would have the letter of credit in the amount slightly below $11 million. Alderman Beck. And I think that we had a lot of discussion in finance and personnel about this.
 If we do award these bids and if for some reason we're not getting reimbursed from Mercy, we can stop the work immediately. And I know some aldermen don't think that's enough and maybe others do, and we can have that debate under the next item, the development agreement. But right now it's whether we want to award this bid, these two bids to these two entities, so that we would be able to get in the work should we be able to come up with the agreement.
 Alderman Hervey. A question for staff. Given that the contracts for the construction are between the city of Rockford and the contractors, in this case William Charles, do we have the authority or would we be in breach of contract if we just stopped the work and told William Charles to go home? I mean, they've allocated resources, people, equipment, and scheduled them for this project.
 So if something goes wrong, like say Mercy Rockford goes south or something happens, they get hit with a lawsuit, who knows, and they don't have the funds. And that's going to be the second part of my question. Have we gotten their financial statements so we know their financial position? But in that event, do we have the authority under our contracts with William Charles and the subcontractors to just stop construction and say go home?
 without incurring a breach of contract? Mr. Cagnone? So, to answer your first question, yes, we believe we have the ability to stop work on the contracts with William Charles, and I was just conferring with our finance director related to how that's stated, and it's a non-appropriations clause within our agreement. Now, with that said, should that take place,
 We'll have to do it in such a way that it's cost-effective and timely because of the issues that you raise related to staging and setting it up, as well as safety concerns that we don't leave
 a hazard out there and there likely would be additional cost for having a contractor stop and start. But yes, it is within the authority of the contract. Under your second question related, have we received a financial statement or similar document from Mercy Health? I do not believe that we have. Do you have a follow-up, Alderman Hurley? Just, I understand, you know, again, all the issues and all the sides. One thing I just want to correct, though,
 People have made the comment that we're quibbling. I got a call from someone who said, why are you quibbling over $200,000 or now, you know, why are we requiring this letter of credit? Gee whiz, I mean, you know, this is Mercy Rockford. The $10 million that Mercy Rockford received from the state of Illinois is kind of unprecedented in and of itself.
 So the idea that Rockford has done nothing, we helped facilitate that grant. And if anyone believes that that grant is not going to be a ding against Rockford's allocation, I've got news. There is no such thing as a free lunch. So Rockford is giving up something. The $10 million doesn't come from our coffers or the general fund, but certainly within IDOT's allocation that they give to cities,
 It came from somewhere in a state that's almost bankrupt and close to junk status.
 It's going to hit our own allocations. That's okay to do. I just think it's fascinating that they did it for no one else. I haven't been able to determine how the grant was advertised or open to the public or anything else and it bothers me tremendously that our state Senator Severson is part of Mercy Rockford's board. I've gotten several snide comments from people about that and of course I was being snide about it too.
 Mercy Rockford has been given a lot. Yes, they're bringing their headquarters from Wisconsin to the state of Illinois. That probably had a lot to do with getting the 10 million. So there's factors on both sides. The sole issue here is that we require letters of credit like we do performance bonds. And I think it's a good practice to maintain, and I really hate to see us start to negotiate those kinds of things away.
 Understood. Is there other discussion? Seeing none, I'll have the clerk please call the roll. Are these together? No. Two and three? Oh, I'm sorry. Two and three are. Okay. Thank you. Aye. No. No. No. The work that we discussed, the amendments have been told.
 The amendments Alderman Beach are to Roman numeral five ordinances item A1. No. Okay. Alderman McNeely, did you have something to add? Yes. I'm not sure that I understand. I believe it was last week that Alderman Durkee actually voted.
 regarding the item that was presented before us. And tonight, Alderman Durkee is abstaining. And I would like to ask legal, what's the difference? Why was his vote last week allowed and tonight he's abstaining? Mr. Partridge? Alderman McNeely, I'm not in a position to be able to tell Alderman Durkee when he has to vote and when he can vote.
 He can abstain, I believe, on any item. I'm sorry, I misspoke. I didn't mean how to vote. I meant when to vote. So I can't tell him when he can vote on an item and when he needs to abstain. I can only make a recommendation on that. So if he made a vote on an item when it was in committee, he can do that. I don't tell him that he has to abstain on an item. Same with tonight. I can't tell him that he needs to vote on an item either.
 Alderman McNeely. I'm sorry, Mr. Mayor, but perhaps legal can tell me when an alderman should abstain. I'm not understanding, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Partridge, when can and when should an alderman abstain from a particular vote before the full city council? If the alderman believes he has a conflict of interest, that would certainly be under one circumstance. When he could abstain if he has a direct interest in a contract.
 That's before the city council. Aldermen should abstain from voting. An indirect instance should abstain from voting. It's just too many different hypothetical situations to be able to tick off every instance when someone should vote and when they should not. Understood. Thank you. Okay. Moving to ordinances. Alderman Durkee. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Alderman Durkee, one second. Seven, six, 12.
 Your Honor. Aye. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5A, we have one item, an ordinance approving the First Amendment to the Development Agreement between the City of Rockford and Mercy Health System Corporation. Separate passage. Alderman Frost, do you have? I believe this is my cue to read a rather lengthy amendment to this particular ordinance.
 I move to amend the ordinance under Ordinance Roman numeral 5A, item 1, approval of the First Amendment to the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Mercy Health System Corporation to reflect the following changes. Number one, include the following language in the recitals on page one. Whereas by letter dated June 14, 2017, attached here to as exhibit F.
 IDOT notified the City that the agency will be unable to reimburse the City for work performed after June 30, 2017 until the General Assembly passes an appropriation bill and whereas the City is not in a financial position to incur liability for or assume the risk of the cost
 under the agreement, including delayed reimbursement. Number two, include the following language in subsection D, letter of credit, enrollment numeral two, scope of services, dash owner, page five.
 Owner has provided a letter of credit for Plat 1 consistent with the City's required format, adjusted to ensure prompt payment of invoices issued by the City pursuant to Section 3a herein, in an amount equal to the total engineer's estimate for roadway construction and public infrastructure improvements, or the actual amount of the lowest responsible bid for the project, plus the 10% contingency required by City ordinance.
 A letter of credit related to the remainder of the public improvements. Yes. I'm reading the memo that was handed to me today. I'm sorry. You mean I have to start all over again? Do you want to finish that one just for practice? It's good. I'm not getting paid by the minute tonight, so no. Okay.
 All right. Would you like, Mr. Partridge, should I start over with number one? Yeah. All right. Number one on the amendments. Include the following language in the recitals on page one and two. Whereas the city has...
 Reduce the amount of the letter of credit typically required to reflect the portion of funding provided by the State of Illinois and whereas due to the State budget impasse and potential impacts to the timing of grant fundings from the State, the owner in the interim will pay the cost for the road construction and the City agrees to reimburse owner on receipt of funding. Now therefore, the City and owner do hereby agree to amend the agreement as follows.
 Number two, modify the language in subsection A, construction of the road project, enrollment numeral one, scope of service, dash city, page two, to read as follows.
 The City shall timely construct and complete the road project consistent with the site plan attached hereto as Exhibit A, hereafter the site plan, the timeline set forth in Exhibit B, the specifications as defined in Section Roman numeral 1 , City ordinances, and the conditions of the grant from the State of Illinois. The owner agrees that the cost for public improvements of the road project is the sole responsibility of the owner as set forth in the agreement.
 Number 3, include the following language in subsection C, road project funds and Roman numeral 2, scope of services dash city, page 3.
 Should the grant funding by IDOT not be provided to the City as described herein, and consistent with grant funding agreement with IDOT, the owner shall be solely responsible for all costs associated with said road project, and payment shall be made to the City for reimbursement of all road project expenses, consistent with Section 3 of the First Amendment. City agrees to reimburse owner for all eligible grant costs within 30 days of the City's receipt of funding from IDOT. Number 4.
 Modify the language in subsection B, payment of road project costs and verification of expenses in Roman numerals 2, scope of services dash owner page 4 to read as follows.
 Subject to the provisions of the agreement and this First Amendment, owners shall be responsible for all road project costs not covered by grant funding received by the City to include the completed roadway construction and related public improvements of Mercy Way and Lyford Road between Riverside Boulevard and Springbrook Roads. Number five. Modify the language in subsection D, Letter of Credit, Enrollment Numeral 2, Scope of Services, dash Owner, page 4, to read as follows.
 Owner has provided a letter of credit for Plat 1 consistent with the City's required format adjusted to ensure prompt payment of invoices issued by the City pursuant to Section 3A herein, in an amount equal to the total engineer's estimate for the roadway construction and public infrastructure improvements, plus the 10% contingency by the City Ordinance, less the amount of the grant funding for roadway construction costs.
 Owner has provided a letter of credit consistent with the City's required format related to the remainder of the public improvements, including the Lightford Road and Mercyway portion of the road project in amount equal to $3,900,012,489.63. 6. Modify the language in Subsection E, Completion of Plan, Slash Specifications, in Roman numeral II, Scope of Services, Dash, Owner, page 5 to read as follows.
 Owners shall promptly provide specification to the City and also provide comments on any plans or bid documents to be submitted by the City in accordance with the agreement and this First Amendment. 7. Modify the language in subsection F, Grant Compliance, Enrollment Rule 2, Scope of Services, Dash Owner, page 5, treat as follows.
 Owner further agrees to indemnify and hold the city harmless on any claim for reimbursement of the grant funding if any of the owner's fees for services or disbursements of the grant funding are held to be ineligible on the basis of the owner's lack of compliance with the aforementioned requirements, provided that owner is given prompt notice...
 of any notification of ineligibility and an opportunity to participate at its sole cost and expense in any appeal process available with respect to such holding. Number 8, modify the language in subsection G, records retention and Roman numeral II scope of services dash owner page 5 to read as follows.
 Owner shall make all documentation required in the completion of the road project available for inspection by the City and representatives of the State of Illinois or its designees and shall maintain, for a minimum of five years following completion of the road project, adequate books, records and supporting documents, including digital and electronic data, to verify the amount, recipients and uses of all disbursements of State of Illinois grant funds made in conjunction with this First Amendment. Number 9.
 Modify the language in enrollment numeral 3, subsection B, disbursement of funds, page 6, to read as follows. All checks, invoices, and accounting documents pertaining in whole or in part for this First Amendment shall be clearly identified and readily accessible. And last, number 10. Modify the language in the recitals on page 6 to read as follows.
 In all other respects, as indicated by the signatures affixed below, the City and owner reaffirmed the agreement as amended by this First Amendment, in witness whereof the City and the owner have executed this First Amendment as of the date above first written, Mercy Health Corporation, Illinois Not-for-Profit Corporation. This motion requires a second and majority vote. I place this item as amended up for passage. Second. Aye. Aye. No. Aye.
 No. Yeah. If all fails, which we hope it will not, someone just give me the bottom line. What is our exposure ultimately? What is our out-of-pocket exposure if everything fails based on the way it's set up right now? Can somebody just tell me what that number would be? Sorry. Alderman Beach, just for clarification, if.
 Everything fails when you say everything. Well, the fact is we don't get the money. The fact is the owner decides they can't pay for whatever reason. Everything that we've agreed to in this amendment just goes south because that's, I think, what the question has been around the horseshoe tonight, is what is our ultimate liability? So I guess, I mean. I will attempt to answer and ask staff for some clarification and probably will need some clarification. Okay.
 If everything fails, one, we don't have the $500 million hospital out on the far east side of Rockford. Two, the letter of credit of about 3.9 and we will pay the difference up to about $10 million, so you're looking at $6.1 million out of pocket if, and that means, you know,
 Hospital did not go through. Everything did not go through. If Mercy can't pay the $10 million, my thought process is they can't finish their project. Is that accurate? That would be correct. The only item I'd add is the engineering agreement. That's also under consideration. Okay.
 or there's previously approved 800 approximately $800,000 so that the mayor's response would be accurate and regards to what the obligations are in the contract that that may be scuffier that beach yes thank you sir and maybe I stated it wrong thought tonight or discussions about that road not the hospital itself that's what I'm actually with the discussion tonight and the amendment offered first boulder herni
 I thought was about the cost of the road project. And I guess let me reframe that. If everything in the amendment that Alderman Frost gave us tonight, that I support it, okay, doesn't work out,
 as outlined, all I was asking, are we literally out of pocket the difference between 10 and 3.9? That's all I'm asking. MR. I'll have staff clarify that. MR. Okay. MR. So, Your Honor, thank you, and I'll let our finance director ask some or respond as well.
 The Mayor's response in regards to what could possibly be the total exposure is accurate at 6.1 after taking the contract out that's been awarded minus the letter of credit. However, we wouldn't allow it to get that far based on the terms of the development agreement that's under consideration. We would know far in advance should everything fail and Mercy not
 reimburse the city for the cost for the road construction as set forth in the amended development agreement. We would stop that. And we would know relatively quickly, within 30 days after our billing, because that's the term in which they would need to make payment to us. Is there further discussion? Nope? All right. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Clerk?
 This is item Roman numeral 5A1, as amended. Clerk, will you please call the roll? No. Aye. Item passes. Alderman Chiarelli? No. Is there a discussion? I see no discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. That item passes. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? All right. Have a good evening.