Here. Logerman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli.
 Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum. We have just a handful of items up. First up is new committee reports, Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under this heading is the amendments to Section 19-3, Section 19-4, and Article 3, Division 2 of the amendments related to penalties for violating the city's ordinance for prohibiting fireworks. I place that up for passage. Excellent. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on the one item before us?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Dorkey? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 10 ayes. Excellent. That item passes. Next up we have officers reports.
 alderman thompson kelly thank you your honor i'll make this quick because it's late i have received some phone calls in regards to animal services with dead animals in the streets and stray dogs uh the where my couple of my constituents has told me they've called animal services and they told them that they're not picking up dead animals and they're not doing service calls um and i know we're not paying them
 I've also received a couple phone calls from some county board members wanting to know what we're doing as far as animal services in the community. I did speak with Todd in regards to where we are with coming up with a contract for animal services and they're working on it. I just want to bring it to your attention that we need to do something quick.
 It is summertime. We are having a lot of strays. We are having dead animals in the streets. And we don't want our residents calling and they're being told that they're not going to get any services. Yeah, so do you mind if I respond a little bit to you? Please do. So obviously anyone who's driving around our streets understands the concern that you bring forward regarding animal control. I would say we are working on an agreement. I just also, out of curiosity,
 I would say we also have a number of things going on, such as the Board of Elections, and I think we shouldn't just look at these items in silos. I think we should look at them collectively. When they owe us potentially $6 million from the Board of Elections,
 There's other avenues to make sure that I understand that they don't simply have a checkbook that they can cut us a $6 million check. There's other ways that we can make this right to all the taxpayers. Secondly, I did communicate with the chairman over the weekend or last Thursday it was, Thursday or Friday I should say, regarding animal control issues.
 There was a memo, my understanding, that came out from the head of Winnebago County Animal Services to the chairman and to the county board stating that they will no longer pick up dead wildlife and no longer pick up dogs, or they'll only pick up dogs and cats, I believe, as dead animals, I believe.
 To my knowledge, we were not made aware of that prior to that memo coming out. And in that memo, it pretty much says that Winnebago County Animal Service is picking up the deceased animals was about 10% of their phone calls, about 1,000 to 1,200 phone calls. And so it seems to me that they just push those back onto the cities, not just the city of Rockford, but all the cities and villages without a lot of notice. Okay.
 We'll continue to monitor it. It's obviously a deep concern. Thank you 30 people of the 30 27 have made arrangements. They're just going through the paperwork So we'll be down to three people those 27 Should be moved out by the 27th of
 June and as far as the three people that will be left We have approached HUD and we've asked if we could put them temporarily in Rockford housing until they can they do not want to stay with Rockford housing They want vouchers so we've asked if we can move them until they find some place to go but very shortly
 We should have everybody moved out of Brewington Oaks. Thank you Alderman Hoffman. Alderman Irvins? Yeah. I just had a question in regards to the animal removal. What would be the recommendation for a constituent if they had a dead deer in their backyard? So I would say at this point unfortunately they'd have to call our Public Works Department, you know?
 Mr. Cagnone? I believe the question was related to private properties. Oh, in your yard? Well, I mean— That would be on the resident. I'm sorry. I thought you said in the street. Okay. In the street, it would be our Public Works Department. Getting in contact with Public Works? Yeah. Okay. Any other officers report? Seeing none, we'll continue to move forward. We have motions and resolutions.
 under code and regulation alderman trellis thank your honor i just have one item tonight it's the championship celebration event on june 29th um place that up for passage excellent we have one item before you any discussion on that one item seeing none clerk will you please call the roll
 uh is there a motion to suspend rule 15. so moved we have a motion in a second all those in favor of suspending rule 15 say aye aye those opposed same time that motion passes so next up we have the item before us is there any discussion item up for passage any discussion on that scene none clerk will you please call the role turkey logeman thunberg frost irvins thompson kelly hoffman mcneely
 Shirely. Aye. 10 ayes. Thank you. Excellent. That item passes. Next up we have Finance and Personnel. Alderman Frost, do you mind taking this next item? Do you have it there handy? We have the approval to accept the Illinois law enforcement training and standards board camera grant in the amount of $250,000 to equip officers or vehicles with cameras.
 The grant must be approved and accepted within 45 days of the award date or by June 30th, 2019. Number two is the award of the joint purchasing contract for the Indash Police Squad Cameras to CBS Office Technology Springfield, Illinois in the amount of $250,000. The funding source is the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board Camera Grant. Excellent. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Ten ayes. Aye.
 Excellent next up we have one item under code and regulation or under new business Which is for the code and regulation committee alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor I have an ordinance approving the amendments to section 19 dash 3 section 19 dash 4 in the article 3 division 2 amending and
 the amendments related to penalties for violating the city's ordinance prohibiting fireworks place that up for passage your honor excellent we have uh one item before us is there any discussion in that one item seeing no alderman frost i'm sorry over here what what is the effective date of the fireworks ordinance that would be uh mr myers that's uh it says effective immediately so it'd be effective tomorrow tomorrow yep so tonight we're okay
 Go wild, yep. Thank you. Any other discussions? Seeing no other discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Townsend-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Ten ayes.
 Excellent. Is there a motion to it, Alderman Hoffman? Thank you, Mayor. I just want to thank everybody. I really appreciate it. Thank you so much. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful day.