Barnett from Christian Faith Community Church. Chaplain?
 Let us pray. Most kind and gracious Heavenly Father, we come before you tonight. We just want to thank you. We thank you for allowing this council to assemble themselves together once again to discuss business about this city. I ask that you will allow them to work hand in hand together as they discuss this business, that they would agree upon what is best for this city. We thank you for all those that are in leadership, and we thank you for all our emergency personnel, especially our police and fire,
 that go out and put their lives on the line each and every day to help this city be a safer place. And we just thank you through your son Jesus' name, I pray. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Durkee. Yes. Duchess. Yes. McNamara. Yes.
 Herbie, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, Chiarelli. Twelve present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal? There's been a motion and a second to accept the journal. This is for the meeting of June 6, 2016. Is there any discussion?
 Hearing none, if there are no amendments or changes, all those in favor please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it, thank you. We have several speakers signed up for public participation this evening. Just as a reminder to our audience, our speakers are entitled to three minutes per speaker. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. They can use either the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our first speaker this evening is John Brantley.
 Good evening, I'm Mayor Ross, Mayor Alderman, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Coming this year Thursday at 12 o'clock, I will be going before the Rockford Rotary Club to talk about the renewal of the Turning Point program. My pillars will be Alderman Frank Beach, Major Steve Merritt.
 Also, Ron Clure, the two members from Transform Rockford office, and Pastor Hightower. My subject would be Renewal Turning Point Program. Renewal Turning Point Program is a catalyst for changes within the City of Rockford. We seek to mobilize the community to address common obstacles that affect the city's lower-income youth population and to build a positive future in and around our community
 and for our youth. Our vision, we at Renewal Turning Point Program are here to stay with our youth until the youth become hard working citizens that give back to our community.
 Over the last two years we have regular impact over a hundred and forty kids per week just this past week Thanks father's day cookout. We have several of our youth there Friday We had several youth that went to the daughter and daddy dance that the the
 Book of Washington Center sponsor sadly we had you at the book at Blackhawk Community Center Also, we went to Andrews Park our finale was going to the Juneteenth Well, we had over 48 you fit to Juneteenth and then youth was able to engage different
 booth that was there and they put some of our youth to work. And the amazing thing that I was hearing from the different individuals was how, you know, nice and how good the fairground youth is at. So with that being said, what are our goals? To expose youth to opportunity, to show personal interest in each youth, to teach negotiation skills, bring youth together with people with different views, and working on arriving at a conclusion.
 Help inspire community involvement to give community a deeper understanding of the needs of our youth. Work with successful existing organizations to help each youth with their individual needs to show our youth that our community does care and understands. Beyond our focus of youth is education, training, jobs, black on black crime and domestic partners. Partnerships with Salvation Army and the Lanzarion Baptist Church
 They have the facility, but no youth. But Renewal Turning Point is stuck. We need facilities and we need additional programs to reach more of our youth. If I use, for example, this past Sunday, I have Hispanics, whites, and blacks that ride on my bus. We had some of my African American kids to ask my Hispanic kids, were they Puerto Ricans or were they Mexicans?
 I turned that around into a conversation. We need a facility that after we go to an event to take them to the Salvation Army, to take them to Mount Zion Church, for me to bring in different people, even though I have a master in cross-cultural and racial relations, to get them to understand our different
 where we're able to work together and the philosophy that they can do, where we can do a survey to find out what their concerns is. Then I want to conclude, because even though I've got three minutes here, I get ten there. And I'm going to end with saying the need for this program expansion is to support, renew, turn it toward, to expand, and reach more youth.
 through the partnership opportunity with salvation army salvation army and mount zion have programs renewal turning point have established connections to expand to reach these programs rock and rotary club thank you mr bradley okay just one last thing rock and rotary club wants to extend and work with fairgrounds and the ellis heights and they're looking at me but instead of looking at me this is bigger than me and i know how to bring the pillars together with the connections that i have thank you you've got that three minutes i get teams and thirds
 Thank you. All right. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 68th chapter, the fifth verse, the psalmist says, God, I, a father to the fatherless, a defender of widows. What I want to speak about tonight, runners' cuts are hurting women badly.
 As the Illinois government has lurched along for nearly a year without a formal budget, women who rely on state service have been among those suffering the most, frozen out of the hyper-hybrid funding system that emerged during the impasses of social service providers, many of them not-for-profit organizations, whose largely female workforce delivers state-subsidized help for struggling mothers
 and their children as well as victims of sexual assault and domestic violence. It's hidden women and children disproportionately high and in ways that lots of us are still trying to get a grasp on. State Representative Greg Harris, who chairs the Human Service Committee, it's across the board. It's really sad. Women make up nearly two-thirds of the recipients of a low-income college tuition grant program that's been underfunded.
 Women are also the ones seeking help through programs that have lost state funding entirely, including intervention service for infants and toddlers with disabilities, home visits for teen parents, and prenatal and family care management for at-risk mothers. The funding crunch has gotten so bad that low-income women seeking...
 breast and ovarian cancer screening are being told to wait in the long line unless they're already displaying symptoms of death. For women, the budget impasse hurts two ways. Not only are the services that some women rely on getting cut, but women make up the majority of the home health care
 and social service workforce funded by the state. The situation has led one major union critical of Ronner to declare he's instigated a war on women according to figures from SEIU Healthcare Illinois. There are roughly 20,000 home childcare workers
 who clients rely on state subsidies to pay for their daycare service. That's down from $25,000 a year earlier, which the union chalked up to programs restricting RANA that's put in place to control costs. Roughly 95% of those childcare workers are women, and nearly 64% of those workers live on the edge of poverty, earning less than $14,990 a year. Additionally, SAU spokesman Brenda Selbert estimated that RANA's cuts to childcare have pushed as many
 5,000 children out of the program, which she said could force 1,000 of parents to leave the workforce as a result. That breakdown is similar for home care workers who help the elderly and disabled, with the majority of the workforce being female, poor, and black. The bottom line is that they need
 budget and they need to do it today. A real moral leader look after and take care of his people. Ronald is not a leader. And another thing I want to say, why would you close a public aid office on the west side, June the 27th, west knee is the most, most of the people are poor on the west side. They don't have money. A lot of them walk to the public aid office for their appointments. By you putting the public aid office way out on Gilded and the islands, that would make them miss their appointments. And then you would cut
 they are assisting a social time bomb is getting ready to explode in Illinois this year, 2016. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Poska. Rockford, Illinois, what can we do? At noon on July 4th, come demand money. At noon on July 4th, come and demand money. Add the noon.
 on July 4th, had a noon, and the man alone, the man a lonesome of money. July 4th, Joy and Fishy Wales, between the two noons, come to the river, declare to do the impossibles, and how to make life perfect for all. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman.
 I'd like to thank the City of Rockford for the plants and a special thanks to Todd Cagnoni for his help in replanting the planters on Broadway. Turner School was mowed the day after I complained here at Council, so Attorney Hayes, when you get my little letter in the mail, $750 fine, throw it away. How many times in one 24-hour period have you called the police?
 Last Thursday, I called about prostitutes on my corner. I then called about shots fired. Ended up being six blocks away on 10th and 6th Avenue.
 I then called about my garage being broken into. The call taker said, someone may call on Friday to take a report, but more than likely it would be on Monday. I'm still waiting for the return call. And finally, the fourth call I made in a 24-hour period was for a car accident on my corner. This was the second accident in three weeks. So, four phone calls to the police in one day.
 Is this normal or is this just living off Broadway in the red zone? Kishwaukee School Acquisition Site. Mr. Keeling talked about demolition of the homes. How about dismantling these homes for the architectural things that they still contain? And how to close the gap in Rockford's budget.
 Some of you may remember my speech of January 18th of this year. Remove the poison fluoride from our drinking water. It does not matter if it is an unfunded state mandate. You are wasting our tax money and poisoning the populace. I beg all 15 of you, all 15. I'm begging you.
 To get rid of this poison, you are poisoning your children and grandchildren, your friends and neighbors. You have a moral obligation to end this. Please contact our state reps, senators, congressmen, so we can stop the poisoning of our water and save money and cut cancer risks.
 And finally, one of the major mistakes Christians make about the religion of Islam is to fail to understand its political nature. Unlike Christianity, the subjugation of other religions and cultures is at its core. Over 1,400 years of murder and suppression shows that they are not a religion of peace. Stop the violence. End the silence.
 I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker is Todd Fagan. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, Alderman, Alderwoman, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your service to this community and for giving me the time to speak this evening on this important issue, which is the potential Spring Creek Road multi-use pathway.
 My name is Todd Fagan. I live at 1620 Chelsea here in Rockford. I moved here in 2012 with my family. We love it here and we want Rockford to be the best community in America and it will be with all our work. I'm here to discuss that I'm passionately in favor of constructing the Spring Creek Road multi-use pathway on the north side of Spring Creek Road between Second Street, the Sinisepe Path, and Spring Brook Road where there's an on-street bike path. It's included in your 2020 comp plan.
 It's also in RMAP's Regional Greenways Plan, which also takes it all the way out along Spring Creek Road by Guilford High School to Perryville. It's also in the 2040 Long Range Transport Plan done by RMAP. So I think we all know, and I don't think anybody has told me this shouldn't be done when I've spoken with them in the past.
 I think everyone's agreed that it should be. The only kind of stopping point here is the Rock River sewer project that's scheduled this fall. And I just want to let you all know, and I think you know from my e-mail that I sent you, that I'm not about killing deals and everything.
 making things not happen I just think we kind of missed the ball here and that we should rectify it if there is the phase one project for Spring Creek Road that starting in Anderson Gardens parking lot I think they should the water district we could work
 concurrently with them get our project moving forward and catch up to them in construction nothing they should do though even if they have to re-engineer their project should stop us from building this bike path if they have to do some re-engineering so if we go in later on and put in this bike path
 We shouldn't be moving electric lines. We shouldn't have to move their line. It should be done. We should work with these folks to make this happen. I put together a change.org petition for signatures in the community to slow down and work together with the RRWRD. As of today, we've got 1,059 persons signing this petition. I've got 375 signatures.
 Of those petition signatories, 375 have made comments. I just want to read you a few of them. Providing alternatives to auto-oriented transportation can no longer be an afterthought. Increasing safe, viable transit options for those who do not or choose not to drive is a choice for the physical and fiscal health of our city. A plan that is designed to ensure the safe transportation of wastewater should also ensure the safe transportation of all of its residents, including walkers and bikers.
 This road is extremely busy and dangerous. I know of a lot of sports teams and students that use this road every day to walk and or run. It would increase the safety of many students and athletes. My daughter attends Guilford High School, and every day I see children walking to school along Spring Creek with no sidewalks or safe places for them to ride their bikes. I'm going to submit these signatures for the record. I'm also going to submit an accident I found on Guilford Road where a 14-year-old girl was hit.
 because she was walking in the middle of winter where there was no sidewalk. Somebody stopped to give her a ride. She ran across the street and got hit. There needs to be something out here immediately, and we have the opportunity to do it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's the quarterly report from RACVB from January 2016 to March 2016. That will be submitted to Planning and Development. Thank you.
 Further petitions and communications, Alderman Trelle. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items tonight. The first item is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on June 21st and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on June 27th. The second item is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for a special meeting to be held on June 29th and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on July 5th.
 The third item is zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on June 21st and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on June 27th. And the last item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes
 the Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events, which will include This Is It Party, Tour de North End, Midtown Ethnic Parade and Festival, and Ramp River Run. All four of these items will be referred to the Codes and Rights Committee. Thank you, Matt. It should be referred for the petitions and communications. I'll come back.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. First is a memorandum from Julia Scott Valdez, Human Resources Director, regarding human resources review compensation.
 Next is a memorandum from Matt Vintner, Interim Director, City Engineer, regarding intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation District from Harrison Avenue Reconstruction, 9th Street to 20th Street. And then the third is a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding a 401A plan for chief officers of public safety departments. These three items will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. Matters will be referred. Proclamations. Bam. Oh, wait. Okay.
 We have two proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation is for Project 1013 week. I invite Pastor Jared Kotke to please come forward, along with others that may be here on behalf of Project 1013, to please come forward for the proclamation. Thank you. Whereas Project 1013 started six years ago and is a coordinated partnership between Rock Church and West Gateway Coalition.
 Whereas the purpose of Project 1013 is to bring hope and encouragement to the residents, helping them with neighborhood cleanup, light maintenance, and projects on their homes as well as yard work. Whereas Project 1013 is made up of churches, businesses, and community organizations, providing volunteers and donating materials and or funding to the cause.
 Whereas this year, Project 1013 volunteers will clean up, beautify, and improve living conditions of the Ellis Heights neighborhood. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, hereby proclaim June 20, 2016 to be Project 1013 week. And we urge all citizens to applaud and support the hard work of everyone involved with Project 1013. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Council, for your support. Again, especially to Alderwoman Ann Thompson-Kelly.
 We are into our seventh year of this project. We've expanded from three blocks to six to 12 to 24. And no one wants to do work and have it go back the way that it was. Sustainability was a major objective of ours. And we're very pleased to be now partnering with the Church School Neighborhood Association. And this year, they'll be taking the work in their area. And we won't have to be going in there to do that.
 We'll be arranging anywhere from 100 to 225 volunteers a day, accomplishing 302 different projects in four days. So thank you again so much for your support. We're looking forward to another great week and another step forward in the Ellis Heights neighborhood. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. We have one other proclamation. This is on behalf of Rockford Maker Month. It is Bruce Quest here, Director of Exhibits from Discovery Center. Please come forward.
 Whereas the city of Rockford sprang from the courage, strength, and determination of pioneers who immigrated to our country, bringing with them their native craftsmanship and artisan skills and who resolved to establish new lives along the beautiful Rock River.
 Whereas from initial efforts of early settlers to ongoing investments in advanced manufacturing to growth in appreciation of artisanship and craft-made goods, the community is benefiting from wealth and prosperity born from the work of local makers, and the city encourages this form of craftsmanship, entrepreneurship, and the creative arts.
 And whereas the Rockford Area Economic Development Council, the Rockford Etsy Chapter, Discovery Center Children's Museum, Rockford Makerspace Group, The Element, Rockford Public Library, Rock Valley College, Rockford Public Schools, Rockford University, NIU, and others are engaged in various maker-related activities and planning for the Rockford region, supporting innovations in education, manufacturing, product and technology development, skills training, and entrepreneurship.
 Whereas maker activities in the Rockford area include things such as tool drives, meetups, co-working spaces, business accelerators, business and design consulting, robotics and coding competitions and summer camps, expanded coursework in engineering and manufacturing technology,
 rapid prototyping, coding, and application development, hardware and electronics courses, and other informal and formal STEM and STEAM classes and training, as well as entrepreneurial competitions and endeavors.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of June 2016 to be Rockford Maker Month. And we call upon our citizens to recognize and celebrate the creativity, innovation, and industry of the makers that support our city's prosperity. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor.
 The maker movement is really strong in Rockford, and Discovery Center is proud to be a part of that. We've been working with the next generation of makers for several years. We've got a maker space that we opened up in our museum. This summer, every Tuesday, we'll be Tinkering Tuesday at Discovery Center. We'll have different activities every Tuesday where our young visitors can make a lot of
 a lot of different items out of recycled materials. Tomorrow they'll be making musical instruments. We'll have other sessions in soldering, bicycle repair, plastic fusing, and making boats. So we've had a lot of support from the community donating materials for this space, and we're really excited to keep that program going this summer.
 We've also got a camp coming up next month called The Power of Coding, and kids will learn how to do computer coding at Discovery Center. So we really intend to keep maker programs going, and as our visitors get older, we want them to be the future makers of Rockford. So thank you very much. Appreciate your efforts. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. New committee reports.
 All in back. Thank you, Your Honor. Four items. I'm sorry, Roman numeral 5C, items 1 through 4. I place them up for passage. I'm sorry, my move for suspension of rules. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Roman numeral 5C, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. I place them up for passage. Matters are up for passage. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. I'm sorry, Furby. Cronall. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Thank you. That is passed. Officers, reports. Aye.
 I just have a couple items this evening. First, I have a memo that should have been distributed to council members regarding referral of Mark Buckner and James Sweep for the mechanical board. These would be reappointments. They will live for 30 days pursuant to council rule. If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to the applicants directly or to myself or to Todd Cagnone.
 Next, I just want to mention this week, Thursday, will be the first of its kind to move forward in our partnership and agreement with the Rockford Area Economic Development Council. Part of what the REDC committed to do this year were quarterly economic development reports that would involve multiple organizations providing a comprehensive view of our cities and our region's economic activity.
 At this meeting will be the city, the RADC, the RACVB, Rockford Area Realtors, as well as the Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning. Each of those organizations, including our own, will be making presentations. And the discussion at this sort of kickoff meeting will be developing dashboards and metrics to guide our operations work consistently.
 This is a meeting that will be open to the public. It starts at 9 a.m., and we believe we'll go until approximately noon on Thursday. If you have questions on that, feel free to reach out to myself or to Todd Cagnoni. Next, I just want to mention our speaker. One of our speakers earlier had mentioned fluoride in the water, and I don't often get into banter on these issues with people,
 folks who come from our community speak during our open public comment period, but I want to just correct a couple things. First, just to make clear, fluoride is mandated in our water. I have been supportive of a couple of bills that would make it optional for cities, but right now we would be violating state law if we did not add fluoride to the water. We're not going to do that. It's mandated that we add it to the water.
 our water system. Secondly, because it is an enterprise fund, in other words, our water system stands alone and is generated – it generates its revenue through our water service fees that we provide to our customers.
 it can't fix our budget hole in the general fund. In other words, even if we didn't spend money on fluoride, we could put that money back into the water system. We can't take that money out to plug a hole in our general fund. So I just want to address that issue. Finally, I just wanted to mention I had a very good experience last year
 A week and a half ago, with a couple of aldermen, Alderman Beach, Alderman Newberg, who went to the CNU conference in Detroit, as well as a number of our staff members and a couple of community members,
 At some point, and I apologize for having a chance to follow up with our alderman on it, I wanted to meet and sort of debrief, but there's a lot of good lessons, I think, learned that could be shared with the broader council and hopefully work our way into some of the strategies we're developing on issues like blighted homes as well as how cities are building walkable communities, some of the planning issues and some of the comments that have come up around our planning work with the sanitary district. I happened to meet someone up there who was doing work in,
 Peoria where they have a combined sanitary sewer system and stormwater sewer system. Talked about some of the strategies that they were trying to utilize since they also have consent decrees with the EPA that they're trying to use the investments they were making to try to leverage opportunities within the community. There's a whole lot of interesting things that are going on. It was a good conference, and I look forward to sharing, and I'll follow up with the aldermen that were there and staff and have some additional reports later on for council.
 That's all I have for my officer's report. Further officer's reports? Going once. All right. Motions and resolutions. Father Mastarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 7B1 through 7, I place that for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. We have up for passage under Roman numeral 7B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. That is up for passage as a discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Durkee.
 Aye. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odole? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Tovai, Your Honor. Matters passed. Thank you. Thank you. Holden-Beck? Thank you, Your Honor. Under Rule 1, Rule 7C, Items 1 through 7, I place up a passage. Thank you. For passage, motions and resolutions.
 Firmament number 7C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. And it's over for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gessius. Aye. McNamara. No, ma'am. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Items 1 2 3 4 6 7 12 eyes item number 5 11 eyes 1 no better pass. Thank you new business. I'm back. I think you're up next Thank you Under Roman rule 10, I'm sorry. No no 8 items 1 & 2 I'm gonna ask suspension rules and
 Item number three is being read in but not asking for suspension of rules. So I'm asking for suspension of rules on items one and two. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Roll number eight, C, items one and two. The other item, item three, will lay over. All those in favor of suspending the rules on eight, C, one and two, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I just have it. Thank you. I place them up for passage. Those items are up for passage. It's their discussion.
 Hearing none, click, please, for the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gutches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Twelve ayes on one and two. That is passed. Thank you.
 Is there any further business before the council? Motion to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned.