We're going to get started with council just momentarily. Now that Director Myers is back, we'll begin city council. There's no breaks here. Okay, good evening. We will call to order the regularly scheduled city council meeting for the city of Rockford for Tuesday, June 20, 2023. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Here. Wilkins? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Here. Beach? Here. Barrios? Here. Meeks? Here. Bonney? 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on April 17, 2023? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Next is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on June 12th of 2023 We have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed Excellent next there are no pub. There are no proclamations But we are really fortunate to have a public hearing this evening. So I'm going to turn it over to Alderwoman Torino. Thank you Your Honor. I a public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 illinois compiled statutes 511-15-0.13 for the pre-annexation agreements for the following properties 4201 o'connell street 26xx bavarian lane and 3007 south alpine road notice of this hearing was given by publication in the roffer register star on june 4th 2023 That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on June 20, 2023 at 5.30 in City Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of the proposed pre-annexation agreements for 4201 O'Connell Street, 26XX Bavarian Lane, and 3007 South Alpine Road. Are there any questions or comments from council members on the pre-annexation agreements? Seeing that there is no questions or comments, are there any questions or comments from the public? Seeing that there's no questions from city council or the public, this hearing is now closed. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Next we're gonna move to petitions and communications. We have nothing under planning and development committee So we'll go to code and regulation committee and back to all the one Thank you, Your Honor Give three items for the quarter regulation committee item number one the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on June 21 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on June 26 2023 referred to quarter regulation committee and Number two the liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on June 21st 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on June 26 2023 referred to quarter Referred to Code and Regulation Committee and lastly a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer legal director regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Rockford public school district 205 for police services referred to Code and Regulation Committee Excellent next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you number one is the memorandum from John who which is city assistant city attorney regarding a fine reduction request for 2905 scene or Avenue this will be referred to the finance the personnel committee. Thank you. Thank you next up. We have public speakers We've already done our public speaker so so we will go to new committee reports and we will begin with planning and development committee and alderwoman Wilkins and Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to lay over items one through five. Second. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. So those items have been laid over automatically to our next council meeting. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and back to Alderwoman Serena. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 14 XX Ogilvy Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a... Zoning map amendment from County AG to I won light industrial in our one single-family residential zoning districts and a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I won light industrial and our one single-family residential zoning districts at 42 Oh 1 O'Connell Street 26 XX Bavarian Lane and 3007 South Alpine Road and Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number three the committee recommends approval of the pre annexation agreement for 4201 O'Connell Street The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number four the committee recommends approval of a pre annexation agreement for 3007 South Alpine Road and 26 XX Bavarian Lane Excellent thank you. We have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items Clark? Will you please call the roll? Boogerman timber frost Terina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Radios Meeks Bonnie 12 eyes. Thank you. Next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. I Thanks, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $14,724,748.77 as approved with the Finance and Personnel Committee held on June 12, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the City and IDAP outlining the roles and responsibilities of Phase I preliminary engineering for each agency in the Alpine Road Reconstruction Project. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the community recommends approval of a sub-recipient agreement between the city and Get Connected to hire three full-time advocates supported by IDHS. This grant will be awarded to Get Connected. These positions are 100% grant funded, and this is a budget-neutral policy or position for the city. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of a lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Thomas Minahan for the property located at 211 Elm Street, Suite C for a five-year term. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the revisions to the debt management policy. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the revisions to the fund balance policy. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number seven, the committee recommends approval of the revisions to the vehicle replacement policy. And the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place the seven letters before you. Thank you. There are seven items before us. Is there any discussion? Alderman Rose? Yes. Yeah, just for item three could could staff kind of just talk us through the get connected group what they will be doing and Just give us a quick rundown on that. Yes, so get connected is Get connected 815 is run by a treterra flower. She also runs our reentry program that we partnered with Winnebago County on and She has been working with Jennifer Kachapalia and Andrea Carlson to work on her, it's called the State of Illinois' Local Advisory Council. So about 15 different cities throughout the state of Illinois have local advisory councils. And Jennifer really is the head of our local advisory council. This comes from an investment from the state of about $250 million into gun violence prevention efforts. About 150 of that million of that 250 goes to the city of Chicago the other hundred and million is Delegated between about just so I'm safe 12 to 15 cities this program specifically is to work with Our grassroots team which true Tara is part of and we helped her apply for some of these funds and it's to have tritera run and organize a program that goes out to our instances in our community where there has been Gunfire where someone has been a victim of gun violence There to respond 24 hours a day seven days a week 365 days a year they are to respond to those incidents and make sure that they're providing providing the resources In a trauma-informed way to that family impacted by the violence and in that area impacted by the violence But also work to stop the retaliatory shootings that have been taking place across our country and definitely in Rockford And so that's the program that that happens. Thank you. Absolutely alderman timber. Thank you mayor I just like to welcome back I was gone last week and I liked welcome back Red Roof Inn with about 54 lines within our vouchers Out so I missed them for I think last month so Good to see him back. There we go. Any other questions, discussions on those seven items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Radios. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. Twelve ayes. Aye. thank you next we'll move to unfinished business and we have nothing under planning and development so we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderman terena thank you your honor The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a mixed-use building with an early learning center and 64 apartments, 10 courtyard duplexes, a mixed-use commercial building consisting of a vertical indoor agriculture and culinary education, a six family building, an 8 to 10 family multiplex, two side-by-side duplexes with rear accessory dwelling units, and six single-family residences with Rear accessory dwelling units and an i1 light industrial and r1 single-family residential zoning district at 310 South Avon Street 1104 chestnut Street and 13x expression Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion alderman Bonnie? Thank you mayor Um, I spoke with the developer today who would Continue to like to see this vote on this delayed until the There is an alderman for the ward in place So I would make a motion to lay this over for 45 days We have a motion and we have a second to lay this item over for 45 days. Is there any discussion? Is there any reason why needs to be 45 days? Are we just are just trying to not keep having to put it out all right? I get you know the address app Sure. I may have one, just based on brief time. If I misspeak, just let me know. So I have until Friday to send you a note of who the new 13th ward alderman or who I'm going to appoint, which is up to your approval. You all then have up to 30 days to vote that person up or down. And so my guess is that provides you that amount of time plus a little bit. Yes, it's up there. Yep. Any other discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Last time this was on the floor, I stated that I really wanted to support this issue, but I had some concerns about the six houses stand-alone and the gap between what we could really finance and what – The cost really was which could be pretty close to a hundred thousand dollars And I said I really wish Some would tell me exactly where that money is coming from that gap and how that fits into the people that buys that buy this property over time And it was here again, and I don't have that answer and I still would like to support it if possible We can certainly get you in contact with Ron Kluwer and the developer to help with that answer so they're the ones who would be providing that gap and I don't have it all memorized off the top of my head, to be honest, tonight, Alderman. Director Frenzen? So you'd be – thank you, Alderman, and thank you, Mayor. You'd be correct that the developer knows that through developments of this size, the construction, the appraisal after the construction, there's going to be a gap and there would be programs to fill. But Mayor's correct that those have not been specifically identified. And understanding that this is a zoning prior to application for low-income housing tax credits, even the capital stack is not 100 percent finalized at this time. Okay. Thank you. I don't have an opinion at this moment, but I had heard that they were going to come back to ask the city for that gap That's really what I'm getting at. Are we going to be covering that? That certainly is not part of this proposal I think you're probably referring to a request for home dollars or some other HUD dollars Should a request be made for the property and a request has not been made for the property. Um we would analyze that through our underwriting regulations from HUD, and it would have to be approved by city council. Okay, thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I missed someone. Alderman Hoffman, and then I'll go to Alderman Rose. Thank you, Mayor. Now that we have 45 days, I would strongly suggest that everybody go to Amazon and get the book, Creating Defensible Space. It's all about affordable and low-income housing. It must be built differently than market rate, and this will explain what we should be looking for when somebody is presenting affordable housing to make it a safe space for the people that decide to move there. Again, it is called Creating Defensible Space. It's from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Institute for Community Design and Analysis. Another good thing about this book, it talks about how to create neighborhoods so they're safer. There's some ideas that I could have used in here My neighborhood before but we've gotten a calm down a little bit there But really good stuff in here and you really should read it before you approve any affordable housing. Thank you. Thank you alderman Rose I'm fine. I figured out the answer. So thank you alderman Bonnie. Sure I was just curious if alderman Hoffman has a cut for all the royalties for that book Any other discussion So we have just we have a motion we have a second to lay this item over for 45 days that's before us All those in favor of laying this item over for 45 days. Please say aye those opposed aye seven Next we'll go to officers reports any alderman have a report all their woman Trina. Thank you your honor. I'm I wanted to give just a major shout out to the Ethnic Heritage Museum for their South Maine Mercado that they did over the weekend. I was supposed to wear my shirt, but I forgot, so I lied. I told them I was going to wear my shirt, but I forgot, so charge it to, don't charge It was just a beautiful event. It was an event that I was able to give forward for fun dollars towards. That's first and foremost, but it was just a celebration of Mexican culture, Latino businesses on the south side, and also I was able to read a proclamation for the mayor who was absent. He came later, but He wasn't there for the proclamation, so I got to read it, which was an honor to me, to make it Beruman Family Day. And the entire Beruman family was there. It was at least over 40 members. So just to kind of experience their family, get some recognition. I mean, these are just hardworking business people that had a business in South Rockford for over 30 years. They were not looking for recognition. So just to receive something. um from the city uh just to honor what they've brought to uh south rocco into the city overall um i think it really blessed them because it was a it came as a surprise they didn't know that we were going to read the proclamation in But there was just vendors and food and live music. It was just fantastic. It was really, really well done, very well organized. And I stayed for a few hours just in my lawn chair enjoying myself. But I saw people were there all day long. So it was really enjoyed by the entire city. And I just want to just say thank you to the team, all the individuals that worked on that event. It was really, really successful, and I do hope that they plan on doing it again. Thank you. Would echo that it was an awesome of them alderman rose. Yeah, I would echo that too between the Juneteenth celebrations Last week or yesterday and through the weekend and the Mercado. I was following that all on social media it's just great to see our community hosting a lot of these events and I'm thankful for the those dollars mayor for through the administration for the Ford for fun money. I'm I hopeful that some of those events pay off for residents and I'll be working with a few different people but I did want to share a quick event for residents that is actually kind of where a lot of our words come together which is a fundraiser for Kevin Haas if people know Kevin they know that he was injured in an accident where he had injured his neck. Kevin has been a local. He worked for the Register Star and also for now his own media company, and he had some major medical bills due to his injury. So there is a... Really interesting event coming up. It's called necking with Kevin Haas June 23rd is the show and it's at the West Side showroom And so I just would encourage people to consider going or if you can't go to consider a donation for him He is one of those individuals in our community that is consistently offering up Good media, but also one of those individuals that Really understands responsible media and I think oftentimes in today's world That is something we sometimes forget between the lines that we read or those shows that we watch that Kevin's always trying to find the story and the scoop but be responsible with that and Offer that up. And so if you get a chance to go it's at the West Side Showroom, June 23rd from 7 to 9 p.m You can get tickets online at WSSR.org. Thank you. Any other reports? Alderman Thunberg? Mayor, this actually isn't a report in a sense of maybe a question to our legal director and wondering if maybe we could get some legal insight expertise if he has that answer at hand. On the second on this, from older woman Wilkins and I made a quick second And then heard it should be laid over next week. I was actually looking to hopefully Lay that over to July 10th. There isn't is there anything in the Roberts rules of order or anything that can be Basically a motion to reconsider or anything like that. No once the motion has been um That particular motion once it's been made in second. It's automatic without debate. Okay And next week is committee. So Is it planned on having a special? City Council meeting then to so normally normally we would know wait tomorrow the next week is City Council or no Wait, normally we've left committee. Yes, you are correct Denver at the same time there So normally we would not have one. Next week we have an item for Hard Rock Casino and maybe a couple of other items that are coming up that we will have a special city council. So it would be laid over to the next council, which would be the special city council. So on the date that we would be voting on it as a council would land on what date? June 26th. All right, so it is next week. Yes. Okay, all right. Thank you. any other reports okay we'll move forward appointments are still laid over and we'll go to motions and resolutions and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins Thank You honor item number one committee recommends approval and acceptance of the award for second Illinois EPA public water supply loan program for lead service line inventory grant in the amount of $50,000 Item number two, committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Energy Efficiency Community Block Grant from the Department of Energy in the amount of $194,270. item three committee recommends approval of the designation of Carl Franzen director of community and economic development and Nicholas Meyer legal director as certifying officers for Environmental reviews submitted to the Department of Housing and Urban Development Thank you. We have three items before us is there any discussion on those three items clerk. Could you please call the roll? Hogeman Toonberg frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks to advise Excellent next we'll go to code and regulation committee all the wrong Trina. Thank you your honor We have five items item number one the committee recommends approval of a resolution for the Fred Van Vliet block party This event will be held on Friday, June 23rd from 4 p.m. To 6 p.m. The roads will close at 3 p.m the event location will be on State Street between Madison Street and First Street and Item 2 committee recommends approval of a resolution for a cycle on second in the I dot resolution This event will be held on Sunday, September 10th from 8 a.m. To 10 a.m There was the roads will close at 7 a.m the event route will be southbound on North 2nd Street, Auburn Street to Walnut Street and Item 3 the committee recommends approval of a resolution for the ramp River run this event will be held on Saturday August 19th from 6 a.m. To noon the run will begin at 7 30 a.m. the event location will be at 202 Market Street and Water Street the city market pavilion and Item 4, the committee recommends approval of a resolution for Stroll on State and the IDOT resolution. This event will be held on Saturday, November 25th from noon to 9 p.m. The 5K run will begin at noon. The parade will step off at 1.55 p.m. from Main and Green Streets, ending at State Street and 3rd Street. The tree lighting ceremony and the fireworks show will begin at 6.15 p.m. The roads will begin closing at 5 a.m. on Saturday, and lots 3 and 10 will be closed on Friday, November 24th at 4 p.m. And lastly, item five, a resolution for a settlement agreement regarding a claim in the amount of $69,714.89 submitted by Illinois Bell Telephone Company doing business as AT&T Illinois for reimbursement of costs incurred in the repair of its property located at or about 1224 West State Street, which will require the suspension of Rule 9. Thank you very much. Director Myers just want to clarify for the record that the address is not West 8th Street It's West Street. It doesn't make a difference for the vote. Just want to make sure it's clarified. I Thank you, so we have five items before us if you would indulge me I'll just look at item number five first because we need to suspend rule number nine on item five So is there a motion to res to suspend rule nine on item five? We have a motion in a second Is there any discussion on just suspending rule nine on number five all those in favor say aye those opposed Okay, so now we have five items up before you. I need discussion on those five items. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logman, Tuber, Brost, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney, 12 ayes. Thank you. Next up we'll go to finance and personnel committee you may want to take a restroom break grab some water alderman frost We'll start right in at number one The committee recommends approval of the award of bid for garage door services to Rainier Door Authority of Rockford United Door of Glendale Heights for an estimated amount of $50,000. The contract graces for one year with four possible one-year annual extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered contract real only. The funding sources are the property fund operating budget. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an award of bid for the excavation and hauling services, the Stenstrom excavation of Rockford and N-Track for an amount of $100,000. The contract erases one year or two possible one-year extension options. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of water bid for citywide bridge preservation to M&M Concrete in the amount of $120,048.80. The project is estimated to be completed by September 1, 2023. The funding source is the MFT. Number four, the committee recommends approval of water engineering agreement for citywide bridge repairs to HR Green in the amount of $72,432.50. It is estimated to be completed by April of 2024. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. number five can you recommend the approval of water for east high interzone booster station and stenstrom construction the amount of one million eight hundred twenty five thousand dollars is estimated to be completed by october 30 2025 the funding source is a water replacement account 6. THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE AWARD OF ENGINEERING AGREEMENT FOR THE SAME PROJECT, THE STRAND ASSOCIATES OF MADISON, IN THE AMOUNT OF $155,000. IT IS ALSO ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY DECEMBER 30, 2025, AND THE FUNDING SOURCES OF THE WRIA. 7. THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE AWARD OF BID FOR WELL NUMBER 13 RESERVOIR TO DN TANKS IN ILLINOIS IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,422,010. IT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY DECEMBER 30, 2025. completed by May 31, 2024. The funding source is WRIA. Number eight, committee recommends award of engineering agreement for well number 13 reservoir modifications to Strand in the amount of $110,000 is estimated to be completed by December 30, 2024. The funding source is the WRIA. number nine the committee recommends approval of the award bid for well number six forty six well drilling and municipal well and pump of wapon wisconsin amount of two million two hundred and thirty six thousand eight hundred and sixteen dollars it is estimated to be completed by may 31 2024 and this funding source is the wria number 10 the committee recommends approval award of engineering agreement for well number 46 well drilling to strand associates the amount of 54 000 is asking to be completed by december 29 2024 the funding source is the wria Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the Church Street South parking deck membrane rehab to Walker Consultants in the amount of $68,000. This estimate may be completed by December 2023. The funding sources of the American Rescue Plan Act. Number 12, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for one Pearson Forcer. pumper fire engine to McQueen Equipment in the amount of $1,009,500. The funding source is the Capital Lease Funds Fire Department Capital Budget. Number 13, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for three Ford F-550 4x4 diesel ambulance system to McQueen Equipment in the amount of $984,963.58. The funding source is the Capital Lease Funds Fire Department Capital Budget. Next page. Number 14, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for police vehicle computers, docking stations, printers, and components of CES office technologies in the amount of $105,030. The funding source is the Capital Lease Fund Police Department capital budget. Number 15, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for fire alarm management to Alarm Program Systems of Pleasant Hill, California and PMAM Corporation of Dallas, Texas for revenue split. OF CITY, RECEIVING 85% AND APS, 15%. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS FOR ONE YEAR WITH FOUR POSSIBLE ANNUAL EXTENSION OPTIONS, THE FUNDING SOURCES, THE FINANCE DEPARTMENT, OPERATING BUDGET. Number 16, the committee recommends approval of an award of RFP for asbestos testing and abatement services, the CMM Environmental of Rockford and Ironwood Environmental of Roscoe for an estimated amount of $140,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is for one year with possible one-year extension options. The funding sources, the CDBG funds, departmental operating budgets, and capital improvement funds. 17, the committee recommends approval of a change order. Engineering agreement for the Rockford water lead service line inventory the original amount was seventy nine thousand nine hundred and seventy six dollars And the change order is fifty thousand dollars based on additional funding lead service line inventory requirements It was a recommendation Department of Public Works that the city enter into this change order with engineering enterprises for engineering services Number 18, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the Illinois Department of Human Services Emergency Solutions Grant Award in the amount of $25,000. The grant does require a 100% cost match by source CFBG. The grant term is from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024. Thank you. That's it. There'll be no more water contracts filed for a while. Okay, we have 18 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 18 items? I see you did all that reading and no one's going to ask a question. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman, Toonberg, Frost, Tarina, Frunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney. 12 ice excellent they pass next we'll go to new business There's nothing under plan development because that's been laid over so we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor Item number one an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 14 xx Ogilvy Road and Number two, an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from County AG to I-1 Light Industrial and R-1 Single Family Residential Zoning Districts and a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in I-1 Light Industrial and R-1 Single Family Residential Zoning Districts at 4201 O'Connell Street, 26XX Bavarian Lane, and 3007 South Albuquerque. number three in ordinance approving the pre-annexation agreement for 4201 O'Connell Street number number four in ordinance approving the pre-annexation agreement for 3007 South Alpine Road and 26 XX Bavarian Lane and then number five uh was laid over thank you so with number five being laid over we have four items before us is there any discussion on those four items clerk could you please call the roll logeman Toonberg Frost Tarina Frente Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Berrios, Meeks, Bonney. 12 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Gary. uh number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city and idot outlining the roles responsibilities for phase one preliminary engineering for each agency in the alpine road reconstruction project number two is an ordinance approving subrecipient sub-recipient agreement between the city of rockford and get connected to hire three full-time advocates supported fully by idhs created only reimagined violence prevention services grant awarded to get connected these positions are 100 grant funded and this is a budget neutral position at the city Number three is an ordinance approving the lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Thomas-Minihan for the property located at 211 Elm Street, Suite C for a five-year term. Number four is an ordinance approving the revisions to the debt management policy. Number five is an ordinance approving the revisions to the fund balance policy. And number six is an ordinance approving the revisions to the vehicle replacement policy. Thank you. Thank you. So we have six items before us. I need discussion on those six items. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logoman. Toonberg. Toonberg. Ross, Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonnie. Twelve ayes. Excellent. Alderman Beach. Would you allow me to return back to Officer's Department for just a moment? Of course. This past week, We had a fairly serious neighborhood standards problem in the 10th ward. And I just want to call out for Jessica Anderson and the staff and Kyle as well. Not only did they go with the arm of the law to get this thing done, but they took time to go in and speak with the owners Find out some serious problems that were going on was able to get other city staff involved other Non-for-profits involved to help these people at the core value and I thought that went way over and beyond what you'd expect that to happen But they need to be recognized for that goodness I've had a chance to go meet two people as well and other groups have gone to bring support to this family because of our staff went beyond just to mow the lawn or do this and that but to find out what that problem was i think was wonderful thank you sir that's great thank you or one will consider you have other reports you want to give is there a motion to adjourn all those in favor say aye have a wonderful night thank you thank you