Hoffman, Rose, Veach, Quinones, Shirelli. 11 present. Thank you. We have a quorum. First up is new committee reports. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and sale of tobacco products...
 in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 3307 charles street place that up for passage your honor thank you uh we have this up for passage is there any discussion on the one item seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll logeman aye toomberg frost hervey urbans thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones shirely aye
 Six ayes, five noes. Item passes. Okay. Moving on to new business ordinances. Alderman Shrill. Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 3307 Charles Street. And the second is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 3307 Charles Street. Place those two ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you.
 I am sorry, I failed to go over officers' reports, so if you wouldn't mind going back in case one of the aldermen has a report. Alderman Hervey? Just very quickly, the Fifth Ward meeting will be this Thursday, June 28th at 6 o'clock p.m. That will be at the District 1 police station at Avon and West State Street. Thank you. Alderman Ervant?
 The Sixth Ward will be holding another block party on Clear Sky this coming Saturday from 1 to 5. All of you guys are invited to attend. That's about it. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Rhodes.
 I just wanted to say thank you to our staff, our firefighters and police and in our roads division from last week, dealing with the flash flooding. And I know it was a quick flood, but they were very responsive to the matters in my ward. And a lot of the citizens were really happy with the work that was done. So thank you very much.
 Thank you. Alderman Beach, did you have your hand raised? I did, sir. Thank you. I noticed this past weekend...
 that there's little ice cream trucks with little bells on going around the neighborhoods, stopped by some parks and parked across the street from the park, and children were running across the streets to the truck. And I'm not sure exactly what the ordinance would say, but I wish we could get some notifications through media or whatever to encourage them to park by the park.
 on the side of the street where the parks are so the kids don't have to run across the street. I think that's an accident on the way of happening, especially with excited little children who want ice cream, you know?
 So just a comment. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Irvins. I have to apologize. I kind of just said that without sharing the heart behind it. I know I've said it before, but I need to express the importance of it, because when I go from door to door knocking on individuals' door and passing out invitations to this block party and sharing the heart behind these events, they're really moved, and I just want to share that with you guys. The testimonies, you know, the
 The heart behind these block parties is to build relationship with the constituents and to get the constituents to build relationship with each other. You know, I strongly believe that this is something that our neighborhoods need.
 because people ask me all the time, what are you going to do as alderman to fight crime or something like that. I'm like, I'm not a police officer. I can't fight crime, but I believe that, you know, a neighborhood that sticks together, you know, and are looking out for each other, you know, can help with that. And so I want to encourage people
 You mayor and fellow city councilman to come out and show support because this is something I'm really hoping to spread citywide. You know, this reconciliation mentality, bringing the people back into relationship with each other because there's so much division in our city.
 Yeah, that's it. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Keller. Thank you, Your Honor. I did almost forgot to thank the volunteers from Project 1013 that came into this community and it was a wonderful three days of cleaning as usual and continuing the effort in getting this community involved.
 thoroughly disappointed and we didn't see a lot of the administration from the police department but i do appreciate the hundreds of volunteers that did come into this community to support us thank you thank you other officers alderman hey thanks mayor another example of third ward citizens stepping up to the plate you'll notice if you drive along auburn street south or i'm sorry east of the
 Roundabout that I was at a great neighborhoods meeting through transform Rockford an individual Sarah French Asked who was taking care of the planners over there along Auburn? Nobody was and she stepped up to the plate and has already done a few of them and now other neighbors are coming in They're gonna plan them with
 flowers and such and water them and so everyone driving along auburn enjoy uh that is the churchill's grove neighborhood by the way um and uh that is uh yeah that's it i think thank you other officers reports
 alderman rose and then i'll go back i just had one one other item uh you may also notice um some new art pieces here downtown but also along the roundabout on the northwest side so it's really nice to see some of the uh those new art pieces that come in and i know that was the work of a lot of the art community and and john grow's work so i wanted to thank them for that as well
 oh i know what i want alderman frost thanks uh last week uh mayor mcnamara kept trying to get us to speak up and i couldn't understand why he couldn't hear us until i left the building and realized how much rain had come down so quickly uh and i actually got stuck over near alderman beach's house but he was locked out of his house because he had no power i couldn't get home
 I just wanted to thank all of the, I called Chief Berkson who was in an emergency mode. I didn't understand why until later on my way home how bad it was. And I wanted just to thank the fire department who was
 Summons throughout the city, the police department who was involved with a number of traffic and safety issues and also public works for working so hard and having good systems in place because it was amazing by 24 hours later.
 The five plus inches of rain we got in such a short amount of time that it had receded and our streets were safe And our sewers weren't clogged So I want to just thank the entire city staff for for working around the clock to make sure everything went as well as it did Thank you Could we maybe for our fifth Monday? At the end of July give the public an update on Where we are with some of the major flood mitigation projects I know the
 i always get this wrong is it keith creek yep and we can do that keith creek and you know chuck sweeney did a really good article about what we have done and a couple of people said but you know it keeps flooding over there so what are we going to do now and i think it'd be good to give people that
 you know, 40,000 foot view. Great point. Alderman Toomer, did you have another item? Yeah, just very quickly, I forgot on the second one. Mitch Leatherby, Harry Noble, Mark Stockman, and
 Tim Hinkins. You guys did a fantastic job in taking care of a lot of things within the city on that rain. Thank you to all of you. Another thing, right before City Council, I did stop by the UW Sports Center. By the way, that is in the third ward. But we do have the national...
 sixth grade girls basketball championship in Rockford right now as some of you have seen. I wanted to get a load on it myself and went over there and the place was packed. I spoke with two coaches from Tennessee.
 uh asked him how their stay is asked him how the venue is and they uh one of them said they had been to eight of these national championships and he said without question this was the best venue bar none uh he said some of the other venues are literally in hotel ballrooms with almost pieces of
 puzzle flooring that's put together that they have to play on uh he said it was phenomenal and uh they hope that uh they will be back for that and so really had good good things to say about rockford so thank you everyone who put had thank you other uh reports seen none just uh we got more items uh just uh
 We'll reiterate what many of the aldermen said regarding the teamwork between the police, the fire public works, and immediately following the day after with human services jumping in. Just from my standpoint, I just appreciate the collaboration and teamwork that you instill in your teams.
 It was very evident, especially in those tragedies, or difficult situations, I should say. And also a big thank you to the citizens who they themselves stepped up. If it's the one that got a lot of publicity near Schnucks, or the numerous other incidents that people were helping out their neighbors, certainly brings out the best of us as Rockfordians during these difficult times. So now moving forward with new businesses, Alderman Chiarelli. Your Honor, I respectfully lay over...
 the two ordinances that we just approved through the committee reports thank you okay thank you is there a motion to address so moved we do we do i'm sorry we do need a second for alderman trellis so we have an a second for that is there a motion to adjourn is there a second all those in favor say aye those opposed same time have a good night