longest second that first Hi Jeff Rainey Here Chester Yes
 Yeah, yeah, this is a vote on a motion to apply. Hi. I want to send it to me right along that Sunday's paper. I think Kelly.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Stanley? Aye.
 McNeely aye Chiarelli aye 14 ayes motion carries Alderman Durkee is appointed mayor of San Francisco thank you I feel alive there was no second on that motion and a whole bunch of Alderman votes present
 So we'll call the order. The City Council of Rockford, a special meeting on Monday, June 22, 2020. Kirk, will you please call the roll? Kirby. Here. Jeff Greeny. Here. Tim Burton. Here. Ross. Here. Kirby. Here.
 Here. Living? Here. Thompson-Kelly? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Present. Beach? Here. Thank you. Kinona? Here. Stanley? Here. Neely? Here. Shirelli? Here.
 Shirely he's asleep 13 present thank you we do have a quorum there are two items before us under motions and resolution Roman numeral 2A from planning and development Alderman Rose
 Tim, could you read it? I couldn't get to it on my phone. Absolutely. Under Roman numeral 2A, item 1, is a motion from Planning and Development Committee to rebuild Illinois grant application and award acceptance exterior facade improvement to the Coronado Performing Arts Center. Place that up for passage.
 We need a motion to move and second that. Second. So moved. Second. Do we have a motion and a second? Clerk will you call the roll? Clerk?
 Yes, Green. Aye. George. Aye. Ross. Aye. Ruby. Aye. Levin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Pinona. Aye. Stanley. Aye. St. Neely. Aye. Is Shirely there? Aye.
 13.9 motion passes then under motions and resolutions c one from finance personnel alderman uh
 It is an award of joint purchasing contract for the violence prevention programming supplies to Kaplan early learning company at Louisville, North Carolina and Amazon services with an
 funding sources, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. I place that before you for passage. Sure. Motion to move. Well, that comes from committee. I'm under Edward's first offer. That comes from committee. Do we need a motion to accept it in a second? We should. If there wasn't a resolution, we have to accept it. In placing it up would be the motion in a second. Okay. Is there anything else? Not yet. Okay.
 We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, could you call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Casperini. Aye. Schoenberg. Aye. Sproul. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Since I haven't heard from Alderman Shirelli enough, what we'll do is we'll go as per tradition during the web meetings. We'll go in order. I'll start with the 14th Ward. I would ask that the aldermen and any staff mute themselves when they're not speaking. We're getting a pretty nasty echo. So, Alderman Shirelli? Yes.
 Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Fortunately, I don't have any officers report other than thank you to the staff and everybody that's been helping all of us every day, every week with all these issues that are currently going on in all our wards. And that's pretty much all I have today, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. Alderman Hanley. Thank you.
 Hi, yes, thank you to all the city staff rather awesome. Kyle filled a bunch of panels for me this week. Maybe look really good. Yeah, that's it. Alderman you're on mute. You're still on mute. Thank you.
 TWO INDIVIDUALS THAT WERE VERY INVOLVED IN THE COMMUNITY FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS HAVE PASSED. THAT'S MRS. ALBERTA JONES AND MRS. RUTH HUDSON. AND I SEND CONDOLENCES TO THEIR FAMILIES. WE CERTAINLY APPRECIATE ALL THE WORK FOR ALL THE MANY YEARS THAT THEY COMMITTED TO THE COMMUNITY. AND THAT'S IT. THANK YOU.
 Thank you, Alderman McEaly. Alderman Q. Dennis. I'm no officer report. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Your Honor, just two things to say tonight. Number one, Wednesday night, the Salvation Army is the second of four listening sessions. Thank you.
 Thank you all of you who came last week. People can sign up from 4.30 to 5.30, and it starts promptly at 5.30. The second issue is I've been getting a lot of complaints about fireworks, loud fireworks, from in and out of the ward. I spoke to the department. They've been very good about it. But if you don't mind, I'd like to ask our fire chief tonight, maybe make a comment. Maybe there's a number that people can call where they're concerned.
 So, Mr. Chairman, Mayor Pro Tem, would you please allow the fire chief to speak? Absolutely. Chief Perkinson.
 good evening everyone um i know a lot of all the men have been in comments on your whether it's social media or phone calls or emails um we have seen quite an increase in fireworks calls into our 911 center i think a lot of it has to do with people are off and not having fireworks coming up um one thing continue to call the non-emergency number eight one five nine six six twenty nine hundred uh the police will write notice two appears if they catch someone lighting the fireworks
 but we do remind all the citizens calling in that fireworks calls are a low priority call based on what's going on if the police are busy it doesn't rise to the level of sending an officer right away if they don't have any other calls to be dispatched
 but it is a lower priority call and we do treat it. I'm just like other calls and we will go out and investigate. Um, if someone sees someone's house, um, that is like Alderman Beach and Alderman Shirely had contacted us, that is a repeat offender. We will send our fire investigators out. I'll talk to them. And if we witness it, we will write them a notice to appear and find them. Um, for when we witnessed those violations, um,
 But I think it's going to be a continued plaguing issue until probably past the 4th of July, just because there are no other fireworks out there and what we're dealing with. But just, you know, ask your citizens to remain patient and notify us so we can get out there and identify those homes. We are talking with code enforcement also. Last year we did some enforcement where we drove around to our –
 problem areas. We're talking about doing that again once we get a little closer to the 4th of July, but just keep the information coming. I mean, contact the fire department directly if you have homes that are repeat offenders, which a lot of you do, or call the non-emergency line. And Chief Ruff, I might have something else to add also as regards to the police. Thank you, Chief. Do you want to comment on behalf of the police? Chief Berksham pretty much covered everything. I'm
 It is, like I said, a low-priority call for us. When officers are available, we will respond. If we locate anybody with fireworks, we will seize the fireworks, which we then destroy at a later time and issue anyone notice to appears for those violations. Alderman Hervey, may I ask a question real quick? Absolutely, Alderman Hervey. Can neighbor citizens...
 swear out an affidavit that says i witnessed my neighbor venita hervey set off fireworks on july 3rd etc etc and because i think if we put that in the newspaper that neighbors can submit an affidavit and and have people uh arrest not arrested but you know what i mean because they know the police can't possibly get to these calls and i mean i would do it for
 for some of the bad offenders i would swear out an affidavit because i've got people who are shooting them onto other people's roofs and they're not even trying to be careful so can we do that as an alternative way of citing people for fireworks violations
 Good. Yeah, so potentially, yes. We could do that. You want to have your contact the legal department or code staff to do that. To make sure we have information we need.
 the issue or require those when you go to a hearing, the neighbor would need to show up as the witness on that. Yeah. Mayor, Mayor Pro Temp.
 Yes, all of these. Thank you. I know that it's a low priority, but the thing that's concerning is that when these shells produce these hot embers, they're falling on rooftops. I think that becomes a serious issue. How do you deal with that? I guess we're told what numbers to call, and I guess that's where it is.
 Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Alderman Rose, I think you're next.
 I just want to thank staff, especially La Ficaria Vaughn for her work on the agenda item for the grocery store and help from local residents who wrote in and especially many of those who are living in the ward and families.
 And so just wanted to say thank you to them. And also like Alderman Beach said that, continue to call in and those fireworks, we had a major issue up here last night where fireworks were just relentless all through the night. And
 I'm usually not the firework Nazi, but when they continue to go on late into the night and, you know, people have children or, you know, they have to work in the morning, it's a serious concern for us. So those people, I think, are going to get fined.
 because they ended up leaving their fireworks out and didn't clean up. So I hope that the city actually secures the highest fine we can because not only are they breaking the law by lighting off the fireworks, but they littered the entire front yard of theirs. So that's all I have. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Alderman Hoffman. Alderman Hoffman, you may be on mute if you want to...
 all right nope i have nothing to say this evening i think it's really been said about the fireworks and i agree with them all so thank you
 Thank you, Alderman Hoffman. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you. I just want to go over again. Alderman Beach mentioned our listening session is Wednesday, June the 24th at the Salvation Army. I would appreciate as many aldermen as possible could come to these listening sessions. Thank you. That's it. Thank you, Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Alderman Irvin.
 Yes. I was thinking about this.
 FIREWORK SITUATION, I'M NOT GOING TO LIE, IT PAINS ME TO HEAR BOTH MY FIRE CHIEF AND POLICE CHIEF SAY IT'S NOT A PRIORITY WHEN, YOU KNOW, ONE IS COLLECTING OVER 41% TAX REVENUE AND OTHER IS COLLECTING OVER 5% TAX REVENUE. I WOULD HOPE TO HEAR THAT WE WILL DO BETTER.
 not that there's hopelessness because obviously it is an issue and a safety hazard. We talk about serve and protect. That's
 we will do better we have to have a forward thinking mindset it's a transformational type mindset god gave me a word to share today and and that word was thirst and uh he showed me he told me tell him about the parable with the lady at the well who when he approached the well she asked him
 Did he want her to pull him a bucket of water and he said, you drink from this well and
 and you'll have to come back to it and drink again. But if you drink from the well that I would provide for you, you would never thirst again. And I see that God has poured out wisdom today. You know, there was some good discussion. And I think that, you know, especially with these terminals, you know, that there was wisdom that went forward.
 So I thank God, hallelujah. But he says thirst. And he's also giving me an image of a tree.
 and how a tree is planted and rooted. You know, we as a body, we as a people, we as a community need to get rooted, you know, and that root needs to be into a firm foundation, which is the wisdom of God. He tells us, you know, above all else, seek wisdom, because in one hand there's long life and in the other there's riches. And so...
 When we become wise in our own eyes, we become lost. And so I speak first to the hearts today. To be like a tree and root it, you know, and yeah. The city has a nickname, isn't it? It's the forest city.
 I believe that this season, you know, God is pouring out and he's saying thirst because he's providing refreshment. You know, we as a city for too long have been bullied. We've lost identity. We've lost our way of humanity.
 We've fallen way behind in times, and now that the playing field is leveled and the playing field is being watered, now is the time to be transformed, and now is the time to set those standards up.
 You know, I believe those wisdom to talk about the fact that we should have a set design for our city. Why can't we be as beautiful as some of these other cities and have a standard as to how excellent. We present ourselves as before city. We wrote it in our identity. We need to find in our identity again is what's taking place. We've lost it and we need to get rid of it back into that. And.
 The creator of it all wants to reestablish our identity and root us again. He says to speak to the dry bones in the valley. And we're Rockford. And we're in that valley. And it's been dry bones for a long time. And so we need to start speaking life.
 so i just i thank you father for my friends i thank you for my my council members here lord god i thank you for the time that you've given me here on city council to share your word and sing your word for it lord god i know your word won't come back void lord god this
 City needs a pouring out, Lord God, of joy and refreshment, Lord God. It needs a pouring out of a fresh anointing, Lord God. I pray, Father, that you cause it to overflow, Lord God. Each and every individual around the horseshoe that they're doing work, Lord God, I thank you that they haven't left their post, Lord God, that they're still at work and they're still investing and they're still going, Lord God. Even when life is rough for them, even when life is rough for myself, I thank you for the strength.
 strength that you provided all of us, including our fire department and our police force, Lord God. I thank you because you placed them there for a purpose, Lord God. And I thank you, Lord God, that in this season, we're coming together. You've called reconciliation upon your people, Lord God, for them to come together, Lord God. And I thank you, Father.
 For the victory. You say that we walk by faith and not by sight, even though what we see right now, Lord God, is chaos and corruption and destruction. And because the enemy comes to kill, steal, and destroy, that is his purpose, Father. And we know that, and we call it out, and we bind it in the name of Jesus, and we just declare the victory right now, Lord God.
 so we just hallelujah in jesus name i pray we pray amen thank you thank you very much um alderman
 May we all bow? Just kidding. No, I have nothing tonight. Are you sure? Better than that. There's always something, a lawyer and a politician, please. But I shall refrain. Thank you. Don't ask her twice. We've got another lawyer coming up. Frost. I'll let you ask. Thank you, Mayor Pelton-Durkey. I really appreciate it.
 I just wanted to really thank the staff, ZBA, the Liquor Commission, and specifically Alderman Rose for working on an agreement and a compromise that would allow a food desert on North Rockton to move forward in a way that will actually allow an owner who I don't know, but who was obviously willing to make some last-minute decisions.
 modifications, including adding produce to the store and backing off on the percentage in the store with respect to liquor and going to food and wine. So I know it was much discussed tonight, and I just, I do, you know, I read Alderman Rose's editorial in the paper, and I would have thought that he was, that the project was going to be killed, and what the
 I'm not going to move forward. So I really appreciate, Alderman Rose, you working with all the parties involved to hopefully see and solving a problem in your ward. So thank you very much. Thank you, Kevin. Thanks, Alderman Frost. Alderman Thunberg. All right. Let me...
 Let me pull out all my notes here. I think I got them right here. No, I just, I am going to relay two things that I said for constituents that I would relay. One is fireworks. Fireworks.
 And two is the adjectives and hand gestures that are being hurled at our local police officers. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Thunberg. Alderman Gasparini. I don't like this last thing. Oh, wait, you are, Doc. Or Mayor, we should call you. No, you know, just the fireworks thing, it's been...
 the bane of my existence for the past week. So, yeah, no, it's just, please, people, stop doing it. But that's it. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Alderman Gasprin. Chief, I understand your hand is up. Yeah, I just wanted to clarify on the fireworks thing. I know I said that it was a lower-priority call, and all I say is in reference to that is the call itself, we have to handle our domestics, our robberies, our shootings, those calls.
 calls take priority or precedent over a fireworks call. And that's all I meant by it. If our officers are caught up on their calls and there's no other call spending or we have extra squads available, yes, that is a priority. And we will do everything we can to stop the fireworks as much as possible by issuing the NTAs, complicating the fireworks, and doing whatever we can. So I just wanted to kind of clarify that, that that's the only thing we meant by it being a lower priority, that we have to handle our more serious crimes first.
 Thank you. Thank you, Chief. Thanks for your officers and all they're doing. I have a question.
 One comment, and it's actually very brief. I know we're having a lot of listening sessions, but I don't know if any of the aldermen have talked to him, but I have talked with Anthony Fort and Blaisley Aniyango. I don't know if any of you. They founded Rockford Youth in Action and Empowerment. I think they're two pretty remarkable individuals. And with what is all happening in Rockford, I think it's worth mentioning.
 Our time to as individuals to talk to these 2 gentlemen. So, but that's it. Nothing else for me to work on motion to adjourn. She already keep her in his hand. Oh, I'm sorry.
 No, thank you. I'm in Turkey. Um, I was just following up with a chief ref and, um, we do take the calls very seriously. Like I said, the police has been this past weekend, probably had 10 to 15 calls pending on each side of the river. Um, but if any of your constituents give you addresses of people that are lighting fireworks, we are proactive and we will visit them and tell them that they're in violation. And if we do find evidence, we will issue an NTA for them. And then we also put out a, um,
 public service announcement today partnered with st anthony's about fireworks also um so we are trying to be proactive but typically um there are people that are going to violate it even if they see the psa and know there's mtas but we are out there when we have the appropriate time to enforce the fireworks but the neighbors are the best part like alderman's hervey said and we have got a lot of uh complaints taken care of by alderman passing the information on from the
 from their constituents and we won't say your uh neighbors names you turn them in we would just go out and visit and drop a letter off and if we do find evidence we will cite them thank you chief and thanks uh to you and your department for all uh you do as well i think we have outstanding police and fire thank you so thanks um any further business in front of the city council so nobody wants to stay around huh is there a motion to adjourn move to adjourn back up here
 Okay. We have to call the roll on the motion to adjourn clerk. Is she still awake? No, I'm not. I'm sorry. Jerky. It's been a real toe-tapper tonight. Aye. Yes, Brainy. Aye. Timbers. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Bourbon. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. She wants to stay. Aye.
 I think you called me. I'm an eye. Thank you. Beach. All right. Stanley.
 Aye. McNeely. Oh, I'm sorry. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. We are adjourned. Have a great week, folks. Bye. Have a good one, everyone. Good night.