begin this evening with an invocation from Chaplain Norma Barrera. Heavenly Father, we gather today, Lord, and we just ask your presence by way of wisdom, creativity, innovation, and knowledge, Lord, and we are grateful for the progress that is already happening. Let it continue, and let the synergy build to continue to bring forth Rockford in even greater ways. In your name we pray. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one and only, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Thunberg Here Frost Here Tarina Frunty Here Wilkins Alderman Wilkins Here Alderman Hoffman Here Rose Beach Here Quinones
 Meeks? Bonnie? Here. 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on June 6, 2022? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Next, we have a proclamation as well as two items for information only.
 Thank you. First, we have a proclamation, a league of their own 30th anniversary celebration date. So if I'd call you both up. Both are looking awfully dapper this evening. How are you? Great to see you. Good to see you. If we can move up here just a little bit.
 Whereas July 1st, 2022 marks 30 years to the day of the premiere of A League of Their Own, directed by Penny Marshall and acknowledged to be one of the top 10 sports movies of all time. And whereas Rockford Peaches, as the most successful team in the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, having won the championship four times during the 11-year history of the league,
 were celebrated in the movie, thus putting Rockford, Illinois on the map around the world. And whereas, the International Women's Baseball Center has planned two days of free to the public family-friendly events downtown and at Byer Stadium on July 1st and July 2nd, culminating in a celebrity softball game on the historic Byer Stadium field where the Rockford Peaches played from 1943 to 1954.
 And whereas, with this celebration, IWBC continues to show its commitment to preserving and celebrating the history of the many women who made Rockford proud with their athletic prowess on the field. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the days of July 1st and July 2nd of 2022 to be a league of their own 30th anniversary celebration days.
 Would you like to share a little with us? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We also wanted to bring for you and for the city this framed Rockford Peaches pennant that should hang somewhere predominantly because this is definitely part of our brand, the Rockford Peaches pennant.
 And as well, a poster for the events this weekend showing an artist's depiction of the Rockford Peaches bus that we are gearing towards having restored to be a centerpiece in the museum itself. They already own the bus. It's a little worn and torn from a 1947...
 Greyhound-Silverside bus. It will not be driving, but it will be a very nice exhibit. Thank you. So the events on the 1st and 2nd are, on the 1st, it's City Market.
 Megan Cavanaugh, one of the stars from the movie 30 years ago and has been to Rockford a few times now, is coming back and will kick off City Market at 4 o'clock on the 1st.
 There is a whole theme of peaches going on for the city market. There's an event. There was one paid event. There are five free events and one paid event. The paid event will be raising money for refurbishing of that bust, and that is upstairs at the Standard called the Suds Bucket Bash. Thank you.
 That was the bar in the movie, so that's why that got picked. You should all know that. Yeah. And then Friday Night Flicks, it's a showing at Davis Park. It's a showing of A League of Their Own with activities tying that all together.
 And that's Friday. And Patrick Yarborough, I'm Jim Keeling, incidentally, and I'm working on this committee this year, very proud to work on it again. And Patrick Yarborough is the real baseball player here, so he'll tell you about the Saturday events. Thank you. Good evening.
 On Saturday, July 2nd, at Byers Stadium, we will have a celebrity softball game. And we have amongst us some of the players who are going to be there, if you'd mind standing. And those who are going to be singing, please.
 Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Thank you, Alderman. And I'd like to thank the other Aldermans who went forward and voted in support of our event. It's a free event, and we're also having Major League Baseball coming to Rockford to conduct a free clinic for children 5 to 12 years old.
 So this is really something that they are able to come and get instruction in the game of baseball and have the opportunity to receive some gifts from Major League Baseball and then stay over and watch the celebrity game as well as food trucks will be there and it will be a good time for everyone.
 We thank you for this time. And Mayor, we also thank you for the proclamation. We greatly appreciate the support of the city of Rockford, for the history of Rockford, and for the accomplishment of women here in our city. Thank you. That's why you came. Yes, you can take that. Oh. Sorry. Jim, judge. Quick photo. Do you like the photo? I have presented a number. These will be on sale. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next up, moving into the information-only items, really just an overall pretty wonderful night to be at City Council, but this one is very special. We have Jeremy from the Boys and Girls Club of America, the Rockford Boys and Girls Club. And Jeremy, you can certainly come on up. And there's a door that Alderman Beach may be able to open up for you.
 So Jeremy is from our very own. And if you guys want to take a photo, you can come in if you want to take. Oh, got it. So Jeremy is a member of the Boys and Girls Club here in the city of Rockford. They have just been doing amazing work, as all of you know, in our community. And Jeremy actually is the Illinois Youth of the Year.
 He is a remarkable young man and is going to, in the regionals, Midwest regionals, right? He's going to compete in the Midwest regionals. I believe that's Chicago? Windy City. So he's going to Chicago to compete. When he wins there and he goes on to the nationals, that'll be in L.A., and he promised me he's going to take one person. No. No.
 But we know he's going to do really well. And one of the things he has to do is he has to give a speech, right? Yeah.
 And so he was, we were really fortunate at the city, all the department heads on our Monday morning meeting had him in a couple of weeks ago. He did a phenomenal job and thought it was a really wonderful speech, A, to give him some practice, but B, you really need to know his story because many of us will probably be working for him one day. So, Jeremy, really an honor to have you here. So I'll let you have the floor. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Jeremy Franco Degdain. I'm 17 years old and I represent the Rockford Boys and Girls Club. I was born in the heart of the Philippines to my parents, Imelda and Raul. Unfortunately, they were not ready to take care of me and I was given to the care of extended family members. There, I experienced pure poverty. I had to sleep on the ground. I had to wash my clothes with bowls. There were days we didn't eat just because we didn't have food.
 When I turned 13, I reunited with my parents. They told me we were immigrating to the United States to get a better chance at life. The transition was very difficult on me. It got so bad that eventually I ran away from home. I was just a teenager out on my own. I still am. In addition to making the honor roll, I have to work, I have to pay rent, I have dreams and goals I want to achieve. Sorry. Because of my situation, the club even offered me my first job
 They even bought the clothes I'm wearing right now, just so I can come in front of all of you and look professional. The club is like my family. There, I met father figure, esports coach, Jordan DeMario. There, I met my big brother, Mr. Kevin. The club has taught me how to become a man. Club programs like Passport to Manhood, Shake a Person's Hand, how to introduce myself. Club programs like esports has taught me how to be a competitor. I used to suck at chess, now I'm the 10-time chess champion.
 At the start of every month, we volunteer at the local food pantry. There, I realized the most important thing in life, it's giving. Sir Isaac Newton once said, if I'm able to see further than others, it is only because I stand on the shoulder of giants. Now, I'm no giant. I'm only about five foot tall. But maybe one day, if I work hard enough, I can be a giant for somebody else to stand on. Thank you. applause
 So Jeremy, one thing that we do is we provide challenge coins to team members who work for the city or residents who just go way above and beyond and just do a remarkable job.
 I think Youth of the Year in the state of Illinois certainly makes you equipped to have a challenge going. And on behalf of the city, I just want to say thank you. Keep it up. You've already made us proud. You already are a giant to all of us. So keep up the hard work and we'll be watching you probably in LA as you win the national championship, okay?
 Okay, we have one more information item, and all three of these this evening are just absolutely awesome. And I would ask Pastor Albert Tank-Weathers to come on up with LT Construction, as well as your construction crew can come on up. There's a door right here, too. We'll have Kyle come on up. All right, so this is pretty phenomenal. I'm going to start by having everyone just introduce yourselves a little bit.
 Pastor Albert Tank Weathers, the owner of LT Construction and pastor of No Cross No Crown. Kwameon Kimball, I'm also known by Q. Demaria Mabry, also known as D. I'm DeJuan Ford. Phillip Johnson. Mike Bonnell. Kyle Saunders. We know you. So back in April about, this council approved an agreement with LT Construction.
 to hire five individuals to provide work experience, mentorship, on the job skills training. And I couldn't be more proud to say, I mean as all of you already are aware, this evening it's up on the council agenda to do another additional phase to this. But to all of you, I mean, one, thank you for the skills and tutoring for both of you to provide that.
 Just the amount of work. I think one of the first couple of days were some 90-degree days, right? But you're happy you weren't out there today. But I heard from so many people who, if it was residents who were just so thrilled to see you out there, if it was contractors who called me and they were like, when can we hire them? When can we hire them? I went by. They were out there three days in a row in that 90-degree heat, and they're just cruising. Right?
 Just makes us so proud of the work that you've done. You all should be really proud. I mean, you're the first of this pilot We're hoping that we can keep that that's your tank around to keep doing this But absolutely remarkable the amount of work that's went into it and pastor Obviously, you know where we stand and how we feel about you bringing this idea to fruition And it's just getting rolling right and just already tremendously impacting our
 our community, putting sidewalks in areas that don't have sidewalks, and providing really wonderful opportunities to our young people. I just couldn't thank you enough for the work that you do. Would you like to share a few words? I don't want to be long, you know,
 I've been a ruffer for 30 years. I've been a part of all the crime. I was the ex-gangster disciple. My brother's doing life in penitentiary. My cousin shot up with AKs all through his body. He never walked again. 26 years, a man taught me how to do concrete, and that changed my life.
 And when I grabbed a mag, I never want to grab a gun again. And there's something about the mentality once you grab a tool for an extended amount of time, it's hard to go back and grab a tool prior. I took a tool from destruction to construction. And once I began to finish my first concrete, I felt the accomplishment that I can be somebody. Why are we here today?
 I wanted to bring my gift back to our youth, and I got tired of going to liquor stores, talking in front of liquor stores and gas stations and seeing bloodshed. And so my program is designed to where we stop the bloodshed. No, but can we bring hope? And this would touch me. I was in Freeport doing a federal job, and a little black kid looked at me. He was 10 years old. He said, I never seen a black man do concrete work.
 And I was the first one that he seen. And I began to tell him about my experience on and on. And this whole project was designed to bring hope. And I thank you all for giving us a chance. But I'm fine. But I thank you more for giving them a chance. So that's all I have for tonight. They put me on the spot. Well, with this program, it just opened up the doors for a lot of us. I mean, from coming here.
 Working in four walls to working outside now, it just opened my eyes to a lot of things. And now the career path that I'm choosing to go down, it's amazing, man. It's amazing. We go from not knowing how to do concrete to finishing two full city blocks of concrete within two months, three months. It's amazing. And I just thank you all for giving us this opportunity. So, spoiler alert. I want to thank the mayor and Kyle.
 I mean this man stood, you know, can I be real? I guess I'm going to be real. Yeah, I'm going to be real. Because when you come into these meetings and you start doing events like this, you deal with your racial tension. And race has divided us. Race has divided us. And I don't stand with the black or white. I stand with what's right. And this man right here stood behind us all the way.
 Imagine taking on one of the biggest challenges in Rockford, and you got people breathing down your back. You got people pretending like they like you. You got people cheering for you, and they're hoping you fall. But from day one, this man stood with us, and I appreciate you, Amir. I appreciate you, too. Because I was going to go home, and now you go home and say, man, I should have said that.
 So I had to get that one out. No, we appreciate it. Honestly, we all couldn't be more proud of the program. And as I just mentioned to Jeremy, those individuals in our community who are going above and beyond, we believe deserve a challenge coin of a small piece of recognition, just to say thank you, continue the hard work. This is just really the beginning for all of you and just really appreciate the mentorship and the opportunity that you guys have provided. So thank you. Give that to you. Thank you, congratulations.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. So really just a wonderful program. And in that short amount of time, three now have full-time employment with a local contractor and will be backfilling those three open positions, and we're confident that all three of them
 the current three that have gotten hired plus a new three making the five that will be out there will all be employed so just really awesome program so want to say thank you again to the city council
 Okay, next up we'll go to petitions and communications. We'll go to planning and development committee alderwoman Meeks Thank you your honor under planning and development committee item number one. We have a memorandum from Anna Garrison economic development manager regarding the Rockford area Economic Development Council our aedc 2022 update report and then under item number two. We have a memorandum from Anna get Anna
 Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding the second amendment to the redevelopment plan and project for the amendment to the designation of the amended Amarok Hotel Redevelopment Project Area. And both items are referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman Meeks. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under Codes and Regulation Committee, item number one, a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a modification of an existing liquor license for a six-video gaming terminal at Rural On Tap, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 item number two a memorandum from megan mcneil assistant city attorney regarding the approval of a resolution for the annexation agreement for 3828 spring creek road referred to quarter regulation committee item number three a memorandum from megan mcneil assistant city attorney regarding the approval of an ordinance for the annexation of 3828 spring creek road referred to road
 Refer to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number four in the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on June 22, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code Regulation Committee meeting on June 27, 2022. Refer to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Item number five, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on June 22nd, 2022. And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on June 22nd, 2022. Referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And finally, item number six, memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding permission to place the for sale, the city-owned parcel located at 4XX Short Horsman Street. Thank you.
 Referred to code and regulation committee. Thank you all the woman Trina next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Thank you Our first even member from Kyle Saunders public works director regarding the proposed construction engineering agreement for the 9th Street reconstruction project next is member from Kyle Saunders public works director regarding the logistics Parkway phase 2 and
 And lastly, we have a memorandum from Kyle Saunders again regarding the main streetscape from Jefferson Street to Mulberry Street. All three of these minutes will refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we have public speaking. I want to remind all the public speakers that they have three minutes to address city council. You'll hear a...
 an alarm ring and just ask that you close your comments there's a microphone on the back right and a microphone on the back left our first public speaker this evening is prophet yusuf good evening ladies and gentlemen
 In the book of 1 Timothy, the third chapter, the fifth verse, it says, If a man can't take care of his own home, how can he take care of the church of God? What I want to speak about tonight, black women and girls are not safe anywhere. Missing, murder, black women. Girls cannot be ignored anymore. Black women and girls should be taught martial arts here in Rockwood to defend themselves. It is important to protect...
 protect and raise women up and the status of black women needs to be higher. I'm seeking to address a crisis facing black women and girls. Erika Marie, a journalist and activist who launched the website, Our Black Girls in 2018, created a database for missing black women and girls nationwide who
 Faces do not appear often in the news. Her website, iblackgirls.com, is now a trade market and a non-profit. According to the National Crime Information Center, black women made up 90,299 out of the 521,705 missing people in the entire country in 2020. Within the same year, black women and girls were being murdered at a rate of four each day.
 reported the Federal Bureau of Investigation crime data explorer, John Fountain, a journalist professor at Roosevelt University. He started the Unforgotten 51 Project to shed light on the names of 51 black women over 20 years who went missing and their cases unsolved. Mr. Fountain and his students researched the image and told the stories of these women which were compiled and placed on a website, Unforgotten51.com, and shared it with me.
 these women, I see my mother, my wife, my sister, my aunt, my grandmother, my cousin. It is difficult for me to see that website and not be angry. That this is important to speak about, the black women and girl crisis. There isn't a black person here alive without a black woman. Why can't anyone black not value a black woman? It is essential to our survival and respect protection.
 provide for our women, our culture, and race. We have to hold law enforcement, lawmakers responsible to find missing black women and girls. We have to ask why is it that 40% of sex trafficking individuals are black? Ask those tough questions and demand reform. And don't just have a response. If they say they're going to do something, follow up. And it's not just one person holding them accountable. It's the whole black community. No one can save us but us. As black men, we are to protect our
 family, protect our women. That's godly, that's spiritual, that's manly. We know our community. We see things that occur. We can talk to people and get information that might help in solving these cases. We're a lot closer to the ground than the police are. Getting our men to understand that men of every other race protect their women. Let's protect ours. That's our job. If the responsibility is ours, then accountability is ours as well. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. My pastor yesterday spoke on Daniel, Daniel and the Bible. Daniel refused to not, they gave him 30 days saying that you are not supposed to worship the Lord, the demigods or any god at all. Daniel decided to worship the Lord anyway.
 King had David, the doner, fallen into the doner with the lions. The next day, the king came down there and found doner was still alive.
 If you look in the book of the Bible, you will see two major battles with religions and science. Moses against Pharaoh, Moses putting the blood of the Lamb on the door of those who believe in the Lord. The violence passed them by. The other big battle in the Bible is Jesus Christ. They beat the hell out of Jesus Christ.
 He gave his soul, he gave his body so that we could have everlasting life. And part of the song, I know it was the blood and what it had to do with Jesus Christ died for us. Right now today we are in another midst of a great battle.
 Thanks to wannabe Donald Trump, he brought out the closet. Systematic racism, critical race theory, and most of all, replacement race theory. But the biggest thing that bothers me is the fact that coronavirus has shown how deeply divided this country is over millions.
 people should bow for coronavirus. You're looking around at the job market, it's hard to feel the job market. Who was these individuals that passed away that were they working class or was they not working class? Then it comes talking about Rockford,
 The governor of Rockford said back in August, and I'm going to keep repeating it because it's election year, he said those who don't take the vaccine is not enemy. A lot of the have-nots do not believe in taking the vaccine. Mayor Tom McIntyre talked about community action. He talked about law and crime. You cannot—guns don't kill people. Peoples kill people.
 you cannot lower crime without the community working with the community. When they talk about ghost guns, I was 10 years old. We made zip guns at 10 years old, 32, 38. We didn't have social media. We didn't have Google. At the age of 12, the leader of the Pipetown against the Cherokee Rangers had 458 people up under me. I ain't just became a leader. I've been out in these streets.
 all my life now i've just uh... this past week defied the views of the other rescue to the black and you've got arrested was a not program and whether it be we work with the hardcore kiosk until you coming up with a you open the door and communicate or find out what the answer to the problem we know who the problem is thank you for allowing me to speak and by the way on the end i say
 that you go cut me off again, unstoppable voice of justice. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Senior. Expert from the Bible. Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to no understanding. Get wisdom, get understanding, forget it not. She shall preserve thee, love her, and she shall keep thee. And you shall, and you have ignored all my counsel. I also will laugh at your calamity.
 To know wisdom is more than an intellectual achievement. It is the expression of that knowledge in conduct towards God and man, morality and immorality. I stand here glad to say that our organization is working with a young lady by the name of Ms. Emily Rose, who works for the Commerce Department, Economic Development Administration.
 Reverend Dotson, we're going to work with you guys to reform some of the stuff that's been ignored on the west side of Rockford. Yes, we've got 11 proposals. They total something like $150 million. And we're going to get every damn of it. We've contacted every department of the federal government except maybe three. Two or three of them have responded. And when I think about...
 Those departments have budgets in excess of $2 trillion, $150 million is a mere pittance when you make that comparison. And I say it'll be interesting to see what Rockford's response when one or two of those federal agencies, and we are working with them, Emily Rose and the other lady, I won't call her name, but it'll be interesting to see Rockford's response when they call and say, okay, Reverend Dossett, we're working with you guys to redo something in Rockford.
 Yes, a couple of days ago was Father's Day, and we also had Juneteenth. But transforming Rockford the way we envisioned it will give substance to Juneteenth, not symbolism. I close by acquainting some of you non-black people with some parts of the black national anthem and reacquainting all of the black people with it. Stony the road we tried, bitter the chastening rod.
 felt in the days when hope unborn had died. Yet with a steady beat have not our weary feet come to the place from which our fathers sat. Come to, we have come over the path through the blood of the slaughter. We have come over the path where our tears have been watered. Out from the gloomy past shall we now stand at last where the white gleam of our hope is cast. I love to hear this part, true to our God,
 true to our native land. It'll be interesting to see Roxford's response when the federal government comes and says, we're going to work with you guys. That $150 million is a mere pittance. Thank you. Next we'll move to new committee reports and go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 under planning and development committee item number one under new committee reports committee recommends approval of the amendment to the workforce development agreement between the city of rockford and lt construction to add additional funding up to 250 000 utilizing revenue replacement american rescue plan funds the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and i do make a motion to suspend rule 9 on this item
 We have a motion and we have a second. So we'll take a vote just to suspend rule nine first. So we have a motion and a second. Any discussion on just suspending rule nine? All those in favor of suspending rule nine say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. So now we'll bring the item before us. Is there any discussion on the item before us? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Item passes. Thank you.
 Next, there's nothing under code and regulation committee, so we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost Thank you, uh number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of nine million thirty three thousand two hundred and thirty Two dollars and forty seven cents as approved the finance personnel committee held on june 13 2022 number two the committee recommends approval of the release of liens to facilitate the sale of winnebago county trustee properties located at one one two six chestnut
 3013 Sewell Street, 3021 Sewell Street, 608 West Jefferson, and 1107 Elm Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the authority to hire a grant accountant. The starting pay is $57,034 with benefits. The position is estimated at a total of $83,486. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these three matters before you.
 Thank you. We have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Abstain on item two. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Aye. Item number one, 11 ayes. Item number two, 10 ayes. One abstain. Item three, 11 ayes.
 Thank you. Next, we'll go to officers' reports. Alderwoman Meeks. I hope you all can bear with me because I have a lot of thank yous to make really quick for my officers' report. Juneteenth, 2022 is 32 years of my father celebrating this holiday and this community celebrating this holiday in Rockford bringing people together. I'm so proud and thankful for every person behind the scenes who made it happen. Most importantly, my father, Tommy Meeks.
 And the forces behind the scenes, Martisha Brown and Austin Taylor, Harlan Jefferson, Beth Ann Beal for bringing Live at Lovings to Juneteenth, and the celebrity judges for Sunday's Best, Pastor Justin Francis, the wonderful Yolanda Penix, and the legendary Carl and Diana Cole. I want to thank Tony Turner with Conscious Coaching, bringing the black graduation to Juneteenth again this year, celebrating graduates of color and praising black educators and mentors. Thank you.
 And a huge thank you to Pastor Ronald Alexander and Reverend Kenneth Edward Copeland, who co-led services to open up Juneteenth on Sunday. It was a beautiful start to the day. Special thank you to Chief Carla Redd, who bared her whole soul for the Chautauqua Conversations about the journey it took to become the first black female chief of police.
 And thank you also to your mother, Dorothy Redd, County Board Chairman, for all of her years of service as well. Dorothy Pace-Turner, DJ Woody, and DJ AG, all the bands, including my own band, Groove Hotel, who joined me at Juneteenth for the last three years. All the entertainment that came through Saturday and Sunday to all the vendors, Oak Street Health, NAACP, TNC Cooking Creations, TNT Funnel Cakes, Hello Beautiful,
 Leticia Wallace and friends and so many more that brought their organizations to the park. Congratulations, I'm sorry this is a lot guys. Congratulations to this year's Juneteenth Princess and Queen
 Beautiful inside and out. You guys have to see these pictures. They look like Disney princesses. They're fantastic. Queen Kavasia Thomas, Juneteenth Princess Desiree Lofton, and Little Miss Princess Demaya Lofton. And a huge thank you to the Rockford Park District for partnering with my father for decades and every year making this holiday a priority in our community.
 Bill Houtkamp, Sound Team, everyone coming together to celebrate Juneteenth the way we do each year, paying tribute to the emancipation of enslaved people and celebrating the advancement of an oppressed culture despite. This brings pride to my heart, especially seeing people of all cultures coming together on this day. And I thank everyone who came out, and I look forward to seeing everybody next year. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Other reports, Alderwoman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. First of all, thank you for that proclamation for a league of their own. And I just want to remind everybody that we passed these out last week. And on the back, it has all the events coming up. And if you happen to have $100 that you don't know what to do with, we do have...
 the Suds Bucket Bash, and you can still get in Friday night, July 1st. We'd love to have you. And next, I would really like to say thank you to Alderman Torino, because she's the one who brought up about adding a woman to the LT construction. And as a member of AAUW, I have to thank you from the bottom of my heart for giving a woman a chance. Thank you.
 Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Rose and Alderman Bonney. Alderman Meeks deserves a big thank you for all the work she puts on with her father in the Juneteenth celebration. And I know that your father has been doing that for, what, 30 years? It's just a huge...
 impact in our community and it needs to be recognized more. And I wanted to say thank you because so many Rockfordians benefit from that celebration and the understanding of our real history.
 But I also wanted to just give a big thanks to John Groh's team and the creative for the work that they've done along Main Street and Maya. Those two big murals that have come in, people are already raving about them. And it's just something that when you drive by and you see that cities that have murals like that, it makes you feel like things are changing in our community. And it's great to...
 be a part of that a small little piece of that absolutely thank you thank you mayor I just wanted to congratulate the organizers of the Rockford area or the Rockford Association for minority management scholarship banquet that I had the privilege with alderman Wilkins of attending on Friday night and I
 i had not been to that to that event in a number of years and it's easy to forget how uplifting it is if you've never been you should go and um uh personally uh i mean uh the pr the ram president uh angela hay carter is uh i've known for a number of years as well as becky cook kendall who's been involved with the event i believe since its inception and um
 On top of all that, the keynote speaker was our own Director Parham, who, I mean, speech had it all. We laughed, we cried. She left us with a quote from Elon Musk, a challenge not to be the person who needs to die off. I'll let everybody Google that to see if they figure out what that means and how it might apply to them. My only criticism was in all of the avalanche of
 that she failed to mention that she's a proud resident of the 14th Ward. I guess it wasn't so germane to the audience, but it was a great night. 28 scholars were honored and it is, you know, it was just a really good event, very well done, and I would just congratulate everybody.
 I also wanted to circle back to the issue from the last council meeting that Alderman Beach raised about panhandling. And sort of off the top of my head, I suggested that we as a council might consider an anti-panhandling media campaign of some kind. And I would like to reiterate that because since Alderman Beach brought that up two weeks ago,
 I've had some other inquiries about what the city is doing about this from other public office holders and personally had actually somebody in in the left turn lane holding off traffic or the right turn lane at Alpine and State holding off traffic while moving cart car to car like and
 It just seems so obvious that if we could educate people, as Allerman Thunberg had said, you know, that there's not a need to do this and if we cut off the supply, you know, that that's really the way to curtail it. And the signs are a good step, but probably not enough. I don't think anybody would think that they're enough. And we've invested taxpayer money in other promotional campaigns.
 I think that this would be a worthy investment and if we could you know get people in the community talking about how how we can all address the problem by not supporting the panhandlers that you know eventually supply and demand supply goes away maybe that's you know that's how we that's the only way to solve the problem potentially so alderman
 Do you have anything else? No. I'll just repeat. Alderman Beach gave a couple of different ideas as part of, I'll call it a campaign. I don't know if you use that term. But we are quoting out those ideas now. So if you have ideas, bring them forward. But I agree with you. The one thing that will stop is people stop giving them money. Alderman Torino.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to start off by thanking, oh, he's walking out, but I definitely want to go on record by thanking LT Construction for the amazing work that they did in my ward. So I'd be remiss if I didn't recognize it. They really did a beautiful job. We have some extremely happy residents. And again, just getting people jobs, giving people skills. It's just an amazing thing. So I'm so happy that they were involved in that project and that we're
 continue to work for them to just echo alderman Rosa's statements another amazing thing in my ward is that awesome mural by Anthony Llewellyn I feel like it was such a perfect marriage of
 the artist, his style with just like what they do in Community Solutions. It really was like just a perfect juxtaposition. And it just it really shows artistically and visually. It really came out amazing. So and you can literally you're at you can be at the corner of 310 North Main and Chestnut and you can see it right right there. You can you can already see it just from downtown.
 you can see the mural from really far away so you know you're just kind of driving into greatness so it's really really cool um and i just want to recognize uh the 40 under 40 um the ceremony is tonight we've kind of been seeing some announcements but they will just officially launch the entire list tomorrow so i just want to congratulate all of the individuals that were awarded um our very own kyle saunders of course
 i was one of those recipients um i did have the pleasure as a former 40 under 40 to be on the committee so i was able to kind of have a hand in choosing some of those people so i'm really um just proud of
 all those young leaders in this community that really just show a great example that there's just like we're next it's it's it's about young people taking over next and um the next generation of leadership in the city stepping up so i'm really excited to uh just honor those individuals and of course i'd be remiss if i did not mention camera muhammad who happens to be my niece so congratulations to her um that's all thank you
 Thank you. Another city employee, Annie Hobson, is also one of the 40 under 40. So we are very fortunate. Thank you for mentioning her. Alderman Toomberg. Thank you, Mayor. I look forward to Alderman Bonney getting on my babysitter list so I can attend some of those events that he was talking about. So I have that opportunity. So Mission to Mercy. I told my brother Perry that...
 I'd give a shout out to it. Many people ask what is Mission to Mercy and there is going to be July 22nd and 23rd. 100 chairs and they're going to see about 2,000 patients. It's free dental care. My brother's on the board there and was instrumental on getting it here to Rockford so I'll toot his horn a little bit.
 But there will be dentists coming from all over the state of Illinois. The Embassy Suites downtown is the host hotel. It will be at the UW Sports Center. They are providing over $1.5 million of free dental care to really aim towards those socioeconomically challenged and need dentistry.
 serious dental care. So there'll be everything from filling of teeth to extractions, things that I don't really care to be around. But yes, so keep that in mind to any constituents, people that you know that are in need of dental care and just aren't able to get it many times.
 in whatever situation they're in. So July 22nd, 23rd, Mission of Mercy.
 It's really a remarkable organization. We're fortunate in large part to your brother to have it in our community. If you could share or have him email us a flyer, I'll make sure everyone here gets in and we push it as well. It's awesome. So thank you. Sure. If he knew his horn was going to be tooted tonight, he's probably watching right now. And so you heard that, Perry. Listen to the mayor. Well, after all, Perry, you're still a Toonberg.
 All right. Alderman Wilkins.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I was going to talk about the RAM banquet as well. I will only just add, in addition to what Alderman Bonney stated, a special thank you to Ms. Cherise Hunter and Ms. Carla Redd. They did a phenomenal job handling things behind the scenes and making sure everything just ran smoothly. So I just wanted to make sure that they were thanked as well, in addition to the phenomenal job Ms. Parham did with her keynote speaker address. So thank you.
 thank you any other reports we're moving on all right new committee reports uh i'm sorry no motions and resolutions we will go to planning and development alderman meeks thank you your honor under planning and development item number one community relations commission recommends approval of the 150 000 rockford regrow grant award to youth education and equity center and this item was laid over from june 6 2022.
 Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Toonberg. Frost. Tarina. Frunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Ten ayes, one no. Thank you. Next we'll go to Alderwoman Tarina for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under codes and regulations committee item number one the committee recommends approval of the Chow Down Food Truck Festival. This event is scheduled for July 23rd from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. The event location will be 3915 East State Street, the old Magna parking lot. Do y'all remember Magna? I do.
 I was young. Item number two, committee recommends approval of the St. Edward's Annual Summer Fest. This event is scheduled for July 31st from 11 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. The event location will be at St. Edward's Catholic Church located at 3004 11th Street.
 Item number three, the committee recommends approval of the Labor Day Parade and IDOT resolution. This event is scheduled for September 5th from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Road closures will begin at 9 a.m. The parade route will be as follows. 7th Street at Railroad Avenue, north to East State Street, west to Wyman Street, south to Chestnut Street, ending at the Davis Park entrance.
 Item number four the committee recommends approval of the block 5 truck and tunes the coordinate the coordinator of this event has made a request To change the following date from July 6 to July 13th. The event will be from 3 p.m. To 10 p.m the event location will be at the corner of Walnut and North 2nd Street Old City body lot and There's a suspend rule 9. So I'd like to make a motion to suspend rule 9. We have a second I
 We have a motion. We have a second to suspend rule. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to suspend rule nine on item four. So we'll just take that one piece of it first. So all those in favor of suspending rule nine on item four, say aye. Aye. Those who are opposed, same. Okay. So now we have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. Okay. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, and that will go to Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the demolition group 22 to Northern Illinois Service in the amount of $60,530 for the demolition of 532 Indian Avenue, 920 Kent Street, 949 South 3rd Street, and 1615 5th, I'm sorry, 9th Avenue, the
 The funding source is Illinois Housing Development Authority, Ida Strong Communities Program. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the architectural and mechanical for the 2022-23 weatherization program to total plumbing and heating. For an estimated annual contract of $929,324. The contract duration is one year with one possible one year extension. The funding source is the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Office of Energy Assistance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid to Gateway Landscaping to Langston Group of Woodstock, Illinois, for an estimated annual contract amount of $40,852. The contract duration is through December 31, 2022, with four possible one-year annual extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered contract renewal only. The funding source is the Street Division Operating Budget.
 number four the committee recommends approval of the award bid for the buck creek bank stabilization west of 7th street to showstrom and sons in the amount of 111 270.50 the project is estimated to be completed by september 6 2022 the funding source is the cip general fund
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of contract for the citywide heavy-duty fleet purchases to Lakeside International in the amount of $2,825,300. The aerial bucket truck is awarded to Drake Scrubs Equipment of Springfield in the amount of $140,111.20. Thank you.
 The funding source is the Street and Traffic Division and the Water Fund Operating Budgets. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the Award of Engineering Agreement for Phase 2 Whitman Street Rehabilitation, the IMAG of Rockford, in the amount of $411,011.84. The contract duration is through 2023. The funding source is 1% infrastructure sales tax.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for firewall replacement and upgrades to ARCON of Chicago in the amount of $126,255.70. The contract duration is one year with an optional annual renewals. The funding source is the Information Technology Fund.
 Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for the Health and Human Services Playground Project, Fairgrounds Playground Reservicing to Woodfield Homes of Rock for the amount of $99,870. The funding source is the federal Head Start grant. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the rejection of the proposals to take new proposals for Stormwater Master Plan and Stormwater Management Ordinance Update. The department will modify the request to allow for a larger group of qualified vendors.
 I place these nine matters before you. Oh, I missed a page? I did. Wishful thinking. We'll take those nine, but we'll ask for a few more here. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the resolution to take proposals for fire protection systems data program. The proposed system will require data entry on behalf of the contractor or property owner, and the system will send email reminders when service is due. The program will ensure properties, alarms, and suppression systems are inspected properly before,
 and that the documentation is accurate. Number 11, the committee recommends approval acceptance of the AARP Community Challenge Grant Award in the amount of $25,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from June 29, 2022 to December 31, 2022. The grant focuses on improving the safety for homeowners 50 and above who are a dominant demographic in our neighborhood improvement initiative focus area.
 Number 12 is an approval of engineering agreement for the 15th Avenue improvements to HR Green of McHenry in the amount of $237,814. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account and the 1% infrastructure sales tax.
 number 13 is a warrant of bid for the 15th avenue improvements to northern service of rockford amount of three million nine hundred and fifty nine thousand five hundred and fifty four dollars and fifty nine cents the project is estimated completed by november 18 2022 the funding source of the one percent infrastructure sales tax the water replacement improvement account and the ford river sanitation authority number 14 is the acceptance of modification of the pc accepted
 DCO LIHEAP state supplemental grant award for an additional $2,477,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is extended from July 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022. The funds will pay for approved clients electric and or heating bills, energy usage, education, staff training, payroll and administration. I place those 14 minutes for you.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Council, we have 14 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 14 items? Alderman Thunberg? Thank you, Mayor. Number six on the Whitman Street rehabilitation, if Director Saunders could just do a quick reminder of, and I appreciate this getting into Phase 2, that's terrific news, when the work will begin, if things go as planned,
 when do we expect the the actual work to begin and then finish up approximate
 Alderman Thunberg this is slated right now in our five-year CIP for 2024 this is a pretty large scale project if you remember the extents are from roughly Church Street to Underwood so just west of Kilburn this is going to involve full reconstruction and a heck of a lot of work out there so right now we're anticipating that this will likely span two construction seasons with the majority of that work occurring in 2024 and then spilling it at 2025 all right perfect thank you
 Thank you good question all older woman Trina. Thank you your honor. I have a question on item number 13 for director Saunders, please Just really quick question. And if you don't know I could always get the answer from Mr. Hankins, but just uh Can you tell us what the span of the project is? I know it starts at Nelson. Do you how far does it go? Yeah, it's going to extend all the way to kishwaukee street. It's walking street. Thank you so much. I
 Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. With the number of projects on the agenda tonight that we're awarding bids on that where the funds are coming from the 1% infrastructure sales tax, I was wondering when we're going to see Mulford and Alpine Road actually become projects in fruition. Mr. Saunders? Yes.
 so I think two-part question one Alpine Road I know I've had various conversations with probably just about everyone around the horn here whether it be the north portion the south portion you know certainly we had some very fruitful conversations late last fall with representatives from the state of Illinois really trying to focus on that southern portion
 namely between Broadway and Harrison but certainly extending further south all the way to bypass 20 there it's our understanding that the Office of Programming and Planning has
 program some funding to start preliminary engineering on Alpine, trying to work through what that looks like because it is a state funded project. So we'll be working through that. North Alpine, I know Alderman Meeks has called several times about the joints and obviously some of the concerns that that's presenting. Right now the focus is on the southern portion and trying to address the areas that are quite frankly some of the worst condition roads in Rockford. So that's our primary focus.
 Short answer to a long question or vice versa, that project development is going to take some time. Understanding that it currently is under the jurisdiction of the state of Illinois, whether there's a jurisdictional transfer contemplated and just kind of stepping through phase one, phase two and then ultimately going out to bid, we still do have a couple years ahead of us before we're gonna be in that spot.
 Mulford Road, I know that's near and dear to your heart. We have, over the last couple of years, programmed some both winter repairs from the asphalt as well as some joint repairs. I know we have some additional repairs that we're going to be programming. Quite frankly, when you look at the total landscape, I know traffic volumes certainly support Mulford being one of our most traveled areas. We're looking at are there other creative treatments outside of just full reconstructs
 I know the state's had some success with, you know, milling down the first couple layers and then looking at joint treatments to kind of make that a little bit more palatable. Our team's looking at it. You know, quite frankly, it's going to be balancing, obviously, all of the projects. So we've hit it in the short term, and I know Tim and Ken and our engineering team is looking at some long-term treatments for Mulford. So I know it's a really long, drawn-out answer, but...
 I can also just add, I think we're in agreement on this is we're getting some movement from the state, specifically on the south portion of Alpine, but even that movement is incredibly slow. I mean, the timelines that they initially have put out are just not acceptable. So we're going to continue to go back to the state. Other questions?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Tumberg. Aye. Frost. No on 3, 6, 12, 13. Aye on the remainder. Tarina. Puente. Wilkins. Abstaining on 11. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. I'm not Rose. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. Aye.
 Item number one and two, 11 ayes. Item three, 10 ayes, one no. Items four and five, 11 ayes. Item six, 10 ayes, one no. Item seven through 11, 11 ayes. Item 12, 13, I'm sorry. Item seven through 10, 11 ayes. Number 11 is 10 ayes, one abstain. 12 and 13, 10 ayes, one no. And 14 is 11 ayes. Thank you, Chair. Bye, everyone.
 Next, we'll move to new business planning and development committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, your honor.
 Item number one, an ordinance approving the amendment to the Workforce Development Agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction to add additional funding up to $250,000 utilizing revenue replacement American Rescue Plan funds. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, can you please call the roll? Alderman Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye.
 Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bonney? Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the release of lien to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties located at 1126 Chestnut Street, 3013 Sewell Street, 3021 Sewell Street, 608 West Jefferson and 1107 Elm Street. Number two is an ordinance approving the authority to hire a grant accountant. The starting pay is $57,334 and with benefits the position is estimated to be at approximately $83,486.
 I place these two matters before you. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. 7-0-1. Aye. Frente. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Me. Bonney. Aye.
 Item number one, 10 ayes, 1 abstain. Item two, 11 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion and we have a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night.