Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. We have one item that's up for passage. I'd like to, under resolutions, discuss that, and then if anybody had any brief officers' reports they wanted to give before we adjourn. The resolution that's up for passage is regarding the stadium lounge fan appreciation day. Alderman Shkreli, do you want to take that? Sure. Thank you.
 I have a resolution for a special event and ask permit for the stadium lounge fan appreciation date scheduled for June 27, 2015 from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. located at 160 15th Avenue. Place that up for passage, Your Honor. Item under Roman numeral 2 resolutions having to do with stadium lounge fan appreciation date is up for passage. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, I'm sorry, I'm in town. Scali, do you have your hand up? Is there any state financial support? Is there any city's financial support? I don't believe so. Any financial support from the city on this item? No. Hearing no further discussion, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven. Thank you. Before we adjourn, I just want to give any council members who wanted to make any officers' reports a chance to do so. Ellen McNeely? No, no. I'm sorry.
 So I've just got one official item I want to refer, which is going to lay over for 30 days two library board appointments to replace two members whose terms have expired. Molly Bronze and Brad England would be replacing Margie Veach and Jeffrey Glass, whose terms will expire at the end of the month. Pursuant to council rule, that will lay over. Their resumes will follow.
 I also just wanted to make a quick but important note and would just ask everyone, so everyone either was at that meeting last week or heard about the meeting that we had regarding New Town affordable housing development proposal. Having been there and having been through several very tough meetings in my time as Mayor, I can tell you that was amongst the very toughest.
 and most challenging. Officially, I am not taking a position, nor are we as a council instructed to take positions on the ultimate merits of a pending zoning application before the council, and so I just want to make very clear my comments aren't about the pending proposal. My comments are about the conduct and the nature of the atmosphere that was very hostile and not one of respect and mutual
 compassion. So I would just ask as we continue to navigate very challenging issues that I don't want to belittle. I know they're very important and challenging issues, but just ask that the community support us in being as respectful as we can, understanding that everyone involved has a right to be heard. So I have any further officers' reports? Hearing none, is there a motion to adjourn? Second. Second to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you.