of Christ United Methodist Church. Oh, right there. There's a microphone right there. Okay, thank you. Let us pray.
 Holy God, we ask you to bless the city of Rockford and these council members who represent it. May this meeting be carried out in a spirit of cooperation and community spirit. Help the members to listen to one another, learn from one another, and work for justice. May the common good guide all deliberations, especially with respect to the most vulnerable. In your holy name we pray. Amen. Allegiance to the flag.
 of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Urbans. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. McNeely. Here. Chiarelli. Here. Ten present. Alderman Quinones is here.
 11 present 11 present so we have a quorum uh this evening is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings so we have a motion and second for the approval of the journal proceedings for city council meeting on june 18 2018 is there any discussion seeing no discussion clerk will you please uh actually you don't need to do that i'm sorry all those in favor say aye all those opposed
 It passes. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting on June 25th, 2018? There's a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have proclamations, and there are no proclamations this evening, so I will turn my chair over to Alderman Chiarelli so he can conduct a public hearing. Good evening, everybody.
 I'm hosting a public hearing tonight Pursuant the 65, Illinois compiled statutes 511 dash 15 1 through 3 for the pre annexation agreement for the following property 69 69 South Main Street Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre annexation agreement? Are there any questions or are there any comments from the public? Please raise your hand seeing none. This hearing is closed. I
 I think Alderman Shirelli runs a very efficient hearing. Bear with me one second. Next up, we have Petitions and Communications. Alderman Rose for Planning and Development. Your Honor, we have a memorandum from Andrea Heinrich, Housing Rehabilitation Specialist regarding Development Assistance Agreement with Zion Development Corporation for 512 College Avenue, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you. Next up, we have Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, your honor. Got four items this evening. The first is the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on July 11, 2018 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration with the codes and regs committee meeting on July 23, 2018. The second is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, deputy operations manager regarding upcoming special events which include Tough Mudder, Festa Italiana, Greenwich,
 Village art fair dasher dash and stroll on state the third is memoranda from Scott Capovilla zoning and land-use administrator Regarding the plat of 827th Street subdivision And the fourth is a memorandum from Matthew Flores assistant city attorney regarding the proposed additions to chapter 26 of the code of ordinances to provide for the
 regulations and application for small wireless facilities all four of those items will be will be referred to the codes and regs committee your honor thank you next up we have alderman frost for finance and personnel thank you your honor first we have a memorandum from Mike Hackinson land transit transaction officer regarding the proposed sale of 3012 kishwaukee Street this is a matter to refer to the finance and personnel committee
 Second, we have a memorandum from Kerry Partridge, City Attorney, regarding an award of contract for online legal research services to LexisNexis. This matter will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we have public speakers. I just want to remind our public speakers that you'll have three minutes. Our first public speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 133rd chapter, the first verse, it says how good and pleasant it is when brothers live together in unity. What I want to speak about tonight lies about Hispanics. They say that there were no Hispanics to get the Medal of Honor in Vietnam. That is a lie. There were 17 to get the Medal of Honor in Vietnam. I'm going to name them tonight. One, John P.
 Becker, United States Army. Two, Roy Benavides, Army. Three, Emilio Garcia, Marine Corps. Ralph Diaz, Marine Corps. Daniel Fernandez, Army. Alfred Gonzalez, Marine Corps. Jose Jamez, Marine Corps. Miguel Keith, Marine Corps. Carlos Lozado, Army. Alfred Raskin, Army. Louis Rocco, Army. Euripius Rubio, Army. Edmund Smith, Army.
 Dr. Colin Army, J.R. Vargas Marine Corps, Hewitt versus Army, Maxim Yabiz Army. Also, they wanna tell state's attorney, Joe Picasso this for a long time. And I'm gonna get it off my chest tonight.
 I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friend. Happy birthday to you. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next public speaker we have this evening is Mr. John Taft-Brandley. Good evening there.
 MacMahon, Alderman, Alderman, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois.
 Proverbs 17 verses 27 and 28 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. It's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. It allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. It gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause and think and listen so that when you do speak, you have something important to say. Finishing off from last week, Trump hires rhetoric about Hispanic Muslims.
 and was one of his hallmarks of his campaign. Obama said the great thing about the United States is that we are a head start over dealing with the kind of setup compared to the rest of the world because we are a nation of immigrants.
 And remember on our American, on the Statue of Liberty that's in the harbor, it says, give me your tired, your poor, your humble masses, yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these to home as the temple talks to me. I will lift my lamp beside the golden door.
 in email of the shady are a nation occurs and that your ancestors came on a slave ship or you are a native american you came here to immigrant say jennifer we was at the march uh... stopped separating our family city hall uh... this past saturday there was less than twenty blacks at the march with almost one thousand people that came out no black speakers unless your ancestors came and and so forth you you you are
 You all here came as immigrants. What happened today is nothing new. White privilege did that to us during slavery and after slavery. We stood up against the Jim Crow law and during the Civil Rights Day. The law that was passed after and during Dr. Martin Luther King, they was doing that to us over 4,000 years.
 Thanks today to the social media today, more people are able to see what's going on around the world and right here in our country. We've been there and we're still going through what our dictator Donald Trump talked about making America great. Instead, he's tearing this country apart. Next time, we would like to be at the table. You are not alone.
 feel your pain because our parents been beaten raped and degraded I was there to win the big old County board meeting where at first we met where the first day I met Sarah day we both spoke out outside and at the board meeting about not wanting ice to use our County Jail as a warehouse for immigrants by the way we won that by working together st. Austin said the best
 An unjust law is no law at all. Before Christopher Columbus came by the way, he did not discover America. That's something I will talk about later. So we did join Sarah Day and others for the Children's March on Saturday. Geronimo, famous words were, the white man made as many promises, but he only kept one. He promised to take our land and he took it. Most of the states in the West. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Thank you.
 Thank you to our public speakers. Next up, we have a new committee report with codes and regulations. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. First, as a committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval for a no parking restriction from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the west side of 12th Street.
 From State Street to 2nd Avenue, thus repealing the existing no parking from 8 AM to 5 PM on the west side of 12th Street from 2nd Avenue. 220 feet north of 2nd Avenue. The second, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for a no parking restriction from 7 AM to 4 PM on the east side of 12th Street from State Street to 100 feet south of State Street.
 The third, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for a no parking restriction from 7 AM to 4 PM on both sides of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 220 feet west of 12th Street.
 The fourth, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for a no parking restriction from 7 AM to 4 PM on the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 100 feet east of 12th Street. Thus repealing the existing two hour parking on the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 100 feet east of 12th Street. Okay, the fifth- You still got about three pages left. Thank you, Your Honor.
 anybody got air in this place the fifth the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval
 That traffic on Greenwood Avenue be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of London Avenue. Sixth, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following item. Request an established two hour parking on both sides of East State Street from Madison Street to First Street. Thus repealing the existing one hour parking restriction on East State Street from Madison Street to First Street.
 The seventh item, your honor, has been requested by the applicant to hold this out this evening. So that will be read in at the next full city council meeting.
 Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor and for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an Acre Business Enterprise, a distillery and a single family residence in rural estate zoning district at 6969 South Main Street and 6969 Main Street, the applicant Addie Marie Ford, Barnstormer Distilleries, subject to conditions.
 Number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the gas station. And the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store. And a C3 zoning district at 6874 Weaver Road. Calico 5 Incorporated, corner market shell is the applicant subject to amended conditions.
 Number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's board approval for the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in a C2 zoning district at 3135 North Rockton Avenue.
 Ger render color GP petroleum Inc is the applicant subject to conditions number 11 The committee recommends sustaining the LTAPs approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the retail store in a c2 zoning district At 44 37 East State Street Jeremy Petrocelli vape and juice is incorporated as the applicant subject to conditions number 12, correct, you're doing a great job a
 Just making sure, just buying me some time here. Number 12, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the manufacturing offices and retail in a C3 zoning district at 3224 South Alpine Road, Jeremy Petrocelli applicant, subject to conditions. Number 13, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and
 Video gaming facility in a C3 zoning district at 7425 East State Street. John Hassett, Pinewoods Restaurant Group, Molly's Deli is the applicant, subject to amended conditions.
 Number 14, committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming facility with an outdoor seating area in a C2 zoning district at 3315 and 33XX North Main Street. John Hassett, Pine Woods Restaurant Group, Molly's Deli is the applicant, subject to amended conditions.
 Number 15, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a pre-annexation agreement. A zoning map amendment from County AG to RE Rural Estate Zoning District.
 The special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of a single family residence, a distillery, a tasting room, and retail shop, a barrel aging house, a high tunnel building with the facility tours, orchard, fruit, vineyards, and other accessory structures per the submitted site plan and site, parking and fencing plans with deviations from the regulations.
 at 69 69 south main street and 69 69 main road timothy ford addy ford are the applicants subject to conditions number 16 the committee recommends sustaining the zba's approval for a special use permit for community-based housing housing consisting of seven residents in an r1 single-family zoning district at 3711 time drive
 M. Shawn Way for Milestone Incorporated is the applicant, subject to conditions. Number 17, the committee recommends approval of the proposed revisions and additions to Chapter 29, Taxi Cabs and the Code of Ordinances. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances.
 number 18 the committee recommends approval of the proposed adoption of the reduced open space requirement that was amended in 2009 building code adoption cycle but was not included in the 2015 building code adoption cycle number 19 The committee recommends approval of the request to codify existing ordinance within the code of ordinances inoperable motor vehicle ordinance the legal director
 shall prepare all their appropriate ordinances, Your Honor, and I place all those committee reports up for passage. Thank you. Any aldermen need them to repeat any? So we have 19 items before us for codes and regulations. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli, for going through those. Is there any discussion on any of the 19 items before us?
 alderman hervey thank you i had a question primarily about an item that's not on here uh there was a charles street and it may have been because it was a no vote but so it's under the ordinances it's under the ordinances okay thank you thank you we have passed the committee it passed the report didn't have the eight votes last week understood yep i just wanted to explain it i'll wait till we get there though certainly um
 There is one other that I do have. With regard to item number 8, that's the distillery at 6916 South Main Street, Main Road. One of the questions I had asked of staff was why the item came to the city for rezoning under the city in a pre-annexation agreement,
 Rather than with the county and I was told it would have to have gone to heavy industrial one of the neighbors That is in opposition sent me a letter It was an email that responded to their question by I can't remember the person's name in the county if you give me one second I apologize. I can't tell the person's name right offhand but their basic their answer to the individuals is
 was that it could have been rezoned they would have been able to rezone it in the county by rezoning a portion of the property to general industrial not heavy industrial a portion to general commercial a portion to agriculture related business or a combination
 or even applying for a planned unit development. And if they had requested portions of it or applied for county PUD and the requests were approved, they could have lived on site, basically done everything they wanted to do. So now I'm confused as to why we've got a pre-annexation agreement if they could have achieved all the same things under the county.
 So what I can tell you, Alderman Hervey, is it was brought to us from the county, stating that they did not have the flexibility that they would have liked to have had in their zoning, and they brought that to us. And because we have a much more flexible zoning ordinance, we were able to make sure that this deal was able to come to fruition. So that email, I don't know who sent it or...
 Who who sent in or who who that person supervisor is or any of the information surrounding it? So I couldn't speak to the details of that But I can just speak from my interactions with the the county staff and our staff's interactions with them Stating that they brought it to us because they didn't have the ability to do so at the county level Is there other further discussion on any of the one through 19 items? Allerman Beach. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. I had the same kind of concerns that's just been discussed here as to why the county could not have addressed it. I'm not sure the county board actually discussed it. And so not that it shouldn't happen, not that the distillery shouldn't take place.
 But the issue of the way in which it came down was a concern to me. I didn't realize that Alderman Hervey was going to say those words, but that was a concern to me that I addressed with our legal director this morning. Todd's gone on vacation. I talked with our zoning coordinator, Scott, and I just
 was concerned as to why the county board himself just like we as a council didn't get a chance to address the issue and maybe try to work it out as was suggested here a few months ago that's my only comment i felt i needed to say that on record thank you sir thank you um other discussion on any of the one through 19 items we have before us alderman harvey did you have a follow-up i didn't want to cut you off i guess it's not so much a follow-up as it is
 is there some kind of risk that we're assuming that the county didn't want and i apologize if i sound uh suspicious i don't mean it to sound that way but it just doesn't doesn't make any sense to me that if the county could have according to this and by the way it's lynn peterson i don't know who that is but it was copied to the county board office and dave kelly
 At the county, but it says planning and zoning at Winnebago County. So that's who it was from and it was in response to a question. So it's it's primarily answering the the the email from the the neighbors and their inquiry.
 it says they did not formally apply for a rezoning procedure with the county i mean i always just want to know why someone didn't do something if and according to this by the county they could have accomplished all of the same things living on the property all of those things and i guess they originally talked about a wedding facility but my understanding is they're not doing a wedding wedding facility
 Just want to make sure there's not something that the city is assuming as either a risk or a liability that we're We're not aware of and and you know, I just always ask people Why don't why don't you take the easier route now? You've got a pre annexation agreement higher taxes once you come into the cat into the city. Well, welcome I had I was gonna say I'll take the money but I still want to know why because I on a serious note
 We aren't taking on any other risk or liabilities doing this. I think when you mentioned they should have taken the easier route, they probably are. And good for us that we have a code that's far more flexible for their uses, and I think we're able to accommodate that. I can't speak to Lynn's comments, but I'll certainly follow up on it and find out who that person is and what was discussed. And I just repeat, I'm in favor of the project. That's not...
 what it's about so i'm not opposed to the project itself but certainly any other discussion on the 1 through 19 items seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll logeman frost hervey irvins seven sevens held out thompson kelly hoffman rose beach well i'll repeat those one more time for us please one through six is a yes
 11 and 12 is a yes. 15 through 19 is a yes. Remainder, no. Thank you. Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. Names 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 ayes. Number 7 was held out. Number 8, 9, 10. 10 ayes, 1 no. 11, 12, 2, I'm sorry, 11 ayes. 13, 14, 12.
 10 ayes, 1 no. 15, 16. 11 ayes, 17. 10 ayes, 1 no. 18 and 19. 11 ayes. Thank you so much. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. The Finance and Personnel Committee has number one. The committee recommends approval of the vouchers and the amount of...
 $6,568,715.42 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on June 26, 2018.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the request for a waiver of a portion of the 20% non-federal match required by the office of Head Start. For Head Start and Early Head Start program operations during the fiscal year April 1, 2017 through March 31, 2018. The total waiver request recommended is $250,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the authorization for payment of reimbursement to the Illinois Department of Community and Economic Opportunity, known as DCEO, for remittance to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in the amount of $305,287. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there a discussion on any of the three items? Alderman Hervey. Do we have the option to pay...
 the repayment instead of submitting that to DECO through the state to repay that directly to the Department of Health and Human Services. My concern being if the money is not specifically earmarked or encumbered in some way that it gets tied up in the state fiscal issues in some way. I just want to make sure the money goes in and comes back out before there's any penalties or interest charge.
 So how do we control that or monitor that? Director Davis? So Alderman Hervey, I can tell you that in our discussions about how this
 that that would be one of the areas that we really need to pin down before we would actually transfer any money to the state. Is exactly what it implies about any potential interest risks to the city or making sure that we have a final sign off that our obligation has been met.
 that wouldn't encumber us going forward, but we haven't yet reached that phase. We have asked them, they've asked for an extension from the federal government on their own behalf. Technically, the finding is against the state and for them to repay the funds. So I don't know if we have the option of ourselves paying HHS directly as a city organization, but we do have to address those questions with the state.
 And we have not come to any final terms as to exactly how these funds would be paid back. But all of those would be areas that we would have to address with them before we come to some final agreement. Yes, yes Alderman, absolutely. Before we take any steps, the legal department will be fully engaged. They've been engaged in the conversation with the state so far. But we haven't really kind of nailed down the exact terms.
 Thank you. Is there further? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Do we have any delayed payments? Does it all have to be made in this year? Can it be made over two years, three years? And when will the interest charge be known to us so we can factor that in?
 So my understanding is that we actually have made it so that we have a potential to have it in two of our fiscal years within 12 months but two of our fiscal years uh the question that we have is about that interest rate and somewhat similar to what director davis stated we have to make sure that we do once this is approved we're going to do the due diligence so that we can avoid as much interest as possible uh and make sure that we have the fund balances in place so may i have a follow-up of course so that um let's just
 Let's just say that we don't recover any money from any other of those involved, and we have it all on our responsibility. You're saying that part of it's going to come out yet this year, and part of it's going to come out next year? It potentially could. I see.
 Our question right now is if we want to avoid paying the interest. I believe if I remember correctly Director Eklund the interest rate was about 10% Director Davis and so we're trying to avoid that as much as possible So we're gonna do whatever is the cheapest Avenue for us to get the money to the proper sources without costing us any additional revenue then then the staff and the staff that is going to try to collect a
 part of this payment back from at least a couple of the other agencies involved. Is that correct? That is going to be our efforts. Thank you, sir. No problem. Thank you. Is there further discussion on the three items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Ogeman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 11 ice. Thank you those items pass next up. We have officers reports and I just a couple from me I just want to make sure that all of you are aware. I think you received an email from staff today that our garbage is Gonna be delayed One day due to the the holiday This week and also want to make sure that you're aware that the parade steps off at 7 p.m. and fireworks are scheduled to start at 930 and
 And I had one other announcement that my phone is not updating for, so I will turn it over to you guys.
 do one more in a second alderman thompson kelly thank you your honor um i just want to pass on to the residents of the community the fireworks has already started in the community um in the streets uh very loud um and please be patient because our police department cannot respond to all the all of them uh i would hope that they would be more respectful and not
 let fireworks off in the middle of the street for safety precautions. Hopefully they will adhere to that because last year we had a serious problem of fireworks being done in the streets of the city, and that's very dangerous.
 The other thing I want to thank Mark Stockton and the Public Works Department for the update with IDOT on West 8th Street. Happy to hear that it's moving quite along quite well. I do appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. Peaches, they're going to be playing tomorrow night against the RVC.
 um wait a minute it's the peaches vintage team against the rock valley college baseball all stars i'm sorry little print having a problem here um it's at 6 p.m at the rvc baseball diamond and people will be able to get
 beaches, memorabilia there. And I also want to take a moment and thank the Carpenters Union and the Painters Union. They just installed a little library at Rolling Green School that is adorable. It looks like a little Fisher-Price red barn, and the kids are just loving it. And...
 They gave a little talk while they were putting it in to the girls that were watching, and they told them how they could become union members when they grow up. Excellent. Alderman Rose.
 Just real quick, this month the Northwest Neighborhood Association and the NESNA groups will not be meeting. So for those residents in those two neighborhoods, there will not be a neighborhood meeting. I just wanted to wish our staff and all the aldermen and the residents here a happy Fourth of July.
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey, did you have your hand raised? Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Just wanted people to know the Morgan Street Bridge will be closed for the fireworks again this year. The information I saw said it may close as early as 1 p.m. to get all that set up.
 With all three bridges headed into downtown closed. I wanted to ask if staff would be very careful that we don't accidentally cut people off that happened one year. I mean, people had to go way around to be able to get into downtown then they had to go through downtown where we had a lot of streets cut off. It was just very frustrating. So there is no good way for people to get.
 um East to east and and more it's east to east in that area But also a lot of people going west will go that way because chestnut Is closed off and then you start hitting all the narrow streets So if we could just be be mindful of that, but morgan street bridge will close At about one o'clock p.m. But we'll be open to pedestrians and um Lawn chairs and everything else for the fourth. Thank you. Thank you. Is there uh,
 did you want to follow up from public works right now no just to ask that they take a second look it was accidental and after it was over everybody said oops but just to take make sure we make sure there's a good route to get through certainly other uh officers reports
 So one I failed to mention earlier was tomorrow evening at the Mississippi Music Shell, the Rockford Concert Band will be performing a concert featuring patriotic music. It will begin at 7 p.m. and last about an hour and a half. At the intermission, there will be a flag parade for the children that are present.
 And also at the beginning, songs of all the various military branches will be played to honor the military personnel present and not present. If you would like more information, it's certainly a concert that is well attended. But if you'd like more information, please visit the Rockford Park District's website. Okay, moving on. Unfinished business. We have nothing under planning and development. Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First is the Traffic Commission Report. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation of no action for the following items. Request to establish a two-way stop control at the intersection of Arthur Avenue and North Day Avenue, with Arthur Avenue stopping for North Day Avenue, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Arthur Avenue yielding for North Day Avenue.
 and b the request to establish traffic control of jefferson street stopping for soper avenue thus repealing the existing traffic control of jefferson street yielding to soper avenue place those two items up for passage your honor excellent we have two items alderman thompson kelly thank you your honor um i would like to speak to both of these items they're both in the seventh ward and this come a request from meeting with the residents um in the community that is requested that requested
 the two-way stop signs at the intersections. You know, the Traffic Commission does a very good job of looking at warrants and looking at issues very closely. But the residents of the community with the schools in the close and summer school and the children there and the traffic and the buses that's in this area, they've had a couple near misses and with the children playing in the area.
 And I don't like to go against our traffic commission when I can't see a reason why, but I think
 Waiting on warrants and accidents to happen in order to justify putting a stop sign up I think is pretty ridiculous when the children's safety is at stake So I'm going to ask the reverse of these two items a and B on North Day Avenue for an Arthur Avenue as well as Jefferson Street and Soper Avenue that we reverse the actions of the traffic commission and
 Thank you. So just so I'm clear you would like to make a motion to make the state that we are approving Exactly, and I understand it does require ten votes. Okay, so is there a second to that motion? We have a second is there discussion? Let's just take this motion first and then I'll go back to the rest of the items. Is there a alderman? alderman McNeely
 I'm sorry mayor mr. Mayor, but item B Jefferson Street and sopers in my ward and I know that alderman Thompson Kelly Has been very good at addressing Traffic signals not only in her ward, but my ward as well however I can't speak so much for North Day and author but for soper and Jefferson I don't believe that
 Jefferson needs to stop for SOPR. So I would ask my colleagues not to support an amendment for B. And I would ask my colleague Alderman Thompson-Kelly to remove B from your request.
 Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Galley? Alderman McNeely, I'm only doing the request of the residents that requested of me to do that. And I do appreciate your comments on it, and you're concerned on it. I gave my word, and I'm going to have to stick with my word. Understood. Alderman Hervey? Thank you.
 i just want to make sure i understand what we're doing the traffic commission there there's currently a two-way stop at both intersections yeah so the motion is to have the opposite traffic stop it wouldn't be a four-way stop it's still going to be a two-way stop alderman tops and kelly you do want to clearly state your amendment they're yale signs they're not stop signs right now there's yield signs not stop signs and i'm asking for stop signs
 so right now there's yield signs alderman thompson kelly would like there to be placed uh two-way stop signs right okay any okay alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor jeff at jefferson and soper jefferson street is the main street soper dead's in at jefferson currently there is no stop sign
 for at Jefferson for SOPR or vice versa. So given that Jefferson Street is the main street, I think we will cause more confusion by having Jefferson stop for SOPR, which is a dead end at Jefferson Street.
 And I certainly respect you wanting to be committed to my constituents. But I would prefer that my constituent give me a call and address this issue. So I'm going to ask that this item be laid over. Part B. There's a motion to, I guess I'd ask our legal director. So I have a motion on the floor to amend.
 Item B 1 a and B There was motion in a second now. I have a motion to Lay over are you asking just so I'm clear just to be you would like for B Would like item B just laid over so I would need a second to lay over that item B, correct? I
 Your Honor, I will amend my motion just for item A and not B, because I will have the residents to call Alderman McNeely. Perfect. Would that suffice you, Alderman McNeely? Yes. Thank you. Okay. Well done, legal director.
 So will you please restate your amendment just so everyone's clear on it since it's now changed? I would like to reverse the no action from the Traffic Commission for a two-way stop sign control for North Day Avenue and Arthur Avenue, item B1A.
 Thank you. So is there a there was a motion? Is there a second for Alderman Thompson Kelly's amendment? All right. So now we have a motion. We have a second. Is there any further discussion on this revised amendment? Seeing no further discussion, we're going to simply do a voice vote on this amendment. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed say no. All right. Alderman Thompson Kelly's motion moves forward.
 So now we have before us one item that has been amended. Item A will be a two-way stop. Make sure I'm getting this right, Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Item A will be a two-way stop. Item B will be nothing different than what's on your agenda right now. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. No, Your Honor. I think Alderman McNeely requests that it be laid over. Okay. Thank you.
 We're done. Okay. So we're going to separate these two if it's okay with you. We're just going to approve item A that's been amended with Alderman Thompson-Kelly's request to make it a two-way stop, and then I'll come back to B if that's okay. Okay. Thank you. All right. Any further discussion on item B1A? Phew. All right. All those in favor of item B1A say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right. Motion passes unanimously.
 Next up, we have item B-1B. Is there a motion? Second. So we have a motion and a second to lay that item over. I believe that's all we need to lay that item over. Or has this the second time it's been laid? Second time. So we will need eight aldermen to vote yes to lay this item over. Clerk, or is there any discussion on this motion? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll to lay over item B-1B? Bogeman. Frost. Aye.
 Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely 11 eyes items laid over accent. We're gonna move right along to unfinished business and Our favorite this evening alderman Shirely With code and regular ahead a minute Okay, so it's
 An ordinance approving the sale of package, beer, and wine in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at an R1 single family residential zoning district at 3307 Charles Street. Mr. Patel doing business as Lyons Quick Mart is the applicant.
 Number two, the ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in an R1 single family zoning district at 3307 Charles Street. Mr. Patel, doing business as Lion's Quick Mart, is the applicant. Place those two items up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. So this is the item that was before us about a week ago. It's been on the agenda for some time. It was rightly pointed out that in all your documentation that you received, all the information was accurate except on the agenda there was a Scribner's error where it said packaged liquor, and it didn't just simply distill out that the item is only requesting just beer and wine, not liquor.
 So I want to make you aware of that. This is a simple sale from one owner to another. Did I, Alderman Hervey, did you have? And I just wanted to clarify, you already did, but they already have package or beer and wine. And it's just a transfer and historically we have not taken away someone's
 privileged to sell beer and wine they hadn't had any problems with selling to minors at at East High School and my objection was to the packaged liquor not to beer and wine so I'm in support and I would hope that everyone would give him that opportunity appreciate it thank you is there a discussion on items 9 B 1 and 2 seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll
 Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. On both. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Item number one, nine ayes, two noes. Item number two, eleven ayes. Excellent. The item passes. Thank you. Next up, we'll go back to Alderman Shirelli. Thank you. That's under motions and resolutions codes and regulations. Yes.
 Thank you, your honor. First is Tour de North End. The event will be held Saturday, July 28th at the Olympic Tavern from 11 AM to 7 PM. The second is the Labor Day Parade scheduled Monday, September 3rd from 10 AM till noon. The third is Head of the Rock Regatta scheduled for Sunday, October 14th at the YMCA from 7.30 AM to 4 PM. The fourth is the review of the city council closed session minutes.
 And number five is the pre-annexation agreement for 6969 South Main Street. That requires 10 votes, Your Honor. Place those resolutions up for passage. Excellent. So we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on the five items before us? I just want to make one more reminder that item five would need 10 votes, and we have 11 older than present. With that being said, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Frost. Aye. Aye.
 Herbie? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you, Hunter. Excellent. Item passes. Next up, we have Alderman Chiarelli. No, we don't. We have Alderman Frost with Finance and Personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an award of bid for the West 8th Street Phase 2 demolition package number one to N-TRAC group of Louse Park. The amount of $52,683. The funding source is sales tax, $13,107 from the city and the remainder from IDOT. Number two is an award of bid for a horizontal directional drilling of water service lines to Kirby Cable Services of Pecatonic, Illinois for an estimated annual.
 Value of $100,000 based on unit pricing the contract duration is one year with three one-year extensions The funding source is the water operating budget number three is an award of bid for a roof or fire station number four on Shaw was drive to schmaling construction of Rockford in the amount of $53,300 the funding source is the fire department operating budget. Thank you alderman frost So we have three items before us is there a discussion on these three? I?
 Any discussion on the three items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logerman? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Ervins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? McNeely? Chiarelli? 11 ayes. Excellent. All of those items passed. Next up we have codes and regulations. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First is an ordinance approving for a no parking restriction from 7 AM to 4 PM on the West side of 12th Street from State Street to 2nd Avenue. Thus repealing the existing no parking from 8 AM to 5 PM on the West side of 12th Street from 2nd Avenue to 220 feet north of 2nd Avenue. The second is an ordinance approving for no parking restriction from 7 AM to 4 PM on the East side of 12th Street from State Street to 100 feet south of State Street. The third is an ordinance approving.
 For no parking restriction at 7 AM to 4 PM on both sides of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 220 feet west of 12th Street. Fourth is an ordinance approving for no parking restriction from 7 AM to 4 PM on the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 100 feet east of 12th Street. Thus repealing the existing two-hour parking on the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 100 feet east of 12th Street.
 Number five is an ordinance approving the traffic on Greenwood Avenue to be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of London Avenue. Number six was held out, your honor. Number seven is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor and for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an agribusiness enterprise distillery at 6969 South Main Street and 6969 Main Street.
 Number eight is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store at 6874 Weaver Road number nine is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store at 6874 Weaver Road
 Number 10 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 3135 North Rockton Avenue. Number 11 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the retail store at 4437 East State Street. Number 12 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products
 in conjunction with manufacturing offices and retail at 3224 South Alpine Road. Number 13 is an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant. And video gaming at 7425 East State Street.
 Number 14 is an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming facility at 3315 and 33XX North Main Street. Number 15 is an ordinance approving the following, a pre-annexation agreement, zoning map amendment, a special use permit for planned unit development consisting of a single family residence or distillery, a tasting room, retail shop, barrel, aging house, high tunnel building with the
 facility tours, orchards, fruit vineyard, and other accessory structures at 6969 South Main Street and 6969 Main Road. Number 16 is an ordinance approving for a special use permit for community-based housing consisting of seven residents at 3711 Time Drive. Number 17 is an ordinance approving the revisions and additions to Chapter 29, the taxi cabs, and the code of ordinances.
 Number 18 is an ordinance approving the adoption of reduced open space requirement that was amended mended in 2009 building code Adoption cycle but was not included in 2015 building code adoption cycle Excuse me number 19 is an ordinance approving the request to codify existing ordinances within the code of ordinances inoperable motor vehicle ordinance your honor I placed those ordinances up for passage I
 Thank you Alderman Shirely. So we have 19 items before us. Is there a discussion on any of the 19 items? Seeing no discussion, clerk will you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. 17, aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirely.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 11 ayes. Item 6 was held out. Item 7, 8, 9, 10. 10 ayes, 1 no. 11, 12, 11 ayes. Item 13, 14, 15, 10 ayes, 1 no. 16, 11 ayes, 17, 10 ayes, 1 no. 18 and 19, 11 ayes. That's just really impressive. Thank you. All the items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Alderman Frost.
 Number one is an ordinance approving a request for a waiver of a portion of the 20% non-federal match required by the office of Head Start for Head Start and Early Head Start program operations during the fiscal year from April 1, 2017 through March 31, 2018. The total waiver request recommended is $250,000.
 Number two is an ordinance approving the authorization for payment for reimbursement to the only Department of Community and Economic Opportunity, known as DCEO, for remittance to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in the amount of $305,287. Your Honor, I would place those two matters before you at this time. Okay. So we're going to take the first two of the four items first. Is there any discussion on the first two items, C1 and 2? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye.
 Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. Mr. Governor, at this time I would make a motion that we adjourn into closed session to discuss labor negotiation matters. Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, I would need a clerk. Could you please call the roll? Logerman. Frost.
 Hervey, Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely. 11 ayes. Thank you. We will go into closed session. Logeman. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelley. Here. Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely. 9 present. 9 present.
 excellent so we have uh nine present uh alderman frost thank you your honor i would like to go back to uh number three and number four uh number three is an ordinance approving the ask me one zero five eight collective bargaining agreement for 2018 through 2020. do we need to suspend rules your honor or no yes we do all those in favor of suspending the rules uh wait one second i believe
 Yeah, we're new for both items. Are you going to read them both then? Yeah, this is 585D. Here it is. Director Myers, do we need ten votes to suspend the rules? Yes. Okay. Now that two other Alderman Rose and Alderman Hoffman have joined us, I would ask that their presence be known and that we suspend rules on both items, number three and number fours.
 Okay, we have a motion in a second Do I need to have a roller voice all those in favor say aye aye those opposed excellent. So we'll suspend rules
 I'll reread number three, Your Honor. Number three is an ordinance approving the AFSCME 1058 collective bargaining agreement for 2018 and 2020. And number four is an ordinance approving the AFSCME 1058-B collective bargaining agreement for 2018 and 2020. Thank you, Alderman Frost. And we have two items before us. Any questions or concerns on those? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Frost. Fervey. Irvins.
 Thompson, Kelly, Hoffman, Roche, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirelli. 11 ayes. Thank you. I hope you have a wonderful and safe 4th of July with your family. We have a motion and a second to adjourn. All in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.