Logerman, here. Herbie, Irvins, here. Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, 12 present.
 Thank you. We have a quorum first up we have under motions and resolutions finance and personnel committee alderman back. Thank you your honor I have a resolution authorizing the mayor to execute professional services agreements Related to review and negotiation of casino proposals and other issues Related to the casino project in an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 the funding sources the legal and community development departments operating budgets. I
 So we have one item before City Council. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, Clerk will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Hervey? Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye.
 Shirley. Aye. 12 ayes. Next one. That item moves forward. Underneath appointments laid over, there's only one appointment that is up this evening. It's appointment of Jenna Ewing to the Community Action Agency Board to serve a three-year term. This appointment will fill the vacancy in the private sector position. Is there any discussion about the one item before you? No.
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Irving. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Kinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. 12 ayes. Excellent. Alderman Irving. We go into closed session. May we have a brief moment for officer's reports? Oh, yeah. We certainly will. I just have a couple of items I'm going to mention. Oh, no. No sweat. Okay.
 We'll allow Alderman Thompson-Kellogg to go towards the end of that session. But no, just one really important item is on each of your desks you'll see that I'm making an appointment for a new public works director and that is Kyle Saunders. So we are very, I'm very excited to have Kyle Saunders part of this team. It's kind of something that's one of those bittersweet moments though.
 we have mark stockman who's set to retire on august 9th and is most deserving of a retirement but you talk about someone who as i get to go out and talk to our staff at their various job sites here at city hall either at the yards or actually out on the job sites you talk about someone who absolutely commands the respect of every single person that works for him it's mark stockman and we have been uh
 Incredibly fortunate as a city, as an organization, I think as aldermen and as citizens to have someone like Mark in our public works department, but now over the last several years leading the public works department and was really the perfect person for the perfect time, I believe, to lead that department.
 He will be the first to tell you. He has three more weeks, so he doesn't want to hear a whole lot of that. And that is not, he doesn't want all that attention, if you know Mark, but it's most well-deserved. And I'll probably say something each and every week because he's just done a really, really good job, and we are fortunate to have him. And we're equally as excited and fortunate to have Kyle, who will...
 fill those really big shoes and continue to move us forward as a department. He's done a tremendous job in our water department over the years. We do have concerns that he will not slow down and breathe when he talks because he gets too excited. But I think that energy and excitement and the passion that he has that he brings to work every day will benefit all of you as aldermen, us as an organization, but most importantly, all the citizens. So with that, I will turn you over to Alderman Hervey.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have to second that with Kyle. I went over to visit the water department, it was about a year and a half ago, and ended up staying there for hours and found myself geeking out over water and water operations and how we get water and everything that had to do with water. That lasted for the better part of a year. I'm just getting over it.
 He will infect you with not just his knowledge, but it's fascinating. If you ever get a chance to go over there and just look at the operation, you get a sense of...
 what it takes and not just the leadership, but the staff, the people who are out there turning those valves, putting in those chemicals and making sure that those wells pump the water that we need. Seldom do you turn on your faucet and you don't get anything out of it. And if you do, there's a big water main break somewhere. I think I called you while I was out on leave about the Winnebago County Animal Services
 policy I don't know if this has been announced since then that they will no longer pick up roadkill deceased animals they will pick them up if they are injured or Sick, but they will not pick up roadkill. I didn't know about the policy my understanding is There was no memo that went out generally. I did not see it in the newspaper, but I may have missed it But that is going to be a problem. We had a skunk in
 half a block down from my house the babies by the way are living in my yard so uh Mommy got killed and we've got little baby skunks running around now um but if they're not going to pick up the road kill who is but the disturbing thing is when I called and got one of the officers and I asked when he said there's a new policy we don't pick it up anymore
 I said, well, what are we supposed to do? And I was told that we could scoop it up ourselves and either put it in the garbage, which my understanding is that's an absolute no-no because of disease and some other dangers to the collectors, or I could bury it in my backyard. Even if it wasn't a skunk, I just don't think that's the answer you give a citizen when they're trying to,
 Deal with the policy that you made in out of the clear blue They may have had some legitimate reasons for doing it. But one of them was that none of the surrounding jurisdictions do it Counties so they're all the rural jurisdictions Pardon all the rural jurisdictions around us don't do it, but I can't they're rural We're urban and and that was just a big shock. So what are we gonna do? So I appreciate that
 You bringing this up, it's been something that has grown frustration with me very quickly. So actually we discussed, I know on, I think it was close to on your way home that you saw that animal. I see.
 I will preface this by saying I have no issues with any organization that decides to make a change in a policy. I just have issues with organizations that choose not to communicate to those that impact and to customers of theirs, to which the city of Rockford is and all of our residents are.
 So we know now that through their memo that they provided to the personnel and policy committee, to their administrator, Carla Pascoe, to the chairman, and to the director of animal services, that they have made this change in policy. I will tell you, Alderman Hervey, they have not communicated with me. They have not communicated with anyone in our public works team. They never let us know of this change.
 So since this, over the last week, we've been doing some due diligence on what it could potentially cost us and how do we address this issue. Obviously, we can't just have dead animals out on the street with no one picking them up. And unfortunately, that's what we have today, but we're working on the solution. One, they have about 1,000 to 1,200 calls a year.
 Over the last four years, they've averaged 1,200 calls. We are assuming that about 70% of those are the city of Rockford. So you think about that, you're talking 900 to 1,000 calls of service. So you're talking about a staff member, you're talking about a vehicle, you're talking about the training, and then you're also talking about the disposal, which has to be done in a very specific manner that's also not cheap.
 So when you look at all this, this is a brand new expense to us of about $120,000 with zero communication. So we are looking at that to find out what we can do for proper disposal. That's kind of one of our final items that we have to look at. We're hoping to have some answers by the end of this week.
 We've only known about this for about 10, 12 days, maybe two weeks. So I wish I had a good answer. I would say right now I would call our public works department that we will do the best that we can, but understand this isn't part of any of their daily jobs right now, and we're all trying to get through this change as well. Okay. I want to let the citizen, it didn't have a name, just it was like a text message. I responded to it. You responded. Okay. Or him or her. Thank you.
 I'm a little nervous about this. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. You should be. I thank you for the animal services. I do appreciate some of the county board members has reached out to have a conversation with you, Your Honor, and discuss. I am concerned about the billing process in which they were billing us in the past, and the process that they used was charging us several different times and going out for one occasion and still not completing that.
 I also want to let the aldermen know that with the legislation that has recently passed and our antennas are up with all the laws that have passed, one of the things that we need to do for this administration is we need to send them or let the mayor and his staff know our agenda and our priorities as far as legislative and lobbying.
 and what we want our lobbyists to lobby for. It is important that we're on the same page and we're all looking at the same thing. So I think that unless Kevin has anything to add to that, I would appreciate it if each and every one of you would look at your priorities in your area, your streets,
 Whatever it is you feel that you want to be put on the list and give it to the administration, Todd, or someone in the mayor's administration so that we can formalize a list. And when we're communicating with our lobbyist, he will know what to be working on.
 So I greatly appreciate that. You know, I know I have my list, but the mayor has offered that we need to supply him with our request as well. So if you have any questions, you can call Kevin or myself in regards to your list. And I'm sure we'll all have the same thing, blights, your main thorough streets, schools, whatever. The last thing I want is one of the things that...
 I make it a practice not to do is to comment on public speakers. But I'm quite disturbed, very much disturbed simply because the young gentleman, I don't know whether he's right or wrong. I don't care. I don't want to get into that. I don't want to know if the officer was right or wrong. I don't care. I don't want to get into that. What I do want to get into is we have community service officers.
 If a resident of this community has a concern and an issue, it should be discussed. You should have a conversation. And I'd like to know, Chief, did you or anyone of your staff reach out to this family, especially this mother? Chief O'Shea. So to my knowledge, no one has reached out to this mother. The police reports were filed, the individual was charged that night.
 The paperwork and the use of force reports will come through and be reviewed as they always are. Anytime there's a use of force incident. There was an email from Mr. Brantley to the mayor which was forwarded to me about the incident. But there has been no communication with the family that I am aware of. I'm not concerned about that.
 right or wrong police reports i'm concerned about residents from the community and the uproar that is taking place in the community right now that's my concern and my concern is the relationship that's going to move forward with our community officers and the parents of this community that relationship is very important so i would request that someone reach out not
 Giving excuses not give an apology, but reach out and let's at least listen to what that parent has to say Thank you. Thank you all the men tops kill any other Report alderman Irvins. I guess I just I have a question is is that common practice? to use that type of force on a 16 year old child
 that was not armed or was found, I guess, guilty? Was he even locked up? Was he charged with any, he was discharged?
 If I may, this is an ongoing criminal case and commenting on that, I really am kind of limited what I can talk about. Okay. And if there's specific questions council people have outside of a public forum, I can certainly address. Use of force is a necessary part of policing in every incident.
 is individual much like a fingerprint every case every incident every action there is no such thing as a common use of force it's every for every action there's reactions so it's common is not a word i could use i got you thank you
 Thank you. Alderman frost to be of your hand raised. I was just going to comment. I mean, I mean, we all. Heard what we heard and saw we saw and it's it's very compelling. I feel bad for any mother that has, you know. It has a son that was injured, but I just, I don't think it's the proper form to really for any of us to discuss.
 A case or a potential case, or it really just any investigation, whether it's our police department fire department, you know, that could have. Legal consequences here here on the floor before before the police department knows all the facts and can report report to us. Thank you Alderman beach. Yeah, thank you. Just wanted to say, thank you to Ted O'Donnell.
 And his staff is the grandson of Joe, Tom, for spectacular 4th of July fireworks and that kind of thing for the community. It's just always wonderful to see the people come down together. I mean, we've had it at the city market, we've had it with Fred and the MBA. Tremendous crowds come down to see
 and enjoy family downtown. So to the new crew, thank you. And the patriotic breakfast, those who are responsible for taking care of that. This was reinstated. Here was a favorite thing of Joe Marino, and that came off really well. I counted somewhere nearly 200 people down there for the first time after, I think, 10 years that it's been not there. So thank you, Your Honor, for allowing me to give a proclamation down there on They Missed You. We said that you were...
 Thinking about I was hoping you show up down there, but you had other things going on with us again to attend and Tom Hats off for this community. Thank you your honor. I'll be honest with you with a two and three year old I was hoping I'd show up there to Any other reports seeing none Alderman Shirely Thank You your honor I moved to go into closed session pending to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiation matters
 Say second. Second. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Actually, you know what, I'm sorry, I need a roll call on that. Logerman. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. We have enough votes to go into closed session now.