our father which art in heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven father we ask that your presence would just come into this chamber and guide the decisions that are made tonight by these council members may it be for the benefit of the rockford city and the residents thereof lord would also ask that you would touch those who keep us safe from harm and danger with the police force fire department
 And the different first responders, Lord, that keep an eye upon us during the day and when we're sleeping at night. Be with all decisions that are made again, we ask in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen. We pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Could you please call the roll?
 Turkey get just McNamara Ross Kirby auto newberg each L.A. make nearly cheerily 10 present thank you very much we do have a form motion except journal the motion second to accept the journal this is for the proceedings of June 20th 2016
 Is there any amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Public speaking, we have several speakers sign up for public participation this evening. Just want to remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start running over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Roland Poska.
 Yes, my summation. We must get everyone in the world to sign declarations to do the impossibles. Plus, we have to get everyone a book. My final report. After searching 55 years, I noticed that the more money one has in the bank, the greater the concern over inflation. The amount of money
 does not cause inflation. It's how you use the money, it's what causes inflation. Plus, fishy whales will survive. Plus, the great human race will evolve. Plus, I will soon disappear after July 5th, 2016. It has been fun. Plus, it will be fun again and again and again and again forever always. Plus, there are all kinds of great things happening.
 Why not give everyone an interest-free loan? Why not give it a try? Giving a loan doesn't cost anything to anyone. Read a book. Yes, give me a loan interest-free. EPSS, give us a loan interest-free. Thank you very much. Our next speaker is James Mosley. Thank you all for having me. I appreciate it.
 I just want to talk about incarceration reform, talk about the community of Rockford. Obviously, there is a situation where criminals in the whole state of Illinois are together, me being one of them. And when I say incarceration reform, it is to rehabilitate a person. That is the whole thing.
 reason behind why prisons and jails were created in the first place was to rehabilitate a person. What does it mean to rehabilitate a person? It means to restore them to their original state. When someone comes out of jail, prison, me being one of them, I was not restored to my original state. I had a background that wouldn't allow me to get jobs, wouldn't allow me to vote, and it wouldn't allow me to bear arms and protect my family.
 And does that mean because I'm a criminal, I don't have an opinion or dreams or aspirations or kids that stuck to me in a family I need to provide for? It does not mean that. I was a college student when I got locked up. And so, you know, being in jail, prison, I learned how detrimental it really is on a person's life, how depriving it is, how degrading it is, and how it has nothing to do with rehabilitating a person.
 Job Corps is what rehabilitation is. And that is what more of the incarceration systems should be formed around. People that get locked up that are not in the...
 ill mental state of mind should be put towards a trade, should be put towards working, towards gathering something so when they do get out, they will be rehabilitated and restored instead of sending them back out with a criminal record and nothing to their name and expecting them to be a stand-up citizen in society. And you're only destroying your own community when you don't help the ones who fall short.
 because at the end of the day, they're the ones breaking laws, they're the ones destroying the city, they're the ones deteriorating the value of Rockford. And so I just believe that true incarceration reform needs to be put in place, not what has been put in place because I went through it and it did nothing for me, it didn't help me find a job, it didn't help me vote, and it didn't help me bear arms. So I did all that on my own. So I got my own record expunged. I...
 found my own job. So I want there to be a system put in place in the city of Rockford and hopefully it could be a model for the rest of the cities and the rest of the states to follow. But we need to tailor-made the prisons and jail systems to be more of a job core form system to where people go there and actually obtain some true knowledge and obtain some true structure. So when they get out, they have something to work with and not just a bad background in the system.
 I appreciate the time you are having. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. What a sad, sad day for the USA. With the FBI's announcement that they are not going to indict Hillary shows just how corrupt and compromised our government truly is. Law and order no longer exist. Hillary now thinks she is untouchable. We now see what money, power, and influence can get you. The golden ticket. A free pass.
 Criminal action without consequences. I remember years ago when a prominent person thought that they were above the law. He now sits in prison, wondering where it all went wrong. I'll bet OJ never thought he'd end up in jail. Karma. What a wonderful thing. August 1st. The scanners will go silent.
 Chief O'Shea says one reason is officer safety. In my 20 years of living in Rockford, I have never heard of an officer safety being compromised by the citizen's use of a scanner. The only safety concern I can recall is back in around 2000 when Alderman David Johnson's
 son, a Rockford police officer, heard his friend's name come over the scrambled channel of a police radio, and he called his friend to warn him of his pending arrest, thus putting officer safety in jeopardy. Officer Johnson lost his job.
 We are now in the future. It is August 2nd. I'm sitting in my chair, looking out the window. I see a white male running across Broadway, down my alley, and into an abandoned house. He is wearing a white shirt and red shorts. I think it's just another bum in the neighborhood.
 Unbeknownst to me, this announcement has just come over the police radio. We have a white J3 with a 1032 wearing a white shirt and red shorts just robbed the car lot at Broadway and 11th, last seen running west on Broadway. He is never arrested. Why? No community input.
 Or how about this? It's July 30th. I hear over the scanner that my neighbor's alarm in their house has been activated. Entry through the back door and motion detectors going off in the house. So I hear this over the scanner. I look out my window and see three males robbing my neighbor's house, loading up the car.
 I call the police, tell them what's going on, all three end up being arrested. I know I can go back and forth, you know, I got my scenario, you have yours, but silencing the scanners will only silence what the citizens need to know to make their community safer. Without the scanner, you are removing a tool to help us take our community back, and we need to take it back.
 Mayor Morrisey, I hope that while you were in Springfield last week that you set up a meeting with Governor Rauner so he could help you get rid of the poison fluoride that is continually being dumped into our water supply. I know you said two weeks ago that you've sponsored or pushed some legislation for removal of fluoride, but that hasn't happened yet.
 But what a great opportunity you would have had, had you talked to him about it, or even today while the governor was in our fair city. Stop the violence and the silence. Call Crime Stoppers for your cash reward. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 119th chapter, 105th verse, the psalmist says, Thy word, God, is a lamp to my feet.
 and a light to my pathway. What I want to speak about tonight, Illinois' aviation system is a gold mine.
 Overview of aviation's impact in Illinois in today's global economy. Air transportation provides vital links that enable business to function efficiently and improve the quality of life for residents of Illinois. From the commercial airlines that serve 11 Illinois airports to the variety of general aviation service found throughout the state, the aviation industry provides thousands of jobs and creates more than $40,975,360,115.12 in economic activity.
 Commercial airlines in Illinois served 84 million passengers in 2010, while general aviation aircraft conducted an estimated 2.4 million operations. Those airlines also move approximately 2 million tons of air cargo through Illinois' airports and deliver valued goods and products to and from the marketplace. When all of the impacts of the Illinois 116 public use airports are added together, 337,419 jobs can be traced to the aviation industry.
 These employers receive $12,887,618,325.04 in payroll and generate $40,916,750,512.18 in economic activity. In addition to substantial annual economic benefits,
 Illinois Air Force supports numerous policy benefits. Number one, facilitating emergency medical transfer. Two, providing support to law enforcement. Three, supporting area survey and photography inspection operations. Four, conducting search and rescue operations. Five, supporting the United States military and other government organizations. Six, providing youth outreach activities. Chicago Air
 O'Hare International Airport, one of the busiest airports in the world, is a huge contributor to the economy of Illinois with more than 800,000 landings and takeoffs in 2010. O'Hare is the world's second busiest airport. Its 67 million annual total passenger put it above all.
 two other airports in the world. The extensive amount of cargo shipped through O'Hare ranks the airport among the world's top 20 cargo airports. O'Hare is the only United States airport that serves as a hub for two major airlines, American and United. It serves the city of Chicago as a true intermodal hub, with a sense we are the Chicago subway system, regional commuter trains, and regional bus service. This is why I know that the United
 Eleanor is not broke. Steve DeWanda can see through this line. He's blind. And this does not count all the other industry, which is the tourist industry, which brought in last year $32,950,764,324 in 15 seconds. Thank you for allowing me to speak. And I can also balance Eleanor's plan. Thank you. Our next speaker is Sonny Crudup. Thank you.
 Good morning, how's everybody this evening? Good evening. On April the 3rd, I was attacked over in Andrews Park. And so what we're having on
 July the 10th we're having a sunny safety walk and it's sponsored by Northwest Community Center, Rockford Housing Authority and Rockford Park District and Winnebago Housing Authority. The reason we're putting together this walk is because we want all the parks, not just Andrews Park, to be safe.
 What happened to me, I wouldn't want to happen to nobody else. You know what I'm saying? And the walk is, like I said, it's going to be at Andrews Park. It's going to be from 1 to 5 p.m. The cost for adults, if you want to walk, is going to be $10. The cost for kids is $5. There will be music, refreshment, and entertainment. If anybody here would like to come out and say something, we would welcome you. Really, what I want to do with this, I want to give back. We're really trying to find something out
 to do with our youth. And another present person that's working with this is Awakening Foundation. And we want everybody, if you can, to come out and support this. This is something that is needed in our community because, you know, these are our kids.
 You know, and we need to start doing something with our kids. And I'm going to say this, I'm going to get off track a minute. I went to my granddaughter's graduation on May the 7th in Darling, Illinois State. And the commencement speaker, she got up and she told the kids, since there were so many kids there, she said that, I want to leave you with three things. She said, number one, work hard. And I look at everybody and I know everybody in here has worked hard. Number two,
 is to be nice. You know, it doesn't take nothing to be nice. And number three, she said, come back. So I kind of put the spin on give back. And so that's basically what we got to do in Rockville. We got to give back. I mean, all of us. I mean, it's not just on the west side. It's all over our city. You can look and see what's happening. And my next spin on this here, my third, my fourth one, I was going to say, you know,
 All my young, I started, I moved here as a young adult. I lived all my adult life here in Rockford. We have so much, much spin on how Rockford is and what Rockford is. I love Rockford, I live here. And I guess everybody around in here probably feel the same way. Thank you. What date is that? July 10th, next Sunday. All right, thank you. One to five. Time is from one to five. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening.
 Petitions and communications. Alderman Shreller. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 3, petitions and communications, V1, the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on July 13th. Can you pull your microphone up?
 And the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee on June 25th, 2016. Second is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager, regarding transfer of city-owned properties to Rockford Four-Door Improvement, RCI, under the Blight Reduction Program and Partnership Agreement. Both those items will be referred to the Code and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. That will be referred, thank you. Finance and Personnel.
 on the two items under item 3 C number one is a memorandum for Mark Rose our land acquisition consultant regarding tax abatement on foreclosure properties and that'll be referred to financing personnel
 And number two is a memorandum for Matt Vittner, our city engineer, regarding an amended local agency agreement. And this is for the federal participation for Sandy Hollow Road from 20th Street to Alpine, and that's the highway HSIP. And that's also referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. Matters will be referred. Any additional petitions or communications? Thank you.
 Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, there's a memo that had not been read in the last council meeting dated June 20th regarding signature authority for yourself from July 7th through July 12th, and Mr. Ryan will be the designated signee in your place. Thank you. Thank you. For the petitions and communications proclamations.
 We have two proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation, I would invite Head Coach Darren Monroe and other members of the Rock Valley College softball team, including their coaches and their players and any other folks that are with them to please come forward to accept this proclamation. Congratulations. All right, we ready?
 Whereas the Rock Valley College softball program was established in 1966, and whereas the National Junior College Athletic Association Division III softball tournament started in 1997.
 And whereas the 2016 NJCAA softball tournament was held May 19th through the 21st in Rochester, Minnesota. And whereas for the third year in a row, the Rock Valley College softball team won the National Junior College Athletic Association Championship. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of July 2016 to be Rock Valley College softball month.
 in Rockford, Illinois, and we congratulate the Rock Valley College softball team on their tremendous season and the tremendous student athletes that they have. Congratulations.
 Just want to say thank you to Mayor Morrissey, our city council members, and other leaders here in Rockford that are here in attendance. This group, another special group here, another great year here for us at Rock Valley and all across the board in athletics. Finished our season 49-9. We are only the second team ever in the history of the NJCA to win three straight national championships.
 and hopefully here in a year from now we'll be the first four-timer as well. These young ladies take pride in not only wearing the Rock Valley College uniform but representing the city of Rockford. Each and every day they take the field and in the classroom and the community, so we really appreciate you taking the time to recognize us here tonight, and we thank you for your support. Thank you. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations.
 As the team is circulating through and we are congratulating them, I would also just add what a tremendous, tremendous job Rock Valley College has done, not just with this team, but with so many outstanding teams that they have. Thank you. Thank you again.
 And our next proclamation is involving the Mayor's Monarch Butterfly Pledge, and I'd invite Dan Irwin of the Rockford Park District, Cindy Hall of Neighborhood Network, and any other Monarch Butterfly backers that are here to accept a proclamation to please come forward.
 Whereas the monarch butterfly is an iconic North American species and the official Illinois State insect. And it is often referred to as the king of butterflies and is unfortunately on the verge of extinction.
 And whereas with the help of the Rockford Park District, Rockford Community Partners Beautification Committee, Monarch Watch for the Midtown District, Orchid Neighborhood Association, and the North End Square Neighborhood Association, the City of Rockford will lead public awareness and plant monarch havens to assist in the preservation of the monarch butterfly. Whereas every citizen of Rockford is encouraged to make a difference for the monarch by planting native milkweed and nectar plants to provide habitat for the monarch.
 Whereas I am honored to continue supporting the way for the monarch preservation in our community by signing the National Wildlife Federation's Mayor's Monarch Pledge so that the monarch butterfly will once again flourish and pollinate the continent.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of June to be Mayor's, I'm sorry, July to be Mayor's Monarch Pledge in Rockford, and we urge our citizens to recognize and celebrate the beauty, symbolic meaning, and critical support that the Monarch provides to our environment and our community. I'd just like to share a little bit more. Thank you, Mayor. A couple of things we can do to promote Monarchs in our area. One is to plant trees.
 Milkweed, plant butterfly weed, it is the only plant that monarchs will lay their eggs on. It's the only plant that larvae will eat, so without those monarchs can't exist. Also reducing herbicide use, especially in areas where milkweed is prevalent. Reducing insecticide use, especially those that would impact moths and butterflies. And planting nectar plants, especially plants that would be blooming late in the fall season. I would also like to take this opportunity
 to recognize some of our local neighborhood groups who are doing a fantastic job of making our community beautiful. A beautiful place to live, work, and play. You can see the photos up here behind the mayor. Midtown District submitted a plan, got a grant through the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois, and installed this beautiful planting over near Nicholson Hardware. The middle one is the Morgan Street Roundabout with the Orchid Neighborhood Association.
 And then the last one is the NESNA, North End Square Neighborhood Association. All those were installed last summer, and they were submitted and have been accepted as monarch way stations. So this one's for Brad Roos in the Midtown District. This one's for Jason in North End Square. And we have another one for Orchid Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you again. I also just mentioned Todd Cagnone and our staff are supporting these efforts, and it really is an incredible challenge. The monarch butterfly population, if my memory serves me correctly, used to number in approximately a billion monarch butterflies. Today it's in the tens of millions. So the population has truly crashed as a result of a lot of factors. But this is the type of thing where literally families –
 Anybody who's got a garden could plant milkweed and support the habitat for the monarch butterfly. Something I know is just anecdotally, in our household, in our family, Sophia, who did a great job here before, was almost going to be here tonight, but she's been getting a little too much press lately. I just get a little nervous.
 But that's one of the things that we've talked about at home, just doing our part. And it's just a shame. I remember growing up with butterflies being very present in my life, in my childhood life. And I certainly think that's something that we should certainly hold for and support for all of our kids. Thank you. Further officers, I'm sorry. We now have on our schedule a scheduled, I believe, closed session. Alderman Hervey? I would move to...
 convening closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters real estate acquisition matters collective bargaining collective negotiation matters and the appointment employment compensation discipline performance or dismissal of Specific employees of the city or legal counsel for the city their second Sorry motion second go into closed session
 In order to discuss pending or threatened litigation matters real estate acquisition matters collecting negotiation matters and the employment employment compensation Discipline performance or dismissal of specific employees of the city or legal counsel for the city This has been moved in second. Is there any discussion hearing none clerk, please call the roll Mac man frost curving I Odo Newberg Beach McNeely cheer
 Tonight's your honor matter passes. We will recess for the purposes stated on the record. Thank you Having just completed a closed session and Roman numeral six new committee reports all in Shirely. Thank your honor Roman numeral six new committee reports. I would like to ask for suspension of rules on these agenda items. I
 It's been a motion, second to suspend the rules. Just as an FYI, we have the minimum in the chamber currently to be able to suspend rules. Alderman Shrelle? Thank you. There's been a motion. I'm sorry. Motion, second to suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Thank you. So I'm going to read specifically item number seven, since that was just voted on or lack of voting on in committee tonight.
 So, number seven reads, committee makes no recommendation on the Liquor and Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant. The sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area slash beer garden in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 305 South Main Street, 301 South Water Street, subject to conditions.
 So that one I read in. The rest of them, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, have already been read in at an early meeting. So I place all these items up for passage, Your Honor. So up for passage would be Roman numeral 6B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 as they appear on the...
 published agenda. Item 7 with the changes that were referenced by Alderman Shirely based on the activity of the committee report, which on that one is a recommendation, no recommendation on that. That is correct, Your Honor. Matters before the council, Alderman Hervey. With regard to item number 1, is the Alderman of the ward in favor or opposed of the special use permit for the passenger vehicle sales? This is 3424 and 3426 South Alpine.
 Yes, your honor. Go ahead, Alderman Shuller. Yes, thank you for that question. Yes, I am okay with this application. The tenant has been a good tenant there and working with city staff. Thank you. Thank you. Other discussion on the items? Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you for giving me the chance to speak. And I apologize to the Coats and Regulations Committee. I wanted to be in attendance and was dealing with another matter when Item 7 came up. And first, thanks for having a special meeting on that. A couple of items that I'll address. I wasn't there and I couldn't hear quite a few of the remarks.
 But this process has been a pretty long process for the business and some things I was able to hear is that there was going to be a restriction on a DJ and having some sort of dance floor and restrictions of that nature. I just want to be clear that that was...
 We have the business that's asking us for permission, but we also have the business that has already dealt with the Park District, and they have made certain commitments to the Park District, such as being open to have large corporate gatherings, such as being open to having weddings, things of that nature to program the space and to attract people to the space, even more than the investment we all have made into it. So I think that's important to revisit.
 Another is the packaged liquor. It's not in the sense of most places that you think of packaged liquor, that you go in and you buy a bottle of booze or you buy a six pack of beer. These are the growlers that are, I believe, 60 to 64 ounces.
 And I typically, when I first heard it, I actually had discussions with the owners saying, you know, how many people go to a sports factory to purchase packaged liquor? The answer was not that many. But how many breweries are in a sports factory? Not that many. And so most breweries that I've, I think every single brewery I've ever attended sells growlers. And those in our community do as well.
 This space is really a business inside of another entity. So I think to attract people there on days that there may not be a tournament is also something that they want to do. So I'd ask that we revisit also that package sale. Motion to amend.
 So moved, yes. So currently the item came out of committee as no recommendation. Do you want to articulate exactly what your motion is? My motion would be that we have a recommendation for approval, that there is allowed a dance floor and a DJ, and that there's also for package sale of liquor. I'll second it.
 So there's been a motion and second to approve subject to, I'm assuming, the conditions that were already reviewed by the Liquor Advisory Board. Is that fair? Yes, sir. I want to make sure I have that. I'm going to ask Mr. Hayes to make sure I've articulated the motion correctly. Mr. Hayes? I hope so because I was listening to Ms. Valdez, so I didn't catch it.
 So Alderman McNamara's motion and seconded by, I believe it was Alderman Durkee, to change Item 7 from no recommendation to an approval subject to the conditions that were previously negotiated. That motion would be in order, Your Honor. Pardon me? That motion would be in order, Your Honor. It's in order. Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. Just a comment or two. So are we to understand that
 While this is a partnership that the park district can go ahead and make commitments for the use of that building independent of agreements with the city council. On number two, it is a publicly funded finance building. I'm concerned as well of all the downtown businesses and other that don't have that
 Kind of audience if you will character new building and now this Organization as much as we like them and appreciate them and I visited them myself and eat it very straight I understand their place But this is inside of a public building so it's to me more than a business inside of the business this business this building was built to bring sporting events to this community and
 And it's doing that. That's what it's designed to do. And I feel a little bad tonight when I hear it being said that the park district has already made commitments to this business independent of our action tonight, which kind of in a way ties our hands to either just do what's already been promised. So I need somebody to help me understand this.
 especially going forward. Is this what we can expect? So just as a point of information, and I would defer to staff, Mr. Cagnoni and Mr. Hayes, probably specifically to provide any background that I might miss, but generally speaking, I ignore. We have our own independent opportunity and responsibilities under the Liquor Act. Okay. There is nothing, as I heard the comment, and I understand that,
 The Park District has a vision and there's been commitments made, but ultimately we have an independent authority. There's nobody who can negotiate out our authority and our responsibility to manage the Liquor Act. Thank you. And if I'm wrong on that, Mr. Hayes, or if there's any other comments, correct me on it. That being said, I would just also point out, and you made the other part of your question had to do with, you know, I think some level of equities with other businesses.
 In a way, we're very familiar with this issue of liquor being sold and us giving approval for liquor to be sold on public property. We've done it at multiple park district sites, golf courses, for example. We've also done it with the BMO Harris Bank Center. Those are just two that come to mind. So I understand your concern on it. I would just say there is some precedent to provide guidance for us on the evaluation of that issue. Anything that I missed from staff? Yes.
 If I could, Your Honor. Mr. Hayes. Just by way of expectations, Alderman Beach, to your point of sensibilities and what's going on here, the Park District for years has successfully operated a footprint similar to what they're anticipating here out at their indoor sports facility.
 So I think that perhaps while there wasn't a lot of detail in the conversation, the park district's expectations was the city kind of knew that we're going to have that kind of a footprint here. So if that doesn't meet with expectations here, I think the park district at least has a fair argument that they're trying to run a similar facility. Okay.
 And I know that this was part of the discussion when the city initially approached that there would be liquor here at all, and that was a conversation a year ago we had. So, you know, I certainly understand and applaud you raising your concerns, but I think from the park district's perspective, they're trying to repeat what they view as a successful model. Thank you, Your Honor. Other comments from...
 Council members or staff, Alderman Durkee. Yeah, I would agree with some of the assessments of Attorney Hayes.
 And that the Park District is a tenant, and as a tenant, they have to have some kind of latitude. Could you pull your microphone down a little bit, please? Sorry, sir. As a tenant, they have to have some kind of latitude to allow business to operate and actually to provide the services that they think as a tenant would help them also to be successful. And I would agree with Attorney Hayes. There was some expectation that things like this would happen.
 As far as competition, certainly that the lease with the restaurant is not written in stone. Any business when there is an opener is free to compete for that same contract. But even beyond that, as we now look at the downtown area, it is a go-to destination. We're getting to the point of the Yogi Bearism that nobody goes there anymore because it's too crowded.
 So on any given, on several nights during the summer, if you walk around, the restaurants are at capacity. So in some respects, the demand is starting to exceed capacity on some nights, which is a fabulous problem. And we run the risk sometimes of reverse marketing so that as people do come downtown, they really do have nowhere to go, and then they do stop.
 Bear in mind that across the street will be a hotel by Joseph James Partners that obviously some of the occupants of the hotel would find this reasonable. And plus, not everyone, this may not be the particular style of restaurant that everyone would want to go to. So we have a great variety of downtown. This adds to it. I think it adds to the critical mass of being downtown. Granted, there's some...
 For some, having a bar around a youth complex is sometimes a hard sell, but as someone who's been in that youth sports genre for too long, park districts, they're very much aware of that relationship and how to regulate it, monitor it. I've been at Sports Corps. As I said earlier, Sports Corps won quite a bit.
 And I believe the Park District and their tenant there do a great job of self-regulation and monitoring what goes on in the restaurant. And the current, I think the restaurant owners, the brew house, personally as I've seen what they've done there, I think will do a fabulous job. Alderman Beach then back to Alderman Trill. So then how can we put a restriction?
 which is one of the conditions that there be no gaming there once the liquor license is issued. I'm not sure I remember that that was something that we could do. Once the liquor license is issued, gaming can come. So one of the conditions here was that that would not occur. How can we stop that? And I'd like to have an answer about that. Mr. Hayes.
 Historically, when we had applications that have included that they will not pursue gaming as part of their application per agreement, we've added that as a condition of approval. That's what condition seven says on this proposal. There shall be no gaming machines per applicant's agreement. We made that same agreement for the liquor license that was issued for rural on tap, if you may recall. That's been fairly routine, if memory serves me correctly.
 I believe there's only been a few, but yes. Alderman Hurt? I'm sorry, Alderman Shirelli, then Alderman Herby. Thank you. I just want a clarification. If the conditions are being amended, does that change the classification of the liquor license to a banquet hall, nightclub?
 other than what is being read in as a restaurant? As we know, just as a point of procedure, the conditions that were made part of Alderman McNamara's motion were the ones, at least the way I repeated it, were the ones that were
 recommended tonight when it first came before the committee. There's been no change to those conditions. The change which was required by, or the change that Alderman McNamara made was simply going from a no essentially to a yes on the item. There was no substantive changes the way I understood the motion and the way I repeated it back. I'm sorry.
 There was discussion, I happen to be here for the bulk of the discussion at committee. There were discussions about making changes, but ultimately the only thing that came out of the committee was essentially take no action. So if there is a goal of making changes to any of the conditions, those are certainly the proper subject to anybody making a motion on it that would so desire. Alderman Kirby was next, then Alderman Newberg.
 So now I'm confused over the conditions because I thought one of the conditions was no DJ, no dance floor, but I think Alderman McNamara, you just said yes, that they can have a DJ and a dance floor. No. No. If I could clarify the conditions. Mr. Hayes. Thank you. So there are ten conditions. They include all building and meeting all building and fire codes, must meet all applicable liquor codes.
 The sale of the liquor should be limited to the interior floor plan exhibit D. Alcohol can be sold and consumed on the patio. The hours of operation are detailed. I won't go into those unless there's a question about those. The proposed use for alcohol service shall not have a cover charge. The proposed use shall not have a dance floor. The proposed use shall not have any DJs. The proposed use shall not have any live entertainment. The proposed use shall not operate as a nightclub.
 And there should be no gaming machines per the applicant's agreement. Those are the ten conditions. And those are still, the way I understood the motion, those are still what was part of Alderman McNamara's motion, which was seconded. So all those conditions still apply. Oh, that's not. If he, that's, let me just make very clear.
 The motion that I repeated back, if Alderman McNamara or anybody else wants to change it, they certainly could do so. But what I acknowledged as the motion that's on the floor is a motion that carries with it all of those conditions that were previously part of the record. Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to all. I'm sorry. Alderman Newberg was next, then Alderman Frost. I'm sorry. My apologies. Go ahead.
 Thank you. Go ahead. Well, do we in this, I'm asking, do we have the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the restaurant? Did you also add that back in, Alderman McNamara? The question was the packaged liquor. So the, and I will just refer to Mr. Hayes as the- Because I thought we had passed that to be reviewed. Mr. Hayes, was that part of the original?
 A proposal that was in front of the committee. That's not one of the conditions that I read in earlier. One in the bottom was the image of...
 Mr. Cagnoni. So the request for packaged liquor was part of the applicant's submittal. It was not included in the motion made by the Cozen Regulations Committee. If I understood all of it correctly, he put the packaged liquor back into his amendment with the ten conditions that were listed by Director Hayes.
 Thank you for the clarification. So let me ask Mr. Cagnone again. The way I understood the motion was what came out of committee, the only thing that came out of committee was a no recommendation. There was nothing in what came out of committee that substantively changed the elements of the proposal. It was simply a recommendation of taking no action.
 If there's going to be changes to what was presented to the committee, that would have to be part of the motion. And I just want to understand for a moment, all of them back to mayor, what was in your mind, what did your motion have to do with the package liquor? Sure.
 It's probably my fault for not attending the codes and regs, so my apologies. I do want packaged liquor as something that they can do. And I was under the understanding that the LTAB had changed and allowed for a DJ or live music. And so I would request that those be allowed because that's part of creating an experience. So my understanding of what was read in –
 in your motion would have been included would have included the sale package liquor because that's what was written in the item as it was originally published for tonight so I would just repeat the chairs position which is that everything that was originally presented to the committee which would include the sale package liquor liquor but also include the conditions was part of all the mac amers motion that he made he simply wants it to be approved instead of denied
 That was seconded. That's on the Council for discussion. If an alderman wants to change that, alter that, that would be an appropriate motion to make. Alderman McEmeary. I'll make this as easy as possible. With the 10 conditions, it would be all the conditions except for 6 and 7 and 8, and they would be allowed to have packaged liquor.
 I need you to just to make sure we're clear because I don't have those all in front of me right now. So number one is that they would meet all building codes and fire codes. Number two, they must meet all applicable liquor codes. Number three, the sale of liquor shall be limited to the interior.
 And number four, the hours of operation, it lists the hours of operation. Number five, the proposed shall not have a cover charge. Number six, exclude that. Number seven, exclude the DJs. What was six, seven, eight? I'm sorry, six was dance floor, seven is a DJ, eight is live entertainment, nine is that they should not operate as a nightclub, and 10, no gaming machines.
 So just to make sure I'm clear, you would like them to have the ability to have dance floor, DJ, and live entertainment? Yes, sir. So I'm going to take that as a motion, a change to your original motion. Yes, sir. Just to make sure it's clear. Is there an amendment or a second? Second. I understood the original motion. All right. So in any event, so we're clear now. I appreciate the articulation of it.
 That's what it is. Hold on. Mr. Cagnone. Your Honor, thank you. Not that those conditions of approval cannot be removed from this proposal, but I would make sure that it's clear that the Council understands that the operation of a nightclub would require the approval of a special use permit. They are not asking to run it as a nightclub. That was number nine, I think. But they are asking for the ability to have a dance floor, a DJ, and live entertainment.
 Mr. Cagnoni is there, is that a difference? Not that they can't have those activities without operating as a nightclub, but I just wanted to be on the record that a nightclub would require the approval of a special use permit and many times we would see a DJ, a dance floor and a cover charge being items that are consistent with the operation of a nightclub. Alderman Frost. I have a suggestion to the motion as it now reads.
 has to do with packaged liquor. I don't have a problem with the facility selling growlers like they do with their other place on Madison Street.
 to people but I do have a problem with in this particular building, this particular setting especially with their future intention of having a boat dock there that I've never heard of before but having the ability to sell packaged liquor, any other type of packaged liquor. So I would make a modification or ask for an amendment to it with regard to the packaged liquor that that be specifically limited to their ability to sell the beer growlers that they currently sell and that would be it.
 So I'm going to ask for a legal opinion on whether or not we legally can make that kind of a distinction within the framework and the authority that we have. Mr. Hayes, can you comment on that? Or Mr. Kignan? Yes. We have the full ability to regulate liquor, and if we want to restrict their ability to sell packaged liquor to growlers, that's an acceptable limitation. So is that a friendly amendment? I don't know.
 So Alderman McNamara will accept that as a friendly amendment. Alderman Durkee, do you accept that? So we have, just to make sure we're aware of what we're debating, the motion is Alderman McNamara's. It's been seconded by Alderman Durkee. And now with the friendly amendment, it limits the sale of packaged liquor to the growlers. And, again, this, as read in by Alderman McNamara,
 would eliminate three of the conditions. The dance floor would be allowed. The DJ would be allowed. Live entertainment would be allowed. Discussion on this motion? Alderman Hervey. I'm just still very confused, and I don't have the ordinance in front of me as to how that's not a nightclub, given the hours of operation and all of the things that are allowed.
 That's where I don't understand the distinction sometimes. And I know we have had challenges from people before when we put restrictions on them
 and say you cannot operate as a nightclub. We get some opinion from staff on that. Is that Mr. Hayes, Mr. Kegnoy, Ms. Hayes, you want to go first? So are they still operating their restaurant? Are they open to the public or is it an event? So if they have a private event there and they have a DJ dance floor or everything, I think that's not a nightclub if it's not open to the general public.
 at any time they're operating open to the general public, they're going to have to be operating their full service restaurant. And within their hours of limitation, I can tell you that if they're operating on Fridays until 2 a.m. and there's large gatherings there related to DJs and things like that, I think we'd start taking action akin to what we saw with Bourbon Street, that they're operating as a nightclub because they're not really serving liquor. But I...
 I think part of this conversation has to recognize the entity here that's gaining this license is our local fellow unit of government, the park district, and they're going to operate in a responsible manner. So if we have concerns with the operations and it's forging towards a nightclub, I think they're going to be pretty responsive to our concerns.
 So I do understand that if we were talking about a private sector, that this would be a very important and much more difficult conversation. But I think with regard to the Park District, if they start varying from our expectations, that they're really operating the full facility and it's not turning into a nightclub, that they're going to respond to our input. Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Odo. Okay. We're saying no packaged liquor but the sale of a growler.
 And people aren't going to take that and leave and walk away and go and get out. Package liquor, whether it's 40-ounce, whether it's a six-pack, whether it's a pint, package liquor is package liquor. You don't think somebody's going to walk in and take it and then go? That's not considered package liquor? Or you're telling me they're going to sit there and they're going to drink that and they're not going to leave the building, right? No, the idea would be that these –
 The idea would be that this type of package sale would be for carryout, similar to what people do at Carlisle or at the brewery right now.
 or some of their competitors up in the Chessie Park where they sell growlers and packages. So I think they do have clientele that comes and drinks there and they have clientele that after a drink or two will take a growler with them and clientele will drop in just to fill their growler and I think that should be our expectation of what the traffic pattern would
 at the facility. So I just want to clarify, specifically ask Mr. Hayes if we have the legal authority, and he said that we did, to limit the definition of packaged liquor for this facility. So the definition we're operating under based on the friendly amendment to the motion would be limiting packaged liquor sales to only the growler. Hello please. Yes. I guess maybe I understand things differently and maybe I'm old school.
 We have problems with drinking and driving, and people killing people. And maybe sell a package liquor out of bars or establishments like that should be prohibited. It's bad enough that they're drinking and over drinking at these places and then going and killing people. Why don't we get the fire department on the drunk driving accidents?
 And we're talking about a sports complex. We're supposed to have kids. My son played hockey and ball. There were eateries. There was no liquor. You know, what are we going to have, a sports team of kids on a Saturday in conjunction with a wedding rolling in? I have to, in good conscience, say no to this. Sorry. Further discussion. Any further discussion?
 So we're voting on the amendment proposed by Alderman McNamara, seconded by Alderman Durkee, with the friendly amendment with regard to the definition of packaged liquor sales. And just as a reminder, this would eliminate three of the requirements that were originally approved by the Liquor Advisory Board, which had to do with items 6, 7, and 8, the dance floor, the DJ, and the live entertainment, which would now, under his motion, be allowed. Any further discussion before I call the vote? Alderman Durkee.
 Yes, before we take the vote, I have to tell you that I understand that in the future life of the sports factory that there's going to be a separate facility for wedding receptions, that type of thing, that will be separate from the little kids playing their sports. But if someone is there and decides afterwards it's a nice place, it's a beautiful river,
 The kids are going to take the car because they're 16 or 17. They go back to the hotel, and I go up to this bar and have a couple of drinks. But I do not, I cannot vote for this with the sale of packaged liquor, grouter or grouter or whatever it's called. Well, whatever that thing's called other than a six-pack. So I will tell you ahead of time that I have to vote against this with the sale of packaged liquor.
 Thank you. Thank you. I have one question before. I recognize Alderman McNamara had another comment. My question was, is the location for the sale of alcohol and the consumption of alcohol limited on the current application? In other words, to the area of the business, does it say anything about the location of activities on the courts, et cetera? Mr. Cagnoni?
 Then condition three, it's limited to the interior floor plan, exhibit D, which is the restaurant space, not the court space. But we're limited from the courts? Correct. Sale and consumption. And also would be alcohol sold and consumed on the patio. So it's the patio as well as the restaurant, the lease space. It's not the courts. Thank you. All in back and center.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak a third time. I understand, I certainly understand the concern over the driving under the influence. I think that also, though, could be applied to packaged liquor at Schnucks or Woodman's or anywhere else that you can buy beer and leave with it. I will say the growlers, I think it's not as much of a...
 It's kind of hard to explain unless you've went in and bought one. But you don't typically, growlers are more of a collection. People actually, I can't think of a brewery that does not sell growlers, and this is a brewery. It's so much so part of the business that they don't want to do it without it. So I'd ask for you to reconsider.
 For the people who love craft beer they go in and they purchase Something that they may not be able to get anywhere else and have a specialty beer and be able to bring that home While that beer is still being made before maybe that can even replaced by something else So I just I understand the concerns. I think you have valid concerns I just would ask for
 your reconsideration because I think this could be a really wonderful establishment on a facility that we've all worked really hard to make a wonderful, to be an attraction.
 So, a couple more hands following those comments, Alderman Frost and Alderman Durkee. Thank you. And with respect to how these growlers work, I've actually never purchased a growler, but I've seen many people come in and purchase growlers. And I can honestly say I've never seen someone drink out of a growler while being in an establishment or, you know, behind the wheel of a car.
 Long life ago, I was a DUI prosecutor. People find alcohol to drink and drive by any way they can. I don't think people are going to be buying growlers to drink on their way from Johnny's game or Susie's game back to their hotel. And frankly, that's the, you know, as Alderman Durkee stated, I too have had the litany of traveling for the last 16 years.
 of places like this and it's true that the ones that you like more than others are the ones that serve good food instead of just getting vending machines and ones that actually do serve beer or serve something else. Why is that? Because well, sometimes you're, as a parent, you're stuck at these places for lengthy periods of time and so it's nice to be able to eat and have a drink away from your children's game. It's not like people are bringing all the beers to the side of the basketball game like they are at an NBA game.
 So I just wanted to clarify, that's why my intent on the packaged liquor amendment was really, again, in case there was boating event, because Alderman Hervey mentioned the concern about boaters pulling up to buying liquor and getting back in a boat, and I agree with her on that 100 percent. But, again, with respect to the...
 ability to sell a growler, it's not as if people are going to be getting the growler and leaving and drinking and driving with the growler because if that's the case, they could have just drank the beer at the bar. It really is for them to bring home or if they like the beer in Rockford, maybe they'll bring a growler home and then maybe next time they're going to come back to Rockford, they're going to stop at one of our brew pubs and enjoy it even more. So I would ask that you reconsider that.
 the amendment to allow the growler sale only because it really is truly not the same as a packaged liquor sale. I'll turn to you then, Alderman Newberg.
 Thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak again. I wanted to dovetail on the previous two remarks as well. And so the other aldermen are clear in at least my approach to voting in favor of the growler, and that is the nature of the person that is purchasing a growler is not somebody who does run home and pound it down and become drunk and disoriented. These are people who like craft beer, and they're not cheap.
 So most people who want to, you know, get, you know, drunk at night, they're going to do it as cheaply as possible. They're not going to walk into a brewery and buy a craft beer for, I don't know what they sell for, 20 bucks a growler, and then drive out. The nature of the individual who would purchase this is different than the typical person who would abuse alcohol. So I just wanted to be clear on my thought process.
 Ollerman Newberg was next, and then Ollerman Bodo. Thank you. Okay, I have two questions. My first question is, are they going to be brewing beer at the sports factory, or is this going to be transported from their main prairie brew house? Can anybody answer that question? Mr. Ollerman, back to you. They will be doing both. I make a motion we put the sentence back to code. Okay.
 That is not in order. We first have to vote on this other item, which is before the council, which is the Alderman McNamara's motion. Who else was next? Alderman Odo. And this is just, I respect Alderman Berkey, but it's kind of like saying the people that drink craft beer and
 Don't drink to get drunk because it's expensive. I've been at Prairie Street Brewhouse with people falling down and throwing up, so I don't really care how much it costs. If you have the money and you're a drinker, you're going to drink, and maybe you don't see that all too often in your line of work, but I'm sure emergency room doctors see it with people getting sick and things like that. If you're going to drink, you're going to drink. You got the money, you're going to drink and overdrink.
 So I think that this that was just not something to compare to just because it's a craft beer Any further discussion on alderman McNamara's motion hearing none clerk, please call the roll Yes, yes McNamara frost Herbie Odo Newberg Beach McNeely cheer Ellie six eyes for nose runner. No motion carries. I
 So the amended item is before the council as amended by Alderman McNamara's motion. Alderman Shrelle, still looking for a vote on that? Yep. Any additional motions? Place those items up for passage as amended. Matters now still up for passage, the full item. Any additional discussion on the maneuver? Yes, I make a motion we send this back to committee. Motion, is there a second? Second. There's been a motion and seconded by Alderman Beach to send the matter back to
 committee any further discussion clerk please call the roll on that motion Senate back to committee turkey getches McNamara frost Kirby yes yeah so that the motion is to send it back to committee the puts in regs committee Odo Newberg yes Beach McNeely Chiarelli no
 I need to break the tie believe it's five five I will vote no so the matter is still before the council any additional motions hearing no additional motions the underlying vote in the matter as the motion or I'm sorry the item as amended by alderman McNamara's prior motion is before the council clerk please call the roll on all seven pardon me just turkey aye getches aye McNamara aye Frost Hervey
 So the first comment calling the bill on all the matters that are up, which is that item number seven is amended with all the other items, right? Oh, I'm sorry. So it's, okay, I apologize. I thought we were going to amend no on number five and number seven. Let me just stop right there before we go any further. Any of the folks who already voted have the same concern or question. Is there any items you want to change on element frost?
 And all of them. All of them. Thank you. Thank you for pointing that out. Continue, please. Newberg. No, I'm seven. Can I ask a question? Beach. Do you want to ask a question? I didn't see you. You weren't at your desk. Alderman Beach, can you repeat yours? Five and seven. Alderman Odo. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. McNeely. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 10 ayes. Item number 5, 8 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 7, 6 ayes, 4 noes. Manager, I'll pass. Finance and Personnel, Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Under number 6C, these are going to be items 1 through 5. Item number 1.
 recommending approval of the vouchers, $4,639,569.09. And then the committee recommending denial of the fine waiver for the enlisted addresses. I don't believe I need to repeat those. This was requested by the...
 was it Gambino Realtors, I believe, in order to transfer these lots or properties to Habitat for Humanity. And these are actual liens, not fines. Then number three, approval of the intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation. This is to do work on Harrison Avenue that would be reimbursed.
 Item number four recommending approval of the IEFF contract with our firefighters and item number five approval of the 2% wage adjustment 2016 wages for non-union employees and I would place those five items up for passage Thank you for passage under Roman numeral 6 C items 1 2 3 4 and 5 There's up for passage
 I'm sorry we need a motion to suspend the rules first. Motion to suspend the rules. Second. Motion and second to suspend the rules. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Matters are for passage is there discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee No on 2. Ayan Getschus Aye McNamara No on 2. Ayan Ross No on 2. Kirby Aye Odo
 Newberg Beach McNeely Aye Chiarelli Items 1, 3, 4, 5, 10 ayes Item number 2, 6 ayes, 4 noes On which, what was your original vote? Aye No on 2? No, he's changing it to an aye He's changing it to an aye on 2 I had you down as an aye No, you were on 2 Okay Switched it to an aye Okay So you're responding like that?
 Yes. 5-5. Number C2 is tied 5-5. I'll vote yes. Good. Thank you. So you wanted to vote no. So it's 5-5. I'm breaking the tie to voting yes, which is a denial of the fine waiver. So the final outcome, I believe, is 6-4. 6-5. I'm sorry, 6-5. So the matters all carry.
 Officer's reports will be very brief. I have a few items I have to read in. First is a suggestion for library board appointment to replace James O'Hagan. This would be Mr. Oliver Bear. His resume and background information is attached. This will lay over for 30 days. Another recommendation is for the community action board. This is for Ms. Kathy Johnson. Again, her information is attached. It will also lay over.
 Next, I have committee assignments which would take effect for next week's committees. If there's any questions on any of those, that memo has been distributed. There's a couple of the items on there that are voluntary. In other words, I'm making recommendations. It's ultimately up to the council, which include large-slave and lobbying. I'm happy to follow up on any of that. My final item of the night, I know she has been waiting patiently throughout this evening.
 But I just wanted to stop and pause and give recognition to our outgoing HR Director, Julia Valdez. Julia has not only been HR Director, she's been our Assistant City Administrator.
 and a go-to person for just about any complex challenge that the city has had. She's been extremely effective, extremely competent, extremely willing to take on extremely difficult challenges during her entire time that I've been honored to be able to serve with her. Julia, thank you for your incredible work. We will miss you greatly. They're going to have a great new asset in the Village of Oak Park in the Chicago suburbs.
 but you remain living here, so we know where you live. We will come find you. All kidding aside, we also want to be a resource for you with any of the new challenges that you have, and you've got a lot of great friends here in City Hall. I know you've earned my trust, respect, admiration, but also it's a great honor to be able to call you a friend. So thank you very much, and like I said, it's sad. This is her last night. I don't know if she'll miss us as much as we may miss her,
 Long nights like tonight sometimes make us all wonder, but again, thank you, it's been a great honor. Congratulations. Julia also has been known to give very long speeches, very long, I'm joking, right? She lets us be the stars, she stays in the background and does an extremely effective job, but I would be remiss if I didn't offer you an opportunity if you wanted to say something. And I have to turn your mic on if you want to stand there, but you're welcome to come on up.
 It's going to be so long I want to be sitting down so that I could be rested. No, I just wanted to thank everybody for all the opportunities. The beauty of working for our city is you always had new challenges and you always had an opportunity to learn something new. So I've been very blessed. I have a great team, and I really will miss everybody. But thank you for everything. Thank you. Further officers' reports. All the way back to me.
 Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to make everyone aware that there's a special Coronado Haskell neighborhood meeting on Wednesday, July 20th at 5.30 p.m. at the Jubilee Center, which is at 413 North Court Street at the corner of Court and Park. Chief Daniel O'Shea will be in attendance to meet residents, so I just wanted to make sure everyone's aware of that. And again, that's July 20th, 5.30 p.m. at 413 North Court.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to acknowledge and thank Matt Knott. He came to my ward meeting this past Thursday. And for any of you who have not had the fire department do, they do both summer and winter safety tips, things you should have on hand for a power outage.
 Matt Knott has a short presentation. It's not long, but people walked away saying that was really great. We raffled off some carbon monoxide detectors. They'll bring smoke detectors for people who don't have them. And we did some just sort of some fun raffle stuff too. But yeah.
 It was really a great presentation, and I think it gave a lot of people knowledge of what they need to do for summer safety in the event of storms and things of that sort. So thank you to them, and consider having that at your meeting. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just wanted to thank...
 Joe Marino and the Fourth of July Committee, as well as the City of Rockford, for putting on quite a great show last night. I was not able to see the fireworks last year, but they were fantastic. The parade was great. Everyone seemed to be orderly, although I do want to
 thank the mayor for using some conflict resolution skills on the parade route early on but the mayor did a great job and kept the parade going without missing a beat so I just want to thank everyone involved with a really great celebration obviously there were a lot of people there from our city as well as probably from out of town that really got to see a great show and a great parade and thank you again Thank you. Who was next over here? Alderman Newberg and then we'll come back to Alderman Goetjes and Alderman Beach
 I also want to say to the citizens of Rockford, it was a nice, quiet, although there were a few firecrackers, weekend people looked like they were enjoying it. I was at Rock Valley to the concert. That was absolutely awesome. I walked in the parade with some of the fellow aldermen and the mayor, a long parade. I have been coming to this for...
 50 years, I think that's the largest group I have ever seen. It was just phenomenal. And people were so nice and in a festive mood. So thank you, Rockford, to the police officers and the firemen that gave up their time and to the public works people to help put on a good, safe, fun parade and fireworks. Also, July 13th at St. Bernadette's at 6 o'clock,
 Captain Chief Dan O'Shea will be there meet the chief I would like like to open it up to the ninth Ward to come that's our normal meeting is the 12th But we're putting at the 13th. It's a Wednesday night Please come because there are a lot of things going on with the Rockford Police Department That I think the public has questions for and our chief will be there to answer your questions. Thank you. Thank you. Let me get you
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'd just like to pass a big thank you to the Rockford Police Department. Within the last week, there's been two arrests of car thieves in my, not only in my ward, but in my neighborhood. One of them 200 feet from my house. Both of the arrests were done, you know, right after the...
 you know, person who's accused, you know, grab the car. The police were able to safely chase him down and make the arrest. So it's nice to see, you know, as these crimes are being committed, you know, we're arresting them from just looking at the e-mails. It looks like the arrest tallies are starting to tick up. And so just on behalf of people in my neighborhood in the Second Ward, just a big thanks to Rockford Police Department. Great work. Thank you. Alden Beach. I just want to echo what many have said about the parade. Thank you.
 Each year seems to get brighter and louder and longer. It was tremendous last night.
 Also, maybe I'm not observing, but it seemed like there was a whole lot more police presence. And I really appreciate that. On the streets, they were very friendly. Every place you turned, I saw a lot of command staff out there, just in traffic and being involved. And I want to thank the police department for their role in it. And Joe Marino, especially, again, I don't know how many years he's done it, but a long
 So, a wonderful celebration and thank you. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Unfinished business. Alderman Harvey. I have an amendment, so just hobble on over. Thank you, Your Honor. Under unfinished business, Roman numeral 8C, item number one, I have an amendment to the ordinance due to the fact that our amazing folks.
 came in under bid. So rather than the aggregate principal amount for the general obligation bond at $17,500,000, I would move to amend the ordinance to provide
 for authorizing issuance of the general obligation bond sales tax alternative revenue source of the City of Rockford for Winnebago and Ogle counties in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $16,225,000
 And this is for construction and rehabilitation of police stations, repairing the concourse parking deck, and refunding some of the alternate bonds and expressing the official intent to create certain capital expenditures that'll be reimbursed from the proceeds of those bonds. And also to amend the ordinance to reflect that the amount for the District 1
 station is $13,225,000. So I would request a second to that motion. There's been a motion and second to amend Roman numeral 8C1 to provide for an ordinance authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds, sales tax, alternate revenue source of the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, Illinois, and aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $16,225,000.
 for the purpose of constructing and rehabilitating police stations, repairing the concourse parking deck, and refunding certain outstanding alternate bonds, and expressing official intent regarding certain capital expenditures to be reimbursed from proceeds of said bonds, and to further amend the ordinance to reflect the amount for District 1 to be $13,225,000. That's been moved and seconded. Is there a discussion?
 Hearing none, all those in favor of the proposed amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. So the proposed, I'm sorry, the item as amended, I'm assuming, is then up for passage? Yes, Your Honor. Place that up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion on it in Frost? In the ordinance, though, before it was amended, it just was for the...
 authorization of the general obligation bonds, and now it seems like we're adding in something about police district, GeoPolice building number one in there. I just didn't know what the reason is for that. Mr. Hayes? It was for station one. Anybody need it? So there was always a series of items that we were financing. We're actually in this bond issue, financing the police district station number one. Those bids came in lower than anticipated.
 So that amount is reflected as being adjusted, but that was within the language of the ordinance that was circulated two weeks ago and also at the committee the week before. The reason that there's changes today is strictly and solely for the amounts reflected in the bids. So those items all changed to reflect that changed amount. The question was in the actual –
 Or Jennifer Knight, it just mentions, initially it mentioned the number not to exceed the $17.5 million, which we're now changing to the $16. Right, that's because the big came in, $1,275,000. I suppose why we're having both numbers put in this number. Ms. Eklund, you want to add anything? No.
 First of all, I wanted to point out that the $13,225 million is for Districts 1 and 3. That's not just District 1. Correct. But we're required to outline the specific purposes for the bond sale. So we have to outline that the $13,225 is for the Districts 1 and 3, that there are seven...
 I'm sorry, $750 for the parking deck change order, and then the balance is for refunding issues. And we're required to state that in this authorizing ordinance. So maybe we can just state it on the record that way, then, to make it clear. So it's now part of the record. So it's, and I think it's. I just want to mention, Your Honor. Mr. Hayes. What's posted on our website today, because we just received the revised document
 ordinance from bond council today.
 is a blue line copy of these changes. And so only a couple digits change and only to reflect the bid outcomes. But all the purposes of the ordinance, every other word in that ordinance is the same as it was when we presented at committee and also at council. So it's just reflecting the reduced amount of the bids. I think what Alderman Frost's point is, which I observe as well, the language in what was published on this piece of paper
 doesn't break out the cost of districts one and three being lower. Right. Right. That's what your point was. So it should have said district one and three. Yeah. Pardon me? And the amount for the concourse parking deck. I mean, if we're going to have a number, I just think I'd like to see it add up. So if we're going to have a bond issuance not to exceed 16.6. 16.225. 16.225. If we could just see a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,
 delineation of all items to make sure they're identified. So, for instance, when it was read, it was police station number one, but it really is police station number one and three. So that's kind of what... That was my error, yes. So the, so the, just on that point, just to make sure I've got it down
 District one and three costs 13 million 225,000 yes parking deck was how much 750,000 and the remainder is the refunding of two million two hundred fifty thousand
 250? Yeah, 2,250,000. So the concourse deck amount and the refunding amounts didn't change? No. From the draft. The only changes were reflecting changes. But just for the record, if there's no objection, we will add in the detail on it to include the specific items, the 13,225 for Districts 1 and 3, the parking deck for 750,000, and the refinancing.
 costs of $2,250,000. Yes. Any objection to that as read? Is that fair? Any additional discussion on the item? So the item is up for passage. Clerk, please call the roll. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Durkee. Alderman Durkee. Oh, I didn't hear the question. So we're... Aye. It's getting late. I don't understand. Dutches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey.
 Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. McNeely? No. Chiarelli? No. Nine ayes, one no. Matter passes. Thank you.
 On Roman numeral 9, motions and resolutions. I'm Dirkie. One item, Roman numeral 9A1. It's a request from John Holmstrom, Paul Oakley, and Jim Keeling for consideration of a financial commitment in the amount of $600,000 over three years in the Kishwaukee school area for demolition and neighborhood development. Please set up for passage. Thank you. For passage, Roman numeral 9A1. Discussion? Discussion?
 Just a question, Your Honor. I was trying to sneak over and ask Mr. Cagnoni. My understanding is that the blight reduction grant, I believe it was IDA, that we received recently, over a million, 1.2 or 1.4 something, has two target areas, one of which is Ellis Heights, the second of which is the Orchid neighborhood, the old Rockford College Historic District, which is where this initiative...
 whether it's to improve the Kishwaukee school area, it's also part of the potential purpose-built community that's under discussion. The funding source for this was a big stumbling block for a number of people. And my question is, how much of that blight reduction grant is targeted for the community
 the Orchid or Kishwaukee school area, and why can that not be the funding source? Is there some reason that a significant portion could not be? Because I think that takes away some of the angst that people had over the funding source. Ms. Cagnoni, could you comment on that?
 Thank you, Your Honor. So our grant was from the Illinois Housing Development Authority and it was for $1.2 million and identified for the acquisition and demolition of approximately 35 homes. And it does include this particular area.
 should this be approved, we'll certainly concentrate our efforts in this footprint to maximize the dollars of the city. But one of the conditions of that grant is that properties need to be vacant, and not all these properties are vacant.
 I guess then to the optimum extent possible, I would ask that we do target those funds. And I know this is, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Ryan, what we're asking for here is just an indication of support. We're not pledging anything at this point. And I also want to say initially I had huge opposition.
 to all of this stuff, purpose-built community, some of the work that was being done, and I had some suspicion in other things. I met with the neighborhood group several times. I meet with them all the time. And they asked me to give support to this because they want something better for their neighborhood. They're willing to do the work and take the risk to make sure that the implementation
 is done with fidelity to not concentrating poverty, to making sure that the, if we get the purpose-built model, that it lives up to the expectations. And I've since changed my opinion for two reasons. Number one, I represent them. So regardless of how I might feel about it, I'm going to vote to represent their desires. Number two,
 I'm going to work with the purpose-built folks and everybody else and make sure that it lives up to the expectations. I think I can say already the school district, it's not going to be a charter school. They made that very clear, and that was one of my biggest objections already. You know, we're messing with the model. But Superintendent Jarrett very quickly came forward with some ameliorating
 provisions that I think will allow this school to truly be a model school for the neighborhood. So, I would ask for my fellow council members, I'm not asking them to change their vote,
 for something in a void, but I think if we really look at some of the funding sources and potentially even apply for some additional grants, this isn't going to happen overnight. I think we can bring this to fruition. It will be a huge benefit not just for the Orchid neighborhood but for the Kishwaukee school community, which by the way is going to include the current buyer.
 attendance area because Bayer will become something that is much needed in early childhood center. So I think there's huge opportunity here. So I would ask for people to give support to the group that's trying to make this happen because I am confident that their motives are pure, and they are going to work hard to make this something much better for the community. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. I'll then speech.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I get the impression from the discussions that we've had
 with John and so forth, that they need all of the commitment, not only from us, but from the county and the private sector. Is there some plan in the event that they don't get it all? Are they still going to go forward with the project? And if so, how will it be funded? Because they said the school district has already given all they're going to give towards it, and the rest of it is up to us and the county and perhaps some private funding.
 Alderman Harvey, do you have some comment on that? Just that from the meetings that they've had so far, they need 100% of what they're asking for the area to make that school site what they want it to be. If they don't get it, I guess there's like three or four phases to the project. So maybe one phase doesn't get done. Mr. Ryan had a comment.
 Yeah, their ideal deal footprint that they're trying to achieve is approximately 15 acres. And as Alderman Hervey explained, if they can't get that private and public funding, they would ratchet it down to 10 acres. But the feeling is that won't have the impact on the neighborhood in terms of eliminating blight or have the ultimate school build out for playgrounds and open fields that they're looking for.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I also agree with Alderman Hervey. I think this is a great project bringing together a private – Pull your mic down again. I apologize. These mics are just very sensitive. Bringing together both private input as well as intergovernmental input.
 collaboration in order to do this. These neighborhood projects always have a ripple effect that usually expand outside with a given radius when these are done. As far as some of the funding, remind some of the aldermen in case they forgot, I think the budget, budgeted amount for demolitions were approximately $10,000 per home and which is our end of it.
 But we've been having demolitions come well under that. So I think $600,000 is on the high end of our... Yeah, just as a reminder, too, this would be a general position of support. We would be looking at a minimum, an IGA, which would establish the specifics and the parameters of how the demolition
 partnership of work as well as likely look at some of the phasing issues. Other details, Mr. Ryan, I'm not sure that, but this was not the last time we will be looking at this in terms of the details of how it would be executed. But they're looking for general statements of support in order to move it to the next phase of development. Other comments? Any other discussion on the item? Alderman Newberg? Thank you.
 So this is just that the council and city will consider this. This is not committing to anything at this point. Well, I would ask maybe for staff to elucidate further. This would be, like a lot of our projects, a step in the process.
 It would be back before us again, but I don't want to say that it's meaningless, but I would say that it would ultimately have, there would be additional opportunities for approval if something were to come up. But what I would like us, at a minimum, we need to start thinking about is, as Alderman Hervey alluded to, we need to start asking staff to find the money so that it could be done within our budgets, hopefully utilizing as much of our existing already planned spend as we can. Thank you.
 Is that fair articulation, Mr. Cagnoni? Correct, Your Honor. Should City Council approve this resolution, we would cooperatively work with the group as well as the county to identify potential funding sources to go after the commitment. You know, the resolution, as it's stated, is that the City Council hereby approves and supports the proposed project by the district with a financial commitment from the city in amount not to exceed $600,000 for the Kishwaukee Elementary School Area project
 be it further resolve this resolution in the city's financial commitment shall be subject to an intergovernmental agreement between the city one of the accounting district tool 5 thank you on really thank you Mr Mayor I certainly appreciate all I meant her these comment and I certainly would like to support her in this and make comments where Mr Holstrom when Mr Keeley was here
 earlier that I would like to see them stay focused in the Ellis Heights area before moving forward to the Kishwaukee school area. But my real concern, remembering what
 Honnold has stated that the school district takes up the taxpayer, a considerable portion of the taxpayer dollars, and for the school district or the private individuals to come to the city council and ask for $600,000 or $6,000, I can't be in agreement with.
 I would hope that the school district could find the funding of this amount, the $600,000 from the city as well as that from the county to put forth into a district. They've made the comment.
 and made the determination that this would make a better area for the school, for the kids. So if they know that, then they should provide for the funding for that. So I will not be supporting this tonight. Thank you.
 Alderman Hervey. Well, not to belabor, but I absolutely agree that, you know, the school district, if they wanted to make it 15 acres, they should make it 15 acres. But I also want this down, some of these houses. These are where the shots fired come from.
 This is where, I'm not going to name any addresses, but this is where my drug dealers live. This is where the people reside in some of these houses, not all of them, some of them are going to be very good people, and I hope we can relocate them within the immediate vicinity. But there are two streets in here that are so blighted, that are so problematic, that are such a pain on political and community resources.
 that eliminating those is gonna build for a better neighborhood. It's gonna make it safer for everybody, not just a better school for the kids.
 And that's why I was happy when the blight reduction money was going to be part of it is focused in the Orchid neighborhood because that's going to help with the Kishwaukee corridor. It's going to help with the Morgan Street, South Main revitalization. So it all kind of ties in. But I respect your position. I absolutely do. Thank you. Further discussion on the item? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Sketches.
 McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Nine ayes, one no. The matter passes. Thank you. Opposed and regards. Alderman Shirelli? Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 9, motions and resolutions B1, 2, 3, and 4, I place up for passage, Your Honor. Roman numeral 9, B1 through 4, matters are up for passage as they're in discussion. These are all special event related. Alderman McNeely?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to comment on B1. This is at party. It's an organization, it's several organizations that have seen and observed and certainly want to start tackling various issues that are within the 13th Ward.
 and really throughout the city, but this will be the 13th ward, hoping to bring the kids and the teenagers and the families in to this event and going from this, not just having another event every year, but actually coming together and throughout, within those organizations being able to make some changes and improvement for the benefit of the individuals there.
 I appreciate them and I thank them for coming forward and doing this event. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Oto. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Tenagio. Aye. Manage passed. Thank you.
 I see finance and personnel, Alderman Hervey. Under Roman numeral 9C, I have items 1 through 11. I believe all were read in and vetted at the previous meeting. Thank you. Up for passage under motions and resolutions Roman numeral 9C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 and 11.
 all the manager passages their discussion just notes item number five is the word of bid for the station number one it was a for a joke please and you know the discussion items over frost it is five and of all the really good with the right to prove it really was was that one done before that stuff that was last week I believe it was for a committee
 Any other discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. I'll state it on ten. Aye. Weston. McNamara. No on four. Aye. On the remainder. Frost. No on four and five. Aye. On the remainder. Herving. No on four. Aye. On the remainder. Odo. Newberg. On the bottom. Four. Aye. On the remainder. Beach. McNeely. Chiarelli. Item 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 10 ayes.
 and number three nine times one no item number four for eyes six knows and number five eight times two knows and i remember ten nine times one of steam and for fails the rest of that has passed roman numeral nine the parliament thank you mayor or items number uh...
 The two, I'll take first. I'm going to be referring to the Fair Housing Working Committee, the issue of reducing ongoing legal fees. The Community Development Director has established that he and his staff have capacity to collaborate with aldermen in the formation of a sound and compliant housing policy with less reliance on outside counsel. With continuing commitment to the retention of subject matter housing experts,
 experts and outside counsel when needed for specific issues. The completion of tasks by committee can be achieved with a lower cost. I anticipate a modified work plan and adjusted terms of the retainer agreement will be formulated by the committee and referred to counsel. Our next meeting is July 12th at 5.15 p.m.
 Also, I would just to make clear item that D2 you would like to refer to committee. Yes, sir.
 Thank you. Go ahead. And D1, as a resolution to, and everyone should have now the amended resolution on your desk, it's a resolution to approve the certificate of consistency for Rockford Housing Authority's 2016 PHA plan subject to continuing collaboration between the City and Rockford Housing Authority on areas that's outlined as consistent. Thank you. Just want to make sure, does everybody have a copy of the resolution reference by all of you?
 So discussion on the two items. The second item is just a referral back to committee. The first item would be this resolution, Alderman Hervey. Just a question. Is, I gave my, I think I gave my, no, I apologize, Your Honor, I had to check something.
 One of the things that we requested with this certificate of consistency in trying to work with RHA on their PHA, which is their annual plan, so to speak, that they have to submit to HUD, many of us had concerns about the plan for Brewington Oaks, which basically will maintain the density and concentration at Brewington Oaks of what, 175 units?
 I'm sorry, I keep saying Bloomington Oaks. Horton Keys. Horton Keys at 175 units. The major changes there would be that they would put in some self-sufficiency program, and the Park District has said that they were going to upgrade the park. That's not acceptable. I'm sorry. It repeats the housing mistakes of the past, and I think it's reprehensible that...
 you've got on the far east side, you know, Forest Glen, which has a very good income mix, and we now have, even though I disagree with the density, the far less dense Newtown, which is on the east side of the river, and on our southeast and near west sides, we're going to keep, same thing, by the way, for Blackhawk, that same density. To me, that's not acceptable. And what we had asked for...
 from RHA was not a toothless commitment that they would work to refine the redevelopment plan, taking into account financing. That basically means it's more profitable for Gorman to keep it the way it is. They have already said that. So this is basically codifying that they're not going to engage in good faith discussions about changing it.
 I don't want to issue a certificate of consistency on that basis. My feelings about housing are well known by this council. I was told last week that because I oppose Newtown, I have aligned myself with people who hold racist views. And that's insane.
 My views about concentrated poverty and racial isolation and segregation have been in place for a long time, and I think that's what public housing has done historically. I believe leaving Orton Keyes in substantially the same condition and density that it is perpetuates segregated housing patterns and perpetuates those same ills. I don't think,
 I mean, I would even wonder how we could issue a certificate of consistency with our consolidated plan, which calls for deconcentration of housing in those huge clusters like that and say that it's consistent with anything that this city has espoused. So I'm disappointed that we didn't look at what I would call option B, which basically
 We'll issue the certificate of consistency, but it's contingent upon RHA really working with us to reach an agreement on the plan for Orton Keys, as well as temporary and permanent relocation plans for Brewington Oaks prior to taking any action. That's all we're asking them to do.
 So if they don't agree, it would result in our denial of the Certificate of Consistency. And we've offered to try to bring to the table additional resources and some other commitments. We want better housing. We want to work with RHA. We're looking for a better direction. But for this resolution, basically says once we issue that Certificate of Consistency, RHA can say buzz off.
 And that's what concerns me. I don't know how we move from the status quo to something better if we don't take a stand at some point. I know HUD is watching us. I know HUD is breathing down our necks. But I believe when Mr. Riley stood here and spoke for an extended time, this is exactly what he wanted us to do, close ourselves off.
 beat it out and come up with something better for our city. He wanted RHA and us to work together. So I think for the fact that we're trying to look at doing it and putting some meat into it, some teeth into it, to get something like this, I think is disappointing at best, but I certainly can't support it. Other council, and then I'll call on staff and put all of them in Durkee.
 I would agree with elements of what Alderman Hervey has stated, and I've been also pretty clear on the council floor that I do not believe that Rockford Housing is engaged right now in the best practice. However, I do appreciate the Fair Housing Working Committee. I think it was a great move that the city did.
 to put this committee together to address our housing needs and how it's distributed from just cursory readings, just from even HUD's own guidelines and documents from different planning agencies like the Urban Institute
 It just seems like what Rockford Housing Authority is doing and what Winnebago, Winnebago Housing Authority also seems to escape our discussion but they're included. What they seem to do is again to continue to engage in practices in the past and cluster housing. I think there's
 problem when fairgrounds has been determined to be too concentrated and needs to be dispersed, but Orton Keys does. And I don't understand what we're compliant with or what kind of plan that is happening.
 So, and we raised, I raised the same questions with the representative from HUD on the council floor when he visited us. And I agree with Alderman Hervey. I truly believe that HUD wants us to work with RHA in order to solve these problems. But we have to rethink public housing. We have to do it new. There is vacant property on the east side of Rockford.
 that can easily accommodate six flats, that is close to a plethora of jobs, that is close to transportation, that has schools and has access. For the life of me, to my knowledge, some of those lots have never been considered. Instead, again I've dubbed it fairgrounds light, instead we pile 50 units with no parking in an area of the city,
 It baffles me that that happens. So my vote against this is not because of anything other than what I've read with organizations, like I said, such as the Urban Institute and HUD's own guidelines and some of the principles that they are advocating in deconcentrating and spreading out housing.
 So I, like I said, I don't know what RHA, actually at this point in time after reading the Orton-Keys proposal, I have no idea what RHA's plan is. I have no idea what their working philosophy is. I have no idea what their best practice is. I don't know what they're trying to accomplish anymore. Thank you. Further discussion, other hands up. Alderman Newberg and Alderman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Hayes has got something he wants to add. I also...
 take exception we have been talking about Orton Keys and we have been talking about Brewington Oaks and we have been talking about scattered housing and we have been talking about concentrated undeveloped areas and I am not going to I cannot support this because I am tired of talking about it I wanna see constructive plans so that
 We as a city become, no matter where you go, there's different people and there's different philosophies and there's different, we are not going to be able to
 Make this a super city as transform Rockford and other groups want to until we further commit to quit Talking and do something about it. Let's start the program now. Let's stop talking I'm not talking to our AJ anymore. Thank you aluminum McNeely I2 cannot support this I'm on that committee and I know that I
 The committee is striving to move beyond this point and move to the point where we're not looking at Orrington Keys as it currently is or Blackhawk as it currently is. So I think that this resolution needed some more meat in there about the changes to Orrington Keys and Blackhawk, not Blackhawk.
 to make a determination at a later date of us working with RHA. I think that this resolution needs to state that RHA is throwing the plans out for Orrington Keys and Blackhawk and reconsidering it and looking toward moving these housing more scattered, more throughout the city of Rockford and not maintaining status quo.
 If that was in this resolution, Mr. Mayor, I certainly could vote positive tonight. Absent that, I cannot support this. Thank you. Further discussion? Any further discussion? Oliver McNamara.
 I certainly appreciate and share many of your concerns. Actually, I went to the Rockford Housing Authority board meeting back in March and had discussions and voiced my frustrations over certain developments named Brewington and Orrin Keys, and I certainly share a number of those frustrations that all, and I think you all have valid points. I'm certainly sick of talking about it as well. I think, though, that...
 for what our outside counsel has done in collaboration with our legal department and city staff and the Fair Housing Working Committee, I would draw the attention to the last paragraph which is a step. And I guess even before that, I would mention no prior counsel has ever even
 discussed the PHA plan. It has not been before the council to discuss that. So we are moving in a direction of more involvement and many thanks to all of you for being involved and being engaged and wanting that participation in the process. So I would say that and then also not only has no council before this discussed it, no council has said, hey, you know, we
 It's largely consistent, but here are some areas that we have some true concerns over it. That hasn't been done prior. I would draw your attention to the bottom that this is subject to its amendment asset fourth above.
 grant is pretty soft language, but it also is an inclusion of additional terms committing to Continually collaborating between the city and RHA on the proposals of Fort and Keys Brewington Oaks And actually there's many other developments that people haven't mentioned in North Main Manor Olsen Plaza and many other aspects that are in that plan that also should deserve your attention
 of the RHA of the issues of de-densification, relocation, redevelopment, maintenance, and reinvestment. So I think it's moving in that right direction and certainly gets a point across that this is certainly 100% not a perfect plan and really not near it, but it largely is. You have to look at the entire plan. The large breadth of it is consistent. There's
 very key areas that I agree with everyone's comments, that it's not, it has some incredibly concerning elements to it. Thank you for the discussion. Alderman Hervey, then Alderman Durkee. Just one, even the last paragraph here, it talks about de-densification, but it doesn't talk about de-concentration. I don't know if the vote known had amended to make it what would be appealing. I mean, it's not a... My request to make it appealing was
 what I think several people, including myself, spent a good deal of time working on to basically put some teeth in it. This has none. If RHA came to the table and said, you know what, we looked at it, we've talked with Gorman, and all the stuff you guys are talking about just isn't financially feasible. That's why they put the words in there, financing, including financing. Financing is always the issue. How much money you're going to make.
 off these folks. And that's always the catchphrase. If you take financing, obviously it has to be considered. You can't do this stuff without making some money. You have to have money. But doesn't have, RHA can come to the table and say thanks. I sat down, I collaborated, bye. Amended. So I just ask council to make sure, as with all matters, to direct their comments to the chair. Alderman Durkee was next.
 address this issue again. And this may be tangential, but I don't know the scope of the services that HUD offers. We most certainly pay for that as taxpayers. Is there a way that we can engage HUD directly? Do they have an urban planner?
 It doesn't have to be answered today. Do they have an urban planner that can work with us? Plus, organizations like Urban Institute actually do do case studies and do do planning as part of some of their research efforts. I don't even know if there's a cost to it. Their fellows and such actually do these projects. And I'm wondering, as far as trying to do this correctly and properly and not repeating the mistakes of the past,
 Can we engage these individuals to accomplish what we need to? So that's, like I said, it's just a question to put out there. So I'll try to answer it. Alderman McNamara. FICADA has a point of information because the topic that Mr. Cagnoni discussed with me, which is directly on point with your question you just asked, Alderman Durkee,
 Is there resources available? Is there guidance and support that we could potentially request from HUD? Mr. Cagnoni, could you comment on that discussion you and I had? Sure.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, I believe there would be the opportunity to apply to HUD for technical assistance in which HUD could provide the funding to hire a consultant to help us through this process related to furthering fair housing, the rules related to it, and what we're trying to accomplish through our consolidated plan, which talks about deconcentration of poverty.
 I've spoken with Brian Gillian, our SC2 team lead, and he believes it would be an appropriate application and support until, you know, I would recommend that we take that path and include that work with the efforts of our outside council and the work of the Fair Housing Committee moving forward. And I know Mr. Hayes also wanted to add something. Mr. Hayes. William, Alderman McNamara did point out that these
 The execution of the mayor of the certificate of consistency is dependent upon the RHA's amending their plan to incorporate these issues. And so they've got to change their plan in order for the mayor to present them the certificate of consistency under this. And the language would include commitment to continuing collaboration with the city on
 D-densification, relocation, redevelopment, maintenance and reinvestment of all the RHA properties not just Brewington Oaks and Horton Keys. That's what was intended by drafting the drafting in the resolution. That's what it says. I did collaborate with Mr. Sparrow on the drafting of this language. So we're trying to gather support for an idea around
 reasonable timeline consistent with the deadlines that are chasing getting clear terms that a majority of the city council approved on which we can issue a certificate of consistency
 So what I'm hearing from a couple of the aldermen is without a deconcentration or de-densification plan related to Orton Keys, a couple of the aldermen making comments here are not supportive. And to Alderman McNamara's points, maybe a motion to amend to include more in there. I don't know if RHA will do that.
 But at least they'll be clear in certain terms of what's required. I think the de-densification of Orton Keys is something most anybody looking at the plan to completely rehabilitate it is mystified by. So it doesn't surprise me that that might be a condition. But to just say no isn't really much of an option. The committee hasn't been able to produce a consensus, perhaps as council can. I'd recommend we do so. What are the conditions on which we'd approve the certificate of consistency?
 Let's see, who's next? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I believe that the committee hasn't been consistent in what we would like to see from RHA and what we as a city would like to see. I don't believe that our comments, our discussions have been confusing to any degree.
 But what I think that would help me, Mr. Mayor, is to have something from RHA as well. This is a resolution from us. I don't believe we have received anything from RHA stating that they are more than willing to reconsider their plans for Orton Keys for...
 Black Hawk, Brewington Oaks, or any of the others, I know that they have tried to accommodate us with the information. However, I would need something from RHA. I know that you, Mr. Mayor, can sign that certificate, whether we vote on this tonight or not, or whether RHA provides us with the information or not. I would hope that RHA, as well as yourself,
 would reconsider and allow us to come up with a different resolution, which I'm not prepared to do here tonight. Mr. Hayes, you have a comment? Directly to your point, Alderman McNeely,
 The last whereas on the first page of this indicates that the Rockford Housing Authority has indicated it is willing to amend its PHA submitted to the city for approval by inserting the following language. If you turn the page over, those first two block paragraphs are what RHA proposed. And then staff put together the additional language under the therefore, which is do that RHA and these additional issues.
 and the mayor is authorized to issue the certificate of consistency. Just so that you know, on July 1st, the city received this material from RHA that will amend our plan consistent with our conversations as follows. And your staff attorneys, Mr. Sparrow, Mr. Galluzzo, myself, we've been working to try to develop a consensus document that contains what additional
 you know, criteria are involved. So what we're trying to drive to here is more work that maybe is more committee work tonight, but this is in front of the council because of the timetable. So what I'm imploring you to do is please read this, and I know it was just presented tonight, and that's the timeline we have, but please read this with a mind towards we're trying to do what you're telling us to do, to tell RHA what it's going to take
 for us to approve. So what I'm hearing tonight is this document isn't good enough. Orton Keys, the plan for that doesn't work for our community. It's got to be de-densified. I'm not aware that Black Hawk has much of a specific plan right now. Certainly willing to address it. We tried to address all the other issues by including
 other developments of RHA on the issues of de-densification, relocation, redevelopment, maintenance, and reinvestment. And so the idea of them reinvesting in Orton Keys and or Blackhawk, that's included in that language. Those thoughts are included in there. And so what I'm telling you is the idea here is this is collaboration. What is it going to take to get to yes?
 Put those terms in writing to RHA of a consensus of the city council, and let's move on with this. So I just implore you to not take no for an answer tonight. What does it take to get to yes? How do we get a consensus of the city council saying this will work? The plan has to be changed in these specific ways, and let's make that ask as an organization. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Otto.
 I have a question. So there's a plan B, right? So, yes, I'm assuming our outside legal counsel has discussed this stuff with RHA. I'd like to know why this isn't as strong as it should, and has RHA gotten back to our private counsel?
 This seems too open-ended. I don't want to leave it open with, well, let's say yes because, you know, we keep saying no. What's it going to do to take a yes? We've been in this spot before with RHA. Say yes and then we'll give. Has RHA gotten back to our legal counsel regarding this?
 So RHA's lawyer is in the room tonight. Again, I'm sorry. I'm just going to ask everybody, including staff, to look to the chair to be recognized before they start speaking. Mr. Hayes. RHA's attorney is in the room tonight. Mr. Sparrow is here. You can rest assured that these gentlemen and myself, we've engaged in a number of conversations to try to get to a consensus document. So we're trying. We certainly understand that this is wanting in your view, so what?
 What else can we add to this document to get your consent? So Alderman Oda, then Alderman Hervey. Well, can we ask our outside counsel a question or two, or do we have to go in closed session? I believe if there's no objection, the counsel can recognize an outside speaker. You can ask for a vote on it. This is not a committee meeting, so normal counsel rules don't.
 We require a motion. If you want to make a motion, ask Mr. Sparrow to give a comment. Certainly can do that. Listen, that's our rule. It will be a no. It will be a no. That's our rule. If someone wants to ask Mr. Sparrow to comment. I wrote a no for this. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Your Honor, may I request a very – I have some language that I believe can be acceptable and –
 sort of patch this up a little bit, but I would like a few moments to confer with counsel. May we recess for? Do you want to go to a closed session, or do you want to just take a short recess? I just want a short recess. That's fine. We'll take a, if there's no objection, we will recess for 940. How much time do you think you need? Let's make it 10, just to be careful. We'll reconvene at 5 until Alderman Hervey.
 I would like to move to amend the resolution that was presented to City Council, the revised resolution, so that the last paragraph reads...
 Therefore, be it resolved that the City Council of the City of Rockford, Illinois supports the issuance of a Certificate of Consistency by the Mayor for Rockford Housing Authority's 2016 PHA Plan subject to its amendment as set forth above and inclusion of additional terms
 committing to continuing collaboration between the City and RHA on the proposals for Orton Keys, Brewington Oaks, other developments of the RHA on issues of deconcentration, dedensification, relocation, redevelopment, maintenance, and reinvestment,
 prior to RHA taking any action on implementation of those proposals. So let me read that back. It's been moved and seconded as follows. Therefore, be it resolved, and again, this change would just be the last paragraph. Therefore, be it resolved that the City Council of the City of Rockford, Illinois, supports the issuance of a Certificate of Consistency by the Mayor,
 for Rockford Housing Authority's 2016 PHA plan. Subject to its amendment, it's set forth above an inclusion of additional terms committing to continuing collaboration between the City and RHA on the proposals for Orton Keys, Burlington Oaks, and other developments of the RHA on issues of deconcentration, dedensification, relocation, redevelopment, maintenance, and reinvestment
 prior to RHA taking any action on implementation of these proposals. They get that? Yes. So moved and seconded. Is there discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor of that amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The amended Roman numeral 9D1 is before the council as well as 9D2, which would send that matter back to
 Committee for July 12th meeting. Any additional discussion on either of those items? Alderman Beach. Just a request that we get a fresh copy of this with amendments so I can read my writing tomorrow. Yeah, we'll of course get a clean copy of the resolution. Yes, first thing in the morning. That's fine. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Aye. Getses.
 McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Ten ayes. Matters passed. Thank you. Roman numeral 10, new business. Alderman Chiarelli? Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 10, new business ordinances B1234 and 5. I move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Second. Second.
 In a motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 10b, items 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I'm sorry. All those opposed, say no. Matters, rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. On number five, I want to make sure that everybody realizes it was from the committee report that was passed earlier this evening and not the actual language in the ordinance, but it states here.
 So the Roman numeral 10 v. 5 has different language than what currently appears based on what actually Just want to make sure if it does that we were passing with the committee. And this would require, since it's an ordinance, eight votes. Mr. Haley, is that correct? Right. All in back, ma'am. I make a motion to lay over item C-5.
 There's been a motion and second to lay over 10B5. Any discussion on that? All those in favor of laying that matter over, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The matter will be laid over. Thank you. So 10B1 through 4 are up for passage. Yes, Your Honor. I place 1 through 4 up for passage. 10B1 through 4 are up for passage. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
 And I would ask to suspend the rules. Second. Motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 10C. And I'm sorry, you read all three of them? One, two, and three? Yes, Your Honor. Roman numeral 10C, items one, two, and three. Motion to suspend. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Will be suspended. Matters are then placed up for passage. Yes, Your Honor. Passage is their discussion.
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. McNeely. Cheerily. Aye. Ten ayes. That is passed. Thank you. Any further business before the council? Move to adjourn. There's been a motion. Second to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rule of meetings is adjourned. Thank you.