for our invocation this evening, Judy Moe of the Baha'i Center of Rockford. Hello everybody. In an article in the paper this morning, an editorial talked about public prayer, and I read it carefully and I really, I just, really made me think about what I wanted to say today and how important it is when we pray that we're praying for everybody, for all sides, for equity. So,
 in today's prayer I really want to think about the new appointees to the Community Action Agency board and ask for God's blessings and and assistance with them so that they can make the most fair and equitable suggestions to the city and I pray for our City Council always to make the best decisions for the city of Rockford in the area and
 and for all the people of the city of Rockford, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, gender, anything, that we're praying for all the people of Rockford to have the best life. I'm just going to end with a prayer of Baha'u'llah from the Baha'i Writings. O my God, O my God, unite the hearts of Thy servants and reveal to them Thy great purpose. May they follow Thy commandments and abide in Thy laws.
 Help them, O God, in their endeavors, and grant them strength to serve thee. Leave them not to themselves, but guide their steps by the light of thy knowledge, and cheer their hearts by thy love. Verily, thou art their helper and their Lord. Amen. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Thompson, Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach.
 Quinones? Here. Beck? Here. McNeely? Here. Chiarelli? Here. Nine present. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on June 17, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign.
 Item passes. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on June 24th, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Item passes.
 Next up we have a public hearing for the pre-annexation of 4640 Charles Street I would call on alderman Chiarelli as chair of the codes and regs committee to perform that hearing Thank your honor a public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65, Illinois compiled statutes 5 slash 11 dash 15 point 1 through 3 with a pre-annexation agreement for the following property 4640 Charles Street are there any questions or comments from the council members? I
 Is there any questions or comments from the general public? Hearing none, this meeting is closed. Hearing. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Next up, we have no proclamations, so we'll move into petitions and communications. And there's no information under planning and development committee, so we'll move to code and regulation committee again with Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, your honor. I have a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding a proposed intergovernmental agreement between the Rockford Park District and the Rockford Police Department.
 Second is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on July 10th, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on July 22nd, 2019.
 The third is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, the traffic engineer, regarding an honorary street name change, Ogilby Road, South Central Avenue to Clifton Avenue. All three of those memorandums will be referred to Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Torelli. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee with Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items. The first is a memorandum from Carrie Partridge.
 City Attorney regarding a proposed intergovernmental agreement for an electronic citation program between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County's Circuit Clerk.
 Next I have a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty finance director regarding the 2019 bond authorizing ordinance next We have a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty finance director regarding the updated 2019 fee schedule next We have a memorandum from George Davis human services director Regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Township for emergency rental Assistance funding and then lastly we have a memorandum from Lisa Warren head start director regarding an early head start to
 One time supplemental carryover request and I refer all of these items to finance and personnel. Thank you alderman back next up We have public speakers. We have four public speakers this evening I just remind all public speakers that there's microphones in the back Right and back left of the council chambers and that you are allotted three minutes And you'll hear a little ringer and I'll ask you to conclude. So next first public speaker we have this evening is prophet Yusuf. I
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Mark, the third chapter, the 35th verse, it says, whoever does God's will is my brother and sister and mother.
 what I want to speak about tonight, Forgotten Heroes. Fighting Germans in Jim Crow, about 2,000 black soldiers stormed Normandy while serving in a still segregated military. It was the most mass-influenced invasion the world has ever seen with tens of thousands of allied troops spread out across the air and sea, aiming to get a toehold in Normandy for the final assault on Nazi Germany. A wild portrayal of D-Day often showing all white army. In fact,
 It also included black soldiers, roughly 2,000 black soldiers hit the shores of Normandy in various capacity on June 6, 1944, serving in the United States military, still segregated by race. They encountered discrimination both in the service and when they came home. But on Normandy, they faced the same danger as the white soldiers.
 The only African American combat unit that day was the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion, whose job was to set up explosives, rig balloons, and serve German planes. Waverly Woodson Jr. was a corporal and a medic with the battalion, although Woodson did not live to see this 75th week's anniversary.
 He died in 2005. He told the Associated Press in 1994 about how his landing craft hit a mine on the way to Omaha Beach. The tide brought us in. And that's when the 88 hit us. He said of the Germans, 88 millimeter guns, they were murdering us. Of our 26 Navy personnel, there was only one left. They raked the whole top of the ship and killed all the crew. Then they started with the mortars, shells. Senator Carl Chris Van Hollen of Maryland is heading an effort to have Woodson awarded
 the marijuana for his action on D-Day. He killed 200 of them Nazi dogs. Another member of the unit, William Dabney, described what they encountered on D-Day. In a 2009 social press interview during the invasion, the fire was fierce on the beach. I was picking up
 up dead bodies and I was looking at the mines blowing up souls. I didn't know if I was going to make it or not, said Dabney who passed away. Linda Hurwicz detailed the explosion of the 320th in her book, Forgotten Hero, the untold story of D-Day's black
 heroes at home and at war. She said the military resistance effort to desegregate, it is wrap up for World War II. Instead they kept separate units and separate facilities for black and white troops. They never tell you about them old black boys from Shoe Booty, Mississippi, cold water. They never tell you, they couldn't read, they couldn't write, but them boys showed enough knowing how to shoot. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Next up we have Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the personnel, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. It is the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. It allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. It gives you something in common with those who be wise again. You make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something important to say. How did a nation of immigrants become...
 How did a nation of immigrants started and now all of a sudden become a nation that hate immigrants? The past two weeks ago, on Wednesday, June 19th, was our 29th Juneteenth at Mississippi Park. However, the weatherman forecast rained.
 Our back backup plan was Ellis Academy School. Thank God, because that was a blessing in disguise. At the assembly hall, it was packed wall to wall. We had young, old, that came out to hear about our history. However, that did not stop the people from coming out.
 The last time we had this big of a crowd was at Davis Park. I deeply believe, and so do so many others, think and feel that June Team should be held at Ellis School every year on the west side of town and not a San Luis Music band shell, whereby it's hard for those who do not have a car to get to.
 So the rain didn't stop our people from coming out. So you tell me, do you agree or should we go back to a place our people cannot or have a hard time getting to? Time in links, we need to listen and to the people's call. Let's think about in the future how our June team for Ellis Academy School, you saw the turnout.
 the wall young and old about our history this is our fourth of july thus this past uh week tom and ted stated that they would like and thank renewal tournament program for our support and participation they look forward to us celebrating our great nation
 here in Rockford, Illinois, the Rockford Fourth of July Committee. Just a quick note to let you all know that they have received our application, and we will be in the Fourth of July parade, and our lineup is as follows. This is our sixth year being in the Fourth of July parade.
 Those that want to be in the parade with us have to contact me. Our division will be on East State Street, Union 10, 11, and 12. The lineup will be on the east side of 7th Street and 5th Avenue. The parade lineup begins approximately 3.15 with the main body of the parade kickoff at 5 p.m.
 We will be meeting in front of Fairgrounds Community Center at 12 noon. The cookout will start at 1 p.m. We'll feed everyone to sign up for the 4th of July parade first. We have transportation to get everyone to the starting lineup. After, those who want to eat can be free.
 with be free to eat and also we will have transportation for everyone that's going we are still in need of transportation for the upcoming events we are working on getting our 501c3 as soon as possible also this past weekend was our goddaughter's birthday miracle a became seven years old today thank you next public speaker we have this evening is David Kelly mr. David Kelly here
 Okay, we'll come back to him. Next public speaker we have is Dexter Vaughters. My Lord and Savior Jesus Christ paid it all on Calvary Hill. Without him, life is worthless. You know, my parents said, if anything that's in vain is filthy and nasty to be trampled over. But we come in the name of Jesus to let us know about our t-shirts. And I like, you know, doing stuff for the community when I have time, man.
 And like this man was saying, we had a good time at the school, but we have to reach life now. Time is running out. Kids, babies, making babies, sadness everywhere. Right is wrong. Wrong is right. Good is bad. Bad is good. Everything that we taught them has become not all. There are a lot of good things.
 faithful young teenagers that want help, but we can't look at the color of a skin or downgrade any low class person. We have to go directly to him as though he never sinned in his life, who never made a mistake. And so I've been doing this for over 25 years working with you know outdoor events, but sometimes if you want something done you got a bowl of Stripe
 If I bowl a gutter ball, ain't nobody going to hear me no more. So wherever you go, I'm just letting everybody know that we're working with the polices, trying to stop that 911 call. We're working with leaders. We're working with the—we just had a celebration out here at Oregon Keys for the opening of that. We paid on that, and that came through, and we're working with fairgrounds every little bit
 Well, we got to go into the we can't work with the bees. We've got to get to the queen bee if we're going to accomplish anything. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Votters. Next, well, before I move on, is Mr. David Kelly here? Okay. Seeing Mr. Kelly is not here, we will move on. Next up, we have two new committee reports with Planning and Development Committee. First, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have three items. The committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement with the International Women's Baseball Center for the establishment of phase one of International Women's Baseball Center and Outdoor Museum at 1611 and 1711 Seminary Street, adjacent to Bayer Stadium. Item two, committee recommends approval of the proposed memorandum of
 Understanding with the National Resource Network or NRN for a neighborhood strategy development and community engagement process Item 3 the committee recommends approval of the application to the United States Department of Transportation For better utilizing investments to leverage development build grant those three items are put forth. Thank you alderman Rose So there's three items before you is there any questions on the three items that are before you?
 Seeing no questions on the three items before you, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toomer. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, I'm sorry, 1, 10 ayes. Item 2, 9 ayes, 1 no. Item 3, 10 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you those items move forward next up. We have code and regulation committee alderman shirely. Thank your honor. We've got several Items this evening the first committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish handicapped parking restrictions on bruce street from 30 feet west of north rockton avenue to 60 feet west to North rockton avenue number two the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 2115
 2117 Angela Avenue. Number three, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's denial for a variation to allow business identification wall sign on a separate tenant space. At 6286 and 6290 East State Street.
 Number four the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's denial for a special use permit for a used car dealership at 1621 1627 1629 rural street Number four, okay, so we have a motion and a second to lay over item four. That's correct. I
 So I'll move on to item number five. Do we need a vote on that, or it's just automatic? Thank you. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a zoning map amendment from R1 to C2...
 at the following parcels 11-22-181-9 11-22-181-11 11-22-181-12 11 20 22-181-13 and 11-22-181-15 and 11-22-181-16
 And a special use permit for a planned unit development for a medical clinic parking and pharmacy drive-through at 1200 West State Street, Crusader Clinic, subject to conditions. Number five, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for body arts services, a tattoo parlor at 4415 Harrison Avenue.
 number seven the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a modification of a special use permit for a temporary modular classroom on the north side of the school at 4403 Highcrest Road subject to conditions number eight the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a text amendment for section 80-9-d
 I'll read that. All properties of commercial and residential districts with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots legally established shall conform to the regulations contained in section 50-13-A of this ordinance by November 1st, 2021. Nothing in this provision allows illegally established nonconforming parking lots and driveways to remain.
 Number nine the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming 226 South Main Street
 subject to conditions. Number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's recommendation for the approval of the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern and restaurant with video gaming and B, denial of the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern and restaurant with video gaming at 2315 Harrison Avenue.
 Subject to conditions number 11 the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the retail and grocery store at 1006 Charles Street to turn on this light. You're doing great Get darker you need a water or anything Ten oh six
 Charles Street subject to conditions number 12 the committee recommends sustaining the L tabs approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant bar and video gaming at 1025 Fifth Avenue Number 13 the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford tobacco ordinance chapter 3 article 2 and
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to section 16-127 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Notice of Violation, Administrative Adjudication Procedure, parking tickets and city declared snow emergencies. The legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances, your honor. I place those 13 items up for passage.
 Well done. So we have 13 items before you as number four has automatically been laid over with the two aldermen rule Is there any questions on the 13 items before you alderman Thompson Kelly? Is that a hand raise? Yes, your honor Could you separate eight please? We will separate item number eight. Yes, we will separate item number eight and
 So let's take eight first. Any questions or concerns on item number eight, Alderman Thompson-Kelly? I just want to, I still have gotten a few phone calls on this where some residents are still confused about what we're doing. And I can't stress enough for the residents to call their aldermen or staff members to make sure that they're clear on the ordinance because this is the third time we're extending it.
 And staff is working on solutions to those that can't afford to pay for blacktop their driveways. That I wish that the residents would either get in contact with the alderman or the staff and find out more about this. Because it's extended until November of 2021. But now is the time to make plans.
 certainly thank you great point thank you any other discussion seeing no discussion or alderman rose well is this pertaining to number eight or number number eight first okay okay no i don't have anything for number eight yet okay uh clerk could you please call the roll on item number eight only all right frost thompson kelly hoffman
 Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Ten ayes. Thank you. So that item passes. So next up we have 12 items without 4 and 8. You have 1 through 14 without 4 and 8. Is there any discussion on any of those items? Alderman Rose? Aye. Thank you.
 So I wasn't here, and I apologize for not being here the week that it went through committee, but for item 11, it's my understanding that staff did not approve number 11. Is that true? Alderman Rose, we did recommend denial for item 11. Can staff give us some details on that? Director Franzen?
 Sure. It was zoning staff that tobacco sales at this property just wasn't the best use and fit with the business model. It's not a grocery store. All they do is sell phone repair there. So they're only selling phones out of there? Sales and repairs, yes. And phone accessories, right? Yeah. Okay. Okay.
 i guess i my biggest concern is then if we approve something like that then can i get my cigarettes at best buy i mean i just to me that's that's a dangerous slippery slope where if we approve something like that we're basically allowing anyone to uh apply for a tobacco license great point uh
 Alderman Quinones. That's in my ward and I went over there and looked at it. I thought it was a small place but it's pretty large and we have cigarette stores further down on these states so I think it would be a good location for cigarettes to sell out of there. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. I'm really confused now. Is it a wireless store or is it a grocery store? It's a wireless store. It's a wireless store. That's all they have is phones.
 It's like if you went into Verizon or any other wireless store Alderman to Mberg first Thank You mayor so on item 11 it is that just the Standard to put in conjunction with the retail and grocery store because obviously we're finding out now this isn't a grocery store But is that just standard language for director food grocery store director franzen? Oh
 So that is in there because of how they applied for the permit. They did at one time sell sodas and prepackaged chips, but that's not the current case. Okay, thank you. Other comments regarding any of the items? Seeing no other. Alderman Quinones? I want to move the latest one over. Second. So that's automatically been laid over. So item 11 is now laid over.
 Is there any discussion on the remaining items? Now items 4, 8, and 11 are laid over or taken care of, I should say. Seeing no further discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. No. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Names 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 10.
 13, 14, 10 ayes. Item 6, 9 ayes, 1 no. Item 10 and 12, item 9 ayes, 1 no. Well done. All right, those items pass. Next up we have Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I recommend approval of the vouchers in the amount of $7,981,430.69.
 Next is recommending approval of the unclaimed property checks policy. And the third is recommending approval of the proposed amendments to the minority and women business enterprise procurement policy. I place these three items up for passage. Excellent. So we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toomer. Aye. Ross. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. And Ayes. Excellent. Those items pass and move forward. Next up, we have officers reports.
 Just three items. One is more housekeeping. The casino RFP will be going out this week. I just want to remind all aldermen, all of you have received an email to your city email regarding the ethics that go along with this legislation, this item. We're asking you that you read it and that you respond via the, I believe it's the DMS service to notify us that you have read it and that
 you acknowledge that you've received it. So please view that document and acknowledge through the DMS system. And if you have trouble getting into the DMS system, you can reach out to Cherise Hunter, the Director of Human Resources. Next item is...
 i know many aldermen were able to be there this uh past weekend to celebrate uh fred van vliet but i just want to take a second and say uh one what a tremendous job the visitor convention bureau did uh to honor uh fred and his entire family uh this weekend but have done so over the last several weeks with the jurassic park theme that they put on for the finals games
 Just a really unbelievable but most I think impressive of the day outside of the entire Diversity of the crowd was the tremendous speech Fred gave so if you have not seen it and you're watching at home Or if you haven't seen it and you're here tonight, I'd urge you to find that speech It's on social media all over the place, but he did a really wonderful job and
 uh... highlighting and talking to the youth in our community as well as all of us adults so with that i'll turn it over to you for officers reports alderman hoffman well first of all i want to say i one hundred percent agree with you i am not a sports fan at all so you didn't have to be he was so interesting and what he's done for this community was so amazing that he needed to be honored for that
 Secondly, I'd like to say thank you to Chief O'Shea and Chief Dahlke for being so prompt to get me information about the incident that occurred in my neighborhood. I already had inquiries on Nextdoor and within about 10 minutes I was able to get information out that calmed everybody down and let them know the status and it was all good after that. I would also like to thank you Mayor and George Golrop for keeping me informed about the outages
 Because people were calling me they couldn't get to their computers to pull up the screen and they were trying to save the power On their phones on their cell phones So they wanted to make quick calls and I was able to keep them updated as to what was going on and they were very grateful Thank you. I believe just as a quick update. I believe I
 Vast majority of anyone who's still without power, and as of this morning, there was between 600 and 900 residents, will be restored by 7 o'clock this evening. And then everyone will be fully restored. There's a couple of outliers that will be fully restored by tomorrow morning. Any other reports?
 Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to make sure everybody's aware that tomorrow night at the Mississippi Music Show, the annual patriotic concert will be performed by the Rockford Concert Band. It's an annual thing, and they really do a wonderful job playing a lot of the traditional patriotic hymns and marches and
 So we're hoping the thunderstorms stay away and we can get it in out there If not, then we'll be moving it to the Harlem High School auditorium, but it starts at 7 o'clock So hope everybody gets a chance to come out Thank you Alderman Rose just a quick reminder for area residents I we had an incident where a young young lady was hit by a car or she was riding her bike and unfortunate accident had taken place but when when going through a
 Residential zones just try and slow down. We've seen a lot of accidents this year with I know police and and people getting over. We have Scott's log reminder on that. That if you see lights to pull to get to the other side of the road as you're going by any emergency vehicles, but also just a reminder just to slow down in some of those areas that are residential.
 lots of kids playing out at the local parks and you know we have some great amenities in the fact that we have these bike lanes but again you know slowing down a little bit helps to make it a lot safer for our area residents thank you seeing no others out when we report next up with all the appointments are being laid over next up we have motions and resolutions and
 There's no item under planning and development. So next up we will have code and regulation committee alderman trellis. Thank you your honor The first item is a pre-annexation of 4640 charles street pursuant to an agreement to annex To the city of rockford in exchange for water connection
 Number two is solo Italiano. The event is scheduled for Sunday, July 21st 2019 Number three is Vesta Italiana, which is scheduled for Friday, August 2nd, Saturday, August 3rd and set Sunday, August 4th and
 And the fourth is the Ramp River Run. It's scheduled for Saturday, August 31st, 2019. Place those four items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. We have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. White.
 Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 10 ayes. Thank you. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up we have Finance and Personnel Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an awarded bid for 134 North Main Street.
 For bestest abatement to Hussar abatement of Franklin Park, Illinois, in the amount of $69,000. Funding sources, the US EPA cleanup grant for $55,200 and CIP general fund for $13,800. Next is award a bid for citywide street repairs group number two for 2019 residential to William Charles construction of Rockford in the amount of $1,813,245.39.
 funding sources sales tax next is award of bid for citywide street repairs group number three for 2019 for concrete to tci concrete of rockford illinois and the amount of one million three hundred ninety thousand thirty two dollars and twenty seven cents next is a rescind of the award of bid for 2018 demolition demolition group four
 Staff recommends rescinding the award to ARO Enterprises of Marengo and awarding the demolition of 3104 10th Street, 522 14th Street and
 912 South 5th Street to N track group of Loves Park in the amount of $41,115. And Rodman Services in the amount of $30,563 for the demolition of 3110 15th Street, 620 Trenton Street and 412 North 3rd Street. Contract duration is 45 days. Funding source is the Community Development Block Grant and Abandoned Property Program, Round 3.
 And the last is award of non-competitive bid for police undercover vehicles through Greater Rockford Auto Auction of Rockford for an amount not to exceed $100,000 per year. Contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions. Funding source is drug asset forfeiture funds. I place these five items over passage. Thank you. So there's five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items?
 Alderman McNeely An item number four, I can't recall. I know this was addressed at committee level the difference between the amount under the original bid And the reason why the original was rescinded. I can't recall director Haggerty
 original bid was rescinded because we determined that the after the award that the Awarded vendor did not have the appropriate demolition license in place I believe I don't have the sum of The increase in price, but I'd be happy to calculate that and get that to you. Thank you Sir any further questions alderman Thompson Kelly On our demo list I
 Director Framson, can you provide that this week to Alderman? Any further questions or discussion? Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Toonberg. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Ten ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, we have Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Rose. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have an ordinance approving the development agreement with the International Women's Baseball Center for establishment of phase one. Number two, an ordinance approving the memorandum of understanding with national resource networks for neighborhood strategy development and community engagement process. And number three, an ordinance approving the application to the United States Department of Transportation for better utilizing investments to leverage development, aka build grant.
 thank you alderman rose so we have three items before you is there any discussion on those three items seeing no discussion folk uh will you please call the roll tunberg frost thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones beck mcneely shirely item number one ten eyes item number two nine eyes one no item three ten eyes thank you uh next up we have code and regulation committee
 Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the establishment of handicap parking restrictions on Bruce Street from 30 feet west of North Rockton Avenue to 60 feet west of North Rockton Avenue. Number two is an ordinance approving the annexation of 2115-2117 Angela Avenue. Number three is an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment
 For a bunch of the following parcel codes that I already read in earlier. For a special use permit for a planned unit development for medical clinic parking and pharmacy drive through at 1200 West State Street, Crusader Clinic. Number four is an ordinance approving the special use permit for body art services at 4415 Harrison Avenue. Number five is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit.
 for a temporary modular classroom at 4403 high crest road number six is an ordinance approving the text amendment for section 80-9-d all properties and commercial and residential districts with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots legally established shall conform to the regulations contained in section 50-13-a of this ordinance by november 1st 2021.
 Number seven, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming at 226 South Main Street. Number eight is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern and restaurant with video gaming at 2315 Harrison Avenue.
 Number nine was laid over your honor Number ten is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant bar and video gaming at 1025 Fifth Avenue Number 11 is an ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford tobacco ordinance chapter 3 article 2 And number 12 is an ordinance approving the amendment to section 16 dash 127 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances number
 Notice of violation, administrative adjudication, procedure, parking tickets, and city declared snow emergencies. I place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelli. So there's 12 items, but only 11 are up for a vote because number 9 has been already laid over. So is there any discussion on the 11 items before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Tumor. Frost. No one for a roll. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Tumor.
 Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. Items 1, 2, 3, 10 ayes. Item 4, 9 ayes, 1 no. Items 5, 6, 10 ayes. Item 7, 8, 9 ayes, 1 no. Item 10, 11, 12, 10 ayes. Alderman Beach. Number 10, please, if you don't mind. What did you say? No on number 10. That vote will now be 9 ayes, 1 no.
 Thank you. Item passes. Thank you. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the unclaimed property checks policy and an ordinance approving the amendments to the minority and women business enterprise procurement policy. I place those two items up for passage.
 Excellent. So there's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toomer. Moves. Aye. Frost. Where's the, um... Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Tint. Aye. Excellent. That item passes. Next up, we have our favorite, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of Your Honor, I move...
 I move to go into closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters. Excellent, clerk, could you please call the roll? Toomer, Brost, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinonez, Beck, Aye, McNeely, Aye, Chiarelli, Aye, Ten ayes. Excellent, we'll move to closed session.