done the invocation in the pledge we will move to the roll call Durkee yes Brini Toomberg yeah Ross Herbie yeah Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Hanley McNeely Shirely 13 present
 Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on June 1st, 2020? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. Any discussion online? Seeing no discussion online. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those of you who are aye, this is going to be a lot of fun tonight. With that, no discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomer.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Herbie? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Irvins? Aye.
 We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion online? Seeing no discussion online, any discussion here at Council Chambers? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you.
 Uh, we have no proclamations this evening. So we'll move to petitions and communications. We'll first go to planning and development alderman rose
 Thank you, your honor. We have two items. The first is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director regarding HUD Section 108, principal payment relief for cliff breakers, referred to Planning and Development Committee. The second is an item, a proposed contract for a tax increment financing district, consulting services with Kane McKenna and Associates Incorporated, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. This is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager for Permits and Special Events regarding the upcoming special events for Roxwood Fire 9-1-1 3K Family Run and the Ramp River Run. The second item is the Traffic Commission Agenda for the meeting to be held on July 8, 2022. Consideration is on July 13, 2022.
 thank you next we will go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost thank you number one is a memorandum from scott capovella planning and zoning manager regarding the proposed amendment to the 2020 fee schedule to include a zoning board of appeals special use permit application fee for murals this matter will be referred to the finance and personnel committee number two is a memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding a city state agreement for the 20th street
 Over us bypass to bridge will be referred to finance and personnel. Number three is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, the public works director regarding a city state agreement for us business 20 East State Street from Mill Road to Buckley Drive. This will be referred to finance and personnel committee.
 Number four is a memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director, regarding the Head Start Collaborative Agreement with Trinity Daycare Inc., referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number five is a memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director, regarding the Head Start Collaborative Agreement with Harlem Community Center, Hainesville.
 Hand in hand childcare, this will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And number six will be a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the comprehensive annual financial report. This will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you alderman frost next up. We have new committee reports. We have no items. I don't believe underneath planning and development. So we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman. Thank you. The committee recommends approval and extension of the jurisdictional bounce between the village of the Chesney park for additional term of 10 years.
 Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of waterton drive and sandy hollow road to stenstrom road Number three committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking 7 a.m To 4 p.m. Monday through friday on the south side of stenstrom road drive to the east end of stenstrom road Number four committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval seven
 12 PM Monday through Friday on the north side of Stenstrom Road and to the east end of Stenstrom Road. Number five is the committee recommends the statement of the traffic commission approval to establish a handicap parking restriction on the east side of 7th Street from 130 feet north of 9th Avenue to 80 feet north of 9th Avenue.
 traffic commission's approval to repeal the no parking bus stop restriction on the south side of Harney Court from Fairview Avenue to 190 feet west of Hawthorne Avenue. Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Christina Street from 175 feet south of 18th Avenue to 575 feet south of 18th Avenue.
 For eight, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following item. A is establishing a no parking anytime restriction on one side of North Avenue from John Street to Novo. Nine, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's denial of a special use permit wireless communications facility at 1760.
 For 10, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a zoning map amendment from C2 to I1 Light and Industrial Zoning District at 8445 Cheyenne Drive. For 11, as the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a zoning text amendment to the City of Rockford zoning order, we'll amend 8 through 12. Committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's.
 A is a denial for a variation to increase the maximum permitted business ID wall signs from 2 to 6 business identification wall signs. And B is approval for a variation to increase the maximum permitted business identification wall signs. From 2 signs to 3 business identification wall signs at 2622 Charles Street.
 Number 13, the committee recommends reversing the LTAP's board for approval for the sale of packaged liquor, but approves the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store at 3118 North Rockton Avenue subject to amended conditions.
 Number 14 committee recommended sustaining L cab board approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store at 4302. Recommend sustaining approval of a modification of an existing liquor license in conjunction with a restaurant to include video gaming terminal on South Main Street.
 Number 16, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of Liquor by the Free in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming at 215 and 217 Seventh Street. 17, Your Honor, I move to lay that item over. I can get a second? Second. 17 has been laid over. Number 18, the committee recommends sustaining outcasts... I'm not on our committee.
 I'll say I'm Google for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail store at 63 63 East State Street. 19 committee recommends sustaining all tabs approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor beer gutter. Guarded at 1132 Auburn street.
 And I place all of those up for passage, Your Honor. They're all subject to conditions, and the legal director, Mr. Myers, shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Thank you. Director Myers, did you have a comment? I just want to remind the council for item number 15 at 307 South Main Street that was originally recommended for approval for three VGTs but was amended at committee, so now it will be approval for five. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. So, Alderman, there's 18 items before you, one through 16, and then item 18 and 19. Item 17 was laid over with the two aldermen rule. So there is again, 18 items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers first? None. Outside council chambers? Who do we have?
 Alderman Hervey? Yes, Your Honor. With regard to item number 15, that would be the Aragona 307. No, I'm sorry, that's South Main Street. 17. 17, was that laid over? Yes, ma'am.
 Okay, I'm sorry. I missed the for some reason I thought they said 15. Thank you. That is laid over There's some language to clean up. I didn't want that to accidentally go to the floor. Thank you. Nope. Thank you Any other online questions any questions here? Okay, so Could you please call the roll turkey? Yes, Brini Toomer all right frost Kirby Kirby
 I'm sorry give me one second please aye Irvins Thompson Kelly no Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Hanley McNeely Chiarelli vote no on 13 aye on the remaining thank you
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14 ayes. Item number 11, 13 ayes, 1 no on items B and C. Item 12, 14 ayes. Item 13, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 14 ayes. Okay. Thank you.
 so with that we'll move on to finance and personnel uh alderman frost thank you number one the committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of four million four hundred and eighty eight thousand eight hundred and fifty three dollars and six cents as approved at the finance and personnel meeting on june 22nd 2020 number two the committee recommends approval of the lease agreement between the city of rockford and red lamp doing
 Doing business as Blue Line Sports Club for the property located at 211 Unit A, Allen Street for a one year term. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation District for the Edgewater neighborhood phases one and two for the replacement of sanitary sewer services, sanitary manholes, water main, and water services within the Edgebrook area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 and I placed those three matters before you. Okay, thank you Alderman Frost. So there are three items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers about the three items? Seeing none, Mr. Meyer, is there any discussion online? No discussion online. So with those three items, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye.
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Chiarelli. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have officers reports. Any officers reports inside council chambers? Alderman Rose. Thank you, your honor. I wanted to share a written statement that I pre-made in regards to the Rock Valley College decision to move their ATC
 to an outside outlier community. So I wanted to share my thoughts and feelings on it, but I decided to wait a little bit because I didn't want it to seem like a knee-jerk reaction when they gave that decision. So their decision came, was released on June 18th. As a professional in the education field, I work with children that
 know how education in many cases, and I'm not speaking in regards to Rockford Public Schools in any way. I'm speaking in generalities of the system of how we do education. That they are aware of the inequity in our system. And these children oftentimes come to teachers and professionals, counselors, principals,
 sharing that inequity and a good portion of it stems from the poverty that they live in. But it's also where schools are not being funded properly, where neighborhood issues are being swept under the rug, where funding for neighborhood programs and mental and drug addiction help have dried up over the course of the years. Then you have a community decision like Rock Valley College and
 where they decided to place their advanced technology center in Belvedere. And again, the reason I didn't wanna make a comment earlier was because I wanted to gather my thoughts and collect them. Our community has experienced crime levels in comparison to some of the worst most criminal communities throughout the country. And it's not because of our policing style, it's because of access to opportunity.
 Opportunity like attending your local community college. Opportunity like being able to find a good paying job. And the Rockford ATC was meant to address part of that problem for a Rockford resident and for surrounding residents. When we look at Rock Valley College's recruitment of black students, we see that they meet levels between 7 and 10% for our black community.
 It depends on where you get your source information. Some lean more around 7%, others as high as 10. But neither of those reach the state average of 14%. And many of those communities with a community college have a much lower rate of black citizens.
 When we talk about transformation of our community, it begins within our community. Rock Valley College has literally abandoned components of Westside Rockford, Winnebago, Pecatonica, Byron, and Durand. Here we had the opportunity to address issues with crime, neighborhood development, access to education, and a host of other societal issues facing our community.
 We had the opportunity to address the skills gap of young minority men and women that want access to mid and high paying manufacturing jobs. Minorities that want a seat at the table with our trades, something that has been long overdue. And if you talk to the people in the trades, they are aware of the problem.
 So I've heard statements from people on Facebook saying, well, they went ahead with this decision to save the college money. And I just think that is utterly bogus and false when you take into consideration the facts that in order for a Rockford resident to attend, they're going to have, in many cases, have to take a bus.
 And those bus routes are not cheap by any means. When you take into account the cost of busing, the placement of the ATC and Belvedere, the transfer costs. They're really just taking that cost and placing it on another government like body, which would be Rockford Mass Transit.
 You know, you got to take into account the buses, the bus personnel, the fuel costs, the route costs, all of the technology involved in that. And when you consider the fact that, you know, if it costs Rockford Mass Transit $200,000, $300,000, $400,000, $500,000 a year, and you have a building out there for 40 to 50 years, you know, that quickly adds up to around anywhere between $15 and $25 million. Okay.
 So it's not saving anyone money. It's bogus and I just want the community to be aware of that, that they're just offsetting the cost onto another taxing body. When you combine the fact that the placement of the ACT will be there for 40 and 50 years, those costs are astronomical. How many Rockford, Winnebago, Byron, Pecatonica, and Duran youth will miss out on the opportunity simply because it isn't close enough for them?
 Lastly, I'd like to just mention that when people make note that it just wasn't in Rockford's cards, that it wasn't the case at election time. Most of the candidates sitting on the Rock Valley College Board mentioned support for the ATC to be placed at Barbara Coleman. They bought into a lie that Rockford neither deserved nor had the political will to make sure we could make it happen. And that lie was premised around...
 Ideas that mirror 1930s through 1960s redlining tactics and real estate. When I asked numerous professionals from around the state of Illinois about the language in the Rock Valley College request for proposal, not a single professional from Elgin, Peoria, Springfield, or Crystal Lake had heard of or seen language asking that a school be placed in a safe neighborhood.
 I know what that language means, and so do many of our black population who were told they couldn't buy a house in a certain neighborhood years ago. It's called redlining, and it's illegal in the United States of America. We can do better, and we expect better for our community. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Is there other officers' reports inside council chambers? Alderman Irvins? Yeah, this is, I guess, Ruff.
 could have shared it with Ms. Hoffman. My mother, she stays in your ward. She wanted me to let you know that the ATVs that's been riding has broken a gate at Oakburg Park. Yeah, yeah. And she said, and I guess this is for Chief Police. Yeah. Can't hear me? There you go. You know, she's called me numerous times of,
 nuisance and nuisances in the local area with these ATVs and them harassing her right outside her her home and she would call the police and no one ever shows same thing with these ATVs and so she's making she's asking me to address it here at City Council floor you know I don't know if I mean I'm I know I spoke with Matthew Williams and he said you know the four-wheelers and those things they're not
 high priority either because once you know they get there they're gone and so they you know you're not gonna chase them down but uh I know for years it's going on the lack of a response in a phone call she's cried out for for many times so yeah I don't know what we could do about that but we definitely could get better at responding to phone calls I suppose so
 thanks will you uh provide that address to chief when you get a second thank you other uh officers reports inside council chambers okay are there officers reports uh electronically alderman hervey yes thank you your honor um i'm not going to belabor the point with regard to rock valley college so i will say ditto to everything that alderman rose stated i will also tell you that
 The calls that I got regarding Rock Valley from people, I think, show not a sense of resignation on the part of the community, but a sense that people are sick and tired of being sick and tired. Most of the people who called me basically said, where do we go from here? Have you talked to the mayor? What are we going to do now so that we meet the needs of Rockford? Right.
 I think I've said this before, many of us have been dealing with this issue with Rock Valley College for either 20, 30 years or more. For me, it's more. From the time that I came back home 25 years ago, but even before I left home for good, people such as Ed Wells, some of the
 to advocate it for a West side presence for Rock Valley College. Didn't need to be an entire campus, but we wanted a West Rockford presence for,
 to help students, especially those who are graduating from high school, not fully meeting the prerequisites for, for example, for the nursing programs or for respiratory therapy, I should just say the allied health professions, for many of those programs.
 We have kids out here. We have kids in poor and underserved communities who aren't necessarily bad kids. They aren't necessarily criminals, built-in criminals. But when opportunities vanish and there's no one there to give them that one leg up of support, they've got one foot in there. Right.
 We need to give them that other foot and we just don't have the placement and the capacity to do that. So I agree with everything Alderman Rose has said. I'm going to be working on two fronts. One is going to be what did this action really constitute? If you strip away the code and everything else, what was it? But the second part is where do we go from here? So in the coming months,
 Well, weeks has been difficult because of COVID. But this is one that I'm willing to share a risk for with all my risk factors. And if I have to do an in-person meeting, as ill-advised as that might be, I'm going to do it.
 because we need to get started now on where we go as a community with regard to bringing these opportunities to Rockford youth. And I'm not just talking about Westside and minority communities. As Alderman Rose stated, I'm talking about the Western community.
 district of Rock Valley College, out in Pechatonica, Winnebago, Duran, those places. There are needs out there also. Yes, they have to drive no matter what.
 But at the same time, the length of that drive and the difficulty of that drive is an issue. So we're going to bring some of those issues to the table and ask some of our friends to join us. Having said that, I also want to commend some of the building and construction trades who have –
 really stepped forward in the past few years. Jake Costanza, who was heading up Project First Rate, reached out to me some years ago. I was slow on the uptake. There's a new gentleman, and I do apologize. I had his name. Is it Mr. Nolley? Paul Nolley.
 Thank you. I apologize, but he called Greg Harley with the plumbers and pipe fitters. In the old days, I sued them twice for what I saw were discriminatory practices.
 You know, now one of the highlights of my week is having some conversation with Greg Harley, who's in their training program and has done fantastic outreach on his own part. Joe Penny with the Painters Union has been there for years reaching out, stepping out. There's others.
 But I do want to say, whatever we may have thought about opportunities for African Americans in the building and construction trade, we've got to be willing to check some of our baggage at the door. That doesn't mean you have to let your guard down, but it does mean that you have to put it aside for some period of time and reach out equally, because I think there's some huge opportunities. Thank you.
 The absolute thing that slays me is that now the piece that we needed the most on both our parts, the educational support with Rock Valley College, has exited the stage. But that doesn't mean that the stage is gone. We just need to find a new partner.
 So with those acknowledgements, I want to thank Alderman Rose for his very studied comments. I'm hoping that we can get some other support from people on council and from our city staff working constructively. I think you only bang your head against the door so many times. I may not let Rock Valley College off the hook.
 but at the same time we're moving forward so thank you and mayor we look forward to that partnership with our city staff also and with my fellow council members thank you
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey, we do have one more comment in chambers. Give me one second is just want to make a notice for open meetings act that we are allowing council members as you all know to call in remotely as not having everyone here is practical at this time with COVID. Alderman Nervins. Thank you, Your Honor, for allowing me to speak again.
 And Bill, I thank you for your courage and your words, man. And I have to say it is a sad, it's a sad moments that we're living in. It really breaks my heart. You know, I see the enemy on full attack. You know, they say knowledge is power. And, you know, and even scripture says my people perish from a lack of knowledge and
 You know, for the last year or so I've taken on a young apprentice. He's 24 years old. He didn't graduate high school, doesn't have his GED, grew up on a dirt hill, watched his grandmother go through Alzheimer's and die from lung cancer. To move back and have a child at a young age, not knowing how to cope with life, not knowing
 Not having the mentor not having anybody to lead him and then this is just like Because he didn't have anybody to teach him. He didn't have anybody to push him and I feel and he's a local He's from Rockford and you know as I engage some of these young people especially young black people You know it breaks my heart one thing that I heard in the trades is you know these Millennials they don't know how to work and I'm like, oh
 I keep telling them, don't be a black millennial. There's so many statistics already put on us, so many expectations, so many things that's thought of as soon as you enter into a room being black. Don't be a statistic. And it just, to, like I said, deal with so many of these young individuals deprived of the opportunity of obtaining knowledge
 it almost seems like history is repeating itself right here in Rockford. I believe that's how it was at one point in time where, you know, a body of people was deprived of reading and writing and was taken advantage of. You know, I don't know whose pockets are being filled, but, you know, I mean, Rock Valley, I mean, isn't that a local college?
 That's our community college. That's our college. I don't understand why they're investing other. I mean, we speak about the problems here. We testify about them. We speak about change, and we talk about investing in change, and then they pull the plug. That is a lack of integrity. That is a lack of character. I don't even think that we should even have a community college like that here if they can't.
 Stay committed to those that's here. We need them here. There's no ifs, ands, or buts about it. There's no cost savings. Invest in what you have. The scripture says be faithful in a little and he'll bless you with more. You know, we have, and scripture also says that the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. There's so much potential here in Rockford and we're not even creating workers for ourself.
 And, you know, Rock Valley, the source of knowledge, the source of understanding, the source of power. I just I hope that the words that, you know, Bill Rose and Vanita Hervey shared today, it goes somewhere and it cuts somebody in a heart because it's not fair.
 These are real people. These are real lives. These are people have families and futures to think about. We as a city have a future to think about and we play games. Time is of the essence. I want to see change before I die. And yeah, sorry. Thank you, Alderman Irvins. Next, we'll go to appointments laid over. They remain laid over until August 3rd. Next, we'll go to motions and resolutions and go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an award of bid for citywide sidewalk and ADE repairs package 2, 2020 to Stenstrom excavation of Rockford in the amount of $64,229. The project is estimated to be completed by August 28, 2020 with the funding source of sales tax. Number two is an award of bid for the 5th Avenue water main replacement to Northern Illinois service.
 of roughly the amount of three hundred and eighty four thousand twenty three dollars and seventy five cents the project is estimated to be completed by august twenty one twenty twenty the funding sources the water replacement improvement account
 Number three is an award of RFP for asbestos testing and abatement services to CMM Environmental of Rock for the amount of $70,000 based on unit pricing. Anderson Environmental of Rock for the amount of $70,000 based on unit pricing. And Ironwood Environmental of Rock for the amount of $70,000 based on unit pricing. The funding sources, the CDBG funds, departmental operating budgets, and capital improvement funds.
 Number four is an award of joint purchasing contract for one new ambulance plus necessary equipment to fire service Inc of st John Indiana in the amount of three hundred thousand dollars the funding source is reimbursement from other parties insurance and the fire department capital budget a
 Number five is an award of bid for citywide street repairs group number three to TCI Concrete of Rock for the amount of $1,641,161.67. The estimated completion date for the project is October 2020, the funding source is sales tax.
 number six is an award of bid for city wide street repairs group number four 2020 alleys to norwest construction of south colloit in the amount of 496 641.83 the estimated completion date for the project is september 2020 the funding source is sales tax number seven is an award of joint purchasing contract for six mobile data data terminals to cds office technologies of itasca
 in the amount of $26,178. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Thank you, Your Honor. So Alderman Frost places these items up for passage. Is there a second? We have a second. Any discussion inside council chambers on the items before you? Any discussion online? I see no discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Yes, Verini. Aye. Toonberg.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? Chiarelli? Fourteen ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next, we'll move to new business under codes and regulations. Alderman Chiarelli. I think the new business ordinances, if I have 16 items.
 15 ordinances so the first is an ordinance approving an extension of the jurisdictional between the village of mcchesney park in the city of rockford for an additional term of 10 years number two is an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of east side of a Lonergan Drive and sandy Hollow Road to Stenstrom Road
 Number three is an ordinance established in no parking 7 a.m. To 4 p.m Monday through Friday on the south side of Stenstrom Road and Lonergan Drive to the east end of Stenstrom Road and
 Number four is an ordinance establishing no parking 7 a.m. To 12 p.m Monday through Friday on the north side of Stenstrom Road from Lonergan Drive to the east end of Stenstrom Road number five is an ordinance establishing a handicapped parking restriction on the east side of 7th Street from 130 feet north of 9th Avenue to 80 feet north of 9th Avenue and
 Number six is an ordinance approving the repeal of the no parking bus stop restriction on the south side of Harney Court from Fairview Avenue to 195 feet west of Hawthorne Avenue.
 Number seven is an ordinance approving the repeal of the no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Christina Street from 175 feet south of 18th Avenue to 575 feet south of 18th Avenue number eight is an ordinance approving this zoning map amendment from c2 commercial zoning district to i1 zoning district at 8445 Chandon Drive Excuse me
 Number nine is an ordinance approving the zoning text amendments of the city of Rockford zoning ordinance to amend articles a through G Of the city of Rockford is the applicant number 10 an ordinance approving the variation to increase the maximum permitted business ID wall signs from 2 to 3 business ID wall signs at 2622 Charles Street
 Number 11 is an 11 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store at 3118 North Rockton Avenue number 12 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products conjunction with the grocery store at 4302 sandy Hollow Road number 13 is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license in conjunction with a restaurant to include video gaming terminals and
 307 South Main Street and number 14 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming at 215 and 217 7th Street number 15 was laid over your honor number 16 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a retail store at 63 63 East State Street
 And number 17 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and outdoor beer garden at 1132 Auburn Street. I think that's it. Place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there any discussion on those items that are before you? Inside Council Chambers, Alderman McNeely.
 I recently went to that location and I fully understand now why the applicant wanted the signs in the locations that they were asking for. Once you see it, it's quite obvious because it's not at the corner or in the middle of a block, but it's, for most of you that have been over in that area, know that it's an awkward block.
 And so there is a need to have those signs as the applicant had requested, because as the Board had said, the M is a sign, but the M is nowhere near indicating that
 the name of the business, the M by itself, even though most people would think that you know what the M is, I didn't think it was adequate for people to see it. I'm familiar with the area, but for people that are not, I certainly understand why. I am not the alderman of this area, but I do advocate on behalf of the applicant.
 Thank you. Is there any other discussion inside council chambers? Alderman Beach. I'm sorry. Thank you, Your Honor. I do represent that area and was concerned as well, but I was told that the applicant was, in fact, okay with what was being offered to this council.
 and for that reason then I became okay with it as well I do agree with the ultimate McManee initially that I thought they ought to be given all the signs but I was told straight out here that they were not asking for that they were wanting the others so um that's why I would support it the way it is wonderful thank you uh ultimate nearly did you have another item
 Number 13, under committee reports, city attorney director pointed out regarding the machining for this. So that would apply even though we're at the ordinance stage here. So hopefully everyone remembers that. That's it. Thank you. Is there any other further discussion inside council chambers? Seeing none, Mr. Meyer, is there a discussion outside? Alderman Hervey? Okay.
 Alderman Hervey, I will move to you first, and then we'll go right away to Alderman Thunberg. Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. I was on the ZBA...
 meeting call regarding the signs for the Rockton Avenue, not Rockton, I'm sorry, Charles Street location. And I had the same concern that we were splitting hairs and I was assured that because the M and the words were together and were taken apart, that they're considered sick signs.
 I disagreed with that interpretation. I do not believe it is accurate. If I recall the discussion, I believe the, this is McDonald's, by the way, you know, a nationwide longstanding corporation that's been in business since before I was born. So that's a long time. I don't think they were okay with this modification. I believe they accepted it because they didn't.
 really have a choice other than being told no. I would ask, I don't know if there's a way to do this. And by the way, when I made my mistake before, I just couldn't find it in my notes. But this is the one that I wanted to question. I just don't think it helps us to promote business
 to give McDonald's a hard time over having four wall signs when they're completely reconstructing a business, maintaining it in a location that we are trying to develop and expand that's seen some hard times and has some tough business sections to deal with. I think we lose in doing something of this sort.
 I don't know what their construction timetable is, but I would ask if there's any way to reconsider this, even if we pass it tonight, to get it moving, to ask that staff, maybe with Alderman Beach, sit down with McDonald's and see what it is that they really wanted. Because I expressly recall that they did not want this. I think they just felt that they had to accept this interpretation.
 having said that i understand staff's point i don't think staff did anything wrong they weren't being anti-business you know we get that a lot but we've got some ordinances and they have to try to meet the letter of those ordinances but in this case the new building that's being constructed the sight lines to the business uh and the fact that
 It doesn't look like it used to. You know, the service station is completely gone. I think it does warrant the number of wall signs that they requested with the M, the double arches M, plus the words McDonald's being considered one sign. So I would ask if we could go back. I guess I would move if there's a way that we could pass this ordinance that
 with the caveat that it may be modified by staff to the original request. That's probably so sloppy from a legal standpoint. Give me one second, Alderman Hervey.
 Someone could help me out. Yeah, Director Meyer, do you have a way to fashion a motion after hearing the discussion from Alderman McNeely, Alderman Hervey, and Alderman Beach that we could review the signage for Amazon McDonald's?
 On Charles Street. So we're at council floor, so any motions to amend at this point would have to have been made in writing and submitted to council. So what we would need to do is lay the item over, have staff in my office draft a motion to include all of that information and to modify at this point. So could we do...
 instead of laying it over could we approve it and that way if mcdonald's is all good with what they have right now they could continue to move forward and if not someone could vote no and be the dissenting vote that calls it back up uh next week well if we were to move to reconsider it would actually be us somebody voting in favor would have to make the motion reconsider so yes we could do that and then reconsider it last time that would not require an amendment of any kind all
 alderman yes sir alderman hervey and alderman b it does it does all right we're moving right along moving right along so we got 16 items before us is there any further oh we have alderman thunberg's on the phone uh for discussion as well alderman thunberg
 Thanks, Mayor. Alderman Hervey, I appreciate those comments you just made. I would like to publicly thank Jonathan Griffin and John Reese, who stepped up to the plate and did everything,
 I took over for Durath Skeller and appreciate the work they're doing. They've been a pleasure to work with. And it's for the neighborhoods really appreciate it. The city of Rockford appreciates it. I want to thank also Alderman Rose, Alderman Ann Thompson Kelly, Alderman
 Alderman Beck and now Alderman Hanley on their support for that area as well. And we look forward to them opening the Rathskeller, and thanks for stepping up to the plate to those two. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Any other further discussion online, Mr. Myers? Any further discussion here, Alderman Beach?
 thank your honor I like to just met to the council that this Wednesday against the salvage term may be the fourth of four sessions that we've had they've been spirited and I think if possible I'm going to really encourage them all over to go there for the meeting 530 people come and sign up to speak I'm
 from 4 30 to 5 30. the meeting starts properly at 5 30 so if your schedule promotes i think you're very busy i would appreciate if you could stop by thank you very much all right thank you seeing no further discussion clerk will you please call the role jerky gasparini toonberg frost herbie hi irvins thompson kelly
 Sounded like you were ordering from McDonald's. Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Beach. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Quinones, Hanley, McNeely, Shirely. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 14, eyes. Item number 9, 10, 11, 13, eyes, 1, no. Items 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 14, eyes.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 Versus an ordinance approving the lease agreement between the city of Rockford and Red Lamp Inc DBA blue line sports club for the property located at 211 a Elm Street for a one-year term Number two is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with Rock River water reclamation district edge Edgebrook neighborhood phases one and two for the replacement of sanitary sewer services sanitary manholes water main and water services Within the edgebrook area. I placed these two matters up before
 before you thank you so there's two items before you is there any discussion inside council chambers seeing no discussion inside uh director myers is there any discussion online alderman toomberg oh okay seeing no other discussion clerk could you please call the role jerky yes bernie toomberg hi ross hi hervey aye urbans thompson kelly hoffman
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Before we move to this next item, I was wondering if I could ask, I know many of you, I've spoken to you, and you may have received maybe one, maybe all the way up to two or three phone calls, and I say that jokingly regarding fireworks, and was wondering if Chief Bergston could just give an update on number of tickets, things of that nature, Chief. Sure.
 Sure. Just give an update over the course of July 2nd, 3rd and 4th. There were several groups out from code enforcement, police with fire investigators also. There was over 220 NTAs issued. So there's going to be quite a lengthy docket for the code hearing officer.
 But we really appreciate all the assistance. This was the most fireworks we've seen and I think a lot of it we know because they did not have fireworks. On the 4th of July we received 343 911 calls reporting fireworks in their neighborhood. We tried our best to get out but it was a busy night on top of fireworks calls. But I think a lot of that's evident in the NTAs that were written, the Notice 2 Appears.
 And like I said, it was a great collaborative effort between all the departments responding to. Several aldermen gave us specific addresses. We did target those addresses, issued NTAs to those specifically once we witnessed. And special thanks to Matt Flores, who developed a really streamlined process of getting a lot of houses, being able to accomplish and to address that. So I'd be happy to answer any questions or any further information if you'd like, but that's just a quick overview.
 Thank you, Chief. Mr. Meyer, did you have anything you wanted to add? You kept beeping in while our Chief was discussing fireworks. We've had some technical difficulties, but that's okay. Okay. Thank you, Chief. Alderman Shrelle, I think you have something fun for us. Of course.
 We all received an email today that the police and fire commission has been moved to a Thursday. Yes, sir 10 a.m. And the City Council chambers and also I know I've received quite a few letters emailed to me in support of the chief who would we turn those over to we send those to the police and fire commission and
 directly or is there somebody in our staff that would take so you can send them to Either myself or director Meyer and we can ensure that they get there We've received a host of them and I've been sending everyone on to Attorney Lindenberry. So if you have Ian Lindenberry's email, you can send them directly to him. He's been incredibly responsive and getting a
 uh all emails sent out to the fire and police commission but if you don't have it uh i know myself and uh mr meyer would be happy to pass on any emails that you get all right thank you for that consideration your honor so i have the fortunate because of our director myers is ordering me to say these words i will do that as a good soldier so
 I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matter. We have a second? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Seeing none. Mr. Meyer, is there any discussion online? Seeing none. We need to take a roll call vote. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Gasperini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye.
 aye frost hi hervey when they're done with the role common uh um curvy is an i although my understanding is you can't participate in closed session remotely is that correct mr meyers that is correct oh no no no i'm sorry director meyer could you please address that yes we will be able to accommodate closed session remotely oh okay thank you aye
 So why don't we wait and finish the vote and then we'll take any questions that you guys now have. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. Fortinize. Aye.
 So director Meyer there, thank you. So we are convening into closed session director Meyer. Uh, is there any ability for us to? Uh convene here that may uh, my understanding is maybe more socially distanced. Uh for alderman Um, I don't know. How should we accommodate that? We have live streaming here your honor. Um, it's much more difficult to do that with windows So I prefer To do it that way, but I know that we have it set up
 in conference room B. Okay. So no. All right. We'll move to go into closing. Your Honor? Yes. Your Honor? Yes, please. If there's a way, if you could cut us off, I don't have any objection to not being included if it would make it more safe for people to be able to distance.
 i don't know about the other three but director i didn't expect to be able i don't think that's that's not the issue the issue is all of us going into conference room b uh i'm not sure when we come out of um you're talking to the mic so they can hear you right the issue is not calling in the issue is uh everyone going into conference room b uh the problem i have is we have the video camera on we're streaming i'm not sure if we cut away from that if we can cut back in we just i think we just sounded
 Okay. Since the closed session is the last item on the agenda, we can just stop the cameras, stop the streaming. Thank you. Thank you both. There is one alternative. This would have to be...
 Discussed here is potentially with item. This is an item we have discussed ad nauseum over the years What we could do is have director Meyer contact each of you individually to discuss this item I will tell you we do want to move move on the item Depending how you stand the only thing you would lose is that opportunity to hear other people's thoughts But it would be a safer option
 I would I'll do a catch-up later on alderman Beach your honor so spit rather So it's been determined that if for technical reasons we can't meet in this room. Is that that's what I understand. Yes We can meet with under I believe we can accommodate the room yes, okay, let's go for it. What's up? Oh
 Yes, Mr. Meyer. Yeah, so yes, we can meet in the other room. It's a government meeting, so. All right, let's go. Mask up and we'll be quick.