Good evening and welcome to the City Council meeting in the City of Rockford, Illinois. The date is July 6, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Fire and Police Chaplain Kenneth Henley from Free Will Baptist Church. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we come before you tonight asking you to come and visit with this chamber. Be with those who are making decisions for the City of Rockford. Be with those who are in charge of those who protect the city.
 the police officers, the fire department, the different ones that keep their hands of protection upon us so that we can live safely. But most of all, Lord, we pray that you be with those, the city fathers and those around the council chamber tonight as they make decisions that will include all of us. God and direct and everything is said and done, for we're asking Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Yes. Getses? Yes. McNamara? Yes. Connell? Oh, Hervey. Connell? Yes.
 Odo? Here. Newberg? Here. Beach? Here. Beck? Here. McNeely? Here. Chiarelli? Here. Eleven present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do look forward. Is there a motion to accept the journal? There's been a motion second to accept the journal. Are there any amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you.
 We have no public hearing scheduled for this evening. We do have speakers signed up for public participation. I'll remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Once the time is up, if they have not concluded, they'll hear a buzzer. I'll ask you to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Jenny Thomas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 Hello, my name is Jenny Thomas. I am a Transform Rockford volunteer and I'm here to invite all members of the community of Rockford to the Community Idea Exchange. This is an opportunity for all members of the community to come and share their ideas on how we can make Rockford a top 25 community by the year 2025.
 We need thoughts on how our community can boldly leverage its strengths to do great things. We've defined what we want to do through our vision and our impact statements, and now come and help us define the strategy on how we can get there.
 This event is happening on July 8th, this Wednesday, from 5.30 to 7 p.m. It is at the YMCA at 200 Y Boulevard in Rockford. And we hope that you all can come and join us to get us one step closer to transforming Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 Marcy Alderman and the citizens of Rockville, Illinois. This is Part 5 from last week. Proverbs 17, verses 27 to 28, highlights several benefits of keeping quiet. It is the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say to allow you the opportunity to teach and learn.
 Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you have something very important to say. This past weekend, the 4th of July in Chicago, they had nine killings. One of them was a seven-year-old boy, and they had 50 people that were shot. In Rockville, Illinois, we had, if I count Thursday, we had two killings and maybe it
 three to four other people that were shot. Guess what? None of them was in the Fairgrounds area or the Ellis Heights area. But yet, they like to highlight everything that go wrong in the Ellis Heights area and the Fairgrounds area. So let's take a look at Rockford, Illinois. The meeting that was on June 18th, on
 at Gregory's Elementary School on a potential affordable housing development on South Newtown Drive was a total chaos. How do people in Newtown with their $100,000 home or more act so much with hate at that meeting? That was not fear. That was pure hatred and racism.
 This past Monday on June the 29th at Rockford RHA board meeting, there was 70 residents that came to Jane Allens Park apartment to discuss concerns about the plan. The meeting was far less continuous and more civilized than the one on June the 18th. The residents from Newtown could see how new Jane Allens looked.
 better than the old Jane Addams. By the way, the new Jane Addams is three years old and it still looks brand new. The one couple from Switzerland sound like they just moved here to the United States of America. She stated that they are afraid to, they are afraid that we're going to go around breaking our windows, shooting, drugs, fighting, and etc. and that we should keep our culture on this side of town. Less than 10 percent of the blacks
 do what they are afraid of. Plus, if you look at the facts, more than 70% of the rich people that come in the hood, they are the ones that are buying the drugs. More than 90% of the trouble is caused by people that do not live in high-rate, great property. There was a time that they did not want us to read and write. There was a time they did not, they used the system to keep us from moving from place to place. Guess what? 150 years later,
 a few people that still live by this to this very day. Ever since our first black president came in office, we have seen a wide range of hate, fear, and racism in this country. This is not Iran or the Middle East, whereby you can move or live on any certain time, any place in this country. United States of America,
 And every citizen has a right to live where he or she so pleases. Just this past weekend, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of being able to move anywhere where you want to. I'm going to finish up by saying this.
 This coming Saturday on July the 11th, we are having an open house at the Salvation Army on Kilburn Street that is right across the street from Fairgrounds Park. We are not just talking about the Bring It Back program for the youth and the adults in the Fairgrounds and Ellis Heights area. And we also are talking about taking education, training, and jobs to help our youth and going here with Black on Black Crime and Domestic Violence. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Youssef.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Acts, the first chapter, verse 8, Jesus said, You will receive power when the Holy Ghost comes down on you. What I want to speak about tonight, slave jobs and the crime factor. Good jobs create social stability. Dead-end jobs don't. I first encountered Bob Crutchfield in the 60's. He went on to get a Ph.D. in Sociology at Vanderbilt and a professorship at the University of Washington where he has been for many years. Recently, he summarized his long career in a book called, Get a Job.
 labor markets, economic opportunity, and crime. It examined the relation between two things that public officials care a great deal about, jobs and crime in the book. In looking at the link between labor stratification and crime, Crutchfield divides jobs into two types, primary sector and secondary sector. Primary sector jobs offer decent pay, benefits, and opportunity for promotion. Secondary sector jobs is the opposite.
 It offers dead-end jobs with low wages, no benefits, and high levels of instability. Crouchfield bottom line, adult employment in primary sector jobs reduce crime, while employment in secondary sector jobs don't. This is an important fact for public officials to recognize, since much of the recent growth of the economy has been in secondary sector employment. Many young people derive their slave jobs. It is also important to recognize that while crime has been declining for decades, which is surely a result of better public health.
 policing as well as demographics. The overall decline, high persistent, high levels of crime in black and Hispanic communities. The beauty of Crutchfield's work is that it offers insights to a world that many public officials have little actual knowledge of, but from which they nevertheless design and execute public policy. The most obvious policy response here is to make sure that job creation efforts are on
 job. Cropfield believes that starts with education for young people. Schools turn out to be the functional equivocity of a job. Children with high levels of attachment to their school, they like the school and are involved in this activity, are much less likely to be delinquent and juveniles and more likely to go on to primary sector jobs. But Cropfield worries that today's emphasis on testing to aggregate school performance may lead to student behavior or administrative outcomes that promote, quote, hate.
 and school and increase juvenile crime. The lesson here is that the continued growth of secondary sector jobs combined with education policy impose without regard to whether or not children like school may intertwine to surprise us in a few months with social unrest and perhaps even a new crime rate. Crackfield give us a lot to think about. Beyond that, we should recognize that
 purpose of business, regulation to limit externities, the cost of business imposed on the community. Perhaps the creation of nothing but secondary sector jobs devoid of meaning or hope is something the American people should not tolerate. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Mr. Haldeman here. All right, we will move on. Our next speaker is Roland Posca. July 6th, Roland Posca at Rockford City Council.
 Get your invitations for the second economic conference. We have to get to the roots of the problems. Everyone stayed... If everyone stayed in school for a full 12 years, how much is that worth? If everyone had money in the bank, who wouldn't want to stop inflation? Abraham Lincoln found the money supply to pay for the Civil War.
 How did Lincoln do it? The money supply is still there. It just has to be harnessed to start Social Security at the beginning. Interest free loans can save Social Security. Save a lot of things as a matter of fact. Every military death sacrificed to protect us paid the interest. It really doesn't cost anything to give an interest free loan.
 to be repaid upon death. And as the youngest fishy whale put it, Izzy Villa Gomez, it will work. Thank you. Mr. Haldeman, last call. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Traditions and Communications, Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a referral from Jennifer Yeager, Community Services Director. It's for approval of a 2016 Community Services Block Grant Program work plan as required by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. This plan will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. That will be referred. Omen, Shirley. Thank you, Your Honor. I have several items. The first item is the July Traffic Commission Agenda to be held on July 8th.
 that would be referred to the traffic commission. Next item is from Kelly Noakes, assistant operations manager for the Tour de North End, August 1st. That would be also referred. I have a memorandum from Mark Rose, the land acquisition officer for the proposed sale of vacant lot at 1436 Montberry Street. From Mark Rose, the mow to own program.
 That will also be referred and also for Mark Rose, the proposed sale of vacant lot at 308 South Central Avenue. Those are all being referred to Cozen Rights, Your Honor. Thank you, Matt. It should be referred. Further petitions and communications? Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memo from Matt Vintner, City Engineer, regarding the intergovernmental agreement with the Rock River Water Reclamation District for an addendum that Illinois Route 2, South Main Street.
 And I'm referring that to finance and personnel. Then also I have a memo from Matt Bittner, city engineer, regarding the city-state agreement for the Harrison Avenue reconstruction. And I'll also refer that to finance and personnel. Thank you, Matt. It should be referred to further petitions and communications. Proclamations. We have two proclamations this evening.
 When I call on the recipients, I'd ask that they come forward with any other members of the delegation that might be with them. Our first proclamation is for the Alpine Kiwanis Brat Days and I invite Brandon Larson to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Whereas this year, 2015, is the 100th year celebration of Kiwanis International.
 And whereas Alpine Kiwanis has been hosting Brat Days for over 40 years, with 100% of the profits given directly to nonprofit organizations and area youth for scholarships, in addition to providing funds for national disasters. And whereas in all, the Alpine Kiwanis have given more than $1,500,000 to help those in need both locally and internationally. And whereas in 2015, the Kiwanis Brat Days are Friday, July 17th,
 from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Saturday the 18th from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Edgebrook Shopping Center, the Schnucks on East State Street, and Schnucks at Harlem and Alpine Roads. And whereas a special veterans celebration will take place at noon Saturday, July 18th at the Harlem and Alpine location, now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim July 17th and 18th
 2015 to be Alpine Kiwanis Brats Days and we encourage our citizens to support the Kiwanis volunteering or attending this upcoming event. Thank you very much Mayor and thank you to the council. We're really pleased that we've been able to serve our community for 40 years. We're very very pleased that Kiwanis International has been an organization for over a hundred years. Last year we crossed 1.5 million dollars
 going back to our community. It makes us feel very, very good. And what it really says is that the community supports Prates. Without the community support, our event would be just another event. But with your support, we so appreciate it. Chiefs, we know you already have tickets. Mayor, I know you have tickets. We want to give you, though, our commemorative apron.
 This will be the new apron commemorating 100 years of Kiwanis International, 40 years of Kiwanis Brat. We want you to wear it proudly. Thank you very much, Mayor. Congratulations. Thank you very much. I will wear that with pride and hopefully eat up some bratwurst along the way. Thank you again for all that Kiwanis have done for Rockford and their incredible club and their efforts.
 Next, we have a proclamation on behalf of the Rock Valley College softball team and a very special celebration for them. We'd ask the members of the team and their coaching staff and supporters to please come forward. Great. So we'll kind of look over that way, look into the camera. And who, uh, to your coach. Thank you.
 Whereas the Rock Valley College softball program was established in 1966, whereas the National Junior College Athletic Association NJCAA Division III softball tournament started in 1997, whereas the 2015 NJCAA softball tournament was held May 14th through 16th in Rochester, Minnesota, whereas for the second year in a row, the Rock Valley College softball team won the NJCAA National Championship.
 Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of July 2015 to be Rock Valley College Softball Month. And we congratulate the team on their incredible tournament victories, their success as an organization, and their great success as student scholars. Congratulations to all the team and we'd love to have you say a few words.
 I'd just like to say thank you to Mayor Morrissey and the City Council for giving us the opportunity to not only represent Rock Valley but to also represent the city of Rockford each and every time that we take the field. It was a great season here for us. We finished our season with an overall record of 52-5
 which will go down as third in the history of the NJCA for winning percentage of all time. So each and every day we get an opportunity to step on the field. We're not only representing our institution but also the city of Rockford and the many, many great things that we have going on over at Rock Valley and also with the city of Rockford. So thank you once again. Thank you.
 Thank you again for joining us tonight, and congratulations on your great success as students and as athletes in our community and the example you provide for the entire community. Thank you. Next, we have reports of committees.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. The Planning and Development Committee recommends approval for the proposed development agreement with the Comprehensive Community Solutions for Deconstruction Training Program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I would ask for rule suspension first. Second.
 Thank you. There's been a motion, second to suspend the rules on the new committee report, Roman numeral 5A1 for planning and development. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Savitt? Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'd like to place this up for passage. The matter is up for passage. It's their discussion. All in favor? Thank you, Your Honor.
 I support the deconstruction program and I'd like to see more training programs of that sort. And I thank Director Hayes for getting back to us with some of the responses to questions. I wasn't pleased with the responses.
 One of the premises that we kind of adopted a few years ago was that when we fund programs, we want reports on the outcomes, not just, and this is for neighborhood groups and everyone else, the groups under EDEN.
 We want to know what the results are. We want to know whether it has long-term potential. I think this program has great potential, but I also think $25,000 is a lot of money to pay for one program, especially when the bulk of it is going to a trainer and there's no plan for any follow-up.
 We asked if there could be a report regarding connections, referrals to union apprenticeship programs, something that will provide people with more long-term employment and application of those skills. And I thought the answers we got back were cursory at best and almost
 a little insulting. I think we do deserve a good report. I don't want a bunch of bureaucracy, but I do think we should have been given more of a cooperative answer with regard to what we could expect with the results and the follow-up of the program. So while I will support it, I do want to ask that staff, the staff, the staff, the staff
 even with that support prior to implementing it, insist that we get better information about the implementation and the outcomes of the program. Because if we're asked to follow up or we have the means to follow up with someone else, I want to be able to do that. So thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you for the discussion. Alderman McNeely. MS. Thank you, Samara. I certainly appreciate Alderman Hervey's comments. And I stand, as
 last week when this was presented before us, my opinions have not changed. And in addition, I think that we should push the banks to be more responsible than what they have been and not get to this point. So I don't intend to support it. And I ask my colleagues not to support it as well. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, sir, please call the roll.
 Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? No.
 thank you the Roman numeral five new committee reports be one the proposed settlement for the Harrison Avenue project at 2000 Harrison Avenue the amount of three hundred seventy five thousand dollars number two is a zoning map amendment at fourteen seventy five South Perryville Road the applicant has been office investments number three is a zoning map amendment
 at 4608 high cross road the applicant is Julie St. Angel number four is a variation at 3576
 Number five is a sale of liquor by the drink at 2515 Kilburn Avenue. Number six is the sale of liquor by the drink at 2327 Kishwaukee Street at 412 Peoples Avenue. Number seven is the denial of a modification of an existing liquor license at 3725 East State Street. The applicant is Nancy Machas for Hacienda San Jose Inc.
 items 8 through 16 your honor a traffic related items and I move to suspend the rules on all these items Thank you the motion in seconds of spendable number 5b The motion seconds on those rules and those items always in favor please say aye I
 Your Honor, I place those items up for passage. Matters up for passage is their discussion. Alderman Goetzes. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to voice my support for number B3, which is Julie St. Angel is looking to open up a hair salon just outside of a Hedgebrook in a single-family home.
 area. They've been great business people in the city for a very long time. I think they're going to be a, they're taking a vacant property, they're turning it into a business and the area is already a business district. I think it's going to be great for that neighborhood and great for the city. So that is my award and I am in very strong support.
 Thank you, Alderman. Herbie. Thank you. I was wondering where the alderman stood. I know there were a number of residents that did voice some significant objections. And one of my questions is why not a special use permit rather than a zoning change? My concern with zoning changes is the proposed, the applicant right now obviously has a good purpose, has some history.
 But if that building is sold, we don't know what goes in. And Rockford has some of the weakest, I mean, we can't license or necessarily register, unless it has to do with liquor, the types of uses. And I would hate to see someone, because it does change from residential to commercial, can bring in a different use that might not be as acceptable as hers.
 And so my question, I guess, is I'd almost rather see it as a special use permit rather than a zoning change. And I just wondered why not an SUP? Staff, Mr. Summert, can you address that?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I can't really answer the question of why not a special use permit. I apologize, I don't have the background information on this item. I get what you're saying, a special use permit could make sense. If I'm understanding correctly, this property is a single family home, but is in a commercial setting for the most part. So maybe from that aspect it makes sense to continue the commercial.
 commercial corridor along that area since it is in the mix of a lot of
 development there. In the future if it was to change use from a salon to something else it would have to comply with the zoning regulations at that time, which would mean parking. It would also have to get building permits to change the use to whatever it is. So there would be some opportunity to make sure that if it does change it will comply with city codes, whatever the use may be. If there is a use like you mentioned with alcohol or tobacco
 or tobacco, that would have to go through the process and be subject to city council approval or denial. Mr. Hayes, do you have anything else to add from here? No, we don't.
 Just the other thing that I was looking at when I was assessing this is that that property is also right on the corner. You can stand literally the Edgebrook parking lot, walk across the street and you're there. It's not like it's in the middle of a block or something like that. It's almost, I know there was some concern about potentially some traffic based upon the use.
 We've got a couple of barber shops in my neighborhood, homes that are serving, typically only have two or three people in there at a time because you only have, in this case, they're going to have a maximum of three or four sinks in operation when they're doing it.
 that much issue with traffic and then you know as you know personalized I'm comfortable with on Mister summers explanation it pretty much anything else they're going to want to do there's another process that will catch that it'll catch us I understand your feedback on that I appreciate it but I think that I'm pretty comfortable correct if the discussion all material thank you I also support this application all of it catches his reasons
 my understanding is I'm not sure if you can especially use the residential are one you'd have to change the map to accommodate that I believe it's that's my understanding of it but I am the full support of this and working you know for the applicant and for the location thank you any further discussion all of it back to me thank you America a couple of questions on a couple of different items I I do support the salon as well but
 Item number nine, is that just one space for loading? Just to confirm that. That's a traffic commission item? Yes, sir. I don't know if he's got any background on that, Paul Venturelli or any stats. No, we don't. Mr. Hayes?
 It's only 20 feet, so I think it's only one space. That was my assumption. Thank you. And then one other question, Your Honor, is, or not question, for items 11 and 12. This is brought in front of us from the businesses over on Hall Street. I'd ask the alderman to support this. This is a little bit of a tricky area with...
 municipal parking. I've had a tremendous amount of phone calls from yet another salon over there for their employees as well as a couple of other businesses right on that street. So this was actually a solution brought forward from the businesses and I'd appreciate your support on that as well. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on the items? Hearing none, first please call the roll. No on 5 and 6 on the address. Yes, sir. No on 7 and 6.
 No on 5, 7, 15, and 16. Aye. Herbie? No on 3 and 5. Aye. Lerner? Connell? 7. Otto? Newberg? Beach? Beck? McNeely? No on 5 and 7. Aye. Shirely? Aye. Okay. Roman numeral 5B. Um.
 3 and 15 10 eyes 1 now Roman numeral 5 be 6 and 16 9 eyes to know Roman numeral 5 be 5 and 7 6 eyes 5 now in the remainder 11 Thank you matters all pass. I believe mr. He's they get there Thank you very much I
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman Rule 5 of C...
 The Finance and Personnel Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,411,367.77. Item 2 recommends the approval of the lease between the City of Rockford and South Main Shopping Center for the lease of the District 2 Police Station. And item 3 recommends approval of the development agreement between the City of Rockford and South Main Shopping Center for the acquisition and redevelopment of Turner School for the District 2 Police Station. I place the class for suspension of rules on these three items.
 It's been a motion, second to suspend the rules on new committee reports from 5B, I'm sorry, 5C, items 1, 2, and 3, our finance and personnel committee reports. All those in favor of suspending the rules on those items, please stand by by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. And I place them up for passage. Matters up for passage. Is there discussion? Call the hearing.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just a question. I know the lease agreement is not the architectural renderings and everything else that's in there for approval, but is there an opportunity as these come up with the police stations to make sure that we've incorporated some of the suggestions from the alderman, especially those that have to do with design, engineering, and cost reduction?
 shouldn't call it design engineering as you call it cost reduction because that's what it is in the design of the buildings I know there have been suggestions from several people I don't want to I want to move these along but the same time I want to make sure that we can continue the improvement process Mr. and you want to take that sure yes all of
 The last meeting that we had at city council, we've gone back to our architects and program as well as staff, and we're trying to incorporate changes to that. Or in the case that we feel that there's a compelling reason why not to change, we should come back with those answers for you. So we can do that at a committee meeting or individually, however you'd like.
 I just want to ask if we could do it excuse me potentially at a committee meeting and see if we can get some consensus rather than having the architects go through five and six renderings because we pay for that I think I would time they do it I would love that idea that's all I would ask that maybe at the next committee meeting if there's no objection among the alderman if we could carve out a few minutes and get something
 just among ourselves to say what about these suggestions. I know Alderman McNamara, and I thank him for that leadership, put together a few. I believe, I don't know who else, but several people had some suggestions about consolidating certain items and reducing the size or moving certain other functions so that we can save some money with the stations. So I'm happy to...
 work with staff to accommodate it and if they're ready to go in the next meeting or Yeah I'll have to consult with the architects to see if they'd be ready for the next committee meeting but if not, I'll follow up. Thank you. For the discussion I'll let Mike come in. Thank you Mayor. I have some, first I'm a big proponent of geo-policing. I feel a little in an odd place because I certainly support geo-policing locations at
 majority of the alderman have selected, including myself. I do like the Turner School location. I guess I haven't been 100% satisfied with the response from the administration or from the architect, however it may be, when it comes to some of the ways that we can cut costs at
 Just so I understand Alderman Hervey's question, will we be voting on the architectural changes or will it just be open for a discussion with staff and aldermen at a committee or will there actually be votes that affect the dollar values? Mr. Ryan? Yeah.
 I think what we'd like to do, Alderman, is take the comments that we had at the last committee meeting along with email correspondence that we've received and have the architect as well as the police administration respond. So will there be a vote? We have probably multiple votes that we'll have to take before we are done.
 Yeah, I mean, typically there's not a vote on a design. Obviously, on a financing package, if there's not, you know, consensus on the design, certainly you wouldn't vote for the financing package. But just because we haven't voted on a design before doesn't mean we couldn't. Well, let me just make clear. Sure.
 There will be at least, I think, probably two votes that we'll have in order to move forward on the project, which both would be opportunities for the council to weigh in on the design. So we'll have to have a vote on the financing. We also would have votes on the construction, if not more votes than that. So I think there, you know, we can go back to the timeline that we laid out for the project
 for all of the sites and I think there'll be multiple opportunities. My hope would be, as Mr. Ryan's alluding to, we either at the next committee meeting, which might be a little tight because it's a week from today, or the one following, we have the same folks that were here before present again and be able to give back to the council
 their best response to the issues that were raised the last time we got together. And that would certainly be plenty of time before I think we're planning on being at a next vote beyond what's up tonight. Those two hands, I think they're up all the way. Newberg? Thank you, sir. I would like to see
 So meaning be constructive as to what suggestions you've been given from the council and by email or by word of mouth.
 And I would like to know how that's going to affect the construction, which in turn is going to affect the cost of the buildings. So I think that is what we are interested in, is giving the city something that they can be proud of, that the officers can be proud of, but also that is thinking of the bottom line of what is actually needed and what we can afford.
 Thank you. Thank you. Other comments? Mine was just what I don't want to this project needs to move along because of the need to vacate the public safety building and the extreme amount of time that it's taken already and what I hope that we can do is not have to get to the point where Council's only option is to vote no on financing if we don't agree to the design.
 And that's what I'm trying to avoid. And I'm saying regardless of the policy, if we're going to work as a team, now is the time to do it. So let's get all of it out and on the table. I want to hear from staff as to what's needed. I don't want a design that's not, that doesn't accommodate, none of us do, that doesn't accommodate our officers' needs. At the same time, we've got so much going on as a city financially and so much risk,
 primarily due to the state of Illinois, and a lot of the uncertainty, that we also can't necessarily accommodate some of our wants right now. So that's what I want us to be able to put our heads together so that when this comes up for the vote on the financing, we're all on the same page as a group, and our option is not just to say no. Just taking all that into consideration, I'll ask staff to work with architects to develop
 I mean they do have a program but actually put it into the form of what could be voted on as a committee report just so there's no question. In other words, let's have the next meeting, say, you know, have feedback, listen to feedback that the architects and administration can give.
 And then from that, we can turn that discussion into an actual recommendation that we would refer for a vote on the program. That's not unusual. I've seen it happen in the past that we get consensus on the program, and they've got to go back and turn that into the financial documents and then the construction bid documents. That'd be fine. I'll go back to Mayor. Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak again.
 I told him in her best point I guess what I think the process that you played out there earlier on when we were discussing the building so it's a good process you gave us a number of different options to even within the buildings and I guess that's what I'd like to see is
 you know, the high-cost option, the middle, so that we can actually see it laid out in front of us, what we could give up, what we shouldn't give up, things of that nature, as opposed to what Alderman Hervey was saying, just one number, this is it, this is what we come back with, vote it up or down. Certainly, and I think that's hopefully the next meeting that we would have, they could lay out those options.
 And then the council will have to make the determination about which options they want to go on for each one of the buildings. And then we will have a refined program. They can always adjust and there may be changes that have to be made further down the road, but at least then we'll have consensus on the program, which will help guide us when we go to budget. Thank you, I think that's very helpful. Thank you for the suggestions. Other comments? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 I'm sorry I didn't see your hand I apologize the comment is how does what we are doing or talked about doing affect the lease is the at least put together without numbers and Mr Hayes you want to get
 lease payments will not be due until the building is activated. So what the value engineering that the aldermen are talking about might ultimately affect the price in the lease. And the lease terms have a calculation term in it, not a set price right now. So to the extent the cost of the project fluctuates, that will be recommended.
 reckoned in that calculation so if it's less expensive or there's something that's needed that makes it more expensive that'll all work into the lease term thank you thank you any further discussion hearing none clerk please call the roll Durkee aye Getchis aye McNamara aye Hervey aye Connell aye Odo aye Newberg aye Beach aye Mack aye McNeely aye Shirely
 Roman numeral 5C2 and 3, 10 nice, 1 no, the remainder 11 nice, 0 no. Matters passed, thank you. Further committee reports, officers reports? Just have a very brief report this evening. Mr. Black, our finance director has provided a memo, which is an annual report on the activity of our TIF funds. I would encourage council to take a look at it and
 We certainly discussed as we get into our next financial discussion for the period. However, this is also going to be very helpful information as we look at next year's budget and the overall issues that we're dealing with our economy and our financial picture. I also wanted to just mention I will be.
 I've already sent around, it may actually have been last week, I'm going to be traveling out of the country later this month. And Mr. Ryan, while I'm gone, will have signature authority if there's any questions prior to my departure. Please let me know, but I'll be gone from the 15th through the 22nd. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Holman Beach.
 yes just a brief report to say thanks again to joe marino this community for tremendous fourth of july celebration of those that stayed in town against 30 minutes of nothing but pure enjoyment down there from 9 30 10. so thanks again joe
 Thank you Thank you Mary. I just wanted to say thank you to the city staff the river district element for helping put together the shop the block and Which I think was a great success Friday I think it was and I
 Just there was a tremendous amount of stuff going on throughout the entire city that I think was all very positive. The Phantom Regiment, the city market, the Shop the Blocks, the parade, the fireworks. I just think the staff did a wonderful job, and I'm sure they had a tremendous amount of work leading up to it. So thank you. Thank you.
 I think you're on our you know I just want to also say that the fireworks were wonderful but it seemed to be wonderful throughout the entire city to have so many calls that night because that's what the professionalism of these firework people that live throughout our city is just incredible
 I don't know if the chief can comment on the fire chief of what actually happened that evening as far as any arrests or it seems to be getting quite out of control. Chief Bergstender, Chief Epstein, comment on the I noticed that myself this was more active this year for whatever reason. I don't know if there was a sale somewhere.
 I mean, some of the fireworks that I heard after our official fireworks were done, I wondered who in the world is shooting these things off because they sounded like the massive mortar shells that you hear down at the main fireworks, Chief Bergson and Kevin.
 Sure, I think because of the event being on a weekend, we had our highest calls for service. Roughly we had about 120 fireworks calls coming in the 911 center that were pending at a time. And that's a busy time for regular calls for service just on top of the fireworks. We had crews out.
 Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and then Saturday. But by the time you'd respond to one, they'd be done, and we kept getting continuous calls. And so there were a lot of large fireworks, because we could see those from wherever we were at, especially right in the downtown area that we were concerned about. So we would send our staff over and try and get those confiscated and addressed. But it was just so widespread, it was very difficult to address all the calls. Did we confiscate them?
 materials yes yes we did all the ones that we came upon that were not shut off we did confiscate if individuals were unwilling or uncooperative they were written a notice to appear at that time i would just say in advance uh we should think about next year i thought about too the fact that it's not a weekend probably contributed to more of the activity but we should uh get out
 earlier and get some more public service announcements about the status of the law. Some of the advertising that you saw on television leading up to the 4th, I know this is a very active around the state line area. Chief Representative, any additional comments? I don't have the specific numbers on the arrests. Like I can say is that there were quite a few people downtown and we had good reports of that many people downtown. It was a really safe weekend.
 The traffic was cleared out in 45 minutes. So that's remarkable for a great job by both the fire and the police department. Thank you. In terms of the specifics, if you could pull together between fire and police, the overall fire work-related calls for service so that we can have some additional data to compare. And then, like I said, I just noticed the very difference in the style and type of, with just the quantity, it was that they were much,
 you know more sophisticated shells happening in my alley in the backyard of our house. My kids thought it was a bonus I guess. But you know, I know we all have a, I know other cities had very significant other crime related issues but as Chief Ferguson mentioned our 911 center gets very backed up on a busy night like that. Any other comments? Officer's reports.
 But if you get that information together, if you weren't just to distribute it out there and follow up with some discussion, it counts. And for there also reports, I'll finish business. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's under Roman numeral 7A. It's an agreement for funding in partnership with Winnebago County for the demolition of 1417 11th Street, which was previously known as Tokyo House Spa. I have this up for passage, but I'd like to amend the item.
 And I move to amend the ordinance under unfinished business Roman numeral 7A, item 1, to reflect approval of a resolution for demolition of 1417 11th Street with Winnebago County providing 50% of the expenses of demolition up to the amount of $37,500 and the city funding the balance. The funding source for the city portion is the Broadway TIF. So I'd like to first move that this item be amended.
 there's been a motion in this second to amend the item I'm sorry that just wanna make sure you get this room great so that the funding source for the whole thing or for component of it would be the Broadway tip the funding source for the city portion is the Broadway
 funding or that would be the balance that with the county contributing 37 thousand five hundred dollars so there's been a motion second to amend the committee report to reflect that the city's funding city portion of the funding for the project would be coming out of the Broadway to any discussion on the proposed amendment all the way in the beginning thank you I'm sorry if someone could refresh you know I was here and I and we went over it
 I'll take that or staff to see why we're demounting it. I didn't get such a question. Get why this building is falling and the bricks structure is actually falling on the sidewalk and into the roadway. Okay, thank you. Thank you for the discussion on the amendment. You're not all in favor of the amendment. Please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I just have it on the amendment. Thank you, your honor. Then I would please like to place the amended item up for final passage. Amended item 7A1 is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getses? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Odo?
 Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Ciavelli. Aye. Lebonizer, owner. Thank you. Matter passes. Moving on to the agenda, enrollment of our eight appointments. Owner Beck, do you want to take those? Sure. Item number one is the reappointment of the Zoning Board of Appeals and Liquor Tobacco Advisory Board, Ms. Kimberly Wheeler-Johnson for a term that will expire June 2020.
 Next is appointment to the Historic Preservation Board of Mr. Robert McCarthy. Term will expire June 2018. Next to the appointment to the Historic Preservation Board is Mr. Matthew Wolfe with the term expiring June 2018. Next is appointment to the RAVE Board of Marcus Hill for a five-year term ending June 2020. Next, reappointment to the Airport Authority Board of Commissioners Paul Cicero for a five-year term.
 Next is appointment to the Airport Authority Board of Commissioners Jeffrey D. Lee for a five-year term. Next is reappointment to the Electrical Commission of Mr. Charles Lascanis, term ending June 2016. And then finally, a reappointment to the Electrical Commission of Division Chief Matt Knott.
 for a term ending June 2016 I place all eight appointments up for passage I got a Roman about eight items one through eight those appointments are up for passage is their discussion on her the electrical commission I noticed there's is roughly one year I get that a one-year appointment I thought they were either three or five
 Yes, so the, if my memory serves me correct, it's an effort to try to stagger the terms. Okay. And I don't have, I wish I could tell you more about what other items are, why these are 16 as opposed to different here. But if I recall speaking to CD director Cagnone that was in an effort to get a, to get a,
 just some blend in the schedules. I'll let me get to it. Did you have anything to add on that? Just to double check, because the first three appointments, it says, you know, will be placed up for passage on July 6th. Now, these have to lay over for 30 days or –
 So all eight of these have laid over for 30 days? I believe so, yeah. That's my recollection. The way we're doing it now as opposed to before is we're only putting them up when they're actually up. Okay. If I have that correct. Thank you. The clerk indicates that that is accurate, so all these have laid over all in the new room. Thank you, sir. Just a personal note.
 have usually made sure I know of the person or know them personally for any type of this. And I do not know Jeffrey Lee who's up for the airport. I called and made an appointment with him, met with him, and I think he's one of the best appointments the mayor has put up. He is very interested in the airport. He's very, very involved in Bonifred. And if we can find more people like that, more power to you, Mayor. Thank you for the discussion.
 none third please call the roll Durkee aye Getschus aye McNamara aye Hervey aye Connell Odo aye Newberg aye Beach Mack aye McNeely no Shirely 10 ayes 1 no you're in I'm going to pass thank you motions and resolutions Alderman Durkee if Alderman Tickey has any so we'll say no Alderman Shirely
 Your Honor, your motion in resolutions, Code and Regulations Committee. Number one, we have a special event permit for the Alpine Kiwanis Broad Days, July 17th and July 18th. Number two is a special event permit and a liquor permit for St. Edward's Summerfest, scheduled Sunday, July 26th at St. Edward's Church.
 number three is a special event permit and a liquor permit for Festo Italiana that'd be Friday July 31st Saturday August 1st Sunday August 2nd at Boylan High School grounds number four is a special event permit for the Edgebrook Cider and Cinnamon Festival that will be Saturday October 3rd and October 4th
 at the 1639 North Alpine Road. Number five is a special event permit and S. Lickard license for the Rural Oaks Corner Party held Saturday, July 12th at 1710 Rural Street, Your Honor. And item number five, I'm motioning to suspend rule 15. Second. Just on that item. So there's been a motion and second to suspend rule 15.
 I am five only true I'm five only there are no one world nine the calls of papers spending rules and I have a significant I think you're on place all those items up for passage so the items are all what is now passage roll roll I mean being so excited to be 45 discussion we just do voice photos all
 I said thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Finance in person now. Thank you, Your Honor.
 C, Finance and Personnel Committee Reports recommending approval for the award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group number 5 to William Charles Construction for $1,977,393.27. Next is approval of the award of bid for Citywide Sidewalk and ADA Repairs Package number 4 to Campus Construction for $42,850.
 Next is approval of the award of bid for Buckley Creek and Harmon Park Repairs, the Fisher Excavating, for their bid of $997,341.51. Next is the approval for the award of bid for City Hall HVAC replacement to Mechanical Inc. for $1,512,718. Next is recommending approval of the award of contract for the City Hall HVAC tax-exempt lease to PNC Equipment,
 finance for annual payments of $230,927 for a total cost of $1,746,637.10. Next is the award of contract for 2014 citywide vehicles tax exempt lease to JPMorgan Chase
 for annual payments of $228,528.79 for a total cost of $1,278,000. Next is the approval of the award of sole source contract for water treatment equipment and supplies to Smith Ecological Systems in the amount of $75,000. Next is the recommending rescinding the award of bid to RCS Mowing Contract for Block 7N and ANA Lawn Care
 for $385 per cut and award a contract for block M to Jose Rodriguez for $400 per cut. Number nine is a, we're going to, rejecting the bid for the West State Street Linear Park. Number 10 is approval of the engineering agreement for design engineering services for bridge and rail, roadway removal and repairs to HR Green for $57,645.45.
 Next is approval of the engineering agreement amendment for South Main phase two plans and phase three construction to Misman Incorporated for an additional $118,729.58 and an amended contract of $319,401.07. Next is recommending approval of the supplemental resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for engineering construction and construction engineering for South Main
 for the two-way conversion authorizing the use of motor fuel tax funds in the amount of $2,400,000. And finally, is the approval of the amendment to the city-state agreement for federal participation at Rockton and Halstead. And I place these items up for passage. Up for passage then under Roman numeral IX, see items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.
 13 as matters of passage as resolutions to this discussion. Ms. Hervey. Ms. Your Honor, question with regard to number 5, the HVAC system. The financing is for the same kind of tax exempt lease that we're using for our equipment, our fire trucks, police cars. How do you do a tax exempt lease for a fixture?
 Is this a financing arm that we are using for everything now? Thank you, Mayor. The tax exempt lease is a financing mechanism. It's not a traditional lease, which I know that's caused some confusion. I'm going this route.
 With the lease financing or tax exempt lease financing versus bonds is on the, has to do with the amount that we're borrowing that can be obtained through a bank. And then typically going, we'd be going a little bit shorter term, which would be a 10 year period here. So we wouldn't want to go to market to get tax exempt bonds for that period of time and have to take on the type of cost related to issuance.
 As a point of information, I wanted to raise the fact that I had a communication with the
 all the frost and I told him you would suggest the obviously reach out to council members but he had asked that these items regarding the HVAC system would be laid over I'm not making a motion I can't make a motion I'm just trying to provide that as a point of information according to what frost second so there's been a motion second to lay items four and five over is there a discussion on that
 Thank you. My question is, two years ago we talked about this PA system and when people are watching
 I'm not in favor of spending this money on air conditioning. I think we need to make chambers more secure, reconfigure it, and get a better PA system. We've been talking about it for two years. We're sitting around doing nothing because it costs money. What's wrong with the air condition? It seems pretty cold in the air to me. What do we need it, you know, what's the deal?
 I'm happy to talk about the deal, but there's a pending motion to lay the matter over. So I'd rather talk about the deal, determine whether we're talking about the deal now or talk about it later. But you can come visit me in my office and we can talk about the HVAC system as one room is ice cold and the other one is steaming hot. Mr. Chowell, what's the status, just as an aside, on the PA system for this room?
 Thank you, I'm actually gonna have to defer to my friends in public works. I know they're testing out some new mics in the chambers, but I can't give you an update on where that process stands at.
 I just know we had had conversations about the sound system and I thought that was being we're trying to budget that for this year so we'll pick that conversation up with Mr. Hanson as a match but it's a one load so pending right now is a motion to lay items four and five over I'll go back to you if you have a question or comment I just would I guess want to hear from staff
 If we lay over tonight, we're probably looking at another couple of weeks then before we vote on it. And is there concern about moving forward sooner than later on this?
 I know the answer is going to be it depends on if it breaks down between now and then. But I for one think it's pretty important for us to have air conditioning for our staff during the summer months. And I also support us repairing and replacing our PA system. I think we can probably figure out a way to do both. So I wouldn't want to hold up replacing HVAC while we wait to get our PA system fixed. But I'm prepared to vote for it tonight. Any other comments for staff on that question?
 Well, certainly, you know...
 Would it be catastrophic to wait until the next council meeting? That's only as good as whether we have a catastrophic failure. I have talked with Alderman Frost about some of his concerns. We have not replaced any of the chillers since this was built. We're ordering parts from third parties right now because they don't make them anymore, so they're having to refabricate equipment. So it's reached its useful life.
 since 1992, I believe, since the system was put in. The costs just keep rising in terms of significant repair costs, I think, from a staff's perspective. And I would ask Mark Stockman to answer it because his personnel is working under him. But I think the big concern is the chiller systems. So just to know if it would help get some information in response to all of this question, what I would...
 As I would ask Mr. Stockman to give some information as to what's the actual schedule. If the system went out tomorrow, they're not going to be able to replace it immediately. It's going to take some time. So if you just could comment on the construction timeline. Thank you, Your Honor. There is a 12-week minimum lead time on getting a new cooling tower built, and then the installation has to take place in the
 non-heating, non-cooling season which would essentially be late October, early November. So if we look 12 weeks ahead, the earliest we would have our cooling tower actually ready for delivery would probably be about early October, maybe toward mid-October. A two-week delay would push that back into late October, early November.
 going if we go too far into the heating months because there is a boiler replacement associated with this as well we would certainly not be able to do it this year we would have to take our take our chances and reschedule it for next spring and at the same time we may see some cost increase between then between doing it this fall and the spring in terms of what the materials actually are going to be what we're what they'll actually be costing us
 yeah and I just the other thing I think the more we go in this the more expensive and have trying to maintain this whole failing system so I mean we're we're spending money one way or the other let's go ahead and spend the money now I get it prepared the boys close to me thank you I still would like to have this laid over and I also understand that being put out till October with the twelve week but if we
 in two weeks, if we can have some information in two weeks and discuss this, that's only adding two weeks on to our ordering time or receiving time. But also, I know that this type of thing, if it's getting too late in the season, could we not purchase the equipment and have it ready to go? If we end up going into the heating system, we could always purchase what we need
 the equipment and install it after winter if we end up too far into the winter system. Thank you. Alderman Hergatt. I think what concerned a lot of us, it's not, and I remember we got a memo from Mr. Hansen saying he did mention this, I think in 2012 when we were looking at the 2013 budget. The catch your breath I think that most of us got is that it's a $1.5 million expenditure that wasn't budgeted for this year.
 I don't think the condition of it changed that much. And the holdup, at least on my part, I appreciated Mr. Frost's concerns, but I'm spending another one and a half million. I've got some other projects that are in the background.
 I don't even know where we stand with our budget in terms of what this has done to it or is going to do to it. And I'm also concerned about the debt service. You know, we've got a $6.2 million expenditure pending for the concourse debt. That's going to have debt service coming out of it.
 who knows what funds. And I think that's what the biggest concern is. It's not that it might not be something that we want to do and might even need to do in the near future, but if that was the case, this certainly should have appeared in the budget for this year. It's not that long ago that we approved it, and I think that's where a lot of the concern came from. At least it does on my part. Thank you for the discussion. Alderman Hiller.
 You know, I don't mean to sound so negative, but how long has the system been costing an arm and a leg that, like Alderman Hervey says, it seems like we wait until the very last minute when we have to because it's going to quit. And if it quits, then we're without air or we're without heat or one room is warm and one room is cold. This system, you had to have been doing it long before.
 Why do we just wait? Why do we procrastinate and sit on it until there's no choice? That's the part that really aggravates me. It's we wait, and we wait, and we wait. And so, you know, we could hold it over, we could talk about it, but I'm not thrilled about the money, and I don't like the procrastination that we do. Thank you. Further comments? Yes.
 you're not all of each of us are I don't know that's just fine I'm going to support the layover because for two weeks because it's a potential to save a million three okay they will look at it and want to make a decision in two weeks if that potential doesn't exist which will find out about that so I think it's smart that we give ourselves that leeway thank you thank you for their
 Hearing none, all those in favor of the layover for two weeks, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Getsch. No. McNamara. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. No. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Cirelli. Aye. Aide ayes three, no you're on. The motion carries, the matter will lay over and I would just ask staff,
 to try to work with the council on any questions they may have between now and two weeks and if there's an opportunity and we want to discuss it in this coming committee meeting it would certainly be a support call to back So was that items four and five that we're really over? Yeah Okay so then we still have for passage one through three and then six through thirteen
 Any other questions on those items? We'll just go back around. Thank you. I'm sorry. On this number four and five, I was under the impression we were putting it over one week. Couldn't we do a special council meeting, have it on the committee and then have it on the special council meeting? That way we're only one week? We certainly could. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 But we voted that I specifically said two weeks. Did we vote to put two weeks? I did. Okay. But if we want to put it up, you know, let's put it up next week and if we're ready to go then, act on it then. But it will also be as a backup in two weeks. I wouldn't have any objection to that and that would be something we would just do like
 I think the big thing is I just want people to be able to get answers to whatever questions I had all of them for us and want to be able to be back and engage in the conversation I'm happy to support them. Further discussion in the remaining items 1 through 3 and then 6 through 13. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getsch? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Odo? Aye.
 I think nearly surely from 9 C 10 and 11 10 days when all the remainder 11 a 0. Thank you. Who is this. Thank you. I have one item I'd like to spend rules on its under Roman numeral 10 a 1 development agreement with comprehensive community solutions for deconstruction training program like this has been rules.
 a deconstruction training program. I'm in favor of suspending the rules. Please see the public saying aye. Ms. Abbott. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to place this up for passage. As of passage, is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. D. Aye. Betches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Tenay. That's one. No, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you.
 for their new business. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Rule 10, new business ordinances B, first I would like to hold out number 4, Your Honor, and then I would like to place up or suspend the rules on the remaining items 1 through 13. So you're asking for a motion to suspend the rule 10, and B, that is 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
 that's correct I have a motion to suspend the rules on those items all those in favor please say aye aye aye I say that the rules be suspended on those items Your Honor I place those items up for passage Those items are up for passage next item is the item for the place to call the roll Durkee Move on to five Getses McNamara Hervey Connell Odo Aye Newberg Beach
 Back? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirely? Aye. Roman numeral 10B1310A1, no. Roman numeral 10B5992, no. The remainder, 11A0, no. That will pass. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items that we approved earlier tonight, items one and two regarding the South Main Street Shopping Center with the development agreement and lease agreement. And I place those at the passage. Thank you. I think we have motion to suspend.
 I'm sorry I moved to suspend rules I move to suspend rules I move to suspend rules I move to suspend rules I move to suspend rules I move to suspend rules I move to suspend rules I move to suspend rules I move to suspend rules
 surely tonight's one million there's a man who's passed thank you traditional business all about thank you your honor I move to convene in closed session to discuss labor negotiation matters thank you six the motion second to close session for purposes of discussing negotiation issues there's no I'm sorry it's my I would so there's no it's a bit of a spot
 No discussion. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Getschus. McNamara. Hervey. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Levinizer. Thank you. The motion carries. We will recess for the purposes of discussing collective bargaining and labor association issues. Alderman McNeely. Thank you very much. May we go back to petition on communications? That's a way to do it.
 We will when we come back. We've already recessed. So we'll get back to you soon.