Let us pray. Sovereign and Almighty God, we, your people, have gathered here, the fair citizens of this city, Rockford, to do the business at hand, and we invoke your divine intervention upon all the men and women that are gathered here today. So we ask that you guide us in all our thoughts and open our hearts to the way of love that you have created in this world, because love is greater than any other power that we know. And so as we talk and discuss and
 Decide what's best for the bigger and the larger? Populous we pray that you will guide us in that and that we will have a good evening together And that we would have safe travels home as all this in your divine and ultimate name Jesus amen Clerk will you please call the roll?
 Thank you. Need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on June 19, 2017? So moved. All those in favor, say aye. Need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on June 26 of 2017? So moved. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye.
 Okay, we'll pass. We have three public speakers this evening. Each will have three minutes to speak to the council, the first of which is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, it says the steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, the day God made police officers. When the Lord was creating police officers, he was into a six day of overtime when an angel appeared and said, you're doing a lot of filling around on this one. And the Lord said, have you read the spec on this order? A police officer has to be able to run blocks through alleys, in the dark, scale walls, in the homes, the health inspector.
 wouldn't touch and not wrinkle his uniform. He has to be able to sit in an undercover car all day long on a stakeout, cover a homicide scene that night, cameras the neighborhood for witness and testify in court the next day. He has to be in top physical condition at all times, running on lack of water, black coffee, and half-eaten meals. And he has to have six...
 pair of hands. The angel shook his head slowly and said, six pair of hands? No way. It's not the hands that are causing me problems, said the Lord. It's the three pair of eyes an officer has to have. That's the standard model. Asked the angel. The Lord nodded. One pair of seeds to a bulge in the waistband before he asked, may I see what's in your belt, sir? When he already knows in which year he had taken that accounting job.
 Another pair here in the side of his head for his partner's safety. And another pair of eyes here in front of him that can look at a bleeding victim and say, You'll be all right, ma'am. Lord, said the angel, touching his sleeve, rest and work on this tomorrow. I can't, said the Lord. I already have a model that can talk a 250-pound drunk into a patrol car without incident and feed a family of five on a civil service paycheck. The angel circled the model. Can you think? He asked you.
 He asked, you bet, said the Lord. It can tell you the elements of 100 crimes. Recite Miranda's warnings in his sleep. Detain, investigate, search, and arrest a gang member on the street in less time than it takes five lone judges to debate the legality of the stock. And still, it keeps his sense of humor.
 This officer has phenomenal control. He can deal with crime scenes painted in hell, coax a confession from a child abuse, comfort a murder victim's family, and then read in the daily paper how law enforcement is incensed to the rights of criminal suspects. Father Angel bent over and ran his fingers across the cheek of the officer.
 there's a leak I told you Lord that you were trying to put too much on this model that's not a leak said the Lord it's a tear what's the tear for the angel acts it's for a bottle of emotional for fallen comrades for commitment to that funny piece of cloth called the American flag for justice you're a genius Lord said the Lord looked somber I didn't put it there he said the officers don't have wings on their backs but I always consider them one of my angels
 I, Prophet Yusuf, want to thank each and every police officer for your sacrifices, dedication, and devotion to your profession and to the city of Rockford. Rockford couldn't survive without you. Each of you is special in your own way. And together, you are what make this city have a light at the end of a tunnel. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Next speaker is Mr. John Brantley.
 uh good morning uh mayor mcnair our audience and our citizens of uh roxford illinois god love and our love dear friends let us love one another for love come from god everyone who loves has been born of god and know god whoever does not love does not know god because god is love this is how god show his love among us
 He sent His one and only Son into the world that we might live through Him. This is love. Now that we love God, but that He loved us, and He sent His Son as a torment sacrifice for our sin. This past couple of weeks was a very busy weekend for the Renewal Turning Point program, youth and adults. We took 25 youth.
 and adults on Saturday. We started at the library for an hour. Our next stop was the Macedonia Performing Arts Center. There we went to another event. Then we was at the Fourth of July Parade with Tuesday, which is a renewed Turning Point program and RHA Neighborhood Network for Youth, Adults and 815 Diversity. We had a little over 40 people in the parade. This is our fourth year in the parade. We want to thank all our sponsors that helped to make this day happen.
 also to our RHA van driver, our personal van driver, and the cause to help us get from point A to point B. We want to pray for the church van drivers that want to help us but was not able to make it. We are still working on trying to get our own van or minibus.
 We have others that wanted to be in the parade, however we did not have enough transportation to get everyone there on time. This weekend we was at the Discovery Center on Riverfront Museum Park for the fire and safety check and IDs for youth.
 All of the youth that I brought there got an Illinois State Police Safety ID. The parents were very happy. Plus, the family got one free visit to the Discovery Center. Also, we stopped at the Edmund Harris Museum to check out the new house that was next door. Our last stop, we went back to the library. On Sunday, July the 9th, we started out at Freeman Church with walls, presented Youth Day, featuring a world orphaned...
 choir. They put on a great show at the University of Illinois College of Medicine. From there we went to a family fair church picnic with Hope Fellowship Church. Then we ended the day at Leavens Lake for the second week in a row. For the past two weeks a group of our youth from fairgrounds and the surrounding areas placed third in the talent show. I did not want to get in the 50 and older dance contest. Nevertheless, my youth pushed me.
 uh... and by the way i want i spend the money on the youth in my god daughter for a birthday she turned five years old during twenty nine i've been in court for the past two weeks everyday for three high profile murder cases this weekend at the booker fest and saturday july fifteenth from ten a m to twelve noon it's the second annual community versus police and softball game at merrily field by the way
 I was on the team with you. I was one of the winning teams. And now I turn 62 years old, I'm going to be back out there again. And I want to end by saying, when is the Rockstat meeting? This week or next week? Or is there going to be a Rockstat meeting? And what time? And I believe it's next week. Or is it this, Mr. Tegnell? The Rockstat report will be posted at the end of this week, but the next public Rockstat meeting will be in August.
 So the next public will be in August. Yep. Thank you, John. Next speaker is Mr. Donald Ray. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening to the council members. And good evening to the community. I'm here, and I'm going to say it like this. In my opinion, homicide families these days are, for us, it's discouraging for us. But also I realize
 These are some critical times for us also. It's critical for the city of Rockford. And with that being said, I would like to introduce, and thank you for leading into that, my brother, the police and citizens are teaming up together and we're going to take an active stance in presenting a baseball game between the community and the police department. And in this stance, we're taking an active stance against
 You know, I got my glasses on, that's my problem. Wow! The police and the citizens teaming up together and taking an active stance against violence. Our hope is this creates and leads to successful pathways of peace and nonviolence in our community.
 We're dedicating this year's second annual baseball game to our Angels in the outfield. Since 2010 up to December 2016, we have had 168 homicides in the Rockford area.
 Again, the theme for this game, our angels in the outfield. Therefore, we would like to invite everybody, mayor, council members, the community to this event at Marinelli Field this Saturday, 10 o'clock in the morning. We have an excellent program and basically I'm looking forward to getting back because the police whipped our butt last year 11 to 4.
 There were some pretty good guys on the police department. And, therefore, also I'd like to say thank you to the police department for how they represent our community, even though we may have some problems. We're working on those problems like we're working on problems in our community with the council. Therefore, I say thank you for having me, and let me thank you for presenting this, and I thank you to Chief Dan. Thank you, everybody. I've been bringing this up all day, every morning.
 Our first annual baseball that he's referring to is we have all the signatures of the players on that baseball first annual so I asked him to bring it. Thank you very much again. Thank you so much Mr. Wright. Okay Alderman Durkee for petitions and communications.
 Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got seven items this evening. The first two are the Zoni Board of Appeals Agenda and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board Agenda for the meeting to be held on July 18, 2017, and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regs meeting on July 31, 2017.
 The third item is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on July 12, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs meeting on July 31, 2017. The next item is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the Platte No. 1 of ZX subdivision. The next item is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 4316 Wilshire Avenue.
 The next item is a memorandum from Aaron Stone, P.E. Project Manager, regarding North Main Street IDOT land transfer for Con Ed underground utility relocation at 3133 North Main Street. And the final item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding the upcoming special events, which include Midtown Ethnic Parade and Festival, Off the Waterfront Block Party,
 Greenwich Village Art Fair and head of the Rock Regatta. All those items will be referred, Your Honor, to the Code and Regs Committee. Thank you, Alderman Trelle and Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. The first is we're going to open a bid for the sale of property located at 800 Cedar Street. Okay, the bid is from Kathleen Herka, President of Mackey Properties, for $1,081. Thank you, Your Honor.
 And this, we have a certified check for the amount of 108, that wasn't 10 cents, which is 10%. So this will be referred to finance and personnel. And then I have one other item, which is the memorandum from George Davis, Human Services Executive Director regarding Head Start COLA funding opportunity. And that will also be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. Alderman Beck. We have one proclamation this evening.
 If Rockford Public Library Executive Director Lynn Steinbrook as well as Kathy Kressel and Michelle Vosburgh and anyone else of your party would like to come on up. Okay. Whereas Rockford Public Library and its branch libraries annually offer summer reading programs with activities for children, teens and adults, and whereas reading programs for young children are designed to build early literacy skills preparing them to enter school ready to read.
 And whereas school-aged children and teens who read through the summer return to school without suffering a summer slide in their academic skills. And whereas adults who read during the summer not only set good examples for children in their lives, but have fun while expanding their reading horizons. And whereas the theme of the 2017 Summer Reading Program is Reading by Design, which inspires readers to explore their own creativity and to learn from their own experiences.
 and design new worlds for themselves and for all of us. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Offord, do hereby proclaim June 6, 2017 through August 25, 2017 as the 2017 Summer Reading by Design. Would you like to share a few words? Wonderful.
 Thank you so much. I appreciate the proclamation. I just want to reiterate the importance of summer reading. All of the statistics for the last 30 years have shown that for every month children do not read, they lose three months of reading ability. So anytime those early years in elementary, they don't read for the three months of summer, they've lost a full school year worth of reading. So it's very important for children to continue to read the entire summer.
 And now Michelle and Kathy, who are our two coordinators for our summer reading program, if you want to say a little bit about some of our statistics, that kind of thing. Thank you.
 Hi there, thank you so much for having us today. And like Lynn said, we have a number of children and adults who sign up for our reading club. Last year we had about 12,000 sign up, and about 68% of those were finishers, which meant that they actually finished the club that read the amount of books that needed to be. We're very thankful to the community for the support that we're given and for the city for recognizing this. Thank you. That's wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. Great to see you.
 New committee report, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item under Roman numeral 5A. The committee recommends approval of the development agreement with Rockford Local Development Corporation, also known as RLDC, for the construction of the Amarok Convention Center. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and place this up for passage. Thank you, Alderman. Is there discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk please call the roll. No. Klugerman.
 Toomer. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. No. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Nine ayes, four noes. Item passes. Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations.
 Good evening. First item is a committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store at 2420 and 2428 South Alpine Road, subject to amended conditions.
 The second committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store at 3512 East State Street and 3502 East State Street, subject to conditions.
 Third, his committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of liquor and drink in conjunction with a bar and grill, a video gaming and with an outdoor beer garden at 4412 Manchester Drive subject to conditions.
 The fourth, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 320 North Mulford Road, subject to conditions. The fifth, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 320 North Mulford Road, subject to conditions.
 The sixth, this committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant at 3600 North Main Street and 1060 West Riverside Boulevard, subject to conditions. The seventh, the committee recommends reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals' denial of a variation to increase the number of business identification wall signs from the maximum allowed two to three
 at 280 North Perryville Road, subject to conditions. Just this item will need 10 votes, Your Honor. The eighth, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a modification of a special use permit for a planned mixed use development to allow the addition of a retail floral shop for an additional period of five years at 1605 North Bell School Road, subject to conditions.
 Item number nine, Your Honor, I will be holding that out to further notice. That is for the Rockford Public Library. Item number 10 through 12 are traffic-related committee reports, Your Honor. I won't read those in, but if anyone has any questions, please feel free to address those. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. Is there discussion on any of those 12 items? Alderman Durkee? Thank you, Your Honor. We have on the – I think it's item – I just lost my screen.
 The item for the no parking zone on the barracks from Leif to Ware Street, that's a street in my ward. It's come up with residents and myself. This is a street that is across from Hunter Park. The street barrack is not a feeder street. It's actually a residential street. But at that point, the street has been widened.
 to accommodate parking and the passage of cars in the street. The neighbors have complained because there is parking on their, on the park, well it's not really a parkway, but on their easements in the front of their homes, obstruct, you know, there's a, they feel it's an obstruction and a burden to them. The, this parking on both sides of the street,
 actually only occurs several times a week during only specific times of the year when kids practice, and they're little kids, in the park. I've talked to the residents and to me it's a NIMBY issue, it's a not in my backyard. In fact, it's actually evidenced by one of the residents who has put fiberglass stakes in front of their home to prevent the parking there.
 What would happen, and I think if you recall, Jeremy Carter intimated that this is not gonna solve any problem. What will happen is all those parkers will go up the side streets, the cars are still gonna be there, but those side streets are narrower. One of the residents told me that one of the reasons why she would like this, she doesn't want any kids hit, but yet she wants the kids to walk farther away from the park than cross that street.
 My assessment is it's not in my backyard issue. The residents simply don't want the cars parked in front of their house. And they would prefer that the cars to park up the other streets in front of somebody else's house. And again, the same number of cars are going to come to the area. They have to go somewhere and that's not solving the problem, which isn't really a problem there, like I said, because it happens very rarely and the street has been widened there.
 In a joint effort by the park district in the city, so there's actually a pad on the south side of the street So I would ask the alderman to oppose this. I don't think it's going to solve the problem. In fact, I think it's gonna make it worse So thank you alderman frost So the fire department could weigh in on this particular Street talking about item 10. Yeah, we respect the barrack drive chief Bergson
 I'd have to look at that street just because that hasn't come before the fire department for that issue. So we can more than happy to take a look at that and see what clearance are for vehicles also, if that's something you're looking for direction on. Came up with the traffic commission. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. It did came up, and it came up with the residents. And so what I'm saying is the same number of cars are going to come to the area. So what it will do is it will force those cars up the side street. The side streets are actually narrower.
 than the current street. So if you have a problem passing a fire truck, which I don't know how many fire calls have been there, but if you have a problem passing a fire truck there, you're gonna have, it's gonna be a worse problem with the side street. So you're better off keeping there. I drive by that every day, and I drive, you guys, my pickup truck, and it fits, it goes through there easily.
 So I don't measure it, but again, if you're worried about fire clearance, you're driving the cars then up into streets that are actually narrower, so you'll create a worse problem on multiple streets because, like I said, they have to go somewhere. Thank you. Other discussion on any of the items? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. I on all the items except, I guess that was number 10. Thank you.
 Logan. I on all the items. Nate on item 10. Toon Bird. I on all the items. No one. Frost. No one. 10 items. Herbie. 7. Irvins. No. Hoffman. 7. Rose. No one. 7 and 10. I on. Beach. Church. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Tiarelli. I on all of them. Number 1, 2, and 5. I on.
 2 ayes, 11, I'm sorry, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 3, 1 aye, I apologize, 12 ayes, 1 noe. Item number 4, 13 ayes. Item number 6, 12 ayes, 1 noe. Item number 7, 10 ayes, 3 noes. Item number 8, 13 ayes. Item number 9 was held out. Item number 10, there's 12 noes, 1 aye.
 And item number 11 and 12, 13 ayes. Okay, so item number 10 fails, all the remaining pass? I apologize. Item number 5, there were 10, 11 ayes, 2 noes. I called it with 1 and 3, 1 and 2. Really put you to the test on that one. I think you did a good job.
 Okay. Hopefully these won't be as complicated. Finance and personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you. I have 24 items. Fortunately, we have two. The first one is the approval of vouchers in the amount of $7,067,165.78. That's approved at the meeting on June 26th.
 And then we have the approval of a Memorandum of Understanding with Rock River Reclamation District for a total of $9,580 for sanitary sewer extension at Jefferson Street and Main Street. And I place these two items over passage. Is there a discussion on either of those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck.
 McNeely cheerily
 13 eyes runner. Thank you. On to officers reports. I just have three items. The first of which is just a reminder you've received an email and I believe a memo on your desk about two upcoming strategic planning sessions. The first of which will be July 19th. There will be a brief dinner held at 5 p.m. and the planning sessions will begin at 530 and go till 730 and that's over at the RMAP office.
 Again on July 19th. The second item I wanted to discuss is just a thank you to our fire department, our public works, our building division for the tremendous work that they've done over the last two weeks. Not just with the fires that we've had, but also in the fire department in particular, their most busy day of the year on July 4th. Lastly, I want to mention a big thank you to the police department.
 Really for two main issues, reasons. One is, I guess, overall the restraint that they showed on two different incidents. One was on July 4th when there was a little fight downtown, and the second one was for the incident that just happened last night over on Applewood Lane. I think our police are incredibly well-trained, well-led, and deserve big kudos for the restraint that they showed on both of those incidents.
 incidents and I'll open that up for anyone else that has officers reports otherman Hoffman Thank You mayor. I wish to announce that the rolling green Association will be having their quarterly meeting tomorrow night July 11th at Broadway Covenant Church on the agenda is Stephanie Hicks from lost dogs, Illinois She's going to teach us the right and wrong way to get dogs back our community officer Chris bakey will be speaking about curfews and
 A representative from the Rockford Police Department gang unit will be there, and our mayor, McNamara, will also be. I think it's going to be lively tomorrow night. The association is not a watch group. We are an activist group whose purpose is to educate citizens on issues. So everyone in the ward is invited, and those outside of the ward that wish to come are also welcome.
 I wish to thank the Rockford Police Department for a speedy conclusion to the Rolling Green stolen high chair caper.
 The High Chair is now back with the expected mother and someone was taken into custody. So thank you, Brockwood Police. I also wish to thank Chief Dahlke from District 2 for the community tour. As a former youth correctional worker, I was impressed with his outlook on community policing. It is apparent that he understands there's more ways to fight crime than just incarceration.
 I also wish to thank the department heads of Public Works, Streets, and Neighborhood Standards. We have been working on beautification of the area. The Forestry Department has helped us by replacing trees that were lost for various reasons. Consequently, we have new trees on the parkway around Harmon Park and on Westgate and Eastgate Boulevards. Also, I wish to thank Rob, I can never say it, Wilhelmy. Yes.
 for teaching me how to teach my neighbors how to report neighborhood standard issues online. Since the end of May, we have had about 150 or more reports that were made through that process. And as a result, unkept yards are now very much an exception rather than the rule like they were last year. All of the inoperable and abandoned cars have also been removed today.
 And I would also like to mention that at tomorrow night's meeting, we will have a neighbor who installs cameras to speak to residents. Our goal is to get as many cameras as possible on each block so that if anyone is foolish enough to come into the 8th Ward to commit a crime, we will have a video which we will use to assist the police in the capture. Thank you. Wonderful.
 I'm excited that I don't have to talk about the lost dogs tomorrow. That was a big issue. I believe it. Huge issue. I believe it. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I have several things. One, I voted no on a lot of the liquor items tonight and it may be an overreaction, but for a long time I've been concerned about saturation.
 It just seems that every week, every service station, every convenience store, every little corner store, everybody now wants packaged liquor. Now we've got restaurants doing packaged liquor. I remember the old days when Rockford's liquor licenses were limited. I don't remember what the number was, but they cost like $25,000, and they were considered personal property. You could sell it. It had to be approved and everything.
 But I noticed that we had the number one capture rate for drunk driving in the state. That's good, but I think it's also bad, because it means we've got a lot of it. I don't know whether the cause is that there's liquor everywhere, but I've been concerned about it for a long time, and I would like to see what our saturation is. I do believe we have a mapping system that shows for each of our liquor licenses,
 where they are, and if we do, I'd love to see that map. I don't want staff to have to do a lot of work, but I would like to see it.
 Number two, I'd like to congratulate the Ethnic Heritage Museum and the new Grand Genestra House that opened officially this weekend. There were a number of people out, Chairman Haney, Mr. Rory was there on behalf of Mayor McNamara. If you get a chance, and I'll extend an invitation, maybe we'll do something special for City Council.
 It's wonderful to see the six ethnicities that settled southwest Rockford are all celebrated there. And the Erlander House with the Swedish population is right across, I think that encompasses 95% of Rockford's first settlers. So I'm hoping that everybody will get a chance to come by and see it. In one fell swoop, we've got an entire block of South Main developed.
 and they're going to be restoring the gardens in between and the gazebo. So that's just going to be really fantastic.
 I'd like to give a thanks out to the members of the police department and our code enforcement area who went with me on a trip down into the Tent City homeless encampment that's under the Winnebago Street viaduct. One of the gentlemen who was there is the man who killed the individual on the second floor there.
 of a building on South Main Street. He's also believed to be the same gentleman who murdered a homeless man, I believe it was in his own tent, in the viaduct encampment, and that was just back in February.
 People seem to think that this is benign and that it's just a little bit of a nuisance. It is not. It is dangerous. These encampments are right adjacent to our neighborhoods. They come into the neighborhoods to get liquor. They hang out right around our schools or in the many abandoned houses that we have. It is a danger.
 And we have got to do more. I know that people are making efforts at rehousing, but we've got to stop treating it as though it's not a big deal. And I don't want anybody telling me that they have rights.
 Because if they do have the right to camp, I'm going to load them up and take them out to Aldine Park. I'm going to take them out to Perryville Road. I'm going to take them into other areas of the city. And I'm dead serious about this. And see who tells me that they have a constitutional right to set up an encampment on public property. Because I'm tired of our kids being at risk like this. South Main Street is...
 what, almost $30 million in redevelopment, and they're everywhere. And no, I'm not a heartless, cold, unfeeling individual. But if your kids were the ones who are walking past 20 men gathered in a place, and the kids are scared to go and walk to school or walk to the park, you'd be feeling the same way. And I want my neighborhood back again, and I want it to be safe. So...
 I will be asking for some assistance with that. And I do think, I know we spent a boatload of money to try to dismantle the camp. And just for those people who don't know, they don't just go in and grab the guy's stuff and throw it away.
 They try to get them housing, they give them 48 hours notice, and they will take their belongings to another place. It may look like trash to us, but it's all they have in the world, and we're sensitive to that. So I think we do it with compassion, but we also have to have compassion for the people who live in our neighborhoods.
 Oh, I'd also like to ask for an update on Station 1. I know it's going to be coming online soon, but how close are we to Station 1? Lastly, wild animals, the little furry creatures, not the coyotes and things like that.
 I'll be getting a memo to you all this week, now that the Department of Natural Resources will not allow Winnebago County Animal Control to pick up trapped animals. And for everybody who is breaking the law, as I was, and trapping without a license, you have to have a license to trap raccoons, opossums, all of those things. So we called three people to come and pick up a hedgehog, three of the private companies, not a single one returned our call.
 So we had to let him loose. He's still going to come back and dig holes in my basement. I'm up to about $10,000 worth of damage. And this is a 117-year-old house that's not worth. That's one quarter of the value, for crying out loud. But I don't have a choice.
 We're just sort of in no man's land. So I'm hoping that we can put something out where we can get people who agree to pick up the animals within 24 hours. And everybody who wants to trap has to pay the $10 and get a permit. So I will be asking, getting that memo out. I don't know if it's going to be a committee meeting.
 petition or communication to ask that staff put something together to help us identify and get support from people who will pick up nuisance animals. Thank you. And we will work to get you a map of the liquor sale locations as well as an update on Station 1. Thank you, Alderman Herbert. Other officers' reports? Mr. Rose. Just real quick.
 I'm part of that proud tradition of the Rockford Pro-Am. I started working at Rockford Country Club when I was 12 years old and was there for about 10 years and and caddied in the Pro-Am through most of those years and it's one of those traditions that's coming up next Monday. I believe it starts at 11 but
 I'm a big supporter of it. It gets kids involved in sports. It brings pros from around the country. It's a big economic event that helps our economy, but it also helps our non-for-profits who are the benefactors of that. And so please, if you're in the city of Rockford on Monday, come on out to Rockford Country Club and enjoy a day out on the golf course.
 All the men can you on this? Yes, I want to thank the chief in the Rockford Police Department and the Winnebago County Housing Authority for their officer in the neighborhood. I'm looking forward to more officers living in that neighborhood. The honor was here of Mayor McNamara and I attended. It was good. You guys put on a good show. Also, I want to thank
 The fire chief for doing a good job in my ward. We had two major fires, and we lost no lives. Nobody got hurt. He did a good job, too. Thank you. Other officers' reports? Seeing none, we will move on to appointments that have been laid over. We have two.
 One is an appointment of Marvin Hightower to serve a three-year term on the Community Action Advisory Board. Second are the appointments or reappointments of the following individuals as directors of their municipal department in the city of Rockford.
 which would be Carrie Eklund for Finance Department, Cherise Hunter for Human Resources Department, George Davis for Human Services Department, Glenn Trommels for Information Technology, Nicholas Meyer for Legal Department, and Mark Stockman for Public Works. Is there discussion on those? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkheim. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose beach Kenosha back McNeely cheerily 13 I sure thank you under motions and right to resolutions alderman Shirely Several items tonight the first item is the transfer of city-owned properties To Rockford corridor improvement RCI blight reduction program those properties are for 1211 Street and
 716 Ashland, 925 North Rockton, excuse me, 827 Whitman Street, and 1317 Magnolia. The second item is the Kiwanis Bratwurst Days, scheduled for Friday, July 14th, and Saturday, July 15th. The third is Tour du North End, 2017, scheduled for Saturday, July 22nd, at the Olympic Tavern parking lot. The fourth item is the Passport to the Arts, scheduled for Saturday, August 5th,
 at the Women's Space Campus at 3333 Maria Linden Drive. Fifth item is the Screw City Beer Festival scheduled for Saturday, September 9th at 100 and 200 block of North Main Street in the municipal parking lots one and three. The sixth item is the parking fee waiver request from RACVB, the waiver request on the behalf of the Jehovah Witness Convention. Place those items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Is there any discussion?
 alderman hervey yeah your honor just with regard to the parking fee waiver if i remember correctly that's about 48 700 yes and if i also remember correctly our parking fund does not have the funds in it to take care of the maintenance it's supposed to be an enterprise fund and i know i've been beating this drum for a long time but either it's an enterprise fund or it's not
 And water is an enterprise fund, and when we need more money in it, we raise the fees on our citizens. And we've had to do that. Not that we wanted to, but we had to. So I think it's just patently unfair to start waiving fees in an enterprise fund that can't fund itself. So I either want a resolution that parking is going to be a burden on taxpayers or it's not. I can't support this request. Okay.
 The Jehovah's Witness group has been coming here for a while, and I understand that. But if we're going to start saying that if we want to get people to come here and if we want to have Rockford be a welcoming committee, our taxpayers are going to have to be burdened and burdened and burdened. It's just wrong. We're doing it with everything, economic development, now parking fees.
 When do Rockford taxpayers get a break? I don't think it's a hardship on people who are coming to the city of Rockford for a convention. If this was Chicago where we were paying $35 or $40 a day, maybe a different story. But what is our top rate for the day? Does it even hit $10? Is it $10? I don't know what the exact, I know it hits over $10. Okay.
 It's not 50. It's not 40. It's low. And I don't think that's too much to ask in exchange for who's going to pay for these garages that need to be updated. I would agree that we should waive tickets.
 for some of the parking maybe in some of the lots that we have. And I think we've done that in the past where they've parked on the street. I think we've suspended some of our enforcement because there's nowhere else for them to park. So I don't think that would be a bad idea, but...
 waiving almost $50,000 I do. So I am not going to be supporting that waiver request. I understand. Just to be clear, the waiver request would be around $48,000 for three different weekends over the next year. That's $40,000 combined for the three. And to be clear, they have not been here the
 This convention actually left and has not been in Rockford for the last five years. One of the major reasons saving was parking, and we have an opportunity to get them to sign a multi-year agreement. So we're working to try to lure these folks. There's about 5,000 individuals that come downtown and then throughout our community during these weekends. Is there further discussion? Alderman Toomberg. Thank you, Mayor.
 Kind of along the lines of Alderman Hervey, I understand the concerns on these situations. Excuse me. I think on future situations like this, I know it can't necessarily maybe be a thorough cost-benefit analysis, but I mean to kind of bring this more into perspective, if we're going to waive $40,000 in taxes,
 parking costs in this matter could we have some number approximately on what benefit is it going to bring to the city to possibly offset that 40,000 because it is you know we are coming into situations where we are waiving fees in certain aspects and I think it's easier to convey to the taxpayers if this is a
 a six-figure economic benefit to the city by giving up $40,000, is it worthwhile or not? But yes, I understand the concerns on waiving...
 and waiving those fees. Thank you. Just to, and I apologize if we didn't put in the memo, maybe it was just in the letter to me from the Rockford Area Visitor Convention Bureau. It's over a $700,000 economic impact, which is why, to your point, we needed to have that cost benefit analysis and they provided that to us. That's why we chose to go with that. I apologize if that wasn't in the memo. So further discussion, Alderman Frost, did you have your hand up?
 Maybe the next time. I mean, I understand that they're bringing a lot of folks here that says 2,000 vehicles. Perhaps they can do like a sporting event where they're able to give them, since they're bringing so many cars, some sort of group discount. So instead of just completely waiving the fund, you know, I agree with Alderman Hervey. I mean, it is an enterprise fund.
 I mean, I understand there is an economic impact, especially, I think, for the downtown area and the businesses around there, but to a taxpayer that wants to then go park there the following Tuesday night when the rates go up because there's no money in the enterprise fund, it's really a subsidy on a taxpayer. So I understand this is in the works already, but I think in the future for events like this, it's nice to get an event like this back. I wholeheartedly agree with that. But instead of a waiver, maybe we can do a little bit better negotiating or whoever,
 the city itself and whoever's in charge can work something out. Understood. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Alderman Durkee, do you have? I was going to actually make the same comment that Alderman Frost did. Perhaps a better deal would be a negotiated lower rate. Wonderful. Are there other discussions? Seeing no further discussion, I'll have the clerk call the roll because of the money involved in item number six. Durkee. Aye.
 Logan, Tumber, Frost, Hervey, Irvins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 13 ayes. Item number 6, 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Alderman Beck for finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First item is an award of bid for Department of Laundry Services to A1 dry cleaners for $30,000 to $35,000 per year. Contracts for one year with four additional one-year extensions.
 Next is an award of bid for tree planning services to Acres Group of Wakanda, lawn care by Walter and GNO Landscaping of Rockford for an estimated annual value of $45,000. Next is an award of bid for 2017 demolition program for demolition of the following properties, 330 Underwood Street, 1246 Corbin Street, 818 Sanford Street, 2713 Marshall Street to N-TRAC Group,
 of Loves Park for their bid of $33,876.55. Next is the award of bid for West State Street Demolition Package F to N-TRAC for their bid of $170,432.20. Next is the award of non-competitive contracts for legal services.
 for the use of new markets tax credits for the Rockford Regional Conference Center with Longwell Legal LLC for estimated fees between $100,000 and $150,000. Next is a recommendation to reject the bid received for 5085 Browns Beach Road
 Next is the engineering agreement for South Main Street two-way conversion from Cedar Street and Main Street final roadway improvements to Misman Incorporated in the amount of $33,756.16. And then finally the engineering agreement for design engineering for Cedar Street parking lots to Misman Incorporated for an amount not to succeed $45,322.87. I place these items up for passage.
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. Is there a discussion on any of those eight items? Seeing no, oh, Alderman Ropes. Just real quick, I noticed that two of these bids are for street, for different demolition projects.
 I have a building in the Ninth Ward, 1920 North Main Street, that's been sitting for some time. Our neighbors are really concerned for public safety. And I think one of the things moving forward is discussing ways that we can move at finding ways to demolish some of these buildings that are sitting, that pose a public
 safety issue and I know that that's one of them and I've been in conversation with city staff on it, but when we allow these buildings to sit for three, four, five years, the neighbors around those places either move or
 or they have to deal with that and they lose property value on those things. So as a city council, I hope that we can come to agreement on taking on that issue moving forward because seeing these demolition projects, there are some big buildings that I think we have to look at down the road and I'm hoping that that's something that we can take a look at.
 in the near future. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Was that 1920 that you mentioned? 1920 North Main Street. Okay, thank you. Other further discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Berkey. No. Bogeman. Aye. Thunberg. Ross. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 items one two three four six seven eight thirteen eyes item number five nine eyes four notes all items pass thank you and alderman frost for legislative and lobbying thank you mary uh with respect to number one it's a resolution supporting the casino bill number two uh is a resolution supporting the approval for the state budget uh with respect to that when i move to amend the resolution under motions and resolutions roman numeral 8d item 2
 to reflect the following changes. To modify the language in the resolution to read as follows. Be it resolved that the City Council of the City of Rockford, Illinois supports an amendment to the State of Illinois' approved budget that does not negatively impact current revenue sharing between the State and the City of Rockford and does not impede the City's ability to generate revenue to support operations.
 specifically and including an amendment that removes the 10% reduction in the local government distributive fund distributions, also known as LGDF, set forth in Senate Bill 42. The budget should include funding for infrastructure and economic development projects throughout the city of Rockford. I place the item as amended up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Is there a discussion? Okay.
 Is there a discussion on those, either of those? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to ask a question here. On the 2% fee for collecting CIP, is that what we've been paying?
 No, that is a new fee. Yeah, that's what I thought it was. And so if your amendment, if I was going to conclude, reducing that 2% fee, I'd be a lot better because I can understand charging us $319,000 to collect the sales tax for a CIP. It's ridiculous. That's a wonderful point. Do you want to add a friendly amendment to that? Yes, I'd like to do that, sir.
 So to your resolution, if possible, I'd like to also add that they would restrict the fee charged to this city of 2% of the sales tax collected for our CIP program. Okay. All those in favor of adding Alderman Beach's friendly amendment to Alderman Frost's amendment? Aye. This is getting fun. Okay. So right now in front of us, in essence, Alderman Frost's original amendment is to –
 Support a state budget that does not cut the LGDF, which the current budget that was just recently passed cuts us by about 10%, which is roughly about $1.5 million. In addition, Alderman Beach's amendment would reduce to no administrative fee, which costs us over $300,000. All those in favor of the two items in front of us as amended? Aye. All those opposed? Item's passed. Moving to new business items.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under the voting rule 9 of Norton's, proving that it is a lawful and more formal law known as RLDC for the construction of the Amarok Convention Center, place that up for passage. Thank you. Is there discussion on this item? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No. Hervey. Irvin. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeiling. Tireling. You flipped on me there. I liked it. That item passes. Nine iceborns. We should have a vote, see if we'll let you read both then. Alderman Tireling for codes and regs.
 Thank you. I've got several ordinances tonight, and the legal director instructed me to have to read them in briefly.
 So I will do that since I just read them in at the committee at court level. So the first item is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store at 2420 and 2428 South Alpine Road. The second is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store at 3512 East Day Street 3502 East Day Street.
 Third is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar and grill and video gaming with an outdoor beer garden at 4412 Manchester Drive. Fourth is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 320 North Mulford Road.
 Fifth is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 320 North Mulford Road. The sixth is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant at 3600 North Main Street and 1060 Riverside Boulevard.
 The seventh is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the number of business identification wall signs for a maximum allowed two to three signs at 280 North Perryville Road. The eighth is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit for a planned mixed-use development to allow addition of a retail floral shop for an additional period of five years at 1605 Bell School Road.
 Item number nine I held out earlier this evening number 10 is an ordinance establishing no parking any time on the north side That one failed also Thank you number 11 an ordinance establishing a no parking any time restriction on the east side of 28th Street from Haney Harney Court to 275 feet north of Harney Court place those ordinances up for passage your honor Thank You Alderman Trelli is there discussion any of those items
 Alderman Frost. I just had a question with respect to number 4, 320 North Mulford. It seems like my term or time is in all the minutes that we voted on this, 320 North Mulford, a number of times. Is it because of a change of ownership? Thank you. That is right. Other discussion? All those in favor say aye. Oh, we do. Okay. Sorry about that.
 All right, clerk. I was trying to save you. I know. Thank you. I appreciate it. All right, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. On all? On all? Okay. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Urbans. Urbans. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Six. I have the words. Quinones. No one. I'm sorry. What number? Thank you. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Cheerily. Aye.
 All items passed. Sorry. Items 1, 2, there were 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 3, 9, number 4, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item number 5, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 6, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item number 7, 10 ayes, 3 noes. Item number 8, 13 ayes. And item number 11, 12 ayes, 1 no. That's impressive.
 Moving on to finance and personnel, Alderman Frost. I'm sorry, could I change my vote to no on number three as well? I know we'll make a difference in the passage of the ordinance, but I'm sorry. It makes more sense for the no vote. Thank you. I appreciate that. Item three now is 11 ayes, 2 noes. Okay. Alderman Beck. Thank you.
 Ordinance approving a memorandum of understanding with Rock River Reclamation District for $9,580 for sanitary store extension at Jefferson Street and Main Street places up for passage is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll Durkee? Logeman Toomer Frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman. Yeah Rose. Oh
 Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, and Chiarelli. 13, I adjourn. Very briefly, before we adjourn, I failed to mention under officers' reports that...
 I believe actually now during this council meeting, we have sent every alderman an update on the MRO and AAR facility. It was asked right after the budget. The state passed their budget. There's been a lot of talk of it. So we've provided a pretty detailed update. And if anyone has any questions or concerns, they can reach out to myself, Mr. Cagnoni, or Ms. Eklund for additional information. Is there a motion to adjourn? Excellent. Thank you.
 Hope you have a wonderful night. All those in favor, I should say first. Thank you.