12 present, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have a quorum. Under new committee reports, we have Finance Alderman Beck. Just one minute, Your Honor. Trying to go as fast as you can. I know, you're moving too quick. I know. Just can't keep up. All right. I'm following you. Okay, I have one item, and it's the recommending approval of the Human Services Department, request for approval of application for $67,223 in COLA funding from the Federal Office of Head Start.
 Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and I place this up for passage. Thank you. Is there discussion seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll Logan? timber frost Kirby urban's Hoffman Rose Beach ginona back McNeely 12 eyes around I
 Thank you. Item passes. I don't have any items under officers' reports, but would be happy to open it up if anyone has items that they'd like to share. Alderman Hoffman? I really want to thank you for coming last week to the Rolling Green Association. I didn't think they'd let you go home. We had a lot of fun. We did. It was very lively. And they were having discussions afterwards and for a few days afterwards on Nextdoor. So thank you very much. Wonderful.
 Thank you. Other items? I won't be here next week, but I just wanted people to know that St. Luke Missionary Baptist Church will be celebrating the 40th anniversary of Pastor Louis Malone, and I believe that's Sunday the 30th. I won't be here next week, but they are going to have a number of events honoring his tenure. I believe he is the
 either the only or the longest serving pastor of the church. He may have been the only one that they've had. And that is, I mean, that is something else, you know, for whatever reason. Some churches have, you know, unfortunate divisions or splits and others, people just move on. But 40 years, Pastor Malone has been...
 a full asset to the community. I met him when I came back to Rockford in 95. He was one of the named plaintiffs in the People Who Care case and deeply concerned about education and civil rights community, health is a good way to put it, and worked with the Barmore case with trying to make sure that people were understanding and didn't
 take the wrong path and those kinds of things. So I wanted to recognize Pastor Malone and his contribution to the community and encourage people. I hope someone will bring that information next week. But I do know there'll be a proclamation. And I just wanted to make sure we got that out. So thank you. Thank you. Wonderful, ma'am. Alderman Beck? Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple things. It's nice to see the progress on the North Main construction. They have switched over now to the
 People can drive on the southbound lanes both directions and now they're working on the northbound lanes. I just want to again put a reminder out there that even though we're making progress, you can talk to any of those businesses up and down the road and they'll tell you they don't see much progress until there's good access to them. And I know people are still avoiding going there because of the inconvenience. So I would just remind people that these are our neighbors, they're our citizens of Rockford and
 They've invested a lot of their money and efforts to have these businesses and to try to make a living. And so if we can just do whatever we can to make sure we go and give them a little bit of help, I'm sure they'd appreciate it. Then I just want to commend Alderman Rose. I couldn't turn the TV on last week without seeing him getting interviewed by one of the TV stations. He really hit the ground running as far as...
 Kind of pointing out some of the issues in his ward and trying to be a leader and a champion and bringing people together to address them. So I just thought he did a great job and looking forward to having him make a big difference in our community. Wonderful. Yeah, he certainly did. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Other? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Certainly glad to have you here and a part of this body doing great things for the city.
 Mayor, I want to thank the fire department for the Hanley building. I go by there on a regular basis and glad to see that, for the most part, it's down and the hole is filled in pretty much, I think so. So I think the fire department has done a great job given the situation that had presented itself and given the property owners next door to that property.
 I think they did an excellent job. And so I just want to publicly thank them and let the residents of the city know, if they haven't had a chance to go by there, that the fire department really did do an excellent job, considering the way the structure was and the way the fire was. They did a great job. So I just want to thank them. Wonderful. Thank you, Ann. Thank you.
 Alderman Rose. I just want to say I appreciate the comments, but all the work that's getting done, and particularly the 9th Ward is due to the fact of our city staff that is just bending over backwards to address some of the items. I know Rob Wilhelmy and his codes and regulations staff is doing a magnificent job, and I know they're getting calls from all of us, so
 Rob has really been helpful in that. Brian Squires, our community officer in the 9th Ward,
 gets a call or an email from me every single day and he's wonderful to work with. Our community development team has been a big part of that. So I would say that our city staff deserves a round of applause for the work that they're doing, particularly at least in my ward. So they're the ones that are doing most of the work. Thank you. Other items? Alderman Tunberg.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to give a thanks to everyone involved in the Coronado Theater, the friends of the Coronado, Rave, SMG. I had a friend in with a brother and another friend for the Brit Floyd concert last Sunday, and they came in early.
 All three have never been to Rockford before. They know the clock tower by passing that, but that's about it. So we were able to ride bikes the whole time. I showed them around the city.
 Two of them, the brothers, parents came right off the boat from Germany, so I was able to take them to a restaurant that they really appreciated, and then had a great concert. The reason I say this, too, is one of them gave me feedback this week, and they have seen that band four times all around the country, and they said this was the best no-question venue
 out of the four that they've seen this band. So hats off to the Coronado and Rave and SMG for that. So thank you. Wonderful. Other items? Alderman Mogman.
 Just briefly from the second ward, I want to commend the Rockford Police Department for the new rock house on 15th Street that happened. It was about a week and a half back, but I'm going to be going on an officer ride-along with Officer Eric Thurmond coming up in a couple days. And that's just such a valuable community policing effort.
 that I know it's hard to be a policeman in the United States these days, but with the amount of outreach that the Rockford Police Department is doing, it's wonderful.
 And I think there's a reason why there's not been an extraordinary event like in Ferguson, Missouri, that's happened in Rockford. And I think the work of the Rockford police and their community policing efforts are largely because of that. Another thing we're working on in the second ward, and I know I've reached out to Alderman Beach, is that vacant Chinooks on Rural Street in the Rural Oaks Plaza.
 I've reached out to about 13 different grocers locally and nationally, so I know that, you know, it's a big, a very big issue for Chad and our ward and then Frank and our, and
 nearby in our ward too. So we'll, any ideas or anything? I know Alderman Beach and I were, we talked on the phone and said, we're gonna put our heads together to try to rectify this for our constituents. So that work is going on in the second ward too. Thank you. Alderman McNeil.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for allowing me to speak the second time. A couple of things that I didn't mention. BookerFest was very successful. That was this past weekend. And secondly, Pastor Dotson, who would be Director Dotson of the organization that he has for redevelopment, he had a very successful meeting last week with...
 individuals from Jetson College. They did a presentation. I do hope that you will have the opportunity to see the final depiction of what three areas of the city could possibly look like. The students
 certainly put the time in and I thought they did an excellent job coming close to what a number of individuals here in the city has talked about over the years. They're going to have another presentation, I believe, in a month or so. So I do hope that you can go and I don't know if we will be able to to do a little slight presentation here or not, but I think it's something that
 The people of this city all over the city would love to see and possibly see it become into effect And finally, mr. Mayor, I got a few phone calls regarding The announcement of the state not having the funding forward to finish out the airport and wondering
 Who's going to pay for that? If the taxpayers of this city is going to foot that or not. That's exactly what's going to happen. Yeah, so two things. One, I certainly...
 I would like to join Reverend Dodson at the next session. We heard a little bit too late this past week, but I did understand there's another session. So if you have the time and date of that in the future, let us know as soon as possible. We definitely want to be out there. As far as funding for the airport, I don't think we've received the answers from the state. There wasn't a lot of capital projects in the state's budget pass just recently.
 My feeling is that the state needs to still come and hold true to the promises that they made to our community. And that's by providing the airport with the funding that they've already promised. So the taxpayers then, Mr. Mayor, excuse me, the taxpayers then, Mr. Mayor, would be able to hear from you at a future date, letting them know what's going on with that particular project and the funding for it.
 I'd be happy to talk to anyone at any time about it. I just think Alderman McNeely, this body, has paid for it. The county has paid for it. The federal government has provided funds for it. I would urge constituents, yours, mine, everyone's, to call their local state leaders and urge them to pay the money that they promised to pay towards that wonderful development out at the airport.
 Just along the same line, I didn't get any calls about it, but my own thought process, I know we extended $2.6 million around that amount to the airport when they had the funding gap. I was under the impression at that time when we voted for this, the AAR facility and agreed to give our however many millions.
 it was because the state had made their allocation and the federal government's match, which was predicated on the state matching the state's contribution, that those were done deals, that those were guaranteed. So I really do want to know what the status was at the time that this council voted on that because I want to know whether I voted on something that was a little bit of a pig in a poke.
 Because now it sounds like the state never made the allocation. Governor Quinn, according, you know, they start pointing fingers. Governor Quinn promised it. I wasn't told that it was promised. I was told that the state had made this contribution. And if the federal government's, what, $15 million?
 Or 25 million? The state is 15 and the federal government's 10, I believe. Oh, the federal government's only 10. Well, whatever that contribution, if that was based on the state, and now the state has defaulted, if you will, does that mean that the federal government is going to default in whole or in part? But it's not you who needs to tell us, I want the airport, through the newspaper or someone, to tell the community what the status of the project is,
 and what they're doing and what they plan to do. We haven't heard anything. And I think that's what's bothering me. We have or we will be providing... Update, memo outlining the...
 The actual construction or that what what the city has actions the city has taken Actions the county have taken and then the unrelated or related but separate agreement two separate agreements for airport drive And the 2.6 million that you're referencing it are funds that are owed to the city under the airport drive construction project that
 the airport had promised to pay their share of those expenses and we have not received payment for that yet. The city's obligation to pay back bonds in the original agreement was contingent upon receiving state and federal funds. There was a subsequent vote at the airport's urging based on the delays in approval of a state budget and it was communicated to council at the time that we need to,
 an appropriation in order to get these funds, but in the meantime, we want to sell bonds and remove this provision from the agreement, and council approved that, modifying the agreement to eliminate the requirement that state and federal funding be secured before we commit to paying back debt service. So the debt was issued. The city is paying our share of the debt service owed, as is the county. Was it $5 million? $5 million.
 Ours was five. Yes. The ZEUS portion was five million. What's a debt service annually? That I don't know off the top of my head, but it's coming out of the trade park TIF districts. And just I think when we've looked back at it, there was a – when you, I think, called the office and mentioned it,
 Probably the reason I think you were absent that one meeting that that vote took place. So that's why I don't remember No, I didn't include the original materials that were presented to counsel for both of those votes in with my summary memo as well as a summary of the Obligations of the airport to the city under that airport and I want to be clear the facility is great I'm not opposed to the facility but
 It's just the idea that it's doing a lot for Rockford. This is not the time for the state to decide that they're not going to fund this particular capital project. And I have to say, I thought our legislators were very accepting.
 of that, if I can call it a major diss, you know, that we weren't in it. It would just seem like, well, capital projects weren't a big priority. And I didn't hear from any of the others. Representative Wallace was the only one who said anything. I think all of them.
 Representatives Cisnowski, Cabello, Wallace, Senator Severson, Stottleman, the five of them need to be screaming bloody murder and getting that appropriation in because our airport can't shoulder that kind of debt. They just can't. Yeah, and my conversations with some of the federal representatives, there was never this state pays and then they'll pay or feds pay and then the state pays.
 Not their understanding of it. And they have... The feds have provided $2.5 million directly to that facility. They've also provided, since that facility was announced, more than $10 million of funding to the airport. Not specifically designated for that facility, but over $10 million to the airport for rehabs that also help benefit that facility.
 My thing is, if you showed up at the ribbon cutting, pay the check. I don't think it should be that difficult. Any other comments? Alderman Durkee? To follow up on what Alderman Hervey just said. Will you bring that mic down so they can hear you? Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Hervey was intimating that there may be a lack of knowledge or something about where this is all going. I know the city has, I think, three members on –
 that we appoint on the airport board, can they be compelled to come to council and then we ask them questions? I mean, we appoint them. I don't know what the statute or the ordinance reads, but can we ask? We can't compel anybody else, but can we compel our representatives that we select to come here and tell us what they're doing? Yeah, on the airport board. We—
 We do. Yeah, why don't, I was just being told by legal that we're moving a bit far off our agenda here. We will reach out to them and get a comment back either in writing or ask them to come in and discuss the item with us. I think we went on. I'm getting some dirty looks. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. The comment that comes, the thought that comes to my mind is simply this.
 I don't think the banks, the three banks that came together to do a short-term loan for the airport, I can't speak for them, but it would seem like they wouldn't do that if they weren't thinking the federal government was going to bring that money back to this community to pay it off. So somewhere in the whole scene of things, you know, did we misunderstand that? I don't know.
 So I like the idea of Alderman Durkee and maybe having a little meeting with members of the board to see what it is. But beyond that, we've got to deal with it. We've got to figure out a way how to make it work because it is a great thing for us.
 Alderman Beck. You know, I would recommend that we agenda this item for one of our committee meetings. I'm not sure if it would be finance or P&D, but I think that would give us an opportunity also, as Alderman Durkee mentioned, to get somebody from the airport, get the right people in the room, so we can get our questions answered and make sure that our information is accurate. We will do that. Any other officers' reports? No.
 Okay, moving on to motions and resolutions under finance. Alderman Beck? Yes, I have an award of bid for fire station number seven, parking lot renovation to Stemstrom Excavation Blacktop Group of Rockford for a contract amount of $92,556.32. Funding source is a fire department capital budget. I place it up for passage. Thank you. Is there discussion on this item? Alderman McNeely?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just, at $92,000, Mayor, maybe you or the Chief could explain to me the extent of the renovation of a parking lot. Okay.
 Sure. I'll be more than happy to, Alderman McNeely. The parking lot out at station, the new station 7 at 2323 Sawyer Road has the original parking lot and rear apron and sidewalks when it was built in the late 70s. And now that we are reopening, where we're going to have apparatus in and out there every day, it needed redone the entire lot since we're doing the whole inside. So instead of doing the small pieces at a time, we're going to do the whole parking lot, sidewalks, and the apron. McNeely.
 12 eyes, Your Honor. I just wanted to thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I just wanted to say thank you to the Northwest Building Trades. For the last few months, I've attended around-the-table discussion in regards to helping our community or our workforce be more reflective of our community. So I just want to take the time and acknowledge that and inform all those that are out there that's looking to –
 get into the trades or build a career that will help develop your family. And, you know, I'm sorry I couldn't really concentrate with the talking. But anyway, I'm nervous. Pretty good trade.
 So I just wanted to say that. I mean, if you are interested at this point in time, there's a great effort. I mean, it started about nine years back when the recession took place, and they knew back then that we wouldn't stay there. And now that there's work coming back to Rockford, they are looking to build the trades even more. So if you're interested and you want more information as to how to get involved in the apprenticeship programs, please get in contact with me. Thank you, Alderman.
 Okay, moving on to new business. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's an ordinance approving the application for $67,223 in COLA funding from the Federal Office of Head Start. And I place this up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Mr. Chair? Aye. Mogelman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye.
 Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Excellent. That item passes. All of your favorite point of the evening is, is there someone who wants to make a motion? Alderman Frost. I've been waiting all night, thank you. I would make a motion to convene the City Council into a special closed session session to discuss pending litigation matters. Thank you, Second.
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Groves. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye. 12-I, Your Honor. Aye.