Durkee logeman frost Tarina printing Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 present excellent. Thank you We'll move into public speakers right after this, but I mentioned this right before committee, so I just want to mention again And I apologize for not MENTIONING THIS AT THE PREVIOUS MEETING. I WOULD JUST ASK THAT ALL ALDERMEN PLEASE DIRECT YOUR QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS TO ME AS THE CHAIR AND NOT TO YOUR COLLEAGUES. I THINK THIS WILL HELP US HAVE A MORE CIVIL MEETING Obviously there's lots of passions on all sides of a number of issues that are gonna come before us. Secondly, I would just ask that you please make sure that you're using that microphone and speaking clearly into it so folks at home who are very interested can also follow along with you. THIS EVENING WE DO HAVE FIVE PUBLIC SPEAKERS. WE HAVE FIVE PUBLIC SPEAKERS. OUR PUBLIC SPEAKERS ARE ALLOWED TO ADDRESS CITY COUNCIL FOR A PERIOD OF THREE MINUTES. YOU WILL HEAR A RING TONE OR A BUZZER COME UP AND THAT IS WHEN WE ASK THAT YOU CLOSE YOUR COMMENTS. THERE IS A MICROPHONE ON THE BACK RIGHT AND BACK LEFT OF CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS. we'd ask that you provide your three minutes of comments and then once you hear that tone, that you conclude your comments at that time. Our first public speaker this evening is Denise Pearson and I'll just take a little privilege and just say thank you for your service on the school board. Thank you, Mayor McNamara, and thank you for allowing me to speak on this evening to our city council and fellow public servants. I am a resident of Ward 5 and have been the most of my life. I want to say that there's a very basic definition of revitalization, which simply means to give life, rebirth, rejuvenate. South Main is the heartbeat, in my opinion, of Ward 5. And the Barbara Coleman building have been dead for decades. Seven of our city council members have defibrillators in your hand. And you have a civic responsibility to respond to the needs of our residents beyond your ward. I commend Alderwoman Tarina for her passion and her hard work for putting forth this project. And so I ask City Council to be mindful of your responsibility, the broad responsibility that you have, to be concerned about constituents beyond the ward you serve. Thank you. Thank you. Council or was about to chastise all you council members who clap but you council didn't clap I'll just say to the residents who are there, please no clapping or hooting or hollering There's people on both sides want to make sure we stay as simple as possible. Thank you Miss Pearson our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Robert pace Well, first of all, I believe all of you on City Council want to see this Barbara Coleman project advance and move forward. I just want to be perfectly clear up front that I don't support a project labor agreement, and I don't see the necessity. And sometimes I wonder if it might have other reasons. I believe there's room in this project for everyone. There's a room in this project for local small businesses, many of which are minority and women-owned businesses. And there's also room for organized union labor. We need a fair and equitable playing field for all of our city's businesses, not just ones that benefit a project labor agreement. What all this boils down to, is your vote for what's most politically expedient, or is your vote for Rockford and Rockford citizen-owned businesses, again, many which are minority and women-oriented? I believe we need to give every citizen an opportunity to participate in the revisioning of our city with the current and anticipated future labor shortages we need to ensure barbara coleman project has the best options to meet all the contractors staffing needs i believe a vote against the pla is a vote for rockford and all local as well as necessary regional businesses let your conscience be your guide and vote for the consequences that you can live with thank you for your time thank you please no clapping um Thank you, Mr. Pace. Our next public speaker this evening is Pastor K. Edward Copeland. I'm used to people saying amen, so since we can't clap, if somebody would just look amen, that would be sufficient. My name is K. Edward Copeland. I've been here in Rockford for 22 years, and for at least the first 20 of those years, I had to go by Barbara Coleman every day, at least twice a day. When I first moved here, my wife was pregnant with my son, That baby now has a beard and my beard is now gray and we're still arguing about Barbara Coleman. So I would just want to challenge my fellow citizens, those of you who will get to vote tonight in light of what has just been said, that since we all agree that we want this development to go forward, let's figure out how to make sure that our common interests get met. Tonight with a yes vote, we'll be saying to future developers, that you can do business here. With a no vote, you'll be saying to future developers that you can negotiate for two years. You can do everything in good faith and have community meetings, but at the last minute, we might decide that we want to do something that we've never done before. I'd also want to challenge you to not play Russian roulette with this project. If you wanted to shoot dice, you could have did it with the Hard Rock Casino. As a matter of fact, if you could show us the PLA that you were belligerent about in that project and show us how it would benefit this project, then we would have a discussion. But to paraphrase James Baldwin, I can't believe what you say because I see what you do. So I'm asking that we would take the opportunity. Y'all just look, amen. Don't say nothing. I'm asking you to take this opportunity to revote so that the headstone of that Barbara Coleman has been. When I first came here, I said, what is that building? They said, it's a Barbara Coleman complex. And for me, for 20 years, as I had to drive by it at least two or three times, it was just the headstone for hope. It was where hope had died. I'm asking you to turn that headstone into a launching pad because this is not checkers, this is chess. The Embassy Suites project, the other great projects that are going on down this southwest quadrant and down south main. This is another piece that would help us to move forward as a community. So I'm asking you to think about not the next election but the next generation. Don't promote a late term abortion. Let this baby come to fruition. All the other details, you can dress the baby once it gets here. All the other things that we're concerned about, we can lock arms. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor Copeland. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. George Boswell. Thank you for having me, Your Honor, and your father would be very proud of your legacy. My name is George Boswell. I've been a resident of Southwest Rockford for 40 years. Usually with what I do, I read a script. I come to you with my heart. Today, I took a drive down South Main Street and I started at Route 20. I seen the bridge with the city of Rockford on it. I drove further down the road. I looked at the Cam Arboretum. I drove further down the road. I looked at the Morgan Street Bridge. I drove further on down the road. I looked at we finally have a grocery store in Southwest Rockford, but we were neglected for years and years and years. And that's the truth. So all of a sudden we have a mayor that finally has a vision for us. And what do you people do? At the last minute you kick it to the curb. You use some ordinance that was amendment that was never ever used to stop the project. What shady deal went on behind closed doors that you were promised? What? What? Why don't you go right over here to the newspaper and tell them what you were promised? Tell people! Tell the people why! We want to know what deal was cut! When I go to the City Council meeting, you are here to represent all the people. Not just a certain group. You are here to represent us all. Now here. Southwest Rockford. You figure, okay, Southwest Rockford's been like this for 20 years. These people are not going to stand up. Well, I'm going to tell you right now, the bear is out of the cave and we are mad. And we are going to continue to fight. And I still want you to tell, tell the newspaper what deals were cut and what you seven were promised. And that's all I got to say, your honor, before I have me a heart attack. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Roswell. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. I can't do that now. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Luke, the second chapter, the eighth verse, it says, There were shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified. But the angel said to them, They're not. Because I bring you good news. I'm here to bring good news to the people of Rockford tonight. What I want to speak about tonight, the nine causes of prejudice. of criminal behavior and my man's solution to solve this problem. There are solutions, and they do not involve more police or jails or prisons. The first cause is poverty. The second cause is hopelessness. The third cause is despair. The fourth cause is mental illness. The fifth cause is drug addiction. The sixth cause is alcohol addiction. The seventh is unemployment. The eighth is hunger. But the man, the one that's overlooked, is illiteracy. Juvenile and adult illiteracy carries an estimated price tag of $17,590,490,350 dollars and 12 cents a year. While that is an economic toll, we barely notice the damage that is done to juvenile and adults who can't read and write. John Cochran wrote a book, The Teacher Who Couldn't Read. Everybody should read it. Research from both the Bureau of Prison Statistics and the National Institute for Literacy, they're probably going to that there is a relation between illiteracy and criminal behavior. 95% of adults in prison are illiterate and lack the basic skills to finally keep a job. 95% of juvenile delinquents are illiterate. Test scores today indicate that kindergarten to 12th grade school systems nationwide are still not doing an effective job of teaching reed. And everyone from presidents, governors, mayors, state legislators, and school officials vow to make improvements. However, there seems to be no thought about the people who are juvenile and adults who went through this. Does anyone wonder what life is like for those 34,950,1025 people? This truly is a silent crisis that needs to be brought into the open. Illiterate people. are now the fastest growing subculture in America. If you eliminate these nine things, you can reduce crime in Rockwood and the teacher who's also a captain in the United States Army knows this. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I also say thank you. We never have to tell Prophet. He only has three minutes. He gets it done every time. So I want to say thank you to all of our public speakers this evening, and we will move forward with petitions and communications. There are no petitions and communications under planning and development, so I'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, I have two items. Number one is a memorandum from Aaron Hannigan, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding a pre-annexation agreement for 68XX Auburn Street referred to Code and Regulation Committee, as well as a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a Project Labor Agreement policy referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll go to new committee reports, and we will go to Chairwoman Wilkins. I'm ready this time. Item number one, we have an amendment to the 2023 Workforce Development Initiative Agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction. The legal director shall report the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Counsel, there's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Bailey? Bonnie? 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. Item number two, 6777 Heather Lane. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends approval for a variation to reduce the front yard setback from 40 feet to 12 feet along Reef Farm Road and a variation to allow a 12-foot by 14-foot shed within the front yard in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 6777 Heather Lane. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Council, we've got one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a matter of clarification, this property is in my ward. It exists. It's one of those special corner lots that we are faced with and require zoning requirements. Ordinance changes in order to complete this project reed farm Road is a feeder Road it's not a neighborhood Road like a as we would Expect so it's a busier Road and this should not be any problem As far as unsightliness or anything Thank You alderman is there any other discussion seeing none clerk will you please call the roll jerky locum in Toomer frost Torino fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 14 eyes excellent next we're gonna move to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Thank you. Number one is vouchers in the amount of fourteen million five hundred and thirty nine thousand dollars $136.99. Number two is the award of an agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for Madison Street improvements. ComEd will perform engineering and construction for utility pole relocations and underground burial along Madison Street. The project is estimated to cost $890,955. Per the Illinois Public Utilities Act, ComEd may charge ratepayers through the use of the LGC Rider for this work, which will recoup costs by charging Rockford ratepayers monthly through the duration of the construction. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Three is an approval and application for accreditation by the American Public Works Association Public Works Agency. The total cost of accreditation is estimated at $17,350 and is proposed to be paid in two installments. The funding source is the Public Works Administration budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. number four is an approval of a head start low cost extension expense expense funds that were made available through a budget revision for playground improvements at the pace early head start center in the amount of 125 000 there was a delay in the delivery of equipment the lead time for this equipment is now at 8 to 20 weeks the funds are expected to be expended by october 15 2023 and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i place these four matters before you Thank you. Council got four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logaman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next we will go to motions and resolutions. Is there a motion to reconsider the amendment to the committee report under item Roman numeral 5A1, which added a provision to the proposed development agreement with Jay Jeffers for redevelopment of the Barbara Coleman campus, stating, the developer will sign a project labor agreement acceptable to the northwestern Illinois building trades covering construction to be performed on the project. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. So this last week I've been feeling a lot like a man without a country, between those who are unhappy that I stepped forward and was willing to make this offer for us to reconsider, and those who are unhappy with the terms of my willingness to do that, which was that all 14 of us be present here tonight. And that the opportunity for Alderman Wilkins to represent the Seventh Ward should not come at the expense of another alderman and the residents he or she represents. So I thank all of my colleagues for being present here tonight and not forcing me to value judge anyone's decision for coming or not coming tonight, not having to be the principal of the grade school deciding who gets an excused absence and who doesn't. I want to thank Alderman Thunberg in particular, who his late arrival is due to the fact that he drove here from Indianapolis, where his son is competing in a national bowling championship, while he needed to have a police presence at his home over the weekend because of inflammatory statements made in the news media that left his wife and his nine-year-old daughter feeling unsafe. Even today, a black resident of my ward contacted me, urging me not to make a motion to reconsider. She then sent me this statement for me to read here tonight, which I will. I am dismayed by the tenor of recent conversations regarding the Barbara Coleman development proposal. Instead of our community collaboratively working to reach the best solution for all stakeholders, We have allowed vestiges of the new Jim Crow to emerge. The decision-making discussion must not continue to align citizens based on ethnicity. Succinctly, this is not a black versus white issue. I urge aldermen to maintain professional decorum and represent all stakeholders. So as most of my career in journalism unfolds, You knew you were doing your job if both sides were angry with you. So I'm hoping that the same proves true tonight. And with that, I will make a motion for us to reconsider. We have a motion reconsider. We now have a second. I believe Alderman Leeks was at you. We have a second. Is there any discussion on the motion to reconsider? Alderman Barrios. Thank you, Mayor. If my vote wasn't good enough last week, If we're going to reconsider, please reconsider. I represent 11,000 people in my ward. If we're going to go like that, please reconsider my people and let my people decide. Let my people let you know what they want. And now today, we're going to put one person under all the eyes is not right. If we're going to start reconsider, let the people decide. Thank you, Your Honor. Okay. Is there any other discussion Alderman Bailey. Yeah, I appreciate the public remarks and what has been said by my colleagues. And I really believe that the developer and unions want this to happen as well as my colleagues. But the community has spoken. We're representing individuals in our community. This is not about just Bailey or any of my other colleagues. And I think that we're at a critical point in the world when you look at and see what's going on. And I don't think that, you know, being a former diversity manager, this is about equality. And if we're trying to transform our city, then here's the moment to do it. I believe that wholeheartedly. And if we don't do it, we're going to miss out on an opportunity. Thank you. Again, this is still just on the motion to reconsider. I have Alderman Bonney, and then I'll go to Alderman Barrios. thank you mayor just a point of clarification i did not mean to withhold the name of the person who sent me that email which is diana rose walker thank you okay thanks uh alderman barrios thank you your honor and uh what i see there is a force that has it is trying to break us apart keep in mind that this whole show is so strong Don't let it break us apart. Let's stick together and find the solution. Even if we take an extra week, let's find the solution. Let's work all together for once. Thank you, Your Honor. Any other discussion right now? We have a motion. We have a second to reconsider. Clerk, could you please call the roll on the motion to reconsider? Durkee. Aye. Lockeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach burrios Meeks Bailey, Bonnie 13 eyes one note so right now I will read in the amendment that was being reconsidered and we already have a motion a second for that So the amendment is the developer will sign a project labor agreement acceptable to the northwestern Illinois building trades covering construction to be performed on this project. Is there any discussion? I Other woman, Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to read a statement. I didn't really have, I would say, a chance to do that last week. But if it's okay, I'll do it this week. My grandmother lived on Holland Street in the Fifth Ward for over 50 years. To see the growth and change in that community means more to me than you could know. To see the development or the redevelopment of this project will make it more likely we see development in other areas, including the 12th Ward on the northwest side. I was hoping Rockford would finally make progress, and when the final vote was called last week, I was devastated. I recall my days working as a labor liaison. I learned about the labor movement and the sacrifices those before us made, the value of the working man and woman, and respect for their safety and skills. But what happened on the floor last week was not about the labor movement. My colleagues and I were forced into making a choice, and we choose to not jeopardize the progress and transformation of the southwest side. To see this development, I see this development as a catapult for change. I feel deep in my heart. Members of last week's prevailing side knew the risk as well. But they killed this project because they thought they could. And that will never sit well with me. And neither will the memory of how many colleagues managed their emotions on council floor last Monday. We saw a passionate display of democracy. And it was needed for our community to see what goes on behind closed doors. But it was hard to experience. It was divisive and difficult to come back from. Nonetheless, those that voted with our conscience had an amazing week. We experienced unity and connection with different people across this community, diverse press conferences, positive reflections, and heartfelt speeches, while the prevailing seven experienced great opposition for their decision. And I don't feel bad about it. But I also believe that we can all heal, continue to collaborate, and best represent the citizens of Rockford, Illinois. And to Jay Jeffers, it is my hope that you do come into this city in good faith to assist us in transforming Barbara Coleman into a beautiful community. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there other comments regarding the amendment that's before us? Alderman Bailey. I was born and raised here in Rockford, Rockfordian. Graduated from Arlen High School. And I've been blessed to live in other cities. Chicago, Cleveland. And the historic nature of Coleman Yard is significant. For those who have traveled to Chicago and seen Navy Pier and seen the impact of that development, it's just totally awesome. Those who have traveled to Cleveland, where I lived for a number of years, I saw the rejuvenation of the flats and the impact that it had have the vision to see what Coleman Yards will become if we move forward on this project, on that corridor. There's no doubt in my mind it's going to transform this city. Whether I'm around to see it, knowing that we made the right decision to move forward, that's what I'm hopeful for. Thank you. Thank you. I have Alderman Bonnie, and I thought there was another hand. I just, okay, thank you. I'll go Alderman Bonnie and then Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank Alderwoman Meeks for her comments and for the conversations we had during this week for our friendship the last two years on council. But I have to respectfully disagree with the premise that what we're doing... But it's also a point conversation to me as chair not to... Well, and it's not with just Alderwoman Meeks. It's with everybody. The premise that the amendment kills the project, that is not true. If the developer wants to take his marbles and go back to Milwaukee, that's on him. This idea that there was a last-minute ambush, or to quote one of tonight's speakers, a late-term abortion, is not true. I don't know how else to say this without directing it to you, actually, Mr. Mayor, that June 12th, Representative West, in an attempt to, as I said last week, land this plane for us, convened a meeting between the building trades and the developer that alder woman Torina and I Were the only two aldermen to attend and at the conclusion of that meeting The woman Torina said to me that she saw this train the train that we're in we're on right We're all on board right now coming that she can pleaded to you to intervene and that you ignored her the developer has created this ticking time bomb by delivering to the council a time-sensitive financing stack without buy-in from the building trades. Reconstructing, the developer needs to reconstruct the finance package, settle its differences with labor. If interest rates go up in the meantime, the developer needs to figure out how to pay for that, even if it means coming back to us, the city council, and asking for more money. There's a lot of conversation about paper-thin profit margins, and the developer has yet to define that, what that means in dollars and cents. I'm sure that the answer, it's a multi-million dollar answer, which may sound paper-thin to big business elite, but not to the taxpayers that I represent and that all 14 of us represent. Also, I believe a false premise. Because if if the developer does indeed walk the governor's announcement just 11 days ago Underscores the likelihood of passenger rail returning to Rockford including a depot in close proximity to the barber Coleman campus and Other developers will come, and I want to publicly walk back comments I made in the media in the past that I think this proposal is the last train out. I no longer believe that. I also think it's a false premise that we have no alternative if this proposal does not come to fruition, that demolition is our only alternative. As a committed historic preservationist, I intend to fight to keep these structures standing, even if it means chaining myself to Building 5. Whoever said, oh, Jesus, I'm not that religious, so it doesn't impress me much. The continued rhetoric... that this is workers' rights against, that a vote for workers' rights is a vote against black and brown residents. As the first openly gay public official in Winnebago County, what makes anyone think that I personally have not felt the pain of discrimination? The name-calling and race-baiting is morally bankrupt. The, in addition, development agreement's hiring goal is for racial minorities, women, veterans, and persons with disability, and makes no mention of the gay and lesbian community. Finally, I am not ashamed to speak up for hardworking Building Trades members we all represent. It's ludicrous to somehow suggest they are irrelevant, they should be ignored, and their ability to put dinner on their families' tables does not matter. My as I said a week ago my family at my mother's family Italian family My mother the last living of eight siblings my all my seven aunts and uncles Who were up on the southwest side and I wouldn't be here tonight if my grandmother had not introduced her son to my mother while they were working alongside each other at Barbara Komen and I just refuse to support a development agreement that offers no guarantee that the vast majority of these jobs Don't go out of state and that's what this is about. Thank you. Okay, Alderwoman Wilkins. I believe you had your hand raised Thank You Your Honor. I also have a statement not a question and I will be quick. I'm thinking about frost but I did have a different mindset last week and after this past week's events and And a target being placed on my back because of statements being made to the media before consulting with me in the beginning. After I specifically stated that I was focusing on my family, I was forced to try and take my mind off of what it should have been. And that is my husband. I know it's inconvenienced us all. I apologize about that. But we all have been inconvenienced in this whole thing. So... I'm glad that things didn't work out the way that they did because, um, I did have a chance over the weekend after I thought about Alderman Bailey and he always tells me don't focus on the noise. So I turned that phone off and I remember that, um, I'm unapologetic, and my mother raised me to do what's right, and I ran for this seat to speak on behalf of the residents, specifically in Ward 7, and the little guy, and just do, like I said, what's best for the city. And I apologize if I did get distracted by that noise, but that is who I will be voting for tonight and no one else. Thank you. Thank you. I'll just add I think on behalf of all counsel you were where you should have been Alderman Rose, I believe you had did you yes, I think to myself about a lot of things with this vote Never in the last few years have I ever thought about leaving my town behind but after last week I thought seriously about my future in Rockford long term and that comes into great question with everything i've ever believed in my entire family my brothers and sisters have all moved to another part of town where they have grocery grocery stores where they have services great roads great infrastructure and i'm the last one on the west side and i i seriously thought about either picking up and leaving and going going to another side of town or leaving altogether. This vote will change history. It will be the most significant vote for Rockford's future going forward, probably in the next 20 years. And when we talk about developments that Rockford has passed up, NIU, that one being the most notorious one of NIU not coming to Rockford initially, I think to myself, how different would our community have been? So I'm just going to put it out there. This would not have occurred in any Eastside ward. There would not have been a challenge to this. And to the Southwest ward, this is a game changer. Game changer for that community. It's a game changer for Rockford, but I will tell you this. West Rockford is watching. West Rockford is watching. Thank you. Thank you is other council members have any discussion on The amendment before us alderman Bailey and then did the alderman frosted you have your hand up? Okay alderman Bailey Yep, Mary, you know listening to the discussion that's taking place here on council floor It is very interesting and I'm coming from a space where you know, I know who I am. I I've been a diversity manager. But I think sometimes it's hard for individuals to get past their isms for whatever reasons. And I'm hopeful after we continue this debate because we've got to move forward. If the developer takes a risk, that's part of the game. But we have to get past this debate if we want to be a great city. I truly believe that. And I respect what everybody said, but we've got to get beyond our isms. Because it doesn't make any sense as we look at the world today It's just madness and we have an opportunity to to transform our community. Thank you Alderman frost. Thank you. I haven't seen an issue Come with so much emotion and passion to the council in quite some time and maybe that's why things in the last week or so have gotten a little bit sideways with bullying comments All of us getting emails, not all of us, I don't know where everyone else stands, but people, I mean, being in support of a position or saying, I'm not going to vote for you again if you vote X. And someone said tonight, I think that, you know, your vote is for the entire community. I don't think there's anyone around this horn that is here for the money, that's here for the time that we put into this job. And we may all sometimes disagree and sometimes things get heated and I gotta be honest with you, last week was probably as he has ever seen it get. And I hope that we can return to a level of decorum and professionalism and be professional colleagues. Whether or not you agree with someone on a particular issue or disagree on a particular issue, we all have to work together like any other legislative body. To end of the day, keep moving forward. And I know we've had many folks come in here and be very, very emotional about it. And ladies and gentlemen, emotion doesn't and shouldn't drive our jobs as aldermen. And we shouldn't be judged strictly on emotion. Sometimes we can get emotional and be passionate about an item, but you really have to do a full assessment. And so someone asked why. Why, why, why? I just want to give a little historical perspective because others have. My mother grew up on the corner of Montague and South Main Street right outside of Barbara Coleman. My grandfather owned a restaurant called The Sugar Bowl. They lived there from the 40s through the 60s. They then moved to Montague Street. My great-grandmother lived on Kent Street. I was married at St. Anthony's Church. As a kid, I spent countless Sundays going between Pomonte Bakery and Roma Bakery after church and have a great affinity for the southwest side of Rockford and what we call the Fifth Ward. So please don't insult me by saying that if this project was on the east side, I'd view any different. My viewpoints on this particular item have nothing to do with the geography of the city. It has to do with really one thing, and I'm going to answer your question now. After the vote last week, and as Alderman Bonney mentioned, labor in this town, like in any town, has a job to do. And, of course, do they want all the work? Sure they do. Do they always get all the work? Probably not. But on a particular job that's a large job, and I'm just going to give you some examples, whether you take the Hard Rock, whether you take the hospital, whether you take AAR, whether you take the UW Sports Factory, whether you take the Embassy Suites Hotel, whether you take the library. What's the common denominator amongst all those jobs and the people working on them? The vast majority of the work getting done is done by our local trades. Do they have a seat at the table? Sure they do. Can they negotiate? Sure they can. And that's why this issue is before us tonight. Why is that? It's because the developer chose not to sit down with labor and work out an agreement. That's why we're here. Are there PLAs in other jobs? Absolutely. There are. We're not involved with it. And this one got hijacked and brought in front of us. Why? Because calls weren't returned. General contractors changed from the initial GC to a second GC. Bids changed. Bids went away. Bids don't exist. And as Alderman Bonney mentioned, I'm not sure why, but I can tell you this. I pleaded with our mayor, and I know that what I requested of him, he did. I said to the mayor on Wednesday last week, Mayor, you are the leader of our council. You are the leader of our community. Please, I implore you, get the trades, get yourself, and get Jay Jeffers back at the table, and let's have a way to work this out because I think everybody would rather see this get worked out than not. Guess who won't come to the table? The developer. The developer. I was asked later in the week on Friday, I asked Transform Rockford to get involved, to ask them, please, I'm imploring you, let's get people back to the table. Let's not pick up our ball and go home. And guess what? It was the same answer. Somebody doesn't want to come to the table. So, you know, I just, I want everybody to know the facts, not the emotion, on why we're here tonight. Because it's unfortunate. It's unfortunate we're voting on this and not voting on the development agreement. And I don't like every part of the development agreement, but I mean, that doesn't mean that it can't work out, right? It has been pared down. Everyone keeps talking about $405 million. False. It was pared down to Phase 1A, Phase 1B. Phase 1A is the only one getting built by this GC, which is a parking deck, which is not building. And so it's two other buildings. So what's the cost of that? $50 million. Hey, guys, nothing to sneeze at. I have no problem going forward with that. But just tell the truth. Say what it is. But we can't. We're stuck. So are we in a situation where this is an easy punt to say, hey, interest rates are higher, cost of construction are higher, We don't want to do the deal. Then come forward and say that. But if you truly want to transform the Southwest side and you want to take Barbara Coleman and create Coleman Yards, come back to the table. We're all here willing to do that. But instead we're stuck, we're stuck on, we're hijacked. And I mean, I'm sorry that it's come to that, but I just think it's important for people to know what really happened behind the scenes and why we're here. So is it because of those higher interest rates or is it strictly because we have an out-of-state company that doesn't want to play in Illinois? I don't know. And frankly, I don't care. It'd be nice for the development agreement to go forward. It'd be nice if we weren't having to take this vote right now, which is a hard vote. It's a hard vote for many people. Many people, like I said, many people are bullied. My colleague here next to me called me on Friday night in alarm and dismay about the safety of his wife and nine-year-old that were left at home because he was traveling out of town. Someone pointing and saying, this is where the alderman lives. And what's the inference there, right? Hey, guys, I'll tell you all my address. Come over to my house, all right? I don't have a problem with that. But don't use things like that. Don't use your words and emotion and vile to try to bully and intimidate this council. It's not the way we do business here. We all want to do the right thing for Rockford or none of us would be here. We all are concerned about Rockford. We all love Rockford. we all want to make it a better place our mayor works at it tirelessly every day and i don't think any of us are have any fault for that right so please if you want to find a way to make this deal work let's have let's find a way it's not that hard let's find a way bring in a mediator i don't care who you bring in bring in somebody at some point to get people back at the table to find a way to make it work thank you thanks uh alderman beach thank your honor I also made a contact with Representative West. I also met with Alderman Frost on Saturday at the request of Gary Anderson. And at the end of that conversation, we said, what can you do to get the developer to come back and get down to the table so we can make this thing work? And unless I'm thinking about it wrong, the answer is I don't know that we can do that. And I said, well, if I had my brothers, I'd like to get in my car and drive to his place and say, please come back so that we don't have to deal with this vote tonight so we can move this thing forward. But to be accused of not loving the fifth ward or loving the back and brown or not caring for Rockford hurts me deeply. I've supported this community ever since I've been on this council. And I'm telling you, we have a great city. We have great wards. We've had great opportunities, and we've had some great wins, and we've lost some. So we have to be very careful of how we try to define ourselves. We're better than that. So, Your Honor, I just wished the developer were here tonight to say, you betcha, we'll sit down and knock out whatever we have to knock out to make this thing work. I really wish that would be the case. Thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak. Other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? I'm sorry No, if you're if a yes vote is to support the amendment Okay. Thank you. Any other discussion any other questions Alderman row or Alderman Rose? It's to support the amendment to reconsider correct. No, no, so that's already taken place all right now We are voting on and I'll just read it for you right now I Yes, me vote would mean that you support the next amendment that I'm about to read the developer will sign a project labor agreement acceptable to the northwestern Illinois building trades covering construction to be performed on the Project so that if you support that amendment that would be a yes vote Okay, don't want that amendment in the development agreement. It would be a no vote any other discussion clerk Will you please call it a roll turkey? logoman timber frost Tarina and Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie Alderman or I'm sorry dear McNamara. Yeah, so since everyone had their opportunity to talk now It's mine, I guess I would say this. This has obviously been, I think as outlined, everyone has outlined probably one of the most engaging and difficult discussions that have taken place since I've been on council, either as an alderman or as a mayor. I would say it saddens me to see that we're in this situation because I think this really could be a community wide and should be a community wide celebration. I want to just say, you know, Jay Jeffers. We hear a lot of discussion about out-of-town, out-of-state developers, and we hear it in this negative form. Folks, if we want to be a really strong community, we have to engage and appreciate out-of-town developers. We want people to invest in our buildings and in our people. They came in, they listened to residents, they fell in love with the project, but I think they fell in love with the people of Southwest Rockford more. I think we all know that Rockford is also an incredibly union town and proudly union. I personally have family members in the unions, and I know we all have friends in this room and probably right out in the lobby that are in unions that are our friends. I will also say when you look at many of the great things in our community, we recently celebrated murals, we celebrate the Family Peace Center, we celebrate countless initiatives and investments. The unions are part of those. We should appreciate them for those investments and we should not be just putting them in this bucket of bad people. They are not. They are amazing folks. I will also say we've had a lot of discussion about the process of this development agreement. I will be 100% clear. Our city staff did an amazing job, and they did the same job that they have done ever since I was an alderman. Now that I'm mayor, no development agreement has come to you with different language than this development came. I will say... It's also been stated that every worker needs to be paid a livable wage. This development agreement states that. There are specific provisions in it to follow the Illinois prevailing wage act. No one on this council wants any Rockfordian cheated on wages. I will also venture to guess no one on this council opposes project labor agreement. I know I support project labor agreements. I will also say I don't think it's appropriate to bring them back or forward at such a late hour when there's been dozens of opportunities, including a unanimous committee vote, to mandate a project labor agreement. I don't think that's in good faith as we as a city negotiate. I can't see us as a city changing things at the last moment to developers. I will also add in that same vein, I do value the discussion that has taken place, the direct passion that has been brought forward. This evening, if we were paying attention, Alderwoman Tarina read in an item that will be discussed next week regarding creating a project labor agreement policy. I think it's... A GOOD DISCUSSION TO HAVE AND I THINK IT'S ONE THAT WE HAVE TO HAVE AS A COMMUNITY THE RIGHT WAY. AND I THINK THAT'S AHEAD OF ANY DEVELOPMENT. WE NEED TO RESEARCH THE ISSUE, WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT THE BEST PRACTICES OF THAT ISSUE, WE NEED TO THEN FIND OUT WHAT WILL WORK BEST FOR OUR COMMUNITY, AND WE NEED TO DRAFT SUCH A POLICY. We also need to let our staff know what tools they have and what boundaries they need to work within as they begin to negotiate, not at the end of when they negotiate. We'll also say Alderwoman Meeks, she is absolutely a strong supporter of unions. She is absolutely an advocate for minorities, especially Black Rock Fortians, and she is working to create a committee to find ways that we as a city, as an organization, partner with unions and create and further, I should say, because there already are pathways, to further pathways for our young people to get into the trades. I will say I will not just support her leadership on that and support a study on it. I will support financial backing from the city of Rockford into that so we can continue to build on much of the good work that many of the trades have done. Lastly, I just want to say a couple of things. I want to say a thank you to the citizens you have been engaged It's a beautiful thing to see I think I've heard this from people on both sides If you for this or against it, whatever you are at It is so wonderful to see a City Council meeting that actually has people at it. Thank you I want to say a sincere. Thank you to our city staff Thousands of hours has went into this development. It is a Truly appreciated the work that you guys have put into it. So thank you. I want to say thank you to the unions. I want you to know I remain committed and this administration will remain committed to working with and for the hardworking men and women and their families across Rockford. I also want to say thank you to Jay Jeffers. Thank you for wanting to invest in our community. I will continue to work to build bridges with Jay Jeffers as I have and as many of you know that I have. I will also hold them accountable to the promises that they've made. I will say we are far more connected and closer on this issue than I really believe the debate has led us to. So I think we're stronger when we as a community are together. And I will say, clerk, my vote on this is no for the PLA mandate. No cheering, no cheering. We still have much work to be done. Pastor said look like amen. Next up, we'll move to unfinished business. We have multiple votes on this coming forward. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. There is still much to be voted on this development agreement. I'd ask that you please be quiet. And Alderwoman Wilkins for Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Wilkins. Oh, sorry. Okay. Item number one, we have committee recommends approval of the redevelopment agreement with J. Jeffers and Company, LLC, for the Barbara Coleman Campus. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, committee recommends approval of an ordinance terminating the South Main Rock Street Redevelopment Plan and Project Area and the dissolution of the Special Tax Allocation Fund for the South Main Rock Street Tax Increment Financing District. Item 3, committee recommends approval of an ordinance approving the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. Number 4, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance designating the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. And item number 5, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance adopting the tax increment allocation financing for the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. The legal director shall prepare their appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Council members, we have five items before us. Is there discussion on those five items? Other woman, Trina? I don't have, well, I have something to say. I wanted to take my time this evening on this item to use it as an opportunity to read an open letter that I penned that I will distribute to our local media as a public apology to Jay Jeffers. Dear Jay Jeffers team, on Wednesday, July 15, 2021, Your team met with the City of Rockford to declare your intentions for the purchase of the Barbara Coleman property. In that meeting, I asked if you would include neighbors and residents in the development process. You informed me you would have dedicated staff to engage with the community and that this practice was in alignment with your core values. It was established from day one that you all actively participate in being accountable to our great citizens. Over the last two years, your staff has met with Fifth Ward residents twice, attended Howard Coleman Community Foundation events, creative mural unveiling on South Main, and have hosted private meetings with hundreds of community stakeholders. I'm also certain there's many more engagement metrics that I'm not aware of. You have consistently demonstrated class, good faith, and integrity to our community. And you guys are a team of incredibly smart players that have made working with you on this Goliath-sized project feel manageable and seamless. Additionally, I have gone on record multiple times on Council floor and spoke to your level of professionalism throughout this journey. Unfortunately, your organization is owed an apology. Rockford is better than the destructive behavior and inflammatory remarks you have recently endured. You are more than just an out-of-town developer. You all are human beings that first deserve respect. I only hope that the authentic interactions that you've had with our wonderful residents, community stakeholders, and premier city staff can somehow erase the embarrassment that has been caused. I recently reviewed your website and it states your company principles are accountability, integrity, and perseverance. Three traits you have demonstrated well throughout this unbelievable journey. The passionate community response that was darned to right this wrong doesn't happen when you haven't laid the groundwork for that level of support. From the very start, your team has treated this project as something that meant more to you than simply profit. You have legitimately become our friends. So I ask that you please extend our community as a whole grace, as all of your tremendous efforts have not been in vain. Rockford is a city that you can and should do business with. This project signifies an extraordinary new beginning for our city that will change lives. And I look forward to us finalizing our plans and establishing what will be a world-class partnership. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next, we will go to, just to keep this moving, I'm going to move officers' reports to the end, if that's any objection to that. Appointments laid over, they still remain laid over. They do not come up, none of them come up until July 26th. Next we'll go to new business and back to planning development committee for Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, your honor. Item one, an ordinance approving the redevelopment agreement with J. Jeffers and Company LLC for the Barbara Coleman campus. Item 2, an ordinance terminating the South Main Rock Street redevelopment plan and project area and the dissolution of the special tax allocation fund for the South Main Rock Street tax increment financing district. Item 3, an ordinance approving the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. 4, an ordinance designating the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. Item five, an ordinance adopting the tax increment allocation financing for the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. And item number six, an ordinance approving the amendment to the 2023 Workforce Development Initiative agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction. Thank you. Council, we've got six items. But for us, is there any discussion on those six items? Alderman Durkee. Just one comment. We've been looking at this project for a long time, and... At the beginning of it, Mr. Cagnoni was about five inches taller, and his hair was jet black. And I think he even had his teeth. He's done a yeoman's work on this project, and since I've been on council, he's been a pretty impassioned, organized advocate for Rockford development. And I think a lot of his efforts brought this home. It's not easy to bring development to Rockford. as we've recognized, and I think he's done a great job on this. I know other people have worked on it, but Todd has always seemed to be around and having his fingers in it and his leadership was remarkable to bring this home. So my thanks to him and appreciation for what he does for Rockford. I would second that 100 times. He certainly was part of a great team, but he just does a remarkable job every day on behalf of citizens. It was certainly a team effort. It was a team effort. You deserve a lot of the credit. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. 14 ayes. Thank you. Honestly, it's odd that everyone's leaving because we're about to vote on our public works accreditation And I thought that's why they were all here. Just odd. I'm sorry Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost Yeah, we have one under codes and regulations. Oh, I'm sorry. Sorry. I know you're excited about the I know it's accreditation Thank you, Your Honor I have one item. I have an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the front yard setback from 40 feet to 12 feet along Reed Farm Road and a variation to allow a 12 foot by 14 foot shed within the front yard in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 6777 Heather Lane. We have one item before us. Any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion on that one item, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Froth. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving a word of agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for Madison Street improvements. The cost of the project is $890,955 to perform engineering and construction for utility pole reconstruction. Per Public Utility Act, ComEd may charge tax... payers through the use of the LGC rider for the work this rider will recoup those costs by charging Rockford ratepayers monthly throughout the duration of construction number two is an ordinance approving their application for the accreditation by the American Public Works Association Public Works Agency the total cost of credit accreditation is that's maybe seventeen thousand three hundred fifty dollars and is proposed to be paid into installments the funding sources the Public Works Administration budget Number three is an ordinance approving the Head Start low-cost extension to expand funds that were made available through a budget revision for playground equipment at the Pace Early Head Start Center in the amount of $125,000. The lead time for the equipment is between eight to 20 weeks. The funds are expected to be expended by October 15, 2023. I place these three matters before you. Thank you, Counsel. Any discussion on those items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Logoman. Toomer frost Serena printing Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks, Bonnie 14 eyes excellent so as a gift to all of you We do not have closed session this evening So please someone make a motion to adjourn. We have a motion. We have a second discussion all those in favor say aye aye Those opposed, have a good night.