We have Chaplain Mark Miller with us this evening. Let us pray. Father, we lift you up tonight. We ask your guiding hand over this city, over this council. Father, I ask you to be with all of the people in this city who are suffering from this last weekend. Be with the families. Be with the mother. Be with the children. Father, we just, I ask you to place a covering hand over this city. Give our police, fire, fire, all of our first responders' wisdom in dealing with this. I ask you, Father, to bless each and every one of them. I ask a special blessing over this city, Lord. And Father, tonight in this meeting, as this council faces significant challenges, significant issues, I ask that the debate be lively but civil. I ask your wisdom to flow throughout this room. And I ask that your will be done in this city for the citizens here. In Jesus' name, amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, a nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Chaplain. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logaman. Here. Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Here. Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney. 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on June 26 of 2023? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Item passes. Thank you. Next we have no proclamations, but we are really fortunate tonight. We have the oath of office For our soon to be sworn in alderman Jeff Bailey. So at this time we're gonna bring Jeff and his family in Just as they're making their way through it's just very exciting that Jeff is going to be joining us on City Council and He has had a unique background of work experiences from working in government to working with McDonald's Corporation in Chicago to owning his own business in Ohio and then came back to Rockford and served the Chamber of Commerce. You can take any mic you want. That's up. Mark. Mark. Come on in. Don't be bashful. Whenever you're ready, please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, Jeffrey Bailey, do solemnly swear. I, Jeffrey Bailey, do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. Of 13th Ward Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois. Of 13th Ward Alderman of the City of Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. You know, first of all, I want to give honor and glory to God. Thank my family, especially our mother. She has prepared us to be kind, understanding, and give to others and considerate. And we love her to death. My family, appreciate your love, support, guidance. We may agree to disagree. I love y'all. The mayor, thank you for this opportunity. To the city council, looking forward to working with you all. And to the community at large, I'm going to do my best. Appreciate all the support. I'm born and raised here in Rockford. I love my community. We got issues. We got challenges. But through the grace of God, we will get through those issues. So thank you for all the support. Yeah, you can be seated. Do it at your own risk tonight, man. Thank you. It feels like a service. Well, you're going to wish it was two years and one week, I think. Honestly, thank you, Jeff. On behalf of the council, we're all so excited to have you join us. And we're excited for the service that you're going to do for the entire community and the 13th Ward. So thank you for your willingness to serve. With that, bear with me one second here. With that, I am going to have to turn to, with that, we're going to go to petitions and communications. This evening, Alderman Wilkins cannot join us for an unforeseen situation. So, Alderman Durkee, I'm going to lean on you as a vice chair to read in those items. If you need it in written form, we can provide that to you. UNDER PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS, THIS IS ROMA NUMERO 4, PLANNING DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE, MEMORANDUM FROM KYLE SAUNDERS, PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR REGARDING AN AMENDMENT TO THE 2023 WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN CITY OF ROCKFORD AND LT CONSTRUCTION. THIS WILL BE REFERRED TO PLANNING DEVELOPMENT. THANK YOU. NEXT WE'LL GO TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE AND ALDERWOMAN TERENA. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, we have four items. Item number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on July 18, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on July 24, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. number two liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on july 18 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on july 24 2023 referred to code and regulation committee number three traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on july 12 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the code and regulation committee meeting at july on july 24 referred to code and regulation committee And finally, a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding the request to waive the parking fee for the attendees of the Jehovah Witness Convention, referred to the Court of Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director, regarding a Head Start low-cost extension to expend funds for a playground facility. Number two is a memorandum from the Kyle Saunders public works director regarding an agreement with ComEd for Madison Street improvements Number three is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders Regarding the approval of an application to the American Public Works Association for the public works agency accreditation process All three of these matters were referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you next we're gonna move to our public speakers this evening I Two items on this. I want to make sure all the public speakers are aware that there's a microphone on the back right and back left of council chambers. You can use either one. You have three minutes to address city council. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring at three minutes, and I ask that you close your time. We do not want to have to cut you off, but we will after three minutes. I'd also ask out of just being, of course, of being civil and kind to our fellow Rockfordians that I know there's going to be people who want to chant and cheer. I just ask that you don't. I think it's better for our community and better for the dialogue before us today that you allow the public speakers to make their stance and have counsel receive that. So thank you. Our first public speaker this evening is Pastor William Martin. Honorable Mayor, I'm Mack the Mayor to City Council. Since arriving to this great city of Rockford four and a half years ago, I discovered that what we take pride in, which is the Rock River, is a symbol of division. Separating the east side from the west side. Prosperity and poor, beauty and blight. And on tonight, all of us have the opportunity to literally transform Rockford. For years, that property has been, the Barbara Coleman property, has been an eyesore. to the south side and many of us drive past that property on a daily basis but many of our black and brown rockfordians they live in that community on tonight you have the opportunity to remove over 20 acres of blight from south rockford on tonight you have the opportunity to revitalize the south main corridor for existing residents and out-of-town guests entering into our great city On tonight, Council, you all have the opportunity to reestablish hope in a community that has been left out, neglected. On tonight, Council, you all have the opportunity to provide a kickstarter for other developments to come to that area. And so, as we've been celebrating the murals around our great city, on tonight, let's celebrate a new Rockford, a new opportunity. And so tonight, City Council, I implore you all to make history and vote yes for the Fifth Ward, vote yes for the City of Rockford, and vote yes to make a change and a difference in our great city. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Valerie, County Board Member Valerie Hansard. Good evening, Mayor, Council. I come to you this evening as a 60-year-old Rockfordian. I have lived all of my life in the southwest side of Rockford, and I've raised my children in the Fifth Ward. I have been a homeowner for the last 37 years and a taxpayer. What I am tired of and what I am so, so sick and tired of is being told that developers will not come to my side of town, because we don't have rooftops being built, and we have disposable income that's not enough for developers to come to the Fifth Ward. I stand before you tonight to let you know that that is not true. We can celebrate the Embassy Suite that was redeveloped in the Amrock building. We have the West Brock Wake Park at Lenny's Lake, and we have the success of our own Rockford Airport. When you build, they will come. The development plan for Barbara Coleman is right on time. The railway is coming. When we build, they will come. To this council, I say to you tonight, do the right thing. But I want to be very clear. My request for you to support this project is not a support against labor. I'm a proud, retired UAW active member. Nor should it be said that the elected officials, businesses, and other authors that have written letters to support this project are against labor. We should have a union workforce on this development. But there's been too many what ifs. He say, she say. They didn't do this. We said this. Let's get transparent. Let's all get together. Do what we can so that we can revitalize Barbara Coleman. Because when you build, they will come. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Paul Nolley. Good evening, everyone. My name is Paul Nolley. I am the director of Project First Rate. We are a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization representing thousands of union tradespeople and all of our union contractors in our area. I offer my comments today simply to state facts about project labor agreements, not to tell you which way to vote. PLAs offer as a tool for policymakers, they protect taxpayers, they improve equity and ensure diversity in a project's workforce and the contractor base, and they support living wages and decent benefits for local workers who work in one of the most dangerous careers as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor. First, we all believe in the importance of this project and the impact that it has or can have on our community. I've actually been part of several of the community engagement meetings and have been really eager and engaged with their vision and the benefits that it's set to bring to the community. That said, believing that the impact this project can have and believing in the values of a project labor agreement are not mutually exclusive. This is a time-tested research-based policy tool that you as policymakers can use. So here's some basic facts. Workforce and contractor diversity can and should be a core tenet of any good and strong PLA. Policymakers can insert provisions including specific intangible goals with accountability measures. This is much stronger than general vague language about good faith efforts. Elected officials and other stakeholders should set these goals and work together to hold everyone accountable during that process. Also, some have said that PLAs will inevitably increase costs and complexities for the project. Again, this is just not backed up by evidence. In fact, looking at multiple studies and multiple projects across multiple states have come to the same conclusion. PLAs have no negative impact on construction costs and in fact have often resulted in cost savings. Plus, the specifics of a PLA can be settled in a small amount of time, especially if elected officials like yourselves specify a framework that you'd like to see. See, PLAs have many benefits that can address these costs. First, they strictly prohibit strikes, picketing, lockouts, or other work stoppage that affect the project. They also set standards and enforcement for safety practices, reducing the risk of injuries or, God forbid, a fatality on the job site. and they create a level playing field for all those who are bidding, ensuring that no one is undercutting other bidders and competitors through misclassification or underpayment of workers. And finally, PLAs are not unusual, nor are they rare. In fact, they're used in all types of projects all across the country and locally. Look to international corporations like Walmart, Toyota that use PLAs on their projects. The local Hard Rock project down the road is under a PLA. Both the Biden-Harris and Pritzker-Stratton administrations require the use of PLA on publicly funded construction projects. It's a common tool leaders use all across the country. A PLA is an asset for any project in any community. It does not block non-union contractors from taking on work, but rather sets standards for all businesses to meet. Our members are up to the challenge to meet those standards and those goals, and we invite all non-union firms to join us. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Wally Haas. Thank you. Well, this seems to be the most popular mic, so I guess I'll use it as well. So I'm the new executive director of Transform Rockford. Lorraine Logan called me a while back and offered me the job. And I said yes. I didn't have to come out of retirement to, my iPad keeps going the wrong way here, so. I was enjoying retirement when Lorraine called me. I had told her months earlier that I had enjoyed the volunteer work I was doing but would embrace the opportunity to do more. Retirement is great, but having a chance to do good in our community is even greater. I'm honored to be allowed to speak to you tonight. I look forward to reconnecting with those of you that I knew in my previous life as opinion editor at the Register Star and connecting with those of you that I've never met before You as elected officials have a difficult job, and although there are issues we disagree on, we all want this city to be the best that it can be. However, we may have different ideas about how to make that happen. I remind you of the shared values our community adopted years ago. Inclusion. caring, respect, transparency, trustworthiness, unity, ideation, responsibility, and interconnectedness. These are values that we must live and not just wear on t-shirts. All those values should be factors in the decisions you make tonight. But I think unity may be the most appropriate value as you prepare to vote on the redevelopment of the Barbara Coleman campus. Our shared value of unity places the greater good of all parts of our region and its transformation ahead of self and organizational interests. The greater good is placed ahead of self or organizational interests. That's worth repeating. So how do we get to yes? I'm not just referring to yes vote on Barbara Coleman, but yes, I want to live here. Yes, I want to work here. Yes, I want to do business here. Yes, I'm safe here. And yes, my kids can get a good education here. We need to get to yes. Will the vote you take tonight get us closer? I didn't have to un-retire. I could be spending tonight on my fishing boat. But I said yes to Lorraine Logan because I believe in this community and its ability to be the best it can be. To be our best, Rockford needs to welcome development. A top city makes it easy for developers to do business here. We need to eliminate blight. The entire city needs to be attractive for residents and visitors alike. Ugly, dilapidated buildings discourage people from entering and staying in Rockford. Ensure key community corridors are attractive. The way to downtown, the heart of any city, should be appealing for anyone who travels our roads. Embrace the greater good I keep coming back to that so I'll go on Include all people Lockford is a diverse community and its residents deserve to be valued engaged Inspired and have access to opportunity early. Thank you. I knew I needed an editor Thank you our next and final speaker this evening is miss Christina Valdez. Good evening everybody. I'm good evening members of the city council mayor city staff and guests my name is christina valdez and i'm speaking to you tonight in regard to the proposed coleman yards project I'm currently the CFO for a local woman-owned company and have a background in municipal capital financing. I sit on four different local boards, including the Rockford Chamber of Commerce, who along with a multitude of different industries have submitted letters of support for this proposed agreement. I would like to applaud city staff as well as the Jeffers team for creating such a robust document that truly appeals to the betterment of not only the southwest side of Rockford, but Rockford as a whole. There are numerous facts that you have all reviewed thoroughly, including the 2,700 plus jobs through 2030 that would be brought to the Rockford area, a $108 million residential spending impact, and a myriad of other items that are contained in your council packets. We are at the finish line of what could put Rockford firmly in line with the trajectory that we have worked so hard for to attain over the years. However, we are potentially finding ourselves stalled over the introduction of a proposed project labor agreement. I would urge City Council to truly reflect on what this agreement could mean for this project. It has been hyperbolized in the press that the City Council is being held hostage in their decision-making process, and I would like to offer an altering point of view. You have in front of you a city comprised of 150,000 people who are waiting to see how the decision of 14 is going to impact the forward momentum of our city. At the end of the day, the rest of the population is ultimately looking to you, our aldermen, to make the best impartial decision on our behalf, looking at the agreement in terms of what is best for the whole. I would implore the alderman contemplating bringing this motion forward to consider that a PLA could potentially discriminate against non-union workers, resulting in a lack of diversity in the workforce as well as the local hiring and competition. Alternatively, a vote against the PLA is not a vote against the unions. I myself am pro-union. It is still, and as it should, guarantees 70% of the work to the union. To quote a previous presenter at committee, 70% of union labor for a large number of construction jobs is a big number. However, if the project is not approved, then 100% of zero is still zero. Being hostage in a situation indicates you have no say in the future of your decision making. The 14 of you do. The other 150,000 of us are counting on you to decide what's best for the rest of our futures. Please make the choice to advance this transcendent project across the finish line and get us that much closer to our goal of truly transforming Rockford. Thank you all. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we will move to new committee reports. We have no items under planning and development. So next I'll move to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have 12 items. So you guys are about to hear me read for a little bit here. item number one the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of indian terrace from dickerman drive to 45 feet south of dickerman drive thus repealing the two-hour parking and residential permit parking restrictions on the east side of indian terrace from dickerman drive to 45 feet south of dickerman drive the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number two committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals recommendation of denial For a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign from 64 feet to 406 square feet, variation to increase the maximum allowable height of a freestanding sign from 8 feet to 90 feet, and a variation to allow a pylon freestanding sign when a landmark-style freestanding sign with a 2-foot brick or stone base is required in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 8060, 8070, and 82XX East State Street. Number three committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels and an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 5305 35th Street Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four a Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 525 North Pierpont Avenue Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number five The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an r1 E, rural estate zoning district at 4707 North Roxton Avenue, subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 1800 Ogilby Road, subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals' approval for the zoning map amendment from R1, single-family residential zoning district, to C3, general commercial zoning district at 4908 South Main Street. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight. Committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a text amendment of the city of Rockford zoning ordinance to article 80 009 dash D all properties in our one single-family residential districts with gravel driveways and or a gravel parking lots Legally established shall confirm to the regulations contained in section 50 dash 0 1 3 dash a of this ordinance by November 1st 2024 All properties in any other residential districts and commercial districts with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots legally established shall conform to the regulations contained in Section 50-013-A of this ordinance by November 1, 2023. Nothing in this provision allows illegally established non-conforming parking lots and driveways to remain. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 9. Committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the modification of an existing liquor license to change business hours from Tuesday through Thursday 11 a.m. To 11 p.m. Friday 11 a.m. To midnight Saturday 9 a.m. To midnight and Sunday 9 a.m. To 11 and to provide live music in conjunction with the restaurant tavern and video gaming terminals in the C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1025 Fifth Avenue Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 10 Committee recommends sustaining liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store and gas station and the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with convenience store gas station in a seat to limited commercial zoning district at 3005 North Rockton Avenue subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances and Number 11 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a craft brewery and pub and the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a craft brewery pub a c4 urban mix-use zoning district and 125 North Madison Street subject to conditions the legal direction of appear the appropriate ordinance and Lastly committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the grocery store And a c4 urban mix use zoning district at 325 West State Street Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance I place these 12 items before you counsel anyone wants older woman Trina to repeat all of this All right. So we have 12 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 12 items? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just briefly, again, I'm expressing some reticence and opposition to solar farms popping up all over the city in our one district. But frankly, I don't understand. There's got to be some kind of federal benefit for this because they're all over the place. And I don't even know the utility of having these things and only supply a couple of households But I'm opposed to putting them in our one that the city wants to read Get a zoning change into either c3 or light industrial. I think that is One more thing sorry, can you move your mic so we can all hear a little driveway ordinance We'll wait and see what happens next year. I That's the nicest thing you've said about gravel driveways. That's great. All right. Any other discussion on the 14 items we got? No discussion. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. No on 3, 4, 6, and aye on the rest. Bogeman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. No on 8. Prenti. 3. No on 4. No on 5. 6, no on 8, aye on the remainder. Hoffman, Rose, Beach, that was 10B. Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. Aye. Item number 1 and 2, 13 ayes. Item number 3 and 4, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item 5, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item 6, 11 ayes, 2 noes. 7, 13 ayes. 8, 7 ayes, 6 noes, 9, 13 ayes, 10, 11, I'm sorry, 12 ayes, 1 noe, 11 and 12, 13 ayes. Thank you. Alderwoman Prunty, you have a question? I'm sorry. Could I also be a no on 5? I apologize. That new vote is 11 ayes, 2 noes. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. There's one item, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $11,346,837.91 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on June 26, 2023. I place this one matter before you. Thank you, Alderman. Counsel, we've got one item. I need discussion on that one item. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Hoffman Rose Beach Oreos Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes excellent next we'll move to Unfinished business and committee reports laid over and we'll go to planning and development committee and alderman Durkee Thank you your honor under Roman numeral 7a Number one, committee recommends approval of the redevelopment agreement with J. Jeffers and Company LLC for the Barbara Coleman campus. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Number two, committee recommends approval of an ordinance terminating the South Main Rock Street redevelopment plan and project area and the dissolution of the special tax allocation fund for the South Main Rock Street tax increment financing district. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, committee recommends approval of an ordinance approving the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, committee recommends approval of an ordinance designating the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And finally, number five, committee recommends approval of an ordinance adopting the tax increment allocation financing for the Barbara Coleman redevelopment plan and project area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these five items up for passage. Thank you. Council, we've got five items before us. Any discussion on those five items? Alderman Logeman. Thank you, Mayor. Reference item number one, I move to amend the committee report item under item one to add the following provision to section 17D of the proposed redevelopment agreement with Jay Jeffers for the Barbara Coleman campus. The developer will sign a project labor agreement acceptable to the northwestern Illinois building trades covering construction to be performed on the project. Note the omission of the word all. I say again, the developer will sign a project labor agreement acceptable to the northwestern Illinois building trades covering construction to be performed on the project. Seconded. So we have a motion and a second. Now it's time for discussion. I just want to remind council members to use your microphone so that we can hear what you're saying. So we have an amendment, and is that just item one, I believe, you have the amendment. So Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, I don't have a copy of that on my desk. Was that distributed? Yeah? Okay. Any other discussion on the item before us? And it's just an amendment first. Is there any discussion on that amendment? alderman bailey thank you got to get used to my name being said i know and it's not up here yet so it's going to be hard um i'm concerned about this this is purely political we got to call a spade a spade this should have been negotiated up front with the developer and it's appalling to me and i'm not anti-union i'm pro-development but we can't continue to play political games with development in our city I've sat down with both sides. I've heard both sides. I've heard the facts. But we have to stop this nonsense of playing this political maneuvering as it relates to development in this community, if we're going to be a transformative community. And the city supports this project, and that negotiation is between the developer and the union. We should not be anywhere near this negotiation. Other comments? Alderman Lidman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Just got out of the field at Fort McCoy, Wisconsin, came down here for this vote. This issue really revs me up. There has not been an issue on city council that I have been revved up like I am for this issue. The reason I get so revved up about this is because unionism is important. I ran for other offices before, and I was asked what is the biggest issue in our communities across our country today. And I said economic inequality in the sake of our democracy right now. Unionism protects that. When I was a little kid, my family, I'm a third generation union member, son of two union members. Family here in Rockford belongs to the trades unions here in Rockford. At our dinner tables, we would talk about the importance of unionism. I've participated in strikes. They're not fun. I've been involved in high stakes negotiations. I've been in pickets defending my union brothers and sisters. I am so proud to be a union member. I went up to Wisconsin in 2010 to fight and defend for our union rights. Supporting labor supports the middle class. It put my family into the middle class. I see issues like this, they chip away. at unionism here in this state. They chip away at unionism across the country. And it incenses me. These little issues, right, here and there, where they chip away at the unions. And then when I was running for another office, I would say, look what's going on in Iowa. Look what's going on north of us in Wisconsin. Who would have thought a decade and a half ago that Wisconsin would be where it's at right now? But here we are, 15 miles away. Now, I share that with you because I understand we all, I respect everybody here around this horseshoe. I respect everybody that is in this room right now. We are all passionate individuals, and we all have our experiences that we bring to this table. Like what President Biden has always said, I never question another, when he was a senator, never question another senator's motives. I have that respect for you, and I share with you my experience, not to diminish anybody else's, but to share with you where I come from. I've heard some things about this proposal in front of us related to the PLA. One, that labor can't support the project. They can't. One, that labor can't provide enough women and minority workers or women and minority contractors. They can. And as Mr. Nolley noted earlier, that should be a critical and important tenet. And I am so thankful for the advocacy of Alderman Meeks. I am so thankful for the advocacy of State Representative Maurice Wallace in that regard. And it does pain me. I've been called plenty of names this week. I've been called worse. I'm a high school teacher. The racial divisions and some of the names, we shouldn't have that. And this issue, we shouldn't even be, it's a painful thing that some of these names are coming up. I've heard also what type of precedent would this set, that this is not government's role. Okay, this project right here, this is a unique situation. This is with Gorman, with Urban Equities. We have developers and labor unions that can figure this issue out. I don't know what the big problem is with this current out-of-state developer with our local labor members. I think, I do not believe that city council is going to set some type of precedent. You know who makes decisions around in this city? We do. We do. We can make it a precedent if we want to, given the circumstances. I've heard 70% is good enough. Be happy with what you got. 70% is good enough. Okay. $300 to $400 million project. Right? So if you take 30% of that for easy math, let's do one quarter of $400 million. That's $100 million of non-union development. What does that mean? Possibly workers from out of state. I want this project to be local and regional workers working on a project that transforms Rockford. This is personal for me, too. I have memories growing up, not growing up, I have memories visiting my aunt, cousins on South Main that home is now raised. I drive by Barbara Coleman every day taking my little girls to school at Barbara Coleman. When the reports came out that this was going to be put forth in front of city council, I said to my kid, hey, we're going to fix that building. And I think we will, folks. I think we will. We're going to fix that building. And she said, you think we're going to do it next week? And I said, maybe. I don't know. I've heard the developer will walk if we don't approve this, as is right now. I used the quote earlier, I stand by it. I think this is a hostage situation. I've worked with bargaining, the... the bargaining committee with my own local Rockford Education Association. I do not believe in my bones that this developer is going to walk 7.30 p.m., pack their bags and go to Wisconsin. That's not how negotiations work. You negotiate, if you're negotiating in good faith, you negotiate until you can come to a rational solution. I know our labor members want, and I and us, we want to come to a solution to transform the southwest side of Rockford and build on what we've already been building. I've heard that this has been thrown in at the last hour. The first meeting that I had was on June, it was mid-June. I'm not going to throw stones or point fingers about communication at all. I appreciate the communication with aldermen from the administration. But this is our role, right? As city council members, we are offered something, you know, sometimes as it goes from the city administration. And then we vote on it. And we vote on it from the diversity of our backgrounds here. We've got a doctor, we've got someone working in finance, lawyer, entrepreneur, teacher. We come from a diversity of backgrounds and that is what we're here to do. We're here to support our residents. We are here to advocate for what we think is best for Rockford and that's what we're doing right now. Part of the challenge, as we all know, as part-time aldermen, is that we cannot be in all of these meetings at once. I'm a union working man, and I work from 8 to 5. So part of my challenge as an alderman is figuring out, you know, I'm hearing different things from different spots, as County Board Member Hansard has indicated. Part of our challenge as aldermen is figuring out where the truth lies. Again, I am very thankful to our state delegation for supporting the PLA. I think we've all been receiving these emails about supporting this project labor agreement. I'm very thankful for State Representative Maurice West for his efforts in brokering some type of deal here. And I think it just comes down to three things. We have to, as aldermen, protect our city's financial interests. As a kid, like I was telling you about earlier, I remember family even saying that the skill and efficiency that I bring to the work, to the job site, as a skilled tradesman is worth two non-union members or two non-union workers, right? What I can bring with skill and efficiency, and I don't have to go back and correct somebody else's mistake. That's value, right? That keeps the job going on time, under budget. The second important thing of why this PLA must exist is workplace safety. I just told you I got out of the field at about 1 o'clock p.m. from Fort McCoy, Wisconsin, came all the way back here. That's what we preach all the time. We prevent injuries from happening by being safe. That is what the union is there to do, to protect its members and keep them safe. And finally, we need to prevent work stoppages. We know what's going to happen with the labor disputes that are going on right now. I want this project done, and I want it on time and under budget so that I can tell my daughter that maybe it got a little longer than a week, but we got this done for Rockford. I think there's been concessions made even by labor in a couple respects. Non-union contractors can absolutely work on this project. They just have to sign on to the project labor agreement. We need to protect our workers, and we need to make sure that this development happens. I've said it before. I want this development to happen, but we have to ensure that it happens the right way. I think also important to note, when you have a project labor agreement, labor gives up their right, their constitutional right to picket. They are giving that up, ensuring that this project, again, happens on time and under budget. I close, hoping you will all join the labor movement. and supporting this community effort, this community effort to ensure that this project happens on time and under budget and happens for the sake of our community. I've told you before, I've been on a strike line. I've been to pickets. I want this project to happen, but I promise you, if there is labor strife, I will join my labor brothers and sisters. We will go to Barber School early. We will join our labor brothers and sisters on the line. We will come back late. We will join our labor brothers and sisters on the line to ensure that this project is agreeable between both the developer and labor. Thank you, Mayor. Okay, is there other discussion? Alderwoman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to make a statement. I'm not trying to convince anybody. to do what I'm doing. I just want you to know why I'm gonna vote the way I do. And that is because I've been bombarded with phone calls constantly telling me everybody's side of it. So I finally had to turn my phone off and say, what do I believe in? I believe very strongly in the Barbara Coleman project. I really want it to go forward. One of the parts I loved about it was that we were making a point that they had to make sure that they hired blacks and minorities. I was, I loved that part, and women. And then the more that people talked to me, they said, we can't have a PLA because we need to keep the cheaper labor. What I kept hearing was, we want the minorities, not us, I wanted them to rise, but what I kept hearing is, we need cheap labor. That turned me completely against what is happening. And I am supporting the PLA because I fight for women's rights. How do I fight for women's rights if I don't fight for everybody else's rights? And I don't want these folks being called cheap labor. We need them because they're cheaper. They should be equal. I want them to be with the unions. I want them to get the same money. I want them to get the same benefits. I want them to be equal. I want to be equal. So I'm going to vote for the PLA. And if you want to throw rocks at me afterwards, you can. Thank you. Alderman Bailey, did you have another? Alderman Bailey? Yeah. Appreciate the comments by our colleague, Alderman Logerman. But when you look at the history of this city, We've never had a PLA agreement for previous projects. And it's political. Appreciate what Huffman said. This is beyond diversity, folks. It's beyond diversity. I'm a former diversity manager. I get it. I see it. It's about equality, fairness, valuing other people and what they bring to the table. And a PLA agreement is not going to accomplish that. We have to build relationships. We have to be given the opportunity. And right now, I don't see it in this country PLA agreement. I don't see it. I do not see it. Councilman Logeman, this is personal for me with all due respect. I'm not anti-union. I'm pro-community. So I applaud you and your remarks, but we got to go quit playing these kinds of games with development in this community and begin to value people who don't look like us. Alderman Rose? Yeah, this is a tough one. Obviously, I very much pro-union individual. I too have walked the picket lines, come from a family of electricians. My father was an electrician for SBC. His father was an electrician for SBC, formerly known as Illinois Bell. I've worked as a laborer. I worked as a teacher. And the fact that this PLA is coming forward. I really do agree with Jeff in that regards as it's political, but it's It is unprecedented We've never ever had anything like this before us ever throw up an agreement between a developer with PLAs On it a hundred times. I will vote a hundred times for that PLA, right? they they worked it out they brought it to our city and package it and I will support that a hundred times over and This just didn't happen with this agreement. It's not our role to babysit these agreements. It's our role to either say up or down whether we want to see these happen or not. I don't think government should play babysitter. And I think it sets a bad precedent for us as a city moving forward. I think it communicates some things, which I'm not going to get too much into because I think it's mostly common sense. Peoria doesn't do this. Aurora doesn't do this. Bloomington doesn't do this. Southern Illinois doesn't do this. Dixon doesn't do this. This is strictly political. And, you know, people can say what they want and make it a union versus non-union issue. I'm a union member. I support unions every day. And I've had, for the first time in my life, people question my integrity for being anti-union. First time in my life. That is ridiculous. Thank you. Alderman Prunty had her hand and just someone over here did okay. Thank you all the wrong front. Um, thank you. I just This is complicated. Thank you for Everybody's input Did just want to All the women Hoffman's point about I how people will be used. Everybody wants to be paid. Everybody wants to eat. So one of the folks that I had an opportunity, I called... our comptroller's office today because I had kept hearing that term about, you know, human trafficking and labor trafficking. And I was like, man, did this happen in Rockford? What's the history? Somebody let me know so that we could avoid this. And so. So when I spoke, the person I spoke to at the office said, well, you know, if this were state, we have prevailing ways, so I want to assure you that that's not going to happen. And then they said, but if something like that ever were to happen anywhere on any project, that there is a mechanism to address that. And so I just want you to, you know, have comfort that that's unlikely to happen. And even if it were to take place, that is illegal. So call the police and get that addressed as well. So that's my point on there. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'll use the KISS method on this. Keep it simple, stupid. I'm a simple man, simple mind. We will judge you on that then. Thank you. Three minutes. Start of time. Yeah. I was waiting for responses accordingly. You know, it just, it has a, it upsets me that we are even in this position, number one. I am not, as Alderman Logan alluded to, going to cast stones. Okay. This has created a divide, I think, amongst some entities and even some people. But to find ourselves in this position, I would venture to go back that we have been involved or the city has been involved in many development agreements. We do have a number of contractors here in town. Many times those development agreements, these issues have already been worked out. They've been worked out between the contractor, the developer, labor. Everyone worked it out, hashed it out, and it was on the same page. It then became part of the development agreement. We were given a development agreement where there was, in my view, a big void. So when people say that we've never had to do this PLA or address a PLA, most of this stuff is already addressed. And it's agreed upon, upon labor, developer, contractor, etc. This didn't really have that. Now we are finding ourselves in this position where because this wasn't addressed to the point that I think it should have been addressed, now it's up to council to vote on. And it is what it is, but I think this would be a college course case study in a 400 possible, $430 million project, given to members of council a month ago and really getting into the details of it and then a a Development agreement given to us five days before having to vote on it I'm not throwing stones. I just think this was a month that was for for some of us that did or all of us for that matter I'm not sure everyone in their individual life but the amount of hours of due diligence and questions. Some of those questions were hard hitting questions and to, I think to some in the community they may think that if to no fault of their own that when you have an alderman asking hard tough questions or deep questions on issues, then you may be automatically against the project. And that's simply not true. As an alderman, it's our duty to do our due diligence on these issues, to look at the capital stack. We are stewards of taxpayers' money, and this is a project that is going to include taxpayers' money. We don't ask those questions and we just sit back and rubber-stamp what's put in front of us and say I can't wait for a Nice new shiny object at the end. That's not doing your constituents and the people that voted for you any favor whatsoever so you know it has been for many of us a long month and I just It's unfortunate that we're in this position and that it's come to this, but I will say this, that PLA aside, I would say we are all rooting for this project to happen. We would like to see it happen. We'd like to be successful. I admit I was taken a little bit aback because I thought it was going to be initially a $430 million project, 964 units, and then obviously finding out it's 137 units. million 334 unit project was a little bit surprising but I can accept that and that is still a big big project And I think we all want to see because what stands there now is absolutely unacceptable it's unacceptable as one of our gateways into the city and so It's I think we want to see this project succeed. It's just a matter of unfortunately, what is before us seems to have created division and I wish that this was all hashed out and when the development agreement was presented so thank you thank you uh mr cagnoni could you uh update how how large is uh just phase 1a and phase 1b well it's approximate phase 1a phase 1b is approximately 170 million dollars um full phases is approximately 420 million dollars obviously a project of this size and the number of units there's time for CONSTRUCTION, MARKET SATURATION, SO IT'S GOING TO TAKE PLACE OVER TIME. BUT TO YOUR REFERENCE IN REGARDS TO WHAT'S REQUIRED UNDER THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, PHASE 1A AND 1B, AND THEN THE ADDITIONAL PHASES BASED ON MARKET DEMAND AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS. THANK YOU. ALDERMAN BONNIE HAD HIS HAND RAISED. THANK YOU, MAYOR. So at the risk of being teased for the last time I did this by Alderman Thunberg, I'm going to read from some remarks that I prepared early this morning. As a fervent advocate for historic preservation, supporting this amendment isn't an easy decision. I currently serve on our Historic Preservation Commission, and I've been a dues-paying member of Landmarks Illinois and the National Trust for Historic Preservation for many years. I'm also a member of the Executive Committee of the Friends of the Coronado Board of Directors. Before being elected two years ago, I was intimately involved in a protracted campaign to block the Catholic Diocese from demolishing its chancery. Despite a majority vote by this body to declare the building a landmark against the Church's wishes, and despite winning a temporary restraining order in circuit court, that effort sadly failed. More than 20 years ago, I led a grassroots effort to restore the library and auditorium at Lincoln Middle School and obtain local landmark status as part of the school's 75th anniversary. I absolutely support adaptive reuse of the Barbara Coleman campus over demolition. Among other reasons, it's the environmentally friendly thing to do. I have spoken in defense of the project in the news media on several occasions. While the Coleman Yards buildings may not possess the ornate architectural grandeur of the Coronado, we need look no farther than Embassy Suites to see what's possible with the adaptive reuse of our older industrial sites. Besides all of that, Barbara Coleman is rich, very rich in cultural history. Think of how many families' livelihoods were tied to Barbara Coleman over decades. I sit here tonight only because my mother worked at Barber Coleman alongside my grandmother, who introduced her son to my mom back in 1959. After decades of neglect, parts of the Barber Coleman campus are now literally caving in. I believe and have been quoted as saying this proposal is the last train out to save these historic buildings. That was also the case... when this body approved the development agreement with Gorman & Company that transformed Amarok into Embassy Suites. What that project had, that this project lacked, lacks, is buy-in from a key stakeholder, our local building trades. In that respect, this situation reminds me of the International Women's Baseball Center. If you recall, that proposal came to us with strong opposition from Friends of Byers Stadium, who objected to the museum being built on the historic ball field where the beloved Rockford Peaches once played. We were being told then as well that if the city council attempted to protect the original ball field, organizers would take their museum elsewhere. These organizers, however, represented a non-profit entity, and they were local leaders, including retired judges Rosemary Collins and Patrick Yarborough. who I knew and trusted, so I voted yes. Fortunately, when noted architect and Belvedere native Jeannie Gang came on board, she convinced organizers to preserve the ball field and reposition the museum on the site. Now we have a for-profit developer from a labor-unfriendly state telling us that if we require any material change to this proposal, We're pulling a string on a thread that unravels a complex financing stack that collapses the project. I don't doubt that's true, but that is not the fault of this body. I thank State Representative Maurice West for his efforts to try to resolve this disagreement between our building trades and the developer. And this amendment with Due respect to Alderman Rose and my new seatmate, Alderman Bailey, this is not about game playing or politics. This amendment is about representative government and the authority of the city council to shape, to meaningfully shape a project that cannot happen without millions of dollars in local taxpayer investment. Much has also been made about the ability of our local building trades to meet minority hiring goals. Jay Jeffress contends our local trades cannot. The trades say they can. I choose to believe our local labor leaders, who we know, and who represent workers in every one of our wards. If you choose to believe the out-of-state developer that minority hiring goals cannot be met from our local workforce, You support sending those wages out of Rockford and very likely out of state. That greatly diminishes the potential impact of this project. Repurposing the Barbara Coleman campus and workers rights, as Paul Nolley said, should not be mutually exclusive. And it is sad to see minority rights pitted against workers rights in some sort of divide and conquer strategy. Workers' rights depend on solidarity. The only time in my career that I've been represented by organized labor was 40 years ago when I was a college intern at the Rockford Register Star, who had the good fortune to be paid entry-level pay, entry-level wages, under a then-strong newspaper guild. I experienced the changed working conditions when I returned to the newsroom several years later after the union collapsed. And corporate greed is largely responsible for the declining influence of newspapers across the country, including the Register Star. President Reagan famously said, government is not the solution to our problem, government is the problem. I believe corporate greed is often the problem in America and a good part of the problem here. It is, again, as Paul Nolley said, project labor agreements are very common things in Illinois. And as he also noted, Hard Rock Casino is being constructed under one, as was Embassy Suites. Don't believe I've never believed and still don't believe that there's anyone Here in this room tonight or in the lobby downstairs Who wants to kill this project or that anything that says has transpired to date is a nail in the coffin What we're experiencing is a bump in the road to a transformational project and I'm optimistic Talks will continue and there's still a path forward. Thank you. Okay other comments from alderman. I Oh Other woman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I just had a couple comments actually just based on some of the narrative that I've heard so far One of them being that there wasn't like that this information was given to us sort of last-minute so I actually asked city staff to send me a log of of every time this was presented in front of our council. And I'll start with September 7th of 2021. City Council placed the property up for sale by resolution approved by City Council September 7th, 2021. City Council approved a purchase agreement with Jay Jeffers October 2021. No amendment made by Logerman or Bonney. City Council approved the first amendment of purchase agreement with Jay Jeffers on March 22nd. No PLA amendment. made by Logelman or Bonnie. City Council approved the second amendment of purchase agreement with Jay Jeffers on November 22nd. Again, no amendment made by Logelman or Bonnie. City Council approved memorandum of understanding for up to five million for US EPA funds on February 28th, 22nd. No amendment. I could keep going, but there's a total of 23 items over the last two years almost. So the lies, That you did not have this presented to you. That's exactly what they are. And I think it's it's it's misleading to say that staff has not presented this or that you did not have the opportunity to get all your questions answered. Because my thing is, you've already met with a developer more than once. You've met with city staff. If there was still questions or you felt like. Didn't have my questions answered and then get them answered. So I just I just think that that's an excuse and Again, not true And also I think that we keep mentioning the language PLA. I think it's important that we say PLA mandate Because that is what is presented in front of us. None of us are saying we are against PLA the developer has said they're not against PLA and What we're against is a mandate. You are mandating this council tonight to set a precedent. I know we keep saying, oh, that's not what it is. It absolutely is what it is. Because if it was not a precedent, why hasn't every single developer in the city called every single one of you? Because they said, if you do this, we won't ever get any work here for years. So let's not, again, more lies, more misleading. So I just want to be clear that. When we speak about the PLA tonight, we need to speak that it's a mandate, not that we're against labor and not that we're against PLAs. We're against a PLA mandate. Thank you. Alderman Frost, then Alderman Bonney, and Durkee, did he have anything? Thank you, Your Honor. Just with respect to the last issue, amendments can be made at any time, and I think, yes, there have definitely been different pieces of this Project that have been presented different times, whether it's EPA cleanup or whether it's a sale and I to defend, I guess, ultimately, I'm not taking this position, but the development agreement is really the seminal issue here. And is when did we first see the seminal that agreement? And I got to tell you, the first time I met with someone from Jay Jeffers was last Friday at 3 p.m. and that's because the mayor asked me if i wanted to come in and meet with them and first i said no because i asked those hard questions and and i think we you know we do have the right to sit here and ask difficult questions and impress people in a number of circumstances whether we're buying a fire truck we're negotiating our street sweeping contract Or something like this because as Alderman Tunberg mentioned we are the stewards of the taxpayers money of the city And and we also are stewards of the communities and awards in which we represent and the entire city itself I didn't bring a PLA to the table and obviously you everyone heard Alderman Logum and his passionate speech on why he did and I I don't fault him for that and But the and it is it is unprecedented I get that and I do not want to be in this position because I don't know really if it is our position or not, but when push comes to shove and And the developer and the owner and the contractors and the subcontractors We haven't put one shovel in the ground and we've got problems and I raise these questions as with a representative, Jay Jeffers, about three weeks ago, asking why did the general contractor change? And I couldn't get a straight answer. And it switched from someone that's a reputable builder in Milwaukee, and I have no problem with, I'm not trying to protect anyone here locally on the GC side, but then it got shifted, and now we're having problems getting bids, and I've heard many, many different stories on what's happened. And... This PLA has been discussed, and Mr. Nolley, a speaker, actually hit it on the head from Project First Rate. Here, on behalf of the contractors and the workers and the community, it does protect the city. It protects the developer. It ensures the timeliness of the work. And most importantly, it ensures the safety of the work. There's a term called situational awareness that people in the construction industry have to use every day, and some people just call it, you know, your head's on a swivel. And people are trained, and they're trained through the trades. And that's why it's important in my mind to have a certain level of trade workers that are in the union on a job like this. I was told on Friday the number right now was 60%. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not enough. That's not even the 70% standard that someone talked about. But it's clearly not enough to have 50% or 60% be union and the rest be non-union. And I guess I can't paint it any clearer, but if that was the case, if people think that this project is going to get built in a timely manner, or if at all, with that low level of union participation, I mean... good luck because you're going to have Alderman Logerman out there not going to work protesting every day and on the picket lines. And we don't want to see that. We do want to see the job get done. And I truly believe that Jay Jeffers is a very reputable developer. I mean, they're from Wisconsin. I'm not going to hold that against them that they're from the Badger State. But we're in Illinois right now, and I truly believe that there needs to be a higher level than that. And I implore if  If the PLA is passed tonight, it's not mutually exclusive. Someone talked about politics. Yes, we are politicians, sir. That's our job. We all got elected. Our mayor has been elected. We have the job as being politicians, but that doesn't make us draw a line in the sand and say, if you don't cross this line, I'm never going to speak to you again or I'm not or I'm going to pick up my ball and go home. We have to learn to work these matters out. And unfortunately, for whatever reason, I'm not privy to it. In this particular case, it just hasn't been worked out yet. And I'm not willing to give up. Okay, I'm hopeful that regardless of the vote tonight, that this project has the ability to be continue to be negotiated and be worked on and through the intercession of somebody, someone hopefully in this room can sit down with all sides and work on an agreement. in some way, shape or form that will allow and protect for the safety of the workers, for the timeliness of the job. And I do care about the workers here in this community. And I don't want to see a worker from from King County, Will County, Cook County, you know, Dane County come down here to work on this job. I want to see our local workers be the one. Someone talked about it tonight. 2,800 jobs online. I mean, I'd love to see that. I don't know. I don't believe that number. But I mean, I would love to see this project be built. uh on all aspects with people that are from our local community whether that mean rockford stillman byron wherever they live but someone that's going to drive to a store here in rockford buy groceries you know send their kids to school in the area those are important aspects and it That if we have someone that comes from another part of Wisconsin, from Sheboygan, drives down every day, maybe buys gas here, probably not because it's cheaper in Wisconsin, and then just drives back home and spends her paycheck in Wisconsin, that doesn't do anything for me and the city of Rockford. So I truthfully, I'm going to vote for the PLA, and it's really frankly to get people back to the bargaining table to see this project move forward and not have this problem. fixed line in the sand that we need to get past. We need to get past calling on a variety of issues. And here you have some Republicans actually supporting a PLA, which is someone says, geez, why are you doing that? Because I care about Rockford. I care about the community. I care about the workers. And most importantly, I care about the safety of the workers. And I don't think that you can get that. And I don't even think, frankly, that in this community you're going to be able to find non-union workers that many to complete the job in the first place. So let's face it. It has to be completed or it will be completed with a lot of people from the union trades for a variety of reasons. And so I implore those involved to really  no matter what the vote is, to work together and come up with a resolution. And it may take some modification on both sides. And if that's what it takes, good, because that's what we should do as politicians. We should be able to bend. We should be able to look each other in the eye and be upset with each other right now and then tomorrow have the courtesy and the professionalism to pick up the phone and have a conversation about this issue or another issue and move forward with our community. Thank you. Thank you. We've got a lot of speakers here. I think I got all the hands up. We're going to go Bonnie, then Durkee, then back to Logman. And I have a couple more lined up. Thank you, Mayor. So I just want to thank everyone around the horseshoe tonight for the thoughtful commentary, except for Alderperson Tarina, who... apparently did not listen to the prayer nor the mayor's cautionary words at the start of the meeting and um suggested that alderman logan and myself are lying and misleading the council when it as alderman frost just got done saying the salient point is when did we or the date rather is when did we see the actual project labor agreement and When did we see it and really when was it available to the public prior to that? I believe as early as maybe as the beginning of June. We had a we had a briefing with the mayor and staff and But still that's barely a month from from then until this date and it was only two weeks ago that we actually had a project labor agreement in front of us and I know I for one trusted that This issue was going to be Resolved and that the reason that we had not heard earlier about Building trades discontent is because building trades thought it would be resolved as well And it is sort of mind-bending to me that we have a state representative West having to bring this, you know land this plane and here in the in the final weeks before this gets to council and You know, I just also Don't appreciate alderman Torino just now making faces during alderman frost comments as well as during alderman Logan's. Thank you Okay, thanks Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I guess we're supposed to give our Union pedigree We we talk about Union and People on the horseshoe may find it interesting that this constitutional conservative is a member of AFSCME. Whoa. So that probably comes as a shock to you folks, but I am. And I was not brought up in a union family, but my daughter is CTU. I understand the power of unions, and I understand their importance. Just because you say no to a union doesn't make you anti-union, and I really dislike putting absolutes like that. Because it doesn't work that way. Because I say no to a union worker does not mean that I'm anti-union. We built a project. We had a commercial building, my practice, my partners and I, and we used a Wisconsin contractor to do that. That contractor asked us if we wanted to go non-union and save some money or go union and go local. At our expense we went Union and we went local because many of our patients and their husbands were out of work at the time interestingly The whole project got done and we had one element of our project and that was pulling some weird data cable I have no idea what what that meant And we couldn't find anybody to do it the general so you got a guy to do it who happened to be non-union And we got the rat. I'll never forget that and We got the rat. So we did all we did, and we didn't pick the guy. The GC did it, and no one else was available. Our electrical contractor didn't do that work. So we couldn't find anybody. We got the rat. So it's not always smiley with unions. There's some struggle there. I also am not the union I'm in has to do with being a state employee. I'm not in a doctor union, okay? I think my quality of work is pretty good. Frosty is not in a lawyer union. All the men, Frost is not in a lawyer union. I think I've listened to him, and even to his great points, and I was with him with talking with the developer. And Frost is a wise guy, and he does great work, and he does great work for the council. He's not in a union. Union doesn't necessarily always equate to quality. I worked on construction. I saw union guys, and sometimes they don't do such good work. Work is not the union. Work is the individual. The individual makes the difference. Pride in your work, pride in workmanship. It has nothing to do with being in a union. But I am supportive of our local unions. I'm supportive of our local businesses, 100%. I know the mayor and I walked the plank to try to get home rule here. One of the elements of home rule is we could provide points for local construction companies here in all of our projects. That got voted down in Rockford. We walked that plank, and it got shot down. So I get it. I get it. But I also get this. The weakest of arguments is to basically say we've always done it that way. I get we've never done PLAs as a city. Don't know why that is that we just do it But the one thing that we do need is we don't have developers beaten down the door to do big projects like this in the city of Rockford They just don't come our way and the one thing developers need to see and I've articulated this before As it relates to the redevelopment of downtown and new urbanism the one thing developers and outside folks who come into town and invest in this town need is consistency and They need to know what to expect when they come here. They need to know what's going to happen. And when we, as a council, get involved in something I agree with my colleagues, this should have been done by the developer. We shouldn't be doing this. We should not be negotiating a development contract on the council floor. That should have already been taking place. I don't think this is our role. The developer does need the flexibility to make a project go. We are in uncertain times. Will the Fed raise the interest rates two more points? A couple more points, and to tell you the truth, with margins on some construction projects, it could kill stuff. Supply chains are not working. This developer has to navigate some very shaky waters, and this developer is the one that's taking the risk. We are, as a council, with taxpayer money, but either way, these buildings have got to come down. So whether we expend it with the developer, we expend it otherwise, the buildings need to come down. And they need to come down for the reasons we've heard. And the project is great because it is pushing west of the river. And it's developing places that we need to develop. We built the South Main project to the roadway to attract this very type of development. And so the developer, if somebody shows up, takes a risk, proposes a project, And I think adding the PLA causes even more shifting sand for the developer. And so what do you do? The vast majority of these jobs are going to be local. Did you see, I saw the price of gas today in driving. It was premium. But it's $4.74. $4 a second. Who's going to drive gas? 50 60 miles every day for how many how many weeks they're gonna blow their paycheck in gasoline and transportation These projects will be local. The projects will be our men and women. I don't know that there is that many You know Non-union shops in town that have the capacity to bid. I don't know what that is or not. I But the, so I am not in favor of causing more shifting sand. I'm in favor of being consistent as a city. That's important to developers, it's important to come from the outside. We need outside money, outside developers to do this. So I'm not in favor of causing more shifting sand for the developer. I'm in favor of predictability. I am in favor of our unions. I am in favor of our local workers. Because I am saying no to the PLA does not mean I am anti-union, because some days we just don't get everything we want. We will get locally and union the vast majority of these contracts. So thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Logeman. Then I've got a couple more. I just want to say insinuating your colleagues are liars on the council floor, Alderman Tarina, is a heavy charge. Thank you. Okay. Alderman Rose. Thank you. I couldn't agree with Alderman Durkee more. I think honestly the role of government is to create an environment that is friendly to workers and that includes developers. You've got to have that environment that is going to attract development to your area and I think all of us probably received a bunch of phone calls on that this week. And I just kind of want to put it out there. You know, Alderman Frost, you put up a good speech there on, you know, how pro-union you are on this project. I wish you were like that all the time because we would agree on so much more. But, you know, when the same person put forth the Rauner agenda, who led the legislative lobbying effort for the Rauner agenda, I just don't buy it. don't. I think it's a bunch of bull. You guys know it. You know that the potential to lose this project is huge. You don't want it. So vote for the PLA. And so I'm just going to call it like how I see it. I don't see someone who supports Rauner, the biggest anti-labor person who put forth that effort here at the city. You did. It's going to go out and say, oh yeah, I'm pro-union. I don't buy that one bit. And I'm going to even take it farther. I'm going to challenge my colleagues, if they're for this, that they make a commitment to a PLA on every future project moving forward. Make that commitment. I'll vote with you on this PLA. Okay. We've got a lot of people talking. I didn't mean it that way. Maybe I did. Alderman Bailey. Alderman Bailey. And did someone else have hands up over here? no okay all the members this is healthy debating discussion because i love all you guys i look forward to getting to know my gop comrades over there you know i've worked with logerman i agree with durkee said and i'm i'm not against unions but we got to reach a point in this process because i believe both sides want this project to happen we know the community wants it to happen but this on this agreement shouldn't be occurring here in this chamber. I'm sorry. It shouldn't. Everybody's made some excellent points. I come from a program that was successful in Ohio, where we partnered with majority companies. We need that kind of cooperation on projects. We know the challenges that we face, but if the company doesn't have the capacity or doesn't know how to grow, then we need to figure something out. But this debate... On the PLA, on city council floor, that should be between the developer and the union. Clear and simple. You know, and I hope that folks who are going to be voting on this, that you vote your conscience. Really. Because we're going around talking about making faces. I'm like, what kind of bullshit is that? Looking forward to getting to know you. But we got to stop this debate here on council floor and let the negotiations take place between the developer and... and the union. Alderman Bailey, I'll just remind you, your pastor's right there. Oh, yeah. Sorry about that. Get kind of emotional. Alderman Beach, ahead of county. So I am really proud of our city of Rockford. And I've had the privilege of being down here a few years. And I've seen a lot of development in Rockford, big development in Rockford. All of the airports, aerospace industry, We went out on a limb for the UPS. We didn't have a dollar in our pocket, and we voted for it because we thought it was the right thing to do. And now we're number two in the nation as far as that industry. The thing that bothers me, Your Honor, is all the people that called me, the one thing they said is, if you don't, then we lose. In other words, if this group of older persons not vote or votes for the PLA, then the project's over. And that's where I agree it shouldn't be in this council chamber discussing it. It should have been done when that agreement came before us, that roughly 400-page agreement that we had somewhere about a month ago, but not quite a month ago. I know when we got it, I know that we were invited, a few of us, to come into your office. to meet with the developer. We only had a few days to go through that agreement, try to develop some intelligent questions about what's going on. But I'll tell you the truth, my dear friends around this Council, I don't like the idea that if I vote, which I intend to do, for that labor agreement, that this kills the project. That bothers me, that that kind of pressure is brought to bear to this Council. It's not right. And I have to believe in my heart that if this passed tonight, it's not going to kill this project. We're smart enough around this place to get together and try to make it work, to make the compromises that were talked about around this horseshoe here. And if we don't know how to do that, then we have a problem. But I don't mean to belabor it. You've heard discussions tonight, and I'm grateful you'll allow me to speak on this, Your Honor. And I know that what we do, we do because we think it's the right thing to do, regardless of how we vote. Thank you, sir. Alderman Toomer. Thank you, Mayor. Again, my point from my earlier, when I bloviated for a few minutes, that, and again, Alderman Bailey touched on that, as did a few others. This is, in my eyes, again, case study in a college course as... situation That moved along but didn't move along in the capacity That I think we that it could have and we find ourselves in this situation In respect to alderman Rose on the PLA is going forth. I don't find ourselves to be in the situation Where that's gonna even happen. I hope any other time than this I It may, no guarantees. But again, we find our local contractors, whether that's Scandrolli, Stenstrom, Sjostrom, et cetera, this stuff's worked out beforehand. We don't find ourselves in this position. And those contractors, developers, with the local labor, have hashed all that stuff out. And so I don't... And I did receive some calls too that this is gonna end, this is gonna set a precedence that every project going forward is gonna have a PLA on it. Simply not true. This stuff is hashed out where this PLA stuff isn't even required and we're not even involved in it. Where this breakdown happened along the way I don't know. Well, I have gotten sides of the stories. But my point is, is that given the development agreement five days before we were supposed to vote on it, without this hashed out, again, is an issue that I have. And I think all of us around here, all 14 of us have. Thank you. Thank you. I just want to make a comment on that. I can't recall a development since I've been on council Either as an alderman sitting in your same chair or now this chair any item that's ever come to me That's already had the PLA completed. I just want that to be super clear. That's not typically how the city has done Alderman front Thank You mayor Implied a few times First of all, I'm sorry, let me back up. I just want to take this opportunity to thank the staff for the work that went into this. I've heard implied perhaps, perhaps I misread what they've said a couple of times that somehow the folks that we trust to put in front of us on a weekly basis, millions and millions of dollars, we trust them every week. I signed a little piece of paper or a few pieces of paper that say, it's okay to pay these people, you've done your part, it's okay. So I do want to just applaud them and thank them for the effort. They did not fail me, they did not fail to answer my questions when I was in the office. I HAD COMMUNITY MEMBERS ASK ME QUESTIONS AND I EITHER TOOK THEM TO THEM OR GAVE THEM TO THE COMMUNITY, GAVE THE COMMUNITY PEOPLE TO THEM AND THEY CONNECTED. I ALSO WANT TO THANK ALDER WOMAN TERINA BECAUSE I started learning about this at her ward meeting. So it was available to us. It was available to the community. They've been transparent. So when I look at this and I say, I heard when I'm reading this, it says that the developer will sign a labor agreement acceptable to the Northwestern Illinois building trades covering all construction to be performed on the project. That sounds like a line to me. Somebody said this is a line in the sand. That sounds like a line in the sand. And I'm hearing this thing that says this should have been done between them beforehand. Well, our role is to agree on the development and let them do this work. Let those, Labor and Jeffers, do this thing. I appreciate the work that you all have done. I hope, because I keep saying to myself, now if this dies, who benefits? Who benefits from the death of this project? So thank you all, and thank you for listening, and thank you, Alderman Tarinas. Thank you, staff. You put forth great effort every single week to make sure that we are aware, that we have the information, that nothing is hidden from us. So I appreciate that. Thank you. Alderman Rose? Yeah, I just want to make one final statement. You know, Alderman... Thunberg brought up that this stuff doesn't happen with local contractors and you know, these kind of deals aren't brought to us like this Listen every every, you know development is different, right? It really is and that's why I assume that you know, that's why alderman Thunberg and alderman frost won't commit to future PLAs on the question that I asked but I think one of the things to take into consideration is when we sit when we're comparing developers and say well you know this doesn't happen with so strum and all in our local contractors they had a chance to do this project they could have done this they've had 30 years they've had 30 years to do this project So I guess that's my comparison is we've been waiting for this project for 30 years and not a single one of them had stepped up to the plate. And I'm not pointing at an error on them. Mr. Jeffers saw an opportunity and he took it. And, you know, I want to just say thank you for coming to our community and listening to us and trying to manage this project. I know no development is perfect. We're trying to nitpick this project into something that's perfect. They're never perfect. Even with PLAs, they're never perfect. Even with them. And so I think, you know, giving him some grace, allowing for competition. Competition. Isn't that what the American way is about? Competition. Allowing for competition to come to our city and say, hey, we got a new developer coming here. By the way, maybe another one will come. Maybe another one will come. And you know what that does? That saves on construction costs for future projects because you then have competition taking place where people have to bid and compete. I know as Republicans, you guys stand for competition. That's what they say, at least. I'm just going to put it out there. But I'm going to stop. I'm not going to make any more comments because I think we've hit this one with a dead horse. And I think Rockfordians know that. What's going on here tonight? It's been all put out on the table and I'm just looking forward to see how this vote goes other Comments we got Bonnie Bailey. Was there other comments? Bonnie Thank You mayor again. I just I guess I want to make Reiterate the point that this is this is not about having more questions and this is not about having information before us Months ago, of course we did the whole pump the all the public did what was not before us was the development agreement and the knowledge that this was proceeding without a PLA and this is about the council having the ability to have input and shape a material part of this agreement and and not being told that we have to accept it as is, word for word, or reject it. That's what this amendment is about. And in addition, I guess as somebody who started life as a Catholic, I forgive Alderman Frost for his... transgressions with the rounder turnaround agenda and you know I guess I think it's unfortunate that his Kevin Kevin will you save a seat for me next to you I you know I just I just don't like I just don't think it's fair to be questioning his motives like that for work for why he is has the position he has tonight thank you thanks alderman Bailey oh I'm sorry There is a solution, like Alderman Beach said. I mean, I've seen it. I've participated in it. And both sides want to get this done. I firmly believe that. But I firmly believe that there's a solution to this great debate that we're having here in the community because it's all about the future of our community. So with that, I'm through for the night. We're just getting started. Alderman Meeks. I have not spoken all night. This is my first time and I feel like I'm in a movie called Freaky Friday and everything is just all shaken up right now. But I feel like at the end of the day, if we put this vote out to the community as a whole, then we would be voting for this development without a PLA. And we would all encourage both parties to do what they always do, which is come together and figure this out. Something that will benefit everyone. that will bring the minority numbers that we need and bring this development to our city. I'm not going to sit here, I'm not going to call anybody liars. The passion and the speeches were lacking. They did seem a little scripted. But at the end of the day, we all are here, we all have to make a vote, we all have to make a decision on how we move forward, and that's what we're all going to do. There was others. So Alderman Thunberg. Thank you. Mine was off the cuff, by the way, so. Okay. Thank you. Other discussion? Only item I wanted to add to this was appreciated all the women in front of you, your comments about staff. Since becoming mayor, I have  I'll just be upfront. When I came in, I was not aware of the tremendous staff that the city had. Okay. The amount of time and energy that is went into all the work that comes before us in a very Six page agenda doesn't seem like a lot But the amount of work from every floor in here and in numerous dozens of other buildings outside This city It's all done by really amazing people who care about their community. I will say my frustration does get the better of me. I am a McNamara after all and I will just say reading things like it's been negotiated poorly this or that it's a little frustrating because we as legislators we decide the tools that we allow the city of Rockford staff to negotiate with and as we decide those tools to have our staff negotiate with we actually give them approvals to do that or we don't give them approvals to do that. If that's a TIF that was approved previously, if that is enterprise funding, if that is using American Rescue Plan Act dollars, those decisions come from this body. So we have provided the staff the tools, which ones we want them to use. And also in essence, we have told them which tools they don't need to use. And I would say, I mean, when we presented the American Rescue Plan Act dollar, Rescue American Rescue Plan Act funds in the plan and slated money for Barbara Coleman. A project labor agreement mandate was not mentioned when it went to committee. It was not mentioned in private, personal or private meetings all the way up until June 26. It was not mentioned on any other development. We as a group have worked hard on. It has not been mentioned. I honestly have bombarded you all with calls. I can confidently say no one in this room inside this horse sheet is against the PLA. I think we can confidently say we all, I sure as heck, I'll say hack a pastor. I sure as heck, uh, would have slept a lot better in the last two weeks if we had one done already. I can't recall a development agreement coming before this body that it already had been done. I may have missed one, but I can't recall that we are where we're at. And, uh, an alderman said you know they make this vote and then they lose i look at this as the southwest side has already lost they have lost not because of you guys not i'm not because of you guys but because of i'll say people like me and my position uh and others i'm not blaming any previous mayors i'm just saying we as a community have not said that's not acceptable Because it isn't acceptable in any of our neighborhoods. It just isn't. Know this. It wouldn't be acceptable in our neighborhoods unless our neighborhoods had the same makeup that that neighborhood has. It just wouldn't. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to go like that. But I will just say, again, a sincere thank you to the City of Rockford staff for the amount of time that they have put into negotiating this deal. It is not perfect. I will say I will be the first in line if the PLA goes down. I will be the first in line person to talk to Brian from J. Jeffers to get his behind, Pastor, get his behind in a meeting with the trades to continue to work towards a PLA. It would make all of our lives better. I agree with that. We don't have that luxury at this time. Are there other comments from comes? Other woman, Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I had a question for... Administrator Cagnoni, my question is I'd like for you to answer the question. Does council's vote tonight, if we agree to this PLA mandate, does that kill this deal? I'm sorry. Just that question. I'll get you with it, baby. Can I soft roll into that in the spirit of not blaming anyone? Council can approve or deny any development agreement that comes before them. And I would echo the Mayor's statement that there should be no surprise that there's not a PLA agreement or mandate within this existing development agreement, because they're not an adopted policy or practice of having those within a development agreement, but certainly within your authority to address whatever amendments you think are appropriate. But we have discussed this possibility with the developer, and the developer does not agree to an amendment to mandate a project labor agreement. And yes, the project will not move forward if that is mandated. And that may not be completely in control of the developer. The developer's not anti-union. The developer's not anti-PLA. But if it's mandated, it does become a one-sided discussion. In addition, it's going to negatively impact their capital stack and the financial approvals that have already taken place. So they will be starting over. They'll be starting over in regards to securing their capital stack. They would be starting over in regards to going out to bids with a different set of requirements. And they would be starting over in identifying what the gap is to move the project forward. So as the development and the project is currently proposed, does it kill it? Yes. Because the developer has already informed us they will not be in a position to sign the development agreement and we'll have to go through those steps. Okay, thank you. I'm not done talking. Okay. I want to thank city staff and my council colleagues for a lot of in-depth and rich discussion tonight on such a pivotal moment for the future of our city. When I campaigned to sit in this seat, one of the first things I did was I began circulating a survey to residents asking them, what change do you want to see for our ward? The resounding feedback was to do something about that old factory on South Main. When I knocked on doors to speak with residents face-to-face, I asked them how Barbara Coleman made them feel. And the words, left behind, were said to me and they hit my heart like a brick. From that day, my campaign slogan became, Southside No Longer Left Behind. Because it was my commitment to my residents that I would try my best to ensure that our side of town would no longer be left behind from resources, investment, and prosperity. To quote a prominent member of our clergy, Barbara Coleman has sat vacant for 22 years as an open wound to our community. A wound that our city, our out-of-town guests, and those that live nearby must experience the pain of daily. But what we know is that if this address was 7801 East State Street, where the once-abandoned Clock Tower Resort stood, or 1639 North Alpine Road, the Edgebrook Center, a structure in the middle of a neighborhood in a main thoroughfare, or at 4747 Harrison Avenue, where the bustling factory campus of Collins Aerospace resides, we wouldn't be having this conversation. Because I'm certain that under no circumstance would any of these epicenters sit vacant and dilapidated the way Coleman has for decades. Let's even put size into perspective. The most significant vantage point is building five, the largest building in the Coleman structure, which directly faces South Main Street. We're not just talking about one building. This is an entire campus of structures, which equals 20 standard-sized football fields. Soldier Field itself sits on seven acres. Garber Coleman is 26. Do the math and use your imagination. We as a city talk about transformation, transform Rockford, Rockford Promise, being a top 25 city, creative murals, passenger rail from Rockford to Chicago. I believe in and have supported all of these things. But if we really want to attract people here, the most prominent structure you see upon exiting US 20 cannot be a mangy campus of buildings that represents division, pain, and local leadership that don't make good decisions. This council has cast many votes for several positive efforts to move our city in the right direction, but they're relatively small in comparison to this moment. We have an opportunity tonight to do something big and significant. We cannot choke on the one vote that makes the most sense. This vote is the sole driver for so much more than our community can be. So I ask you tonight to not stifle the progress our city deserves. Do not allow this abandoned structure that has perpetually haunted our city continue to serve as a reminder and a mockery of what we as a council will not do. If you make the wrong decision tonight, you do not get to do so quietly. The repercussions of this are that this community has been a part of this project from the very beginning. Their voices have been heard and they will remember. All of us get to witness tonight who votes for and against transformation. I did not attend law school, but common sense tells me that I can't attempt to mandate something I actually have no power over. Common sense tells me I cannot support a contract that I've never even seen. Project labor agreements are work contracts established between a developer and organized labor. I have sat on this council and abstained from votes from my personal friends for board appointments, zoning changes, and program funding. So since I have accepted money from labor, it isn't in my ethical purview to take money from them and in exchange vote on an agreement that is solely in their interests and potentially disadvantages any non-union minority contractors that may reside in my ward. To be placed in this position is preposterous in nature, and it's no coincidence that those who brought forth the PLA were funded almost entirely by the unions. And I ask the trades, why do you think you deserve 100% of this project? Why is 70% of a $400 million project insufficient? You're talking about a development that sits in Southwest Rockford, which is predominantly black and Latino. So what have you done to change the makeup of minorities in your workforce? What has been your commitment to change that? And who is holding you accountable? Should we as a city create quotas for you to do business and then make those 100% enforceable as well? We've continued to look at this capital stack for this project. Where are the union pension funds to help back up the demands for your participation? What are you willing to risk in this investment? You haven't done enough to create a real pipeline to diversify your workforce. I keep hearing the trades have and want to diversify, but where is the evidence of that before now? Where are blacks on your job sites? Where are the flyers? Where are the posts, the phone calls, the text messages asking for black aldermen to assist you in your DEI work? Because there seems to be great communication strategy for trades to have a PLA on this project, but none when it comes to being intentional about finding workers of color. And no, I am not anti-labor, and I will not accept that voting no for this PLA mandate makes me against labor. And I have acknowledged that I have received your support, But as an alderman, it is my responsibility to make decisions that position Rockford for long-term success, not just to acquiesce to the demands of people that think they deserve every piece of the pie. And two things can be true at the same time. I can be supportive of the trades, and I can also be critical of them. And my criticisms are rooted in validity, data, and brutal facts. Our local trades have claimed they cared about seeing qualified minority skilled workers for years, but your recruitment efforts have been lackluster. For those of you advocating for the trades to have such a key role in this project, please keep that same energy and level of passion to see that the diversity in trades reflects the demographics of this community. The immensity of this project being terminated for all the wrong reasons will have profound consequences. Requiring a project labor agreement at this juncture inadvertently ties the city's hands in a way that is not only detrimental to this project, but also disrupts opportunities and the likelihood that other developers would come forward with future proposals. The ripple effects on others that may want to do business in our community will result in continued lost opportunities for decades. Requiring a PLA mandate for this project would be strangling ourselves with our own hands. What seems to be at the heart of this demand is that the same people that keep getting everything want to keep getting everything. But who will fight for the people when the self-indulgent have become absorbed in ego, personal interest in capitalism? I want to apologize to the residents of the Fifth Ward and the entire city that the conversation lately has shifted away from what's best for you, but you were never forgotten. I will continue to have your back. This project to me is and will always be about creating the best life for our residents. i am confident in this council and the decision that we're going to make tonight i believe that life for us is about to change the south side will no longer be left behind and south ralph will finally get what it deserves bustling industry market rate housing, activation of our riverfront, not having to drive to the other side of town for resources, and a day when we can encourage people to live, work, play, and invest in our side of town because of all that we have to offer. Vote no for a PLA mandate and vote yes to a fair and inclusive development agreement that the city has presented to us. We have the power tonight to create a beautiful, cutting-edge Rockford and to support a redevelopment that preserves and honors our history at the same time Southwest Rockford has suffered long enough. Thank you Alderman we have one item right now. We have the amendment on item Roman numeral 7 a war alderman Bonnie. Do you have more question comments questions more comment? Yeah, I So this is now the second time Alderperson Tarina has called some of us liars. I anticipated this question, answered it for Kevin Haas from the Rock River Current before we stepped into this meeting. I can only speak for myself. I raised nearly $24,000 in my campaign for this seat, which I believe is more than anyone else at this horseshoe. Less than $10,000 of that came from the building trades. So to suggest that a majority, which I believe, I haven't done the math, but I believe that's less than 40%, to suggest that the majority of my funding came from the building trades is a bold-faced lie. Thank you. Any other discussion on the amendment that's before us? Okay, so, counsel, the item that you have before you... Item that you have before you is an amendment. The amendment states the developer will sign a project labor agreement acceptable to the northwest, northwestern Illinois building trades covering construction to be performed on the project. Clerk, will you please call the vote? Durkee. No. Ogerman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. No. Beach. No. Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie I Seven I six knows so at this time. I am going to hold out items seven a one through five as our developer Has not agreed to the existing contract that's now before them so I will hold out items a1 through five We now will go to officers reports. Is there any council member who has a report? Only report I have is that Owen Carter, who works in our Health and Human Services Department, was appointed to the Rockford Park District Board And I just want you all to know that. I think it's very exciting. He certainly is most deserving of that appointment and went through what sounds like a very good process that had lots of people applying. And just thought you all should, would want to know that. Other one, Plenty? All right, sorry. Business has to continue. So we had award meeting this past week. I just want to thank Pastor Violet Jonaker and the Brook Row United Methodist Church and their community center and their new manager, Kristen Colton. Many thanks for hosting the Sixth Ward meeting. Just want to thank the plumbers and pipefitters who usually host but were unable due to a scheduling conflict. Hopefully we'll see you in October. Also would like to thank CHRIS TUMO FROM THE ROCKFORD FIRE DEPARTMENT, OFFICER MURPHY FROM THE ROCKFORD POLICE DEPARTMENT. I WANT TO THANK OUR STAFF, CARL FRANSON, KYLE SAUNDERS, AND TIM HINKINS. THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING A LOT OF THINGS FOR THE SIXTH WARD. THANK YOU, ALTERMAN HOFFMAN, FOR COMING TO THE SIXTH WARD MEETING. Just wanted to make a few announcements. The House of God Church is currently holding their camp in the 6th Ward. The Booker Fest is July 15th on the historic grounds of Booker Park. Representative Maurice West will be hosting a town hall meeting on Tuesday, July 18th. New Fellowship Missionary Baptist Church will be holding their back to school event on July 29th. And yeah, I think that's it. Thank you, everyone. Oh, I'm sorry. That is not it. I'm so sorry. St. Edward's Church will be holding their Summerfest on July 30th, and the 8th Ward, I will be participating in that, will be holding its Multicultural Festival on September 9th. Thank you. Any other reports? Seeing none, we'll keep going. We have one appointment before you. Well, actually, you have numerous appointments before you. You have seven appointments before you. Only one is up, so that first appointment is up, appointment of Mary Cassiope to the Community Action Agency Board for a three-year term to fill a private sector vacancy. Pursuant to Rule 18, this item is up. Is there any discussion on Mary Cassiope? Alderman Durkee? Just one thing your honor as you know, I was never much in favor of the oh wait No, this is yeah, the Community Action Board was never in favor of it. Although I'm in favor the Human Rights. Oh, this is me relations. Come on. Never mind. You've long been in favor of this one Oh, yeah an excellent choice, by the way Yeah, this is a funny meeting um all those in favor say aye those opposed, okay, I Right alone We'll go to motions and resolutions. We have code and regulation committee and we have one item and back to all the woman Trina Thank You Your Honor hard rock hard rock consent to ground lease resolution authorizing the city to consent to the sale of the land located at 7801 East State Street and 273 South Lyford Road Rockford 815 entertainment I Illinois limited liability company the assignment of all the ground lessees rights Title and interest in and to the ground leads by a 1 5 entertainment lessee table 5 entertainment excellent anyone have any questions on item? B 1 no clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Logoman Toomer frost Serena fronty Hoffman Rose Beach Berrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 thank you that item passes. I know we have Representatives of local hard rock here, and I just want to say thank you For your continued partnership and commitment to the community at scene and appreciate it Next we'll have go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you. I remember one the committee recommends approval of a bid for police vehicles equipment and installation to ultra strobe communications of Crystal Lake the amount of 261 thousand two hundred ninety two dollars the funding sources the capital lease fund police department capital budget number two The committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for printing services to balls Lee printing of rock and Meridian printing of Luz Park and 11th Street printing of rockford for an estimated annual amount of forty thousand dollars and The contract duration is for two years with a three with three possible one-year extension The funding sources are the department operating budgets. I place those two matters before you come to got two items before you any discussion on those two items Please call the roll turkey logan timber frost Serena fronty Hoffman Rose Beach Rios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes Excellent next we have alderwoman Trina for code and regulation committee An ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace and Dickerman Drive to 45 feet south of Dickerman Drive Must repeal you know two-hour parking residential permit parking restrict is on the east side of Indian Terrace from Dickerman Drive it's a 45 feet south of Dickerman Drive and ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm and Number three, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm. Oh, we'll say at least the first one, the address is 5305 35th Street. This, the address is 525 North Coral Pond Avenue. An ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm at 47 North Rockton Avenue. Number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm At 1800 Oglebay Road, number six, an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from R1 single-family residential zoning district at C3 General Commercial Zoning District, 4908 South Main Street. Number seven, an ordinance approving a text amendment of the City of Rockford zoning ordinance. All properties in an R1 single-family residential district with gravel driveways or gravel parking lots legally established shall conform to the regulations contained in Section 50-013A by the ordinance... of this ordinance on November 1st, 2024. That's enough for that one. Number eight, an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to change business hours from Tuesday through Thursday 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Friday, 11 to midnight, Saturday 9 a.m. to midnight, Sunday 9 to 11, provide live music in conjunction with the restaurant, tavern, and video gaming terminals. Number nine, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store and a gas station, 3005 North Rockton Avenue. 10 in ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the convenience store and a gas station 3005 North Roxton Avenue item 11 in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink and the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the craft brewery and a C for Urban mixed-use zoning district at 125 North Madison Street and 12 in ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the grocery store in a C for urban mixed-use zoning district at 325 West State Street and all right council got 12 items before you any discussion any amendments anyone wants to make no please call the roll turkey logan tunberg frost terena frunty hoffman rose beach barrios nicks bailey bonnie element frost I am number 113 eyes and M 2311 eyes when no item for 12 eyes 1 no item 511 eyes to nose and of 613 eyes item 7 6 7 eyes 6 nose and M's 8 9 10 11 13 eyes item 12 12 eyes 1 no All items passed. Thank you. No, there's still. What was item seven? Item seven. Only had seven votes. Does not pass. Aye. That makes. Mayor's vote is eight. Item passes. So giving you a Christmas present after a long meeting. No closed session tonight. So is there a motion? Someone? So moved. Is there. All those in favor? Aye. Those opposed? Aye.