I'll take a motion to appoint Alderman Wilkins as the mayor of Polktown for tonight's meeting. The motion is second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All opposed say nay. Nay. Motion carries. All right. Thank you, Nick. Clerk, will you please? I'm sorry. I'd like to call to order the City Council special meeting for Monday, July 15, 2024. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Dirkie here logan man Toomburg cross Karina here Yeah, Wilkins here Hoffman here Rose present Beach here Here meeks here Bailey Bonnie here 14 present. Thank you. Well jump down to new business ordinances We don't have anything under planning and development or codes and regs so we'll skip to finance and personnel which has one item and An ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement between the Rockford Public Library and AFMI, local 3350, effective January 1st, 2024, through December 31st, 2026. And we'll ask that we suspend Rule 9. So moved. Second. Any discussion? Questions? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey? Aye. Lovamen? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Aye. Patsy? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? This is on rule nine, correct? Yes. Yes. Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? No. Aye. 13 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Now we'll move it open for discussion for this item. Do we have any questions or comments? Other roommates was there a need to do the suspend rule 9 is there are we trying to do the moving this along? I The library board our chief negotiator to suspend rule 9 historically we have since I've been with the city Suspended rule and on all of our contracts and gone right right to the council. That's correct. Yep, so I know that this particular Contract negotiation was very lengthy and I know the parties took their time to get to the resolution That's I'm sure now they would like to move it along as quickly as possible to make sure that the THE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEES RECEIVE THEIR WAGE INCREASES SOONER OR LATER. WHAT WERE THE FINAL NUMBERS? THIS IS A THREE-YEAR CONTRACT. IT'S COVERED 24, 25, 26. THE FIRST YEAR OF THE CONTRACT HAS A BIT OF A SPLIT. THE WAGE INCREASES RANGE FROM 7% TO 10% IN 2024 DEPENDING ON LENGTH OF SERVICE AND CURRENT HOURLY WAGE FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES. AND THEN IT GOES TO 5% IN 25 AND 5% IN 26. I'll point out that this succeeds a previous contract that covered five years from 2019 to 2023. And in those years, of those five years, two years the represented employees took 0% wage increases. In 2020 it was at 2%. And then 1% in 2020. 22 and 23. So over the last five years, certainly their wages have stagnated. If you look at the actual wages, they're relatively low comparatively to a lot of organizations. So I'm not surprised to see a contract that would be maybe higher than what you typically see based on previous contracts. THERE IS SOME LANGUAGE IN THERE AS WELL ABOUT IN ADDITION TO WAGE INCREASES, THE LIBRARY HAVING A BETTER ABILITY TO STAFF AND ASSIGN PERSONNEL TO SUNDAY HOURS TO MAKE IT EASIER FOR THEM TO NAVIGATE THOSE SO THEY'RE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC ON THOSE DAYS. COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS? OTHERWISE? YEAH, JUST A QUICK QUESTION. A CIRCUMSTANCE THAT CAME UP WHERE I BELIEVE THE EMPLOYEES HAD TO SCHEDULE THEIR OWN NARCAN TRAINING. And I was curious if there was, you know, the issue came up around staff trainings and also safety plans. Were those amended or taken care of within the new contract? Sure. I guess I could take a step back and just predicate. Our council is required to approve this contract, but it's with the library employees. The City of Rockford staff does not negotiate the contract. Right. As a chief negotiator, the Board of Trustees approves it, and they are represented here tonight. But I do, I know vaguely of some issues that popped up. There is in here language setting up a safety committee, a safety health committee, yes. Okay, just wanted to make sure. Yep. Thank you. Alderman Meeks. Thank you so much. I just want to what do you mean when you say required to approve? Can you help me understand that so? is since I've been with the city before that although we don't negotiate the contract with the library employees because they're employed by the library to the trustees Steve Rockford as a taxing body for the trustee or responsible of the taxes are also responsible to pass the ordinance that approves the collective bargaining agreement so although we don't negotiate it we could I guess step in and assist in that process we have not in the past done that but the contract has always come to City Council for final approval Any other? Alderman Punte. Thank you. I know that we are the taxing body. Does, obviously, if they chose these numbers, the money is there for, are we going to be asking taxpayers for something else? I'm not certain whether the library board is going to be seeking an increase in their levy this year or not. I know they've done a good job of keeping that flat for a period of time based on our requests as well, but I'm not certain if there's going to be a request to increase that based on these changes. I have another one, but I want to hear somebody else. Finish your thought. No. Okay. Alderman Frost. Thank you. So, Mr. Meyer, just so I'm clear, you did not negotiate the contract at all? No, I did not negotiate the contract. And the contract was negotiated between the trustees of the library and their union representatives, and they came to an accord and agreement, which we're about to approve, correct? That's correct. Okay. Thank you. Adam and Bonnie. Thank you. So if there if there were a levy request that also comes to council for final approval Yes, yes I was also wondering I mean we've done this in the past since its committee if we could if The anybody here for the library would want to speak to this or answer questions I don't think there's any pending questions. I guess the levy question is a pending question I'm gonna turn to Ms. Carey The library did take the increase on the property tax levy that was approved last fall. and So they their levy did increase City Council approves both their levy and their appropriation. They don't have independent levy and appropriation authority from the city But their board makes those decisions the city does not financially support the library in any way outside of just approving that annual levy and appropriation and they are you know when we look at a The city has a wide mix of funding available to pay for our operations, including a variety of tax revenues and other fees and charges for services. The library is very much so restricted almost exclusively to property taxes to pay for their operations. I'm not sure and maybe I don't want to, this answers the six word older person's question, which I think was whether or not in order to support this contract the library is planning on a levy increase. Is that? That happened already. Well. Yes. A increase was approved for collection this year. So the property taxes that were paid in June and will be paid in September were an increase over the previous year. I don't know what the Board will approve going forward. That's up to the Board to determine. But, you know, as far as options to pay for increases in costs, the Library has very few at their disposal. So. So that's my question to the Library representatives, if they could answer that. you're on thank you my name is uh jamie getchis i'm the secretary treasurer of the uh library board uh so a couple broader things on that. The contract obviously does come with more of a cost, right? We're going from a very accommodating contract where there's been very minimal wage increases over the last five years to something that adjusts the pay to essentially the fair cost of labor right now if you look at what's going on. We have not raised our levy as a library in over 11 years, so it's been flat for over a decade. During that time, we have closed two library branches, we have eliminated two different wage classes of personnel, and we have reduced management staff to the point that there are no assistant directors, and my finance director is dual-hatted as my IT director. So we're running a pretty bare-bones operation right now. Would I expect to be potentially becoming To the City Council requesting a levy increase potentially this year next year. The answer that question is yes However, this contract is not the tipping point on that and that'll be a discussion. I'm very willing to have in the future It's just looking forward. We have now just opened a new library Okay, so the costs of maintaining that are greater than the temporary building that we were in and And then additionally, we'll look to adjust staff accordingly. Happy to have those discussions. I think that sort of regardless of where that goes, I think that this, the contract is separate of that. But just since the topic has come up, there has been significant amounts of cost reductions that we have done over the past decade, while at the same time we've been... kept the levy flat for, you know, since I was sitting in second board chair, so. Clarify then, the anticipated levy increase you're saying is not the contract, is not the tipping point, it's going to be the cost of operating the new library? Cost of, uh, And many costs, right? So you have the cost of the new library with the maintenance costs, the cost of a maintenance plan, capital plan for our existing branches, which we don't have, costs of labor going forward. We'll definitely look to probably expand our managerial footprint. Once again, I personally feel we're understaffed managerially. Once again, I've got finance and IT dual-headed as a trustee. I'm not comfortable with that. However, you know, once again, those are things that we'll talk about. And yes, this does play into it, but at the same time, you know, there's no way I can continue that I would be able to attract the people that I need to help staff the library if I don't make the wage adjustments that are in the contract that's in front of you. Any other questions? Alderman Prenti. You can but I just asked that you speak into the mic. Okay. So, thank you I think I heard attorney Meyer say something about Increased hours to include Sunday hours. Can you elaborate on that? I believe I can clarify my understanding of the contract is it's it's greater flexibility to assign workers to the Sunday hours So they have a better ability to serve people. I don't that means it's increasing the nap and Mr. Gantz can clarify that. Yeah, so right now that's something, right now we don't have in our plans to look at. This contract makes it so that it is much easier to do so. Under previous contracts, although there was some provisions for Sunday hours, you would have required a Cray computer to figure out how to actually do that. It was just, it was prohibitive, right? And so now in these negotiations, we made it to the point there's a very straightforward process to offering Sunday hours, and we have discussed what that would look like maybe at one or two different locations going forward to help better meet the needs of our Constituents. Thank you Thank you so much. I just wanted I don't think this is a question but There's a difference in this library than the other libraries. There's a whole event space, right? So that allows for events to come in revenue additional revenue that will come into the library. Would that be correct? I SECRETARY POMPEO That is correct. Difficult for us to project that at this point. Right now we have passed a policy such that we're – You know, we've attempted to right-size what we would charge for that event space versus other like we don't want to be a competitor To other people now undercut other people that are in In the same at the same time don't want to over so we've got a policy and we're moving into that as a potential revenue source Wedding location. It's beautiful view and was looking at I THOUGHTS THERE. ADDITIONALLY, YOU KNOW, AND KIND OF GETTING BACK, I THINK THIS IS, YOU KNOW, TYING INTO SOME OF THE LEVY INCREASE QUESTIONS, ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT WE'LL LOOK AT IS, YOU KNOW, THE PERFORMANCE THAT WE'VE SEEN IN REPLACEMENT TAX REVENUE. WE'VE TAKEN A LOOK AT THAT. AS ALWAYS, AND I UNDERSTAND IT'S IN KEEPING WITH THE WILL OF THE COUNCIL, WE LOOK TO MINIMIZE ANY PROPERTY TAX BURDEN THAT WE PLACE ON THE PEOPLE. So if we do come to you asking for levy increase, it is something that we take incredibly seriously, haven't done in a long time. And my view of that would be to perform one or two levy increases, and then I picture us probably just leaving it alone again for another five, 10 years. And once we get it dialed in, we know where we're gonna be at, then I think that'll work well. But once again, more information on that will be provided when we're ready. Any other questions, comments? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Loganman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prachi. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. That item passes. Do I have a motion? What? Do I have a motion to adjourn? Do I have a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. All right, motion second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed, same sign. This meeting is adjourned.