So we will call to order the city of Rockford's regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, July 19th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Here. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Here. 14 present.
 Excellence we have a full house and a quorum this evening Next up we have a public hearing a public hearing on the franchise agreement with Comcast and
 So I will hereby call to order the public hearing on the proposed renewal of the cable television franchise agreement between the City of Rockford and Comcast of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio LLC, pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 546H. The City may accept or reject Comcast's proposal any time after affording the public adequate notice and opportunity for comment.
 Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on July 3rd, July 10th, and July 14th. That notice informed citizens of Rockford that the City of Rockford will hold a public hearing on Monday, July 19th, 2021 at 5.30 p.m. at City Hall, City Council Chambers 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois 61104.
 to provide interested parties an opportunity to express their views on the proposed renewal of the cable television franchise agreement between the City of Rockford and Comcast. The proposed agreement was made available for public review on the city's website, and members of the public were able to review the document in person by contacting the City of Rockford Legal Department.
 The franchise renewal process is governed by the Federal Cable Act of 1986. Interpretations of this law prohibits the city from regulating the broadband Internet service provided by Comcast over its system. Therefore, the public meeting will be restricted to comments concerning cable television service only. Municipalities are also prohibited from setting rates for service and specific programming under the Cable Act.
 Are there any questions or oral or written comments from the general public with regard to the proposed cable television franchise agreement? Any written or oral comments any public members would like to provide? Okay. Therefore, I will close and adjourn this public hearing. Thank you.
 Moving right along, we have an information-only item for a Head Start update. And I believe we have Lisa Warren, our Head Start Director, and Director Parham.
 Good evening. As promised a few weeks ago, I had indicated to council that we had recently received some data from Rockford Public Schools with regards to the performance of Head Start students. So our Head Start Director, Lisa Warren, is here this evening with me to present some of this information for you all. Right. So we're going to start. Children served in the Head Start and RPS collaboration classrooms.
 are the most at risk children in the community. Head Start is mandated really to identify through community assessments which children and which areas serve the neediest children and to concentrate our services there.
 You know, the collaboration with RPS is probably about 10 years old now. And we've had several different models. The earliest model was one where there was an RPS 205 certified teacher at a Head Start site in a Head Start classroom.
 But regardless of what the model is, they've all been based on the idea that children really will benefit from having two teachers in a classroom. One RPS certified teacher and one well-trained, experienced Head Start teacher.
 Currently, the model looks this way. There are about at Bayer Early Childhood Center we serve 284 children. We have four full day classrooms with 20 children in each of them. We have 10 part day classrooms with 17 children in the a.m. session and 17 in the p.m. session.
 and we have four family support staff at that site to help families find resources that they might need and to present parent engagement activities. At Summerdale Early Childhood Center, we have 176 children and families. We have two full-day classrooms, again with 20 in each, four part-day classrooms, and three family support.
 When you look at the data that we have to present, you're gonna also notice that Dennis is included in there. This data started in 2018-19 school year and we still had some children at Dennis, although we were transitioning to Beyer and Summerdale and since then Dennis has closed. Also we have additional Head Start services throughout the city. The collaboration is just one of our models.
 We have 26 infants and toddlers at hand-in-hand child care, 34 preschoolers at hand-in-hand. We have 40 preschool-aged children at the YMCA Children's Learning Center. We have 16 infants and toddlers at Trinity Daycare. We serve 114 pregnant women and infants and toddlers through our home-based model.
 and we have 24 children at our parent and child education center at Fairgrounds. So we serve a total of 714 children throughout Winnebago County. So some of the data that we were able to collect, the early learning scale is our ongoing child assessment with the school district, and what that measures is children's progress in all learning areas, and it's done on a scale from one to five,
 And rather than give us the data in every area, which would get quite lengthy, they did pick a representative sample. So the first item is phonological awareness, which is an early literacy measure.
 And they're looking at, this is done three times a year, so it's done fall, winter, and spring. They gave us the data for the winter assessment of 2018-19, and gave us the percentage of children scoring a three or higher. And a three at that point would kind of indicate that the children are meeting expectations in that area.
 And we had a Head Start collaboration group, so they looked at all of the children who were attending Beyer, Summerdale, and Dennis at that point. And 82% of those children were meeting expectations on that winter assessment.
 And then they looked at an RPS group, which included all RPS students in that group, and 76% of those students were meeting expectations during that period. Next we have numbers and numerical operations. Do you have a question? I can ask questions now. Thank you very much. On this chart that you're going over, I'm going to ask you a question.
 Do you have the amount per school, like for Byers, Somerdale, and Dennis, as opposed to your 82% for all of them? No. They gave it as one conglomerate of those children who were enrolled in Head Start at the time. Now, see, some of these things we might be able to get as we ask for them to disaggregate some of the data, but in this sample, that's how they gave it to us. And you said from the previous slide,
 that you had 714 kids throughout Winnebago. So of those 714, how many were Rockford? How many are in Rockford? I have to look again. All 460 were in Rockford from the RPS collaboration.
 the 16 Trinity and the 24 Pace, those centers are in Rockford. But even at Hand in Hand, you have Rockford citizens who are using that child care. Where is Hand in Hand? Hand in Hand is in McChesney Park. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mayor.
 And we were on the math measures, which were numbers and numerical operations. And again, they were looking at the winter scores for 2018-19, those who scored a three or higher. So again, meeting expectations. And for the Head Start group, it was 67%. And for the RPS group, it was 71%.
 Then we move on to self-regulation, which is a social-emotional measure.
 And this time we're looking at the percent of students with a score of four or higher. So by the time you get to the spring assessment, which is what this is looking at, you would see probably higher scores because you've had another few months to work on those skills. And both RPS and Head Start students, about 81% of them were scoring a four or higher by the spring.
 Then we're going to look at the measures of academic progress, the MAP scores.
 And this one's a little bit more complicated. If you look under reading, and it talks about the map translation chart, which does give averages on these map tests. And you can look at averages for fall, winter, and spring. And they also show a low and a high score. This says the average score for kindergarteners on the winter assessment
 is 148 to 155. And if you see the kindergarteners who had attended a Head Start program at Byers, Summerdale, or Dennis, were scoring a 206 on average. The RPS group, the kindergarten students, were scoring a 150. Then we're looking at the children who are now in first grade who attended Head Start in 2018-19.
 and their average RIT score in this area on the winter map. And you can see that the Head Start students scored a 215, and all RPS students scored a 163. So those are good scores there. Thank you.
 Then we're going to look at the math map scores. And again, you can see that the children who were in kindergarten, who had attended Head Start Collaboration Classroom scored a 153, and the average here was 147 to 157. So they were squarely in the middle there of the average scores.
 And then the average score on the MAP translations for first grade were 165 to 175, and both the RPS group and the Head Start group scored a 168, again, right in the middle there.
 And then finally, we did ask them to look at average daily attendance for us because we really, you know, other research has shown that children with chronic attendance issues in preschool are the children who go on to have chronic attendance issues
 throughout elementary and high school even. So we want to keep a close eye on that and see what we can do to improve attendance. So we have at the top there the average daily attendance in the 2018-19 school year. So this is when the children were in Head Start. And for Byer and Dennis and Somerdale, the average was 78%. And for all of RPS, the average was 82%.
 Then we're looking at the children who attend in 2018-19 and would be in kindergarten in the 1920 school year, and that they looked at through March when everything shut down. And the kindergarten students there that attended Byer or Somerdale were attending about 86% of the time, and all RPS students were attending about 90% of the time.
 Then they were looking at average daily attendance for those children in first grade. It was 76% for the group that had attended Head Start and 88% for all RPS students. So I want to talk just a little bit about the data. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mayor. Do you have breakdowns by racial groups? No.
 Again, these are good ideas and we can certainly make note of them when we're asking what they can do as far as disaggregating for us. I will note, Alderman McMilley, that in the past these requests that have come from our office to the district to get data have been categorically denied. So this is the first time that we have been able to get a look at some of the information
 we've been asking for so we're very grateful to the mayor and his support in helping us to get the information that we need so again you bring up great points that we will continue to push for in terms of how our data is disaggregated in the way that we can break this information down but again this was a huge step for us to even be able to get what we needed to have a first look at at what's happening in the collaboration so who do you guys it
 Who denies it? Yeah. It's not that they really denied it specifically. Okay, okay. I would add they do now have a new system, which has been easier for them to pull that data. I would also add if anyone has the opportunity, please do.
 Lisa and director Parham and a host of other staff members participate in kind of a virtual town hall. Was it last week? And if you want in depth knowledge of all the different facets of head start and the work that staff is doing with children and families.
 it was inspiring to hear the stories and just hear from the staff directly of all the work that they're doing so i'd urge all of you uh here but also at home listening to go to the city of rockford's facebook page and watch that it was a really good 50 minutes debrief of the program there were also some hiccups in the availability of information as a result of the
 ransomware attack that the district experienced last year as well. So that also played a part in some of the things that have been requested. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. In relationship to the number of children that could qualify for Head Start, in relationship to what we have, what is that gap between those being served and those that could be served?
 Well, it appears that most preschool age children that are eligible are being served either by Head Start or by Rockford Public Schools. Infants and toddlers, there's a little bit more of a gap. We're probably only serving about 10% or 15% of eligible children.
 But that also includes children whose parents may think they're too young for preschool or for school in general, you know, for services. So we're not sure what the gap is in terms of parents who can't access services. So are you telling me that most of the preschool kids are being served in Rockford area? Yes. Thank you. Yes. So this state – Alderman Wilkins. Sorry. Sorry. Okay.
 I just want clarity on that first slide. It looked as though you're serving around 250 or so toddlers and infants in Head Start out of 714. Did I understand that correctly? We serve 180 early Head Start. Out of 714 that were registered? Yes. Correct. Okay.
 weighted when you're comparing it to the RPS 205? Is that weighted the same in terms of like percentages? Because that's only like what, 30, maybe 30%? So we only actually provided this slide just for some context to talk about the Head Start services overall. But what this presentation primarily is about our collaborative classrooms with RPS. So those are students that are four and five-year-olds.
 So the majority of the data, this looks to early head start, so the services that are being provided for zero to three. But again, the rest of the data with regards to RPS is from what's happening in our collaborative classrooms that are four and five-year-olds. Okay. Thank you. Yep, yep.
 Okay, so just a little bit about the data quickly. This data looks at how Head Start children are doing as they go on in school, that we do have a lot of data internally that we use while they are in our program. You know, we look at everything from children's dental treatment to, you know, vision and hearing screenings, children who might qualify for special needs programs.
 We do screenings, and so there's a lot of other data that goes into our analysis of how children are doing. I do think the data indicates the collaboration is working to help the children succeed in school. The scores on this data were good.
 and remembering again that these are the most at-risk children in the community. So, you know, for them to be doing as well as their counterparts who may be more advantaged is saying something. And the data also provides us with areas for quality improvement. We, if you remember, the scores were a little bit lower in math.
 Head Start has traditionally focused on early literacy, and so the children were doing great there. And now we know that early math plays a role in school success later on, so we need to look at how we can increase those early math scores. And the attendance rates were not where we would like them to be, so we're working on plans constantly to increase attendance, both for individual children and for...
 you know, the group as a whole. And finally, I really believe that quantitative data, like we looked at today, only tells part of the story. You know, there are those children and families who have been touched by a caring Head Start teacher or a family support staff
 They've gotten glasses that maybe they wouldn't have before they go to kindergarten You know their family receives support for any needs that they have and their stories really tell the other part of the data So thank you Alderman Durkee. I just have a couple of questions about the data Now you you do and sort of an internal referral you look at head start your head start students that gets RPS students
 Do we, is there a national norm or a national standard that we, that you measure these students against? On the MAP score, for example, those averages that are listed on the chart, let's see, what slide was that? I put it up. So the first column? The first one where it shows the averages underneath. The 147, 157? Yes. That's national? Those are national scores that come off their rating chart. Okay.
 And what is that? What is that? What does that mean nationally? Is that a 50th percentile in performance or no? actually those map scores are
 kind of get a little bit complicated but they're really showing um the the score at which a child is optimally you know at what point they should be learning and so it's a one to five or a scale where they really the best analogy that i've read is like it's like feet and inches on a yardstick so you're measuring children's growth over time and it really measures um
 how they make academic progress all the way through 12th grade. So those are the average scores. So a kindergartner, an average kindergarten would be expected to measure at that, somewhere between that. So this is a performance scale, it's not a knowledge scale. Yes. So in other words, a student can...
 Can go up five points but still be a poor reader so this could show like they were doing very well But still be they're making good progress, but not they could be making good progress But they're not reading well trip if it's a prize if it's a progress scale and the rich scoring right right So if it's a progress scale you go from you're going from You you could read
 vocabulary level for instance in in third grade they could have a vocabulary of a kindergartner but they started with no vocabulary so their performance although it's the scale says the performance is increased but they're still subpar correct that's still a possibility in the scoring so that the question I have is the question a lot of people have with head start is there's also there's an it they measure growth but
 But I'm curious about the level. And then you have first grade scoring, but there's a lot of data to suggest that Head Start, the advantage is there's an extinction to the advantage in third and fifth grade reading. And then it pretty much goes away.
 as the child progresses through elementary school. So do we see that here? Do we, are our Head Start students successful here? Well, we're just starting, like she said to look. Can I add to that data? So the Dr. Durkee, or Alderman Durkee, so that is exactly the type of data we want, but they can't go back or forward that far due to the new software system and the ransomware. So that is,
 Part of the reason we were diving into these questions wasn't just for the last couple of weeks, but I think when I was trying to recall upstairs during the chairs meeting, I think it was actually when I was an alder person, there was a number of speakers who came in and said, does Head Start work?
 I remember specifically like Diana Chandler was going over the information. She was like, well, where's the data on it? And we didn't have the data and I think that's the type of information like those children had start where are they at in eighth grade? Or where are they at in high school? What are they doing? How is that progressing along and where are they moving forward? So I believe with a partnership and
 their willingness to provide this data, one, we can expand those categories and dive deeper into areas, and two, we'll have longer longevity of it. Yeah, and I agree with you. I am fully engaged with getting kids reading and learning and all that. People may not know, in a former life, I actually was a teacher, so, but...
 And I'm very, very interested in success and measurement. And it always seems when you look at Head Start, it's always Head Start Plus. Head Start Plus some other foundational organization like a Salvation Army. It's always Head Start Plus. There's always...
 a pull together and that's and those programs are the ones where the reading and the knowledge that there's no extinction that the Progress stays somewhat steady and what would I really and obviously it's a huge need in Rockford We we have to have our kids who can read they can't read they can't do anything. They can't do math without reading and
 So it's a big deal. And so the thing I found in education is they transform data so much that it almost be, there's a, I think it was Benjamin Disraeli said, there's lies, damn lies, and statistics. And so what I want to do is try to get through the weeds and just see, you know, I'm not doing this, but at least I'd like to see that we're successful with these kids and that
 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th grade, they're still on a trajectory for academic success. You know, we put all this effort into it. I think that just to add to that, I mean, it's a good point. I would say when you say Head Start Plus, I don't know the references or the documents you're reading from, but from that virtual town hall, I would just say.
 Every child and this is getting head start plus just from the resources and the connections We asked specifically in residence did during the town hall What were those some of those services that our family support specialists? I'm gonna mess up the titles We're providing to the kids in it was astounding the connections that our staff And I'm assuming their RPS staff had out into the community to ensure that those children aren't just getting in
 The typical education referrals, it was a full child and full family referral system. Yeah, and I'm glad to hear that the comment that you are willing to reexamine and refool a lot of government programs, we throw money at it. And then if it doesn't work, we just the answer is to throw more money at it.
 Instead of tanking it and going somewhere else. It seems like government some bureaucrats There's a blast rats off a sinking ship and it hate I hope that you guys are nimble and and able to be tool and do what you do So I I was glad to hear that comment at least about mathematics and stuff ultimate roast mr. Comet some of the data suggests nationally that I
 As students do get into fifth sixth and seventh grade that there is that kind of an extinction But I just wanted to comment told him and turkey that that's a national trend That that's not just you know something that's happening here and in Rockford, Illinois one
 One reason is that many people think that as kids get older, there aren't topics that are meeting the needs of them in a sense of the books that they're being given. And you have trouble finding really young adult novels that are interesting to young people in those grades, because it's a different style of a book. You go from reading children's books to,
 you know issues that get tougher and more in-depth with Growing as you grow up as an adult and you know, that's one issue But the other thing that goes along with that extent extinction is that where would those students be without head start?
 Is that that that's the key component? I think that's important for us to understand is that if students are seen in extinction in fifth and sixth grade Where would they have where would they had been if they didn't have Head Start? They would have been much further behind So I just wanted to point out that it's a national trend that's going on. Thanks any other questions? Oh
 Well, I appreciate the information and again just would urge it. I was really pleasantly Blown away by the work that the staff is doing. So if you have a Opportunity, please do take a look at that. Uh virtual town hall. Thank you Ah, i'm, sorry alderman mcneely. Thank you. So do we get a copy of that presentation? We can certainly email out the presentation Absolutely. Thanks. Yeah. Thank you
 Okay, moving right along. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll go to petitions and communications. And we have nothing under planning and development, so we will move to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Yes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on July 20th, 2021, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on July 26th, 2021, referred to codes and regs. Item 2 is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on July 20th, 2021, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on July 26th, 2021.
 Item 3 is a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the pre-annexation of 4274 Antelope Drive, referred to Codes and Regulations Committee. And item 4, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager for Permits and Special Events regarding upcoming special events, which include Tough Mudder, Ramp River Run, Working Patty Party, and Greenwich Village Art Fair, referred to Codes and Regulations Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. There's one item. There's a memorandum from Angela Hammer, City Attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District for Camp Hope. This matter will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. We've already went through our public speakers. I'll just ask one more time. Is George Roach here? Okay. Next we'll go to New Committee Reports and Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meeks.
 Committee report. A, item number one for Planning and Development Committee, recommends approval of the franchise agreement with Comcast. The legal director will prepare the report. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the Comcast franchise agreement? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate all the time and the effort that Joan Sage, who represents Comcast in this area, has given to us.
 I appreciate the privilege of being part of the committee with the attorney in the city As we looked over this new agreement The reason I'm talking about tonight because I've kind of got mixed I mean, I have no reason not to sign it except except the fact that Sometimes you say the straw breaks the camel's back when we look at this school building and governmental facilities where they now want to charge us for that now, it's very small amount of money and
 It can be very small, it could be $1,600, it could be up to $1,400. I don't care if it's $1. I just don't know why in the world after all of the gross revenues that come into Comcast, and that's certainly their business, that now they want to go back to charging us if we want that service. And for that reason alone, it makes me want to vote against it. And I — what would that prove?
 But I need to at least go on record as really not understanding why. Now, if they say they need more money, fine. We need more money too. But we can't raise or we can't lower the fees for our constituents. And the calls I get, people are pretty upset about what they have to pay right now. So I don't know. I just wanted to make that comment, Your Honor. It probably means not a whole lot, but it surely is in 6.7 in this agreement.
 That says if we don't want to do it, we've got to opt out. If we want to do it, we've got to pay for it. So I don't like that, and I wish it weren't there. I wish it could go away. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Any other discussion items? Alderman Bonner? Yes, I was just wondering. I had a constituent who had contacted me a couple of months ago to inquire about whether –
 that who contends that in other uh comcast areas service areas that uh that primarily on the east coast i guess that comcast offers a senior discount and i was i don't see see any mention of that in here i know it has not been the case in the past but i was wondering if it was discussed and
 If so, what, you know, if that's just maybe a regional offer on Comcast's part? So with council's permission, I could ask Ms. Joan Sage. Would council have any objection to that? No. Joan? Thank you for the question, Alder and Bonnie. There is a discount for seniors on low income.
 as it is for anyone else who has a low income. When we first started that program, it was just for families with children in school, and now it is for anyone that qualifies with any kind of assistance, either state or federal. And so that's in place. That is already in place now. It is in place. Without this agreement. For the seniors, it's been in place for several years now. Okay. Thank you.
 Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, your honor. The committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement for part 58, environmental services between the city of Rockford and Rockford Housing Authority, RHA. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And item two, committee recommends denial of the special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of 240 apartment units and a four story, 146 room assisted independent living and memory care facility. And a C1 limited office zoning district at 6654 Garrett Lane. Thus reversing the zoning board of appeals recommendation of approval.
 Thank you. So we have two items before you before I ask for discussion. Director Meyer. Thank you Mr. Mayor. I just want to clarify one thing on item number two which is the Garrett Lane project. Prior to the committee meeting last week, the applicant had contacted the city and let us know that they wanted to amend their project scope based on some of the comments they'd heard and received from our aldermen. And essentially the essence of that would be to reduce the scope of the project
 density from 240 apartment units down to, sorry, from 240 down to 178 apartment units on the assisted independent living facility. They reduced the number of rooms from 146 down to 110. They also reduced the height of that facility from four stories down to three stories and then reduced the number of overall buildings on the project from 16 down to 10.
 Now in order for council to consider those, we then would require an amendment to tonight's committee report.
 So that would be within council's prerogative to do that, but it would take an amendment to the committee report to reflect those changes. And then another vote on the item overall to do that. So if any Alderman would like to do that, I can read the amendment in, require a motion second, and then a voice vote. And a vote to amend the project scope would not be
 Vote to approve the overall item. It would actually take two votes alderman Durkee. Yeah Thank You mr. Meyer the the applet the developers attorney has asked for a 3060 day layover and they've been in contact with the county as far as the intersection and
 So in addition to changing the scope, scale of the project, and look and feel of the project in the area, they're doing their due diligence outside of that project as well as far as the traffic patterns. So they are requesting a 30 to 60 day layover so they can craft that. And I think out of courtesy to an outside developer, I think that's a pretty reasonable request of the council.
 If I could I would like to make that motion to lay over for 30 to 60 days to give the developer a chance to Buff up their project for us. Do you want to be more specific on as a 30 or 60? Let's say 60 just call it 60 and then you can bring it back sooner We have a motion to lay this item. We have a second to lay this item over for 60 days and
 There's discussion alderman Wilkins. I'm sorry. I was just gonna say do we have to Recommend the changes or bring that up first before we lay it over for the city I don't believe we need to know a motion to lay the item over would take precedence over the motion to amend any other discussion. I
 So we have a motion and a second to lay over item 7b2. Why don't we take that item first? If there's no further discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay, so that item's laid over. Next we'll go to item b1. Is there any discussions on item b1? Aye.
 alderman mcneely thank you mayor i i can't recall if this is something that we do on a yearly basis and we vote on um but trying to understand why rha would need the assistance of the city for environmental services and not be able to get that assistance through the epa
 Thank you. Director Franzen? So as part of federal regulation, the city is defined as the responsible entity for public housing projects within its jurisdiction. And so we're obligated to provide that oversight.
 you know the actual assistance that we're providing you know this contract lays out the process where RHA engages consultants to do the actual work but it is our responsibility to sign off on that just sign off and pay or do they pay they pay they pay for the consultant and we bill for our time okay thank you very much thank you any other questions on that one item before you see no discussion all those in favor say aye
 Aye. Those opposed? Item passed. Moving on to finance and personnel. C, Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $5,943,888.10.
 As approved the finance and personnel committee meeting on July 12th, 2021 number 2, the committee recommends approval to apply for accept a waiver for the office of head start requirement. To provide at least 1020 annual hours for at least 8 months per year for 45% of head start center based funded enrollment. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And number three is an approval and execution of an intergovernmental agreement for the crisis co-response team program with the City of Rockford, City of Luz Park, County of Winnebago, and Rosecrans. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Alderman McNeely. Thank you. We are on item number two that states that this will be done for eight months per year. So how many years? Forever? Forever.
 Uh, Director Parham. Alderman McNeeley, this item refers to a requirement from the Office of Head Start where they asked for programs to provide that number of hours for eight months each year. So it's not, it's saying for per school year, they wanted to ensure that 45% of all of our funded slots were essentially full day slots.
 but however we are, Rockford Public Schools is unable to accommodate that request. It would equate to about 46 additional full day seats in our collaboration program, and they were unable to accommodate that request, which is why we are asking for this waiver from the Office of Head Start. Thank you. Is there any other discussion? We're unable to accommodate because we don't have enough students? No, they were unable to accommodate because of space. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. 14 ayes.
 thank you uh i'll move officer reports to the bottom of this agenda next we'll go to motions and resolutions uh planning and development committee alderman meeks thank you so much item a planning and development committee item number one the committee recommends approval of the preliminary conditional set aside of home home investment partnership program funds 1025
 Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I've had quite a bit of discussion over the last week with Director Franson and also with Assistant Attorney Megan McNeil. My concern, I stated on the floor also during the committee,
 My concern was no escrow type account for the maintenance of the building, the ongoing replacement of boilers, replacement of air conditioners, and so forth. And just like, for example, with insurance, they have to have escrow for the insurance, they have to have escrow for taxes. And I would just talk to them about how can we, so to speak, make sure that we don't end up with a project that's on maintenance and then we have a problem in getting money to
 So I understand that there's been discussion with our chairman about this, and there is an amendment that I'd like to bring forth that I think helps deal with this problem. I certainly would allot my time to Director Franzen if he has any more comments he wants to say about this before we go forward. Director Franzen? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Alderman, for your questions and concerns related to the project, specifically related to a reserve account and ensuring that this project is sustainable and viable throughout the entire course of affordability. Having a reserve account is part of the underwriting, and there are requirements related to the –
 the IDA LIHTC program and so it would have been part of our underwriting but it was not specifically laid out in our letters of condition and so laying out the having a separate account and then additionally providing that there is city staff review on a very regular basis as this project gets going to ensure that that reserve account is sufficient is supported by staff and would be
 finalized during our full underwriting all right thank you so on your desk you do have uh the um amendment that i'm going to read and you also have the backup material with it so you can read that at your will i'd like to make a motion to amend the proposed supplementary conditional set aside
 for home funds for the Longwood Garden Apartments by inserting the following language after sentence 2, section 1, parentheses I, parentheses V, reads as follows. City staff, review the financial of the project and ensure viability and monitor replacement reserves every six months.
 However, at City staff's discretion, City staff will refer back to the home regulations and conduct financial reviews annually. A separate account specifically designed as a replacement reserves account must be opened and made available for City staff review at the request of the City staff.
 City staff financial review will ensure deposits to replace the reserves account and be made based on approved pro forma that all expenditures and accounted for receipts improvements are provided. And additionally, by inserting the following language in section nine item A,
 excuse me, parentheses B, and it reads as follows. Allow city staff to review the project financials every six months to ensure viability and to monitor replacement reserves. At city staff's discretion, city staff will refer back to the home regulations and conduct financial reviews annually and the remaining items of 69 could be re-lettered accordingly and you have that in your hand. So I place this up as an amendment to the letter of approval.
 thank you so we have a motion to amend is there any discussion on the amendment is there a second alderman logeman we have a paper so we do have a motion to amend is there a second for that amendment uh alderman bonnie will second it is there any discussion on the amendment no discussion all those in favor of the amendment put forward by alderman beach say aye aye aye those opposed say aye we have one in opposition
 Now, bringing back the amended item, Roman numeral IX, A1, is there any discussion on the item before you? All those in, or clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Crunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach.
 13 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Item passes. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee in Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, your honor the committee recommends approval of the Labor Day parade and I dot resolution This event is scheduled for Monday, September 6. The event time is 10 a.m To 1 p.m And the parade route will begin on 7th Street at railroad Avenue and will end at Davis Park entrance item 2 is a committee recommends approval of the cider and cinnamon arts and crafts fair resolution
 This event is scheduled for October 2nd and October 3rd. The event time is 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The event will be held at 1605 North Alpine Road at Edgebrook Shopping Center. Those are our two items. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Is there any discussion on those two items? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Items passed. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of the joint purchasing contract for water and street division vehicles to Rock River Ford of Rockford. With the purchase of two water division service vehicles and one street division vehicle for a total amount of $210,048, the funding source is the capital lease fund. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the rejection of the bid at the watch factory roof replacement. One bid was received which included two separate prices for their bid.
 The higher the two prices was meant to reflect additional costs for the disposal of wood shingles and roofing deck decking materials. The cost of removal and disposal is the contractor's responsibility and should be reflected in the line item pricing. Number three is an acceptance of the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services Youth Crisis Housing Advocacy Grant,
 from the illinois department of children and family services in the amount of 150 000 the grant does not require a cost match the grant term is from july 1 2021 through june 30 2024. number four is an acceptance of the american recovery program act liheap grant from the illinois department of commerce economic opportunity in the amount of seven million three hundred and seventy four thousand seven hundred and thirty five dollars the grant does not require a cost match
 The grant term is from July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022. And lastly is the acceptance of the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services Norman Housing Advocacy Grant Award in the amount of $150,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2024. I place these five matters before you.
 thank you so there's five items before us is there any discussion alderman rose so just a clarification for item two a i as a uh reflection of a rejection of the bed yes sir any other discussion on those five items before us clerk could you please call the role jerky logeman timber frost aye terena aye frunty wilkins hoffman
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonney? Item 1, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 2 through 5, 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next up, under new business plan, Development Committee Alderman Meeks. Thank you so much, Mayor. Item number 8, item number 1, an ordinance approving the franchise agreement with Cal. Excellent. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Prunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonnie? Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Passes. Next we'll go to item B, Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items.
 An ordinance approving the vacation request for two portions of old Collins road adjacent to North love Baptist church located at 5301 East Riverside Boulevard. And item 2 in ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement for part 58 environmental services between the city of Rockford and Rockford housing authority. And I believe staff had some information on item 1.
 Excellent, so we have two items before you and I believe alderman frost wanted to make a mention on item 1. yes. Thank you. Your honor. Number 1 is this old Collins road. It's in my ward. It starts at Applewood and runs into the end of this church and the, from going East.
 And then the other part of it on the other side runs, I believe, from Pebble Creek into the church as well. It was probably put in by a developer many, many years ago. It really is not a true city road with curb and sewer. It's frankly in deplorable condition filled with
 several potholes and the church reached out to me and complained about the condition of the road. And I worked with our public works director to find a solution to frankly get this road off of the city rolls. Because it serves nobody but the church property and the church was willing to actually
 They're going to repave and fix the road. And like I said, there's no homes there, there's no businesses there. The only thing adjacent to it is really their property, which runs on both sides. So there are, it says two portions of the road. There are no other portions really of Old Counts Road and it just serves them. So it's really saving the city a great deal of money to get out of the maintenance.
 and repair of the road now, which is legally and technically a city road. Thank you. Thank you. So we have two items before you. Just a reminder, item one would take 12 votes for approval. Any further discussion on those two items? Alderman Bonney. Yes, on item one, we are forgiving or waiving a,
 value on the property of approximately $1,100 or $1,300, I believe. And that was at Alderman Frost's request in committee. I voted against it as amended, but without asking the question of what is customary for this council in cases like this. Do we...
 Is it, do we waive these things for any nonprofit that requests it? Do we, is it only if the nonprofit happens to approach somebody who makes a request? Is it, I mean, I'd hate to see yes.
 grant this and then a church of another denomination comes along and doesn't receive it. Historically, we just do them only for Alderman Frostwort. Laughter
 but no i think with this wasn't anything with that i think it was more of an evaluation of we spend about that much each year just fixing the potholes on it and if they'll take over all the necessary maintenance of it moving forward and a credit to alderman frost for getting it done uh because it actually will save us a significant sum are there other practices that we should be aware of
 i i think you covered it your honor they're reviewed on a case-by-case basis based on the factors at play uh director meyer did you have additional comments the only comment i would make is on item number two uh is an ij with uh rha typically alderman hoffman will abstain from that vote but i'm not sure that happened with the community reports i just want a reminder to do so thank you
 Any other discussion? Alderman Prunty. This is regarding item number one. When you say we take care of, we will be relieved of all maintenance, does that also include snow removal? It does. Okay, thank you. Any other questions on items one or two? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Fogelman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina.
 Prunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Aye. Item number 113, I'm sorry, item number 114, ayes. Item 2, 13, ayes. 1 abstain.
 Thank you. Next we'll go to alderman frost for finance and personnel committee. Thank you I'm, sorry alderman hoff hoffman. Thank you mayor. Um to go along with what how I just abstained on here I'm wondering if we need to change my vote the first time around Under the code and regulation committee because I did vote aye. So i'm wondering if that should be changed director meyer
 I believe so under the committee reports we can make sure that minutes reflect that you abstained on the committee report as well Okay, alderman frost. Thank you Your number one is an ordinance approving the authorization to apply for and accept a waiver for the office of head start requirement under
 To provide at least 1,020 annual hours for at least eight months per year for 45% of the Head Start center-based funded enrollment. Number two is an ordinance approving the execution of the intergovernmental agreement for the crisis co-response team program between the City of Rockford, the City of Luz Park, the County of Winnebago, and Rosecrans. I place these two ordinances before you. Thank you. There's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Logan, Tumber, Frost, Terina, Frunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Pinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. 14 ayes. Thank you. I do want to just say a special thank you as we move into officers' reports. A special thank you on item 2, the crisis co-response team from...
 Special thank you to the Rockford police and Rockford Fire Department but as well as the legal department for the amount of work that has went into Applying and then bringing everyone together for this Really wonderful initiative. So thank you for the work Other item I have on your desk. You'll see two appointments to the community action agency board one is miss Dorothy red a
 And the other is Mr. Chamberlain and Mr. Mike Chamberlain, former mayor of Belvedere. And Ms. Dorothy Wright is obviously the county board member, I should mention that. So those will sit for 30 days. Other aldermen with officers' reports. Alderman Torino. I do not have an officer's report. I need to go back on a vote. I need to actually abstain from...
 Item C2 for the co-responder model. Thank you. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got a lot of calls regarding this electric aggregation, and I just thought maybe if we could just say it one more time. There's only two days left. But if you've got this blue card in the mail, it simply means if you just want to keep it the way it is, just throw it away.
 If you want out of it, then fill it in and send it back. It's just about as simple as that. The rate, I believe, is 6.5 kilowatt hours. I'm not an authority in all the other companies, but I've always...
 Known here at Rockford that we've got the best rates possible So again, it's very simple if you got this blue card and are okay with the city taking care of that You don't have to do anything else. Nothing else If you don't want it, you want to stay with someone else take the blue card fill that and send it in That's that's all there is to it. So if the media could help that again, that would be fine. Thank you, Your Honor. I
 Thank you. And just for the record, I always look to you as an authority. So if you're an authority over those companies or not, I appreciate it, but you are absolutely right. Uh, any other reports? Alderman Prunty. Okay. Um, a couple of things. Um, first, I just wanted to say that I attended the Jefferson Ridge, uh, neighborhood, uh, group meeting and wanted, um,
 to thank our staff, Barb Chidley and Jessica Shaver for their services. They attended the meeting and shared insights on some ordinances that folks had concerns about and also shared some great insights on how we can all work together to make those community connections and get to know our neighbors.
 I also wanted to thank Officer Matthew Williams for his leadership and kind of placing things into a historical context for the group. I think that just giving us an idea as to why the ordinance exists.
 Even though we'll still want to talk about it some more, given he was able to provide leadership on that. So thank you to those folks. I did have a call from a constituent regarding some issues that she was having with some animals. And I hope to have some assistance from our director as to how she can best handle
 That particular ordinance, if you don't mind giving her a call, I certainly would appreciate it. Director Franson. I hope I said that right. And then lastly, she used to come to the meetings all the time, and now she has to watch from home because of COVID and COVID.
 things so um one of our uh residents asked that um one we speak up so I'm trying to be louder then the other was she said she was having a hard time with the um
 the visual, seeing it from wherever she is. So I thank you, Joan, for planning on looking at that. And I'm sorry, friend, I talked to you today. And so I thank you all for that. Just so that we're all aware, a few people have contacted me to say that they were struggling to hear not just me, but all of us, as well as the visual.
 might not be there. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bonnie and then I'll go to Alderman Rose. I wanted to thank our neighborhood stabilization officer Jessica Schaefer for her
 Prop detention to a recent complaint of unmowed grass in the 14th Ward and the reason I want to bring this up in particular is because this involves a repeat offender who for the last couple of years has been Staff has been forced to field complaints involving this property repeatedly they have repeatedly had to contract out mowing and
 At taxpayer expense after the owner has refused to respond to letters or to comply. And then the. Of course, the expenses been tacked on the water bill, the property owner's water bill on the property in question is a, it's a nearly 5 acre tract of land behind van mater rehabilitation hospital. On Mulford.
 That property borders the backyards of several people who live on Stony Creek and the owner in question is Mercy Health. And I find it disappointing to say the least that the largest employer, one of the largest employers in our region, would put the city through this annual exercise and frustration and expense. And I would recommend, I don't know if we add a fine.
 To these water bills when it comes to this, if we don't that we do, at least in the case of repeat offenders and that if we. If we do that, we consider increasing it for repeat offenders.
 i also wanted to thank uh justin emerson our senior manager in public works and uh wester worry our chief of staff for activating our reverse 911 system to notify residents in maplewood and waldenwood subdivisions in the 14th ward about rock blasting that is going on in the mulford quarry between these two subdivisions after several year absence although the
 Blasting is permitted by a special use permit that dates, I believe, back to 1996. It is still startling for those neighbors who live nearby. And the relationship between the quarry and the two subdivisions has not always been frictionless, but I am told by many that the notifications are appreciated. The blasts are occurring every three weeks or so.
 And William Charles is being kind enough to give me a heads up each time. And Justin in particular is to be commended for putting out the most recent reverse 911 call while on vacation in Florida. And while Director Sanders insists he deserves no credit, I have to think that his own work ethic does set a standard for the whole department and so I thank the director also.
 Does anyone else want to thank Director Saunders? All right, I will not call on you three. No. Any other officers? Alderman Rose. Just real quick, on the 27th, we're having a Nez in the neighborhood meeting with Chief Givens from District 1, regarding some of the uptick in crime in the northwest end of Rockford.
 Really, it's for anyone that lives in Ward 9, but we're welcoming to anyone who lives in that area that wants to shoot some ideas around how to tackle crime issues, but also working with our CSOs and also our code enforcement team will be there as well. So it's the 27th at 6.30 p.m. at 3rd Presbyterian Church.
 thank you alderman hoffman thank you mayor i want to thank carl franzen for his excellent presentation to the rolling green meeting and one of the things that has happened because of covid is that some of the other neighborhood groups have disbanded and so rolling green is now hosting the entire ward everyone is welcome and it turned out to be quite interesting so i would recommend him as a speaker if anyone's interested
 for a small fear but i also want to thank kyle excellent uh alderman wilkins yes um and i apologize i forgot to mention it last week but i definitely want to thank aquanet parham for taking the time out of her weekend schedule to answer questions that residents and other organizations had about the regrow last sunday thank you excellent thank you any other reports is there a motion to adjourn
 We have a motion. We have a second. No one's going to discuss it. Nope. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a great night.