Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford special scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, July 12th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Bogeman. Here. Durkee. Here. Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Here. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Here.
 Bonnie. 14 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Next we'll move to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item, the resolution approving the Purdue Pharma LP bankruptcy plan. Excellent. We have one item before us. Is there a motion to suspend Rule 9? We have a motion. Is there a second?
 We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion on this one item? Alderman McNeely. Do we know the amount of money? Director Meyer.
 Thank you. No, so right now this is approving a plan for the settlement of the chapter 11 bankruptcy plan for Purdue Pharma. The total amount of the plan is roughly between $4.5 and $5 billion. The way that would be paid out is it will be allocated to the states. Illinois should get around 3.1 or 3.3% of that, the allocation.
 There will then be sub-allocations to the various counties and cities within the state of Illinois that I believe were creditors or plaintiffs in the litigation against Purdue Pharma and other opioid
 manufacturers to develop plans of their own to address the opioid crisis in their own communities so right now we know the the general amount is roughly like I said between four and five four point five and five billion dollars and there'll be allocations of three three point three percent to the state and then to the city but we do not know right now what the total final amounts going to be thank you is there any further questions or discussion
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Item passes. Is there anyone who has an officer's report? Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you, Mayor. Well, I'm very pleased to report tonight that RHA is being nationally recognized for three awards at the NARO conference this fall. The first one is for life force development program that involves the whole family in moving forward. This is not only about acquiring the skills necessary to become employed, but also teaches accumulating wealth and how to go about it.
 The category was resident and client services. The next award is for their new digital TV channel. This came under administrative innovations. Rockford Housing because of COVID implemented a television
 Way of getting to their residents they posted televisions all in the lobbies and wherever possible To get the most up-to-date information to all of their residents so that they knew what was going on at all times The third one is their section 3 promotion and resident awareness it
 came under the resident and client services. The Section 3 program requires that recipients of certain HUD financial assistance, to the greatest extent possible, be provided training, employment, and contracting, and other economic opportunities to low and very low income persons, especially those receiving government assistance.
 RHA has a very robust program and created a job portal for applicants and contractors. This vital portal allows for contractors to post job openings with our portal to attract and hire Section 3 qualified residents within the RHA and Rockford community. In addition, this allows applicants to directly apply for a position that they are interested in. So we're really proud at RHA. We've won three national awards.
 Thank you. Thank you. And before I get to other aldermen, I made a mistake. So during, I'd like to go back to motions and resolutions. We actually had a vote to suspend the rules. We did not have a vote on the actual item. So is there a motion to approve item B1? Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second. And my apologies, aldermen. Is there any discussion now that we've suspended rules and have this item before you?
 Sir, could you please call the roll? Toomer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prunty? Wilkins? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonney? 14 ayes. All right, thank you. Now I think we officially did that one. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank Director Sanders for his help.
 with the sidewalks for a grandmother and her granddaughter. The granddaughter is wheelchair-bound and the sidewalks were not, the conditions on the sidewalks were such that she was not able to take her granddaughter outside for fresh air and walk her around the block.
 and Director Saunders informed me that they're going to be able to redo the sidewalk, not just in front of her house but around, so that when she walks that block with her granddaughter in the wheelchair, I think her grandmother said the wheelchair costs like $5,000 or something,
 that she can comfortably walk on the street on the sidewalk instead of in the street with her granddaughter so that she can get fresh air. So thank you very much. I appreciate that. Thank you. Is there Alderman Rose?
 East alum who qualified for the World National Kickboxing Championship being held in Italy this fall. So I just think it's good to celebrate young people who are making a big difference in our community and wish him the best of luck as he goes and fights down in Nashville in the next few weeks and then hopefully will qualify for that boxing championship in Italy.
 Thank you. Alderman Meeks? Yeah, I just wanted to encourage everyone in their ward. It's August 15th is 815 day here in Rockford. So I had one of my
 One of my areas that has never had a neighborhood association or really kind of a gathering, they're submitting an application for their first block party. And so I was really encouraged to see more areas within the ward that don't have associations to do things like that. And I think that 815 day would be a perfect day to do that. So I just want to give a shout out to Barb Chitley, who's been promoting that. Yeah.
 To to everyone and just encourage everyone to participate on 815 days actually extended to the whole weekend. So it's a 1314. And 15th this year, yeah, I believe 815 day, I think August 15th. Uh, falls on a Sunday, and we're trying to celebrate that whole weekend alderman. Thank you mayor.
 Stephanie Peavy and Jessica Schaffer have been extremely helpful on a number of issues in the third ward and thank you to them. Of course, Director Saunders has helped out on quite a bit as well. Plenty of action in the third ward as you're well aware, Mayor, as well.
 One thing the Jacoby Heights Neighborhood Association brought to my attention, an individual who I know actually well, Ron Gustafson. He's actually in Alderman Meek's ward just over the other side of Spring Creek from the 3rd. And some of you may know him, but...
 i've recognized people like uh barbara meeks and judy mcgee who you know as well mayor and they're they're frequently walking the neighborhoods with their bags and as they get their exercise and pick up litter which i think is the number one uh epitome of someone's laziness is uh littering but
 Ron has been witnessed by members of the Jacobi Heights neighborhood as I would say playing Frogger in Spring Creek and he will actually go out into Spring Creek and pick up litter and that's pretty daring but they wanted asked if I would recognize him in some way and so that's what I'm doing and good job Ron if you're watching like I always say the millions of others that are so thank you
 Excellent. Thank you. And Ms. Meeks, I don't know anyone who walks as fast as she does and picks up garbage. It's remarkable. You couldn't keep up. I could not. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. We are blessed as a city to have a very qualified staff, but we've been talking about Kyle Sanders tonight, and I have to say the same thing. In a situation in the 10th Ward this past week where there was a sinkhole big enough to sink a sinkhole in it,
 And I called after hours, and this man was right on the spot, came out with his car, take a look at it. I do appreciate that effort after hours. I know this is his job, that kind of thing. But to do it willingly, leave the family income, we're grateful. The citizens are grateful. I wanted to say publicly thanks, Kyle, for your effort. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I'll just say if anyone else wants to thank Kyle Saunders, I'll just thank him now so no one else has to do it. I don't want to get him like an inflated ego or something. Any other reports? In all seriousness, we are fortunate to have Kyle in a wonderful job that he and his team does. With that, is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing none. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.