Regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, July 18th, 2022. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkin. Here. Hogeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Alderman Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Meeks. Here. Bonney. Here. Alderman Frost. Here. 13 present. Here. Excellent. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. We'll go to petitions and communications I don't see that we have anything under planning and development. So we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderwoman Trina Thank you, Your Honor UNDER CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE, ITEM NUMBER ONE, I HAVE A MEMORANDUM FROM SCOTT CAPAVILLA, PLANNING AND ZONING MANAGER, REGARDING THE FINAL PLAT NUMBER ONE OF FOUR RIVERS BLUFF SUBDIVISION, REFERRED TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE. AND ITEM NUMBER TWO, A MEMORANDUM FROM MARTIN BLOOM, PROJECT MANAGER PERMITS AND SPECIAL EVENTS REGARDING THE UPCOMING SPECIAL EVENTS FOR NATIONAL NIGHT OUT AND WARD 11 PARADE AND FESTIVAL, REFERRED TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE. Thank you, and I don't see that we have anything under finance and personnel committee as well So we'll move to new committee reports again nothing under planning and development So we'll go back to code and regulation committee all the woman Torino Under the code and regulation committee item number one request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 417 South Pierpont parcel number 11 24 to 701 seven the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Item number two amendments the city of Rockford code of ordinance. Oh, we're laid that one over. So just one item Yeah, I place that on before you. Thank you. So we have one item before us Is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion clerk? Could you please call the roll turkey? logan timber frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks Bonnie. Oh 13 eyes. Excellent. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. First, we have auctions in the amount of $11,888,946.02. Number two is the Intergovernmental Agreement for a City-State Railroad Agreement for the Railway-Highway Grade Crossing Improvements at Ford Avenue. Cedar Street and the Canadian Pacific Railroad tracks the agreement outlines the funding for an estimated six hundred and thirty three thousand four hundred and ninety five dollars an 18 cent project Which shall be paid for by 90% by the federal government and 10% by the railroad themselves with no cost to the city The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place two minutes before you. Thank you. We have two items before us Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to unfinished business. And there's no planning and development committee item, so we'll move to code and regulation committee. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Code and Regulation Committee Item Number 1, the committee recommends denial of the variation to increase the maximum allowed feet of a fence in a front yard from 4 feet to 6 feet along Camlin Avenue in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1839 Melrose Street, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of approval. Thank you. Thank you. We have one item before us in Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you. Your Honor, I'd like to make a motion to reverse the committee denial to reflect the sustaining, I'm sorry, to reflect sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of approval. Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second by Alderman Quinonez. Is there any discussion on the motion to switch this from a denial to a support? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Now we have the... I'm... Thank you It passes. So next we'll have the amended item before us. Is there any discussion on the amended item? We would not be talking fences without alderman frost Alderman, thank you. Um, I I assumed it based upon miss miss Meeks making the motion that it is in your ward Is that correct? That is correct. And I would just ask as the alderman of the ward What what is your position on this? My position is that I I Believe that these situations are case-by-case and in this particular case. I think that this is one of those situations where the ordinance Or the variants are yeah Should go forward so um, so yeah, I I approve this fence I've spoken to this homeowner They spoken to Neighbors in the area as well. So I believe it should go forward It's not facing front yards like many of the reasons why we deny these and this is why the reason That's the reason why I think we should move forward. Thank you very much. Thank you Is there any other discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed? Okay, thank you and in passes next I will go to officers reports any reports alderman, Bonnie Announce that the in the 14th Ward, the Forward for Fun Initiative. is going to be kicking off over four nights. It's called Four Fridays in the 14th Ward, kicking off over four nights, a week from Friday, July 29th. It's going to be held at Lino's, hosted by Lino's Restaurant, which is, of course, this year celebrating its 50th anniversary in Rockford in that location. And every night it's going to be – free admission, live music, followed by an outdoor movie, and each of the four nights is going to have the presence of and benefit a different Rockford nonprofit. And if you did not get an opportunity to participate in uh to um spend enough time honoring the rockford peaches you will again get to do that on our opening night um is rockford peaches night and uh second the music that night is a another hometown favorite it's miles nielsen and kelly stewart and the movie of course is league of their own and the uh proceeds that night will benefit from beverage so beverage and food and beverage will benefit the International Women's Baseball Center on August 12th. It's Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful Night, which is a non-profit headquartered in the 14th Ward. The music is Silver Lining Rockford. The movie is Finding Nemo. On August 26th, it's NIU Alumni slash Rockford Promise Night and the music is the Northern Illinois University Jazz Tet. The movie is The Graduate. And on September 9th, it is Friends of the Coronado night and the music will be by the Venturelli Band and the movie will be The Majestic and encourage everyone to come out at least one of these nights and support one of these nonprofits and enjoy some great Rockford food and great Rockford music and hope to see All of you there at some point, I know since Alderperson Meeks performs at Lee Knowles from time to time, I'm assuming we'll see her for sure. Thank you. Thank you. Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I failed to mention this last week, but I wanted to bring it up this week. I wanted to acknowledge my colleague, Jonathan Logerman, and just his run for Congress. And, you know, unfortunately, maybe he didn't get the... the outcome he wanted, but I think we all know how difficult it is to campaign and to have to campaign at that level to do as much as you did and get as far as you did. Just have to sacrifice new baby time and sacrifice time from your family and you know, your job and just everything you did. I just wanted to commend you for that because it's a big deal. So just congratulations to you for just how far you got and just good luck to you in the future for whatever you You want to do next? Thank you. Thank you any other other woman meets. I just want to remind those residents in the 12th Ward and particularly Edgewater neighborhood Association residents that we have deadline of today to input information and investing in your neighborhood for the Rockford Park District we are We are revamping our Oxford Park. It's one of the most utilized parks in the area. We're getting some great investment over at the park, but we need some input from those that live in the neighborhood To let us know what designs we want what themes we want so on and so forth So the input if you go to the Edgewater neighborhood Association Facebook page, you can find the link to Submit your input that deadline is today I often feel like when deadlines come up you got a little leeway like a day or so, but I Maybe not. Maybe it's actually today. So if you can get that in, that would be amazing. I just wanted to share that with everyone. Excellent. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to thank everyone in administration that worked on that mission of mercy and having to listen to my brother dish it out up there earlier. But Mayor and Cagnoni and Meyer and Such and Noakes and... and Saunders, but thank you for all that. And also to Deputy Police Chief Eddie Torrance and Deputy Police Chief Randy Burke for some help on an issue in the third ward. And it was kind of scary for a couple of my constituents and mental health issue is real. in Rockford and this was an incident that that was pretty scary for a couple individuals and So we yeah, just mental health Boy a problem that really is needs to be addressed. Thank you. Thank you any other reports? Seeing none, we'll move right along. We have appointments. All the appointments are laid over until after August 10th. There's 23 of them. There is a request by our Community Action Agency if one of you would be willing to take up items number 6, 7, and 8 to appoint those members earlier than their August 10th passage date. Is there a motion? Alderman Hoffman? I would like to make that motion. And just so everyone knows, we're out of compliance. That's why we're doing this, not just because. We're way out of compliance in getting these positions filled. So I would really appreciate it. I am the chairman of that committee. I would really appreciate it if we could get those people on board. And also, we're trying to set up training for them. And we can't do anything until we get this taken care of. So thank you. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion on just items 6, 7, and 8? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Next we'll move on. The remainder come up after August 10th. Next we'll move on to motions and resolutions. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meade. Oh. Who approved those three appointments on which rule 18 was suspended? Oh, I'm sorry. I just voted for the amendment. Thank you. I'm sorry. That's my fault. I just voted on the amendment. Now we have all of the six, seven, and eight appointments coming up. So we have those three appointments coming up for your approval, not just a motion to get them forward quicker. So my apologies. Is there any discussion on six, seven, or eight? Hearing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Thank you for that correction. Next we'll go to motions and resolutions. We'll go to planning and development committee Alderman Meeks Thank you, your honor under motions and resolutions planning and development committee We have the approval of application to the Federal Highway Administration for the bridge investment program planning grant for planning including public engagement and conceptualization for the Jefferson Street Bridge the amount of the grant funding request is approximately two hundred and fifty thousand dollars Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. That's approved. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Tarina. Aye. Thank you your honor for calls and regulations committee We have two items item number one is the ramp River run this event is scheduled for Saturday August 20th from 6 a.m. To noon the run begins at 7 30 a.m the event location will be at 202 Market Street at Water Street the City Market pavilion and Item number two tough mutter this event is scheduled for Saturday, August 27th and Sunday, August 28th from 7 a.m. To 6 p.m The event location will be at the Chicago Rockford International Airport located at to Airport circle. Thank you We have two items before you is there any discussion on those two items saying no discussion all those in favor say aye Aye those opposed and it's passed next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman frost. Thank you. I Number one is an award of bid for the Ninth Street Reconstruction that stems from excavation in the amount of $1,357,271. In 50 cents, the project is estimated to be completed by October 28, 2022. The funding source is CDBG for $1 million and 1% infrastructure sales tax for $604,386.50. Number two is an award of bid for 605 and 606, 608 Whitman Street Demolition and Northern Only Service. In the amount of $48,665, the project is estimated to be completed by September 16, 2022. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. number three is awarded a bid for buckwheat drainage improvements from yale drive to union pacific railroad fisher excavating in the amount of 553.553 215.75 the project is estimated to be completed by october 28 2022 the funding source is cip general fund for 527 408 and four river sanitation authority for twenty five thousand eight hundred and seven dollars Number four is a one-bit for logistics parkway extension and northern-only service in the amount of $4,653,318.36. Okay. The project is estimated to be completed by July 31 of 2023. The funding source is the CIP General Fund for $2.35 million, the Trade Park TIF for approximately $1.4 million, the Water Replacement Improvement Account for approximately $944,000, and the Four Rivers Sanitation Authority for $73,250. Number five is an award event for the downtown streetscape improvements for Main Street from Mulberry Street to Jefferson Street to Copenhagen construction of Gilbert's, Illinois, in the amount of $597,694. The contract is estimated to be completed by October 31, 2022. The funding sources, the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Grant for $120,000 and the 1% infrastructure sales tax for $592,997. Number six is the award of architecture service agreement for the corner performing arts. Exterior restoration to to wish Jenny and else their associates in the amount of 75,000 dollars. The project is estimated to be completed in 2023. The funding sources, the hotel motel tax funds. number seven is award acceptance for hazard mitigation grant program funding through the illinois department of natural resources in the amount of one million two hundred and seventy two thousand six hundred dollars this grant does not require a cost match the grant funds will be used to purchase and demolish two properties along keith creek number eight is an approval and acceptance of an emergency rental assistance program from all chicago in the amount of 80 000 the grant does not require a cost match the grant term is from july 1 2022 to december 31 2022. number nine is rejection of proposals and the ability to take new proposals for rental registration services the department will modify the specifications to allow for a larger group qualified vendors i place those nine matters before you thank you so we have nine items before us is there any discussion on those nine items clerk will you please call the role jerky boogerman Toomer frost Terina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks Bonnie and it's one through four thirteen eyes item number five twelve eyes one No, item six through nine thirteen eyes. Thank you next. We'll move to move to new business encoded regulation committee alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor and Under the Code and Regulations Committee, we have two items. Number one is an ordinance approving the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 417 South Pierpont, parcel number 1120-427-017. And item number two, an ordinance approving the amendments to City of Rockford Code of Ordinance. That's laid over. That one was out there. I keep forgetting. We'll just have one item. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Could you please call the roll? Durkee, Logum in Toomer Ross Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks Bonnie 13 eyes. Thank you item passes next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost Thank you Number one is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement for city-state railroad agreement for railway Highway grade crossing improvements at ford avenue cedar street and canadian pacific railroad tracks the agreement outlines the funding of an estimated 633 495 dollars and 18 cents project shall be 90 federal and 10 to the railroad With no cost to the city. I placed this one matter before you. Thank you. We have uh one item before us Any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. 13 ayes. Excellent. Item passes. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Have a good night.