On the 15th, 2019, first we have an invocation by Chaplain Calvin Culpepper of the Court Street Methodist Church. Sovereign God, we, the leaders, the people, and the servants of this fair city, Rockford, we stop to acknowledge your presence, but more importantly, to acknowledge our need for you. We ask that you would be with us and that you will invoke your Holy Spirit, but then yet may we also have enough wisdom and sense to follow.
 guide us in all our thoughts and our ways that we might be able to pull together things that are necessary for this fair city for the people who we serve and represent and so may we do all that to your glory and to the honor of your son jesus christ who came who lived who died and who rose again in his name we pray amen clerk could you please call the roll
 Durkee? Here. Logman? Here. Thunberg? Here. Frost? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Here. Hervey? Here. Hoffman? Beach? Quinones? Shirely? Here. Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on July 1st, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye.
 those opposed same sign thank you that item passes next uh is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on july 8 2019 we have a motion in a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye
 Those opposed, same sign. Item passes. Next up, we have proclamations. We do not have a proclamation this evening, so we'll move into petitions and communications. And we will start with planning and development. And Alderman Durkee, would you take that? I have one item in Roman numeral 3A.
 A memorandum from Mark Williams, economic development manager regarding a development agreement for 134 North Main Street with Joseph James Partners LLC. This will be referred to planning and development. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shroff. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on July 16 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Code and Regs committee meeting on July 22nd 2019 The second is a liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on July 16 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs committee meeting on July 22nd 2019
 third is a memorandum from nicholas meyer legal director regarding the review of city council closed session minutes number four is a memorandum from scott capovilla the zoning and land use administrator regarding plat number three of the ash anjali subdivision
 Number five is the memorandum from Scott Capovilla zoning and land use administrator regarding the proposed amendment to section 117 through five of the city of Rockford code of ordinances posting hand bills other advertising to allow advertising on RMTD bus shelters Number six is a memorandum from Martin bloom the project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events Which include Tough Mudder? cycle on second
 Greenwich Art Fair, activation of Davis Park and Drop Shop Fest. Number seven is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, the engineering operations manager regarding the right away vacation request of the alley north of 107 Springfield Avenue.
 Number eight is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla regarding the plat number four of the Rockford Landing subdivision number nine memorandum from Mike Atkinson land transaction officer regarding the proposed sale of 413 Ford Street Number 10 is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla again regarding the zoning officers determination that a casino is permitted use in a c2 c3 and c4 zoning district and
 Number 11 memorandum from Scott Capovilla regarding a resolution Authorizing the zoning officer to apply to the zoning Board of Appeals for text amendments To the zoning orders that a casino is a permitted use in c2 c3 and c4 zoning district I refer all 11 of those items to the codes and regs committee meeting your honor. Thank you alderman Trelli We'll go back to planning and development alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor Just hot off the press. In fact, it's still warm. I
 This is a memorandum from Latisha Wallace, Deputy Director, Human Services Department. It's requesting a memorandum sent to Planning and Development. The Human Service Department, in collaboration with the Department of Community and Economic Development, requests approval of the City Council to serve as a sponsor of a nonprofit community housing development organization, which are also known as CHODOs.
 for the purpose of developing affordable housing and reducing homelessness and there is attached memorandum this will be referred to planning and development
 Thank you, sir. Next up, we don't have any finance and personnel items, so we'll move into public speakers. Just want to make all the public speakers aware that there's microphones on the back right and back left of the chamber and that each public speaker has three minutes. At that point, you'll hear a little cell phone ring, and I'll ask you to conclude your comments. So our first public speaker this evening is John Stassi.
 According to Finance Director Kerry Haggerty, the City of Rockford subsidizes Rockford area venues and entertainment, Rave, to the tune of $890,000 annually. So what do Rave employees deliver to Rockford taxpayers in return for this generous gift? Music, dance, theater, other entertainments? Well, what this taxpayer got was a brutal assault upon this person and a violent suppression of his free speech rights.
 rights, followed by a carefully coordinated multi-agency cover-up of these crimes. And why? Because I carried a sign calling for freedom of the people of Palestine on a public sidewalk outside the Coronado Theater during a performance on March 22 of an Israeli song and dance group, Mayu Mana, who are cultural propaganda ambassadors of a de jure apartheid regime that has been terrorizing Palestinians for 70 years.
 I have described these events in detail in a letter to the mayor. Please contact him or me for your own copy of that letter. I have tried and failed to get justice served upon rave employees and others responsible for these crimes. Rockford Police Department refused to fully and properly investigate this incident and told me after I filed a complaint that my real beef was with Metro Center Police. Metro Center Police Department Chief...
 William Randy Smith has no office or phone. When he finally called me more than a month ago, he assured me that he and Rave supervisor Troy Flynn would investigate this complaint. I have not heard from either of them since then. When RBD interviewed Rave employee Jim Lawson, the man who actually assaulted me, he admitted to having done so. Despite this confession, the office of state's attorney Marilyn Hight Ross has refused to
 to prosecute him and has refused to answer my letters asking her how her office could allow this crime to go unpunished. Does the city that generously subsidizes Rave not have a fiduciary responsibility ensure that Rave does not commit crimes?
 crimes against Rockford residents, for that matter, or anyone else. I want the city legal department to file a lawsuit against Rave on behalf of me and every other taxpayer who subsidizes that organization. Upon discovery, I'm pretty sure that city lawyers will find that Rave employees who assaulted me did not act alone in this crime and that they have been protected by a network of individuals who,
 who were part of a criminal cover-up, which could include other employees of Rave and or Rockford Public Schools, members of Friends of Coronado, and even Israeli government agents who were part of the Mayumana entourage. As it stands now, what happened to me was a lynching, an act of vigilante injustice. Is that the kind of thing that the city of Rockford wants to endorse with its silence and inaction?
 The struggle for freedom and justice for the Palestinian people is the civil rights movement of our era. I intend to be a part of that movement. How about you? Thank you for your time. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Daniel Kelly. Daniel Kelly. We'll come back to him. Next public speaker, Stanley, or as we all know him, as Curly Thompson. Good evening. It gives me great pleasure to be here this evening.
 As the mayor said, I am Stanley Curley Thompson. They call me Curley. I'm a member and chapter president of the Beloit, Wisconsin, Rockford, Illinois, Chapter 41 Moffett Point Marine Association. The gentleman whom you see sitting here are members of my chapter. And all of us aren't here, of course, but we're here this evening and first to give thanks to a vision of having a street renamed to honor
 a Moffett Point Marine. Moffett Point was a place from 1942 to 1949 where approximately 20,000 African Americans took their boot camp training. The Marine Corps was the last branch of service to allow African Americans to train. Thanks to President Roosevelt signing the Executive Order 8802 on the 26th of June 1941,
 to bring about fair employment within the Department of Defense. Of course, in 1948, President Truman, who became president, finalized what he had put into motion on July 26, 1948, for fair employment for those who were within the boundaries of the United States to serve this nation. Mr. Hempstead served honorably a short period of time from 1943
 to 1945. Mr. Hempstead had acquired spinal meningitis while serving. In fact, he was unconscious for 14 days, not expected to live when they had a new process where they drained some of his own fluid from his body to and gave it back to him. And he, of course, he made it. But unfortunately, he was given a medical discharge.
 I'm also honored to say that this evening I have with me his wife, Mrs. Mildred Hempstead, her daughter Anita Hempstead, granddaughter Crystal Bell, and her daughter Simone, who are here this evening from Portland, Oregon.
 And these gentlemen here, by the way, I can't help but be remiss to announce them. My past president and our first president, Calvin Johnson, Mr. George Blake, and he's a public affairs officer, public relations officer, and our sergeant at arms, Mr. James Akbar. By the way, this organization is like any other branch of post-war organization. It is open to all who have served honorably in the military.
 And regardless, and some folks think, is it only for blacks? No. We would be just like the folks who didn't want us to serve. It's open to all nationalities and all branches of service. I have one gentleman who was in the Air Force. I think four of us were in the Army and the rest of us in the Marine Corps. Thank you, Mr. Thompson. Thank you. That's okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 First, before I go on, I just want to say thank you to the family that is here from so far away. It's an honor to have you with us this evening. And thank you for sharing that history with us. Next public speaker we have this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, 121st chapter, the first to the second verse, it says, I look to the hills from which comes my help.
 My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. What I want to speak about tonight lies about African Americans and Hispanic Americans in Vietnam. They say there were no African Americans and Hispanic Americans to get the Congressional Medal of Honor in Vietnam. That's a lie.
 There were 21 African Americans and 17 of them were Spanish Americans to get the congressional marijuana in Vietnam. And I'm going to name them tonight. Here's the 21 African Americans. One, James Anderson Jr., Marine Corp. Two, Webster and Anson, Army. Three, Eugene Nashley, Army. Four, Oscar Olsen, Marine Corp. Five, Matthew Leonard, Army. Six, Donald Long, Army. Milton L. Otter, 173rd Herd Division, Army. Wiley L. Pitts, Army. Charles Kelvin Rogers, Army. Rupert L. Sargent, Army. William Bryant, Army.
 Rodney M. Davis, Marine Corps, Robert Jenkins, Marine Corps, Lawrence Joel, Army, Dwight H. Johnson, Army, Ralph H. Johnson, Marine Corps, Godfrey M. Long, Army, Clarence Sasser, Army, Clifford Sims, Army, John E. Warren, Jr., Army, Martin Lawrence, Army, the Hears of Seventeen, Hispanic, John B. Becker, Army, Roy Benavides, the...
 The Greyhound Man Army, Emilio Gosselin Marine Corp, Ralph Dias Marine Corp, Daniel Fernandez Army, Elfrado Gonzalez Marine Corp, Jules Demas Marine Corp, the Miguel Keith Marine Corp, Carlos Lozada Army, Alfa Ruskin Army,
 Blue Roku Army, Euripa Arubian Army, Elmer Smith Army, Hector Collins Army, J.R. Vargas Marine Corps, Cuban Vassal Army, Mesquite Yadiz Army. African Americans and Hispanic Americans, you have no reason to have your head down. You have fought and died for the United States of America. While everybody else ran from danger, you ran to thank God for your service.
 And my brothers and our old soldiers never die. They just fade away. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I have Ms. Holliman standing here next to me. It's human nature, Proverbs 28, verses 13 say, it's human nature to hide our sins or overlook our mistakes.
 But it's hard to learn from a mistake if you don't acknowledge making. And what good is a mistake if it doesn't teach you something? To learn from an error, you need to admit it, confess it, analyze it, and make adjustments so that it doesn't happen again. Everybody makes a mistake, but only a fool repeats them. Last week, we learned that the Rockford City Council took the first steps towards putting together 11 members of a Community Relations Commission.
 Rockford Mayor Tom McIntyre stated, we are not having this made up of bureaucrats. We are not having this made up of people like you and me or city staff members. We are having this made up a diverse body of citizens that make up our community. That's great to hear because we have two major concerns that affect the people in our community.
 The first one is President wannabe Donald Trump's racist tendency attack on Democrats coming as he talked a large-scale plan to arrest thousands of undoubted documented immigrants with final deportation orders. It's off to a slow start. Immigration officials delay the raid scheduled to begin in 10 major cities on Sunday, but this operation is expected to pick up this week. How do a nation of immigrants become a nation that hate immigrants?
 We are glad to hear and see where the mayor, Tom McIntyre, stand on immigrants and other issues that affect our community. We are also concerned that what happened last week on April or July the fourth, one of our youth from the renewal turning point program was approached from behind.
 The officer didn't identify himself when he grabbed AJ from behind his back. Then an elbow, the unidentified person was trying to take a firecracker out of AJ's left hand. Next thing we learned, 47 police officers bodies turned out of a 16-year-old teenager to the ground. We showed the pictures and Mrs.
 Holloman came with our youth, adults, and pictures. We are past who is at fault. Where do we go from here? We need to start now, not next week, not next month, next year, but right now today. We're building the bridge that was damaged by a few individuals on the police force. We have youth and adults.
 and witness their witness what happened we have family members and friends that are free on looking over the show to think that the police is going to come back at them we like to see and work on plans to blue brick blue back to trust and not be afraid of the police or the system a day was one of the youth to do pictures for the family just to share and he received that war also for the past six years he had been highlighted performing in every parade that we have been in what happened on
 that neither the fourth of july can't be changed or forgotten however what we can do today is make sure that this never happened to a other human being be beginning in the future as a community activist and most of all it's a preaching commitment this happened in my ward i'm only the messenger and this is bigger than me plus we need to work together whether you like me or not it's about bringing our community together thank you thank you is uh daniel kelly here
 Daniel Kelly. All right, we'll move forward. Next up, we have new committee reports, and we have planning and development alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new committee reports, Roman numeral 5A, number 1, just to take for the council members and other staff, there is a Scribner's error on this. As you recall, alderman Thompson-Kelly made a motion to amend the committee report
 to the amount of $20,000 subject to annual approval by the city council. So there's a Scribner's error in this. So I will read the corrected committee report in.
 So the report reads committee recommends approval of the great neighborhoods funding agreement between the city of Rockford and transform Rockford in the amount of $20,000 subject to annual approval by city council. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place it up for passage. Thank you. Alderman Durkee. Is there any discussion on the one item that's before you? Seeing no discussion on that item. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Bogeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye.
 Frost. Aye. Herby. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 10 ayes. Thank you. That item passes. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item this evening.
 The committee recommends approval of the request for an honorary street name change on Ogilvy Road from South Central Avenue to Clifton Avenue to Homer Hempstead Road. In honor of Homer Hempstead, the first African American Marine from Rockford, Illinois, and one of the 20,000 African American men known as the Montfort Point Marines. I place that up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank You alderman Shirely is there any discussion on item alderman Durkee Thank You your honor I had made a comment during committee Night, and I'm not on codes and regs But I raised the issue that why are we restricting the name of this road from central to Clifton? I think it had to do with the cost of signage but I'm still in favor of just making Ogilvy Road in its entirety and
 in honor of Homer Hempstead. I don't know if I can make a motion to amend this. Let's ask Director Stockman, and then I'll come right back to you. Customarily, we have limited it to a few blocks, but I've talked with staff, and we're more than open to expanding the limits. It doesn't increase the cost at all because we only put the honorary street name signs at the limits of these streets. So there will be one sign at Oglebay and Montague, one sign at Oglebay and South Main.
 And if we if we so choose we could actually display more signage at some point certainly well, then I then I'd like to make a motion to Name the entire of Ogilvy Road in honor of Homer Hempstead in honor of Homer Hempstead We have a motion. Is there a second all those in favor of the earth? First sorry, we have a motion and second now for discussion. I just want to make sure
 You're not actually changing the name Ogilvy Road, but you're the... It's Honorary Street. Honorary Street. Okay. Honorary Street. Yep. Alderman Hervey, you have... One of the reasons for restricting to Clifton was because the end of Ogilvy Road is at South Main, which with the speed of traffic, not many people will actually see the sign. And we were trying to keep it within the residential area, extending it out further...
 West gets into the county and the end of it would actually be on Montague Road So if there's only two signs, no one will I don't think the people who need to see them most will see them So that gets into the issue according to the ordinance or policy, whichever it is We're restricted to two honorary plaques at each end of
 the span so that was the reason for trying to truncate it a little bit so that it was closer into the neighborhood clifton is a main drag going out to south maine and south maine is a fast drag so just uh in an effort to do a proper honoring but also i have a understanding here
 Would you both be okay, Alderman Hervey, Alderman Durkee, if we did the extended path but provided more signage to honor Mr. Ramsey? I think you probably deserved it. Yes, I think, Your Honor. That's actually what I wanted to do is basically put more signage up. Right. So the amendment that you have on the floor right now with the motion in a second is that we'd extend it to the greater lengths to the streets that Director Stockman mentioned and that we would add additional signage so that those in the city –
 in the area will be able to see it as well. Do we need, can we change the policy? Not tonight. Is that a policy? I just want to make sure we can do it and we don't end up with some conundrum. Certainly.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. This has been done before. I know when I did Kevin Rice's, we also had a sign made up for his wife as well. And we put one from the entire street of Holborn Avenue. We had three signage going. So it's been done before.
 thank you all right so we have a motion in a second for to extend the length and also provide some additional signage uh is there any further discussion on that item make sure his wife get hers and we will make sure that miss hemp's hempstead gets a sign as well alderman trellis what is the time period that this is typically two years correct director uh sackman off the top of my head i think it's two or three years typically two to three years two to three years thank you
 Thank you. Any other further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Next up is Finance and Personnel Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends the approval. I'm sorry. One second. I'm sorry. Director Myers. You made a motion to amend, but you need to now pass. Oh, thank you. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.
 I got ahead of myself, Alderman Frost, so we're going to go at this one more time just for fun. So we've now amended it. Now we need to vote on the actual item. Is there any discussion on the one item that is before you? Seeing no further discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Sorry about that. Thank you. The item passes. Alderman Frost, could you provide finance and personnel? I sure will, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends the approval of the vouchers in the amount of
 $5,244,484.58 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee held on July 8th, 2019. Number two, the committee recommends approval of submission of an application to request the early head start one time supplemental carryover in the amount of $137,707 to be used for equipment, supply, shipping, installation costs, and building signage.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and the Rockford Township to provide emergency rental assistance funding. Again, the legal director, Nick Meyer, shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement for the electronic citation program between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Circuit Clerk.
 The legal director and his staff shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the authorization for the issuance of $13.5 million in taxable general obligation bonds, alternate revenue source for the Embassy Suites Convention Center. $9.6 million in tax exempt general obligation bonds for the police evidence facility and parking lots.
 and $25.6 million in tax exempt general obligation bonds for water meter replacement. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, the committee recommends approval of revisions to the city of Rockford, vacation domestic violence, holiday reasonable accommodation, performance evaluation, and prohibiting discrimination, harassment, and sexual harassment policies contained in the rules and regulations.
 And our busy legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Is there any questions on the six items before you? Okay, we'll separate item number five. Is there any further discussion on any of the six items? Alderman Shirelli? Yeah, I was just going to ask if the city administrator could clarify number five for us. Mr. Cagnoni, could you clarify item number five?
 Thank you, your honor. This is a proposal from staff to go out for general obligation bonds.
 For a number of projects including the embassy Suites Convention Center Development obligations I'd point out that the development agreement was previously approved by City Council And what's before us tonight is our recommendation for staff for the most cost-effective way to manage the obligations of
 of that development agreement and that the debt has already been incurred related to that project we are currently under a construction loan with Associated Bank and we're looking for permanent finance at a lower interest rate as proposed within the authorization request thank you for the clarification alderman Durkee thank your honor I I'm sorry I didn't catch this I
 committee night and the bonds for the embassy suites are taxable is that because this is a commercial enterprise I thought we were using Rockford Development Corp and they should be tax exempt that tragedy so the the owner of the property is not the issue it is the use of the facility and per IRS rules this is a private use of publicly owned facility
 alderman hervey yes thank you your honor um for a long time city council has resisted going out for bonds um for projects at least we've tried to um to avoid the interest um when we built our police stations and some other things i didn't necessarily agree with our funding source
 But will we see a breakdown with what the interest rate is going to be, the repayment and the source of the debt service on each of the separate projects? Director Hagerty? Yes. So the Embassy Suites Convention Center repayment source will be the redevelopment fund.
 police evidence facility repayment source will be the general fund the parking lots would be the parking fund and the water meter replacement would be the water fund
 And will you provide the interest rate when we have that? Oh, absolutely. When the sale is complete, we will provide final results. I know we get the interest rate, but the total amount of interest that would accrue over the life of the bonds? Yes, absolutely. Okay. The only thing I wanted to ask is that we take a look at, especially with regard to the redevelopment fund—
 I'd like to see what that does to the fund along with other projects including Barbara Coleman and our projected use of the redevelopment fund for some other projects. What does the debt service on the 13.5 million dollars do to that and also
 well no never mind the parking lots are coming out of the parking fund so never mind what does that do to the redevelopment fund certainly so we've provided um all of the projections that we've provided related to the redevelopment fund since this project was approved included this debt service payment for 20 years so um the
 All of the financial discussions we've had regarding the fund and including that that projection was provided the night of the vote as well Okay, so with the all of our discussions regarding the redevelopment fund have included this Okay, being forward. I'll be happy to share that again when we get as part of the 2020 budget process Okay with updated numbers and and all of our outstanding commitments. Okay. Thank you. Certainly. I
 Alderman Thompson Kelly Beach was prior to myself Alderman Alderman Beach. I can wait but um Thank you. Let me speak on this your honor when this project first came up several years ago My memory tells me that most of us around this council chamber was supportive of what was going on and what what it could look like and then as the amendments came back and the costs begin to climb and
 Is when several of us were speaking against it because we thought that as good of a project as this could be It was really putting our community and taxpayer money at risk to some extent I know the council's voted. I know we're here on it And I appreciate you letting me speak a little bit more on it But the 13 million dollars is on top of the 69 million dollars. Excuse me the 69 million dollar price tag and
 On top of that, we agreed to build a conference center. And we've talked about that tonight. And if I'm not mistaken, correct me if I'm wrong, finance director, but we're at $1 million a year for 20 years. So a million times 20 is 20 million. The cost is 13. So we got 7 million roughly in interest, plus a parking lot, plus 5% hotel tax rebated for, I'd say forever, just kind of the way it is.
 plus 100% of the TIF for the length of the TIF. And I just have to say before the vote tonight that while it's a great project, it's, sir, a lot more costly than was originally presented to this council.
 It's certainly taken a whole lot longer to get it developed that we were told it was going to develop If this council remembers we were told when the vote came for the sports horse factory if we didn't vote for that sports factory They were not going to go on with that building because they needed it. What did we do as a council? We voted for this sport factory and it's still not done. How many years ago was that? Please help me to three three exactly, so
 I feel that I need to vote for this tonight simply because the council agreed to do it and money has been spent. About $9.6 million of construction money has already been spent and that needs to be returned. And I wish I didn't have to. I asked last week if we could separate these issues so the police department could be one bond vote and this could be another. Because if that were true, I probably wouldn't support it.
 But thank you for letting me tell you the way I feel. I hope it works out well. A lot of money, a lot of money being spent down there, our money. You know something? One more comment. About 16% of the project we're paying for out of taxpayers' money, and that doesn't count all the other infrastructure we've paid for to get ready for it.
 and so i'm just saying that's a lot of investment on the part of the taxpayers for a private property is going to compete against other taxpayers of this community that have put their hard-earned money on the table thank you so much your honor for letting me speak thank you
 I think, Your Honor, I was under the impression that they would be separated because I'm on record by not supporting the police evidence facility. So I'm wondering how would I vote in support of going out for the obligation bonds but not supporting the police evidence facility? So I believe you've already not. Correct me if I'm wrong. I believe the record already shows through your vote.
 When we had the vote for the police evidence that you voted against it This is simply the financing for what is the best option for the city to finance those very similar I I believe to what alderman Beach just stated regarding the hotel. He was adamantly against the final version of the hotel So he voted against the hotel but now coming to the financing It's just what is the best way to do that for the city? so I think you'll find that across the council you'll have some who are in
 We're supportive of the hotel and not supportive of the police and vice versa But now it's all these have been completed development agreements. We've already obligated the funds and now it's what is the best way for the city to Finances is that accurate? Thank you alderman Herbie. Thank you for letting me speak again. I believe last week. I asked if our city staff is
 whoever the appropriate people are, would go back to Mr. Gorman and ask to renegotiate that portion of the agreement that deals with the convention or conference center. And the reason for that is
 I voted no on the project, which I actually like, because I thought he just asked for too much. Like Alderman Beach, I was very much in favor of it, and then we went through all these iterations, and at each iteration, the city's obligations rose and rose and rose. When we got to the very end, it felt like we were being held hostage. If you don't cough up another, what is it, 13 million,
 If you don't cough up another $13 million, the whole hotel deal falls through. And to me that was just the last straw. It's not that I didn't want the project, it's not that I didn't support it, but I just saw a pattern developing here. I understand that we agreed to this $1 lease for the center.
 I believe we need to go back to Gary Gorman. We gave and gave and gave 16% of the total project. That's a huge investment as a partner. And I believe we need to go back to him and say we need to have some kind of arrangement based on the profitability of this conference center.
 to go from a dollar lease to some kind of percentage of profit, percentage of use, something that gives us some return on this investment that we're making for the conference center. And if he says no, I'm going to ask him again, but I doubt that he will say no. But I do believe we have an obligation to ask.
 And if we haven't done it before this comes back for the full funding, I want to make sure that we've done that and in good faith got him to the table, showed him what we're dealing with, and asked for something that spreads the risk in a much more fair way.
 alderman frost thank you for allowing me to speak uh just briefly on the uh on the police evidence facility that's the new building on shepherd trail correct yes and is it just for the purchase price or the or the uh i don't remember as voting purchase and remodel uh costs i believe did did we approve a remodeling cost for them
 We've you know obviously approved the acquisition of the property and are now the current owner of the properties and we've reviewed the cost estimates with the the council But we have not come forward with the
 The design contract or the construction contracts associated with the project. Those would be coming in future weeks, understanding the timing in which our lease expires with county at the PSB. We're doing a number of items concurrently. We will have those.
 We anticipate having those finalized similar to the timing of the bonds being finaled out because understanding that those bonds will come back before council again as well. Your Honor, and that was my next question. So that number may change up or down depending on what those costs come in at, correct? Correct. Thank you. Just one other comment, Your Honor. I wanted to commend and thank my alderman.
 both alderman beach and alderman hervey for speaking that they did uh in bringing up those factual points because i i agree adamantly with both of them but i do understand the obligation the city that we have in fact uh even though i may have voted no on the on the hotel based on the deal uh we're now stuck paying for it and i don't want to i don't want to cause harm's way or not do the right thing so thank you very much thank you alderman tunberg did you have your hand thank you
 Understanding that debt, issuing debt is not our generally first way to go, is there any, during the duration, I guess this question would be to Finance Director Hagerty, do you foresee during the duration of this debt service any other debt that we are retiring in the meantime that would soften the blow a little bit more?
 Certainly. So obviously the redevelopment fund is the revenue source that we've used to pay for capital improvements at BMO and the Coronado in the past. We currently pay just under $3 million in debt service payments related to outstanding BMO debt.
 those debt issues will be paid off in 2026 so while we understand that a million dollars a year is a significant investment in this project we will have in a short period of time significant revenue freed in the redevelopment fund for other projects other reinvestment thank you thank you alderman dirkley thank your honor and i also want to join the other aldermen
 in restating that I also was in opposition to this project as it morphed into the convention center and did vote against it. And I would agree that it was the will of the council that we entered into this contract and we are obligated to vote for the financing of the project that the council had voted for.
 so i'll be voting to support it but i just wanted on record that i was not a fan of this convention center thank you uh so we have these items separated item uh five has been asked to be separated so since we've discussed that uh item uh fair amount we'll take that one up first uh is there any further discussion on item five no so we'll take that up for a vote clerk will you please call item five all right
 Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Thank you. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli. 10 ayes. Excellent. Next items up are 1, 2, 3, 4, and item number 6. Is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the vote? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Herbie, Thompson, Kelly, Hoffman, Beach, Quinones, Shirely. Ten ayes. Thank you. We're going to go to officers' reports, and I'll in a second turn you over to Alderman Logerman. But I just want to say, Alderman Logerman, I won't speak for everyone. I can never do that. Thank you.
 Safe to say that for everyone, it's been really a pleasure to have you on city council, not just your tremendous advocacy for your ward, but just how you've taken the approach of looking at the entire city and having opportunities to go out to events in the second word in particular.
 You can certainly tell that you have been an incredibly active and engaged alderman with really important issues and things that matter to the citizens every day. And I just want to say thank you on behalf of all the citizens of Rockford for the service that you've provided. But I'll certainly let you address everyone. I'll be back. But I just wanted to— I was like, Jordan asked. I like that. You should just end right there.
 I just wanted to read in my letter that I submitted to the mayor. Mayor McNamara, I hereby resign my office as alderman of the second ward effective 1159 p.m. tonight, Monday, July 15th, 2019. My unit, the one of the 178th Infantry Battalion, is being mobilized next week, and I want to ensure the residents of Rockford and the residents of the second ward are properly represented during my Army service in Afghanistan. The seat rightfully belongs to the people.
 To that end, I recommend you appoint and the city council approves Tony Gasparini to replace me as second ward alderman. I have no doubt that he will serve this city and the people of the second ward in the highest respect. It has been my distinct honor to serve the people of Rockford on city council this term. I have always intended to be party to the good fight and in a bittersweet way, I must resign in order to serve my city in a different capacity.
 We have 14 aldermen who are dedicated to this city, and I am honored to have been part of this collaborative body. Government can indeed work on behalf of its residents. I consider each of my fellow aldermen friends in support of a better Rockford. Our city has much to be proud of. From the local institutions of the public sector, to the organizations of the private sector, to the work of the local non-profits, I have been proud to do my humble part alongside you.
 I thank you for your hard work, complete dedication, and commitment to the city. I look forward to continuing the work and continuing to serve the people of Rockford in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Is there further officers' reports? Alderman Hervey? I just wanted to say to Alderman Logerman that on behalf of Auburn teachers, somebody's going to have to step up and go shopping. Okay.
 Jonathan has a reputation. I mean, students talk about it. They talk about the sharpness of his attire. And they make fun of him. No, no, no, they actually don't. Maybe the watch fob, but...
 not not the clothes and I think they appreciate it so somebody at Auburn is going to have to step up but on behalf of myself certainly it has been a pleasure to work with you for these past two short years the next two are going to be awfully long for some reason I thought our terms ended next year and mayor McNamara corrected me on that so I've been a little depressed
 But we will miss you. We wish you Godspeed and a very safe return. Further officers' reports. Alderman Beach. Yes, I say the same thing. Jonathan, I remember a few years back when we had an employee of the Public Works Department, John Gessner, who was called up for a short period of time because of a specific job that the government needed done.
 He came back, and then he left again. He served out a career. I think he retired as a full bird colonel. And so I'm proud, personally, as a colleague of yours, that you have taken that stand to go with your unit to represent our country in the United States Army. I really am so proud of that. And as Alderman Bonita said, we will pray for you, that God keeps you safe, that he protects your family and your children as you're gone, and come back to us.
 Thank you very much for your service. Thank you. And Alderman Quinones. As a veteran, I want to wish Alderman Logan good luck over there in Afghanistan. And I want to thank him. His award board is my award for working together and getting things done for the citizens of our ward. Thank you. Any further officers' reports? Alderman Tunberg. Thank you. I also want to say we'll miss you.
 uh seated right next to you and i'm just wondering now who i'm going to forward all my pothole calls to so we'll have to pick a number alderman thank you thank you seeing no further we'll move on to uh unfinished business and we'll go right to code and regulation committee alderman cheryl thank you your honor
 Under unfinished business under b1 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals denial For a special use permit for a used car dealership at 16 21 16 27 and 16 29 Rural Street and number two your honor. I would like to I
 Refer that item at the request of the alderman of the war back to the liquor and tobacco advisory boards So I'm not sure if we need a vote. So is that already been laid over once by the two aldermen layover room? Yes, that item has been laid over once but the council can move to send that refer that I'm back to the L tab so we
 the best case would be a motion a second and a vote there's been a motion to send item two back is there a second to that we have a motion in a second oh is there any discussion on that seeing no discussion all those in favor of sending item two back uh please say aye aye those opposed same sign item's been sent back so we have one item before you uh is there any discussion on item b1
 Alderman Shirely. Yeah, Your Honor. I just want to state on item B1, there has been a lot of communication that has been going back and forth with the zoning administrator, zoning officer, and myself concerning this item. There are attorney for the applicant that sent me some information that...
 Mr. Capovilla had stated to me that the time period had lapsed for this applicant to have a ruling on the decision if it should become a special use permit or not. I just want that on the record that Mr. Capovilla didn't tell me that, that the time period for a ruling had lapsed. And his ruling stands that this item does need a special use permit. So that's why...
 It went to the zoning Board of Appeals in the first place. So if there's any confusion on that, anyone can ask a question now to the city administrator or anyone else, Mr. Franzen, before we vote on this item. Thank you. Is there any discussion on item B1? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? No. Loving. Aye. Aye. Frost. Aye. Furby. Aye. No. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, thank you. Next up, we have appointments laid over. There's only, we have 15 appointments laid over, but there's only one that is up for a vote this evening. All the rest are laid over till July 24th.
 and the final three are laid over to August 1st. So the one item before you is an appointment of Kyle Sanders to be the Director of Public Works upon Director Mark Stockman's retirement on August the 9th. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Hoffman. Beech. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Just one item tonight. It's a resolution for the settlement of Melva Price, a special representative of the estate of Patricia Tenen, deceased, versus the City of Rockford.
 Case number 2015, L227, in the amount of $64,895. I place that resolution up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Luegaman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irby. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Shirely 11 eyes Thank You item passes next up we have finance and personnel committee alderman frost
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is award of bid for water HVAC and plumbing services to Geostar Mechanical of Rockford, Illinois, Five Star Plumbing of Loves Park, Illinois, and Complete Mechanical Solutions of Rockton, Illinois for an estimated contract value of $95,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions. The funding source is the Water and Redevelopment Fund operating budgets.
 Number two is an award a bid for weatherization appliance replacement to Elgrace appliance of Rockville, Illinois for refrigerators ranging from 628 to $989 approximately 75 units and
 Freezers in the amount of 369 to 89, approximately 38 units. Gas range in the amount of 639 to 779, approximately 29 units. The contract duration is one year with one year extension. The funding source is the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Federal and State Grant Funds. Number three is a resolution to take proposals.
 For fire station alerting system, the funding source is the fire department operating budget. And number four is a change order for police uniforms to uniform den of Loves Park, Illinois for an additional $75,000. The original contract amount was $77,000. The total amended contract amount is $152,000. The funding source is the police department operating budget.
 Thank you. We have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items that are before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have Planning and Development Committee Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 10, new business, A1-A1.
 An ordinance approving the Great Neighborhood Funding Agreement between the City of Rockford and Transform Rockford in the amount of $20,000 subject to annual approval by the City Council. A place set up for final passage. Excellent. Is there any questions or discussion on the one item that's before you? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. McMeeley. Aye.
 Shirely 10 ayes 1 no excellent that item passes further under a new business code and regulation committee alderman Shirely. Thank your honor That first item was sent back to the liquor and tobacco advisory board. So we'll skip over that and
 And number two is the amended ordinance approving the honorary street name change on Ogilvy Road in honor of Homer Hempstead, the first African-American Marine from Rockford, Illinois, and one of the 20,000 African-American men known as Montfort Point Marines. I place that ordinance up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there any discussion on that item before you? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? 30. Thank you.
 Logaman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. 11 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. That item passes. Next up we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the submission of an application to request the early head start one-time supplemental carryover in the amount of $137,707 to be used for equipment, supplies, shipping, installation costs, and building signage. These are unobligated funds in the 2018-19 one-time supplemental fund. Number two is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford,
 Human Services and Rockford Township to provide emergency rental assistance funding. Number three is an ordinance approving.
 An intergovernmental agreement for the electronic citation program between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago County Circuit Clerk. Number four is an ordinance authorizing for the issuance of $13.5 million in taxable general obligation bonds for the Embassy Suites Convention Center, 9.6 million in tax exempt general obligation bonds for the police evidence facility and parking lots, and $25.6 million in tax exempt general obligation bonds for the water meter replacement.
 Number five is an ordinance approving the revisions to the city of Rockford, vacation, domestic violence, holiday, reasonable accommodation, performance evaluation, and prohibiting discrimination, harassment, and sexual harassment policies contained in the rules and regulations. I place those five items before you. Thank you. There's five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye.
 Logan. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent. That item passes. Is there, we have a motion, is there a second? Second. Don't get too excited Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Anyone want to discuss a journey? All right. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed have a good night. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank