I will call to order the City of Rockford special City Council meeting for Monday, July 13th, 2020. We'll begin with clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Gasparini. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelley. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Hanley. Here. McNeely. Here.
 Chiarelli, 14 present. Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening. Now we'll begin with new committee reports playing Development Committee Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item. It's the principal payment relief request by the city of Rockford on the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 108, note number B-15-MC-17-0020 in the amount of 130,000 for cliff breakers.
 Thank you Alderman Rose and before I have this go further and ask for discussion I just want to state that this meeting is being held remotely because we've determined that an in-person meeting is not practical at or prudent at this point So we have one item before you is there a discussion on the one item that's before you here in City Council chambers?
 director frames thank you your honor i just want to make a note so there's not confusion in the future and something i forgot to mention in committee um this is uh perfecting the agreement between the city and hud uh we just got these documents last week and then we are under time crunch to do this within the deadline but we'll have to come back through with the same request for agreements between the city and cliff breakers and so those documents will represent the same relief there won't be two separate requests thank you
 thank you director uh alderman thunberg thanks mayor uh being that the city does have a financial interest in this endeavor with uh cliff breakers
 could i just make a request whoever is keeping contact with them that uh relay the message if they could keep their place uh a little bit more aesthetically in tune on the area along riverside uh it's probably the part that's the banquet facility more than the hotel so it could probably use a little tlc thank you thank you we will follow up any other uh alderman mcneely thank you
 Is this amount, the $130,000, for how many payments?
 For a year for director their annual principal payment they pay by annual payments for the next 17 years so 16 after this in August they pay a principal payment of 130 Plus their interest and in February they pay an interest-only payment and that's when they converted this to a fixed rate loan Early last year. Thank you. Any other discussion inside council chambers saying no more inside. I
 Director Myers is there any discussion online? Seeing none clerk. Could you please call the roll? Durkee? Gasparini? Tunberg? Frost? Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? Chiarelli? 14 ayes.
 Thank you. With your permission, Alderman, I'll keep going with the items that we have in our agenda and finish up with officers' reports. We'll go to motions and resolutions, planning and development. Alderman Rost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Again, it's a proposed contract for tax increment financing district consulting services with Kane McKenna and Associates. In the estimated amount of $34,500, the funding sources are the following. TIFs, Amrock, Westside No. 2, South Rockford, West State, Kilburn, Kishwaukee Harrison No. 1, and Assisted Living in Kishwaukee Harrison No. 2. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item?
 No discussion here in council. Is there any discussion online? Yes, your honor. Alderman Hervey. Alderman Hervey. A question if Alderman Meyer is there. Someone asked about the potential for conflict of interest. And I mean, when we start talking about potential money and things of that sort,
 I'm sort of confused as to how we couldn't run into a conflict of interest. If you start getting into a joint consultant on a tip, what is his fiduciary duty or to whom at that point, since we're not partners, we don't have like an agreement with either. Well, unless we have an agreement with the two that says we're co-partners or something, it just seems that that's going to get messy.
 Alderman Hervey, I can certainly turn it over to Director Myers. My understanding is it's on two totally different TIFs that they're hiring this firm for, but, Director Myers, could you confirm that? That's correct. The work that's being done does not cross over, so the work being done for the city is different than the work being done with the other party. Thank you, Director Myers. Okay. Any other further discussion online, Director Myers? No.
 No more discussion here. Okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinonez. Hanley. McMeeley. Chiarelli. 13 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. We'll move to new businesses. That item passes. Plenty and Development Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. This final one is an ordinance approving the principal payment relief request by the City of Rockford on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development HUD Section 108 note, number B-15-MC-170020 in the amount of $130,000 for cliffbreakers. Thank you, Alderman Rose. There's one item before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers?
 Seeing no discussion inside council chambers, Director Myers, is there any discussion online? No. No, okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley.
 14 ayes. Excellent. The item passes. Next up, we have officers' reports. Alderman Hervey, do you have any officers' reports?
 I do, Your Honor. First, I wanted to commend our water department, well, public works in general, but in particular the water staff. We had a major, I think it's Director Sanders can probably tell you better, but it was like a 16-inch water main. And, you know, many of these are 3, 4, 8 inches, so that is huge. A major break at Cunningham and Corbin.
 So I guess it happened at about 1 in the morning. When a lot of us got up this morning, we noticed the water was rusty. I had a number of calls from people. Some of us had air in the lines, and, you know, it makes the pipe shake, and people were really worried that something major had happened. But we did have water service back.
 But I had to commend staff. They got out a boil order today, more to be on the safe side. But more so than that, they discovered this huge break at 1 o'clock in the morning. It was less than 26 minutes that they responded and were on their way to resolving that huge of a break. And...
 If you don't know how significant that is, we had a water main break once that dropped water pressure to almost the entire west side of Rockford, and it went all the way over to Highland, the North Highland area along East State Street. That's how much water pressure dropped. So nobody had any water. They had to drive around and find that.
 and we have upgraded our water systems and staff training to the point where in less than a half hour, they were able to pinpoint where this occurred, get out there, and get it arrested. I think it was 26 minutes, I think. So, I mean, that was just huge, but they discovered it even before that. I mean, it was just...
 very very timely and i can't stress enough um how appreciative we were that we didn't lose water service um yeah you had to run it for a few minutes and let the sediment go and the boil order uh was for like washing your hands and drinking uh most people just switched over to bottled water real quickly or boiled it anyway but um it was just a huge uh
 Thank you and commendation for the way that they responded to that and the way they they got in our system upgraded to the point where you don't have to spend a whole day with no water anymore. We got it back on that quickly. So thank you to Mr. Sanders, Jamie, Dr.
 Everybody over in the water and public works department because they had to tear up the street. So it's a full on effort by everybody. So hats off and thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. If you were here, you could see the
 side to side smile that kyle has on his face a water compliment he uh well no that's because that's because we were on the phone almost all day today while i geeked out over while i geeked out over more things with water but on a serious note if to really appreciate what we have in the 75 million dollar general obligation bond
 One day, if we could have a fifth Monday, that we went over to Cedar Street and maybe even out to some of the newer pump houses and things on the Far East side to appreciate what we have in our water system. Now you're just messing up to Kyle. No, no, no. He can't give me a free bill, so no need to kiss up. No, that's a good idea. Thank you.
 Yeah, that would be a good fifth Monday. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you have any report?
 Yes, I do, Your Honor. I want to thank you and the staff as well as a special thanks to the Alderman for having our listening sessions for the residents of the community. I'm still receiving phone calls wanting to know what our second phase is going to be. And soon we will be releasing the second phase that we will be having roundtable discussions.
 and thanks again for your support as well as the staff in addressing and listening to the community's concerns wonderful thank you alderman thompson kelly uh inside council chambers if you have officers reports i believe alderman mcneely did you have one
 I wanted to thank Public Works as well. I got the phone call and received the map. And I didn't receive phone calls regarding the water. And my area was not included, although north of there, the area of my street was included. So I appreciate Public Works very much because I didn't notice the water even as I went about my daily routine.
 So I'm sure that the rest of the residents in that area as well appreciate it and that map was great So, thank you very much. Thank you Alderman Hoffman. Did you have Thank You Your Honor? I just want to say that rolling green Association is back live tomorrow night and
 Tuesday, July 14th, 630 p.m., Broadway Covenant Church. We will be meeting in the sanctuary so that we can practice social distancing and masks are mandatory. Thank you. Other aldermen, Roach? Yeah, real quick, I just wanted to share the work of a group. There's a Northwest Neighbors group. Thank you.
 In Rockford that formed it's a Christian development group and they are actually working on hosting the event along Mel Anderson bike path. That's going to be October 4th. So I know it's a few months off, but they're working with many, many, many community organizations around that event. And hopefully that by that time, COVID is,
 Hopefully kind of gone or at least you know staggered so It is an outdoor event and hopefully, you know, some people can put that in their calendars for October 4th It will run from 3 o'clock to 6 p.m. Thank you other reports inside chambers alderman timber. Thanks mayor. I would just like to Mention I'm happy that other aldermen are able to get through to Public Works because I thought with all the stuff I've been
 uh putting them through within the third ward and having them on the phone as much as i do and on projects i'm uh kind of actually surprised other aldermen can get through to them so i'd like to uh thank public works for all they've been doing recently in the third ward thank you other reports seeing none clerk or seeing none is there a motion to adjourn we have a motion we have a second no one wants to discuss it all those oh the clerk could you please call the roll
 Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvin. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Gross. Veach. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Chiarelli. 14 ayes. Have a wonderful night.