also pray, Lord, that you be with the first responders as they protect the city, the fire department, the police department. Lord, give them a safe duty day so that they may go home to their families at the end of their shift. Be with us, Mayor, as he conducts this meeting tonight, Lord, guide and direct in all that's said and done, for we ask in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Beck. Shirelli. Here.
 9 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Next up, I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held July 2nd. We have a motion and we have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. We have no proclamations this evening. Next up is petitions and communications.
 First up is Alderman Chiarelli for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. The first item is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on July 17, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on July 23rd. The second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on July 17, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs.
 Committee on July 23rd 2018
 Third is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rock River Water Reclamation District for the expansion of Rock River Water Reclamation District campus with the acquisition of city-owned properties along Brook Road. Fourth is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding an upcoming special event for Rock River Food Truck Festival.
 Those four items will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelling. Next up we have Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item, and that's a memorandum from George Davis, Human Services Executive Director regarding early Head Start, child care, special needs, waiver request. And this will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you. Next up, we have our public speakers. I'll remind all public speakers that they have three minutes, and there's microphones in the back. First up, we have...
 Rye or BC. I'm totally butchering your name and I truly apologize Hi, my name is Raya BC I'm an undergraduate student at Iowa State and I was given the opportunity to do an undergraduate research position Which you all would have got an email about and I did get some surveys back from some of the City Council members Not a lot of leaders in the rest of the community. However What I did was do a research project on a
 using leadership to create collaboration in divided communities and from my observation that's unfortunately what Rockford seems to be is sometimes divided on a lot of communities or decisions whatever that may be and although this is a 25 page document I won't go through that in my three minutes what I found was that through multiple mediation sessions and within
 diverse communities and diverse focus groups and using a transform, transform, transformative and transactional leadership style, which is a management style of leadership and a lot of give and take where we give and take. And doing that through assigned leaders such as like your young leadership
 organization and things like that throughout the community, people have found in other researches that that leadership and that form of communicating through people and understanding, asking questions and not just assuming we know what the answers are because of our age, because of our gender, because of our ethnicity, but understanding other people's real problems and real issues has really been successful in multiple communities not just in America but across the world. So I invite you to take
 think about that and I do have my research here for you. I wasn't able to give that to the clerk but
 My contact information is in here and I am very, very invested into our community. I work at Washington Park as a TR there and I absolutely love my job and I do see a lot of outreach there. And I feel like we're on a rise to be better. And as someone, a young person in our community who wants to move back here, it wants to see, you know, leadership take a huge role into that as far as not just
 One race age ethnicity gender as everyone together So I really like to see that as an improvement in Rockford and I'm really invested in this So again, my contact information is in this if you'd like to give me an email or call I would definitely love to have a meeting or anything like that. But thank you for listening. Thank you and we'll have Staff come and grab your research. Thank you. Sure next up next public speaker is Brandi Gardner and
 Hi, I'm transformational coach and speaker, Sister Brandy. I am a woman before I'm anything, mother, evangelist, and friend to so many. And so now it's time for me to give you guys a taste of my medicine. And I'm going to dive right in. 24 layers of love. 24 layers of bones connected to form a rib cage protecting the vital organs such as the heart and lungs. When the lungs breathe, the cage moves out of the way, allowing the lungs to breathe.
 I want you to live, I need you to survive from women because we are made from the rib cage. I want you to picture me on the ledge at this time. Naturally your brain along with some people will try to stop you. But sometimes you gotta tell people don't put your limits on me. And recognize that fear is not your enemy. Fear is there to tell you and warn you that you do not have enough. Maybe not enough teachers, mentors, advisors, not enough.
 I could have freed more if they knew they were slaves. Harriet Tubman. You know, I was watching a woman on social media and she stated, if your child's father is not in your life, you need to wear pain. She said you need to wear that pain. She said wear pain. Well, I'm here to tell you to take it off. I learned from Maya Angelou that words can get into your spirit, into your home, into your walls, and then into you.
 So, if you take a waterfall for example, naturally the water flows beautifully as it circulates, but if you look closely all the water don't circulate. Some of the water splashes out. And that's why I'm here to tell you that you can take a loss and still be whole. When I went through my divorce I had to do it alone. And so sometimes you have to go to the next level alone. I mean my children had me and they had counseling, but it is so many different emotions you go through when you're healing from a divorce.
 Which leads to my poem. I am a strong woman. I am a strong woman. I will not bow. I will not bend. For I am a strong woman. You cannot stop me. Your abuse will not rock me. Whether mental or physical. I have my own agenda.
 My own calling, purpose, and plan, I can fulfill so many roles, wife, mother, lover, professional, and friend. I approach obstacles, hurts, and challenges throughout my life as stepping stones to something greater. I refuse to fight another sister over you or any man, for I feel her pain, her hurts, her needs, and her desires. We are one.
 Yes, but the road to discovery is longer for some of us to realize, but still the truth to be realized by all. Yes, we are all strong people, but some of us do not know it yet. Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Exodus, written by Moses, the 23rd chapter, the ninth verse, it says, do not oppress an alien. You yourself know how it feels to be aliens because you were aliens in Egypt. What I want to speak about tonight, defending cruelty with a Bible verse. Logic not being the strong point of the Trump administration, it claims that it is not to blame for the separation of families that
 the border and that a just God is pleased it has happened. The first claim is a lie. Without the administration's zero tolerance policy, there would be no surge in detained children and overwhelmed for service. And Trump has incurred further responsibility by employing confused, frightened children
 as leverage in negotiation over border wall. All of this is taking place as direct results from Trump's command to get tough at the border. And what shows toughness better than mistreating little boys and girls? The second claim made most prominent by Attorney General Joseph is that Romans, the 13th chapter of Bible passage written by the Apostle Paul urging everyone to be subject to the government authorities.
 is an endorsement of the administration hard-line enforcement of immigration law. Sessions is effectively claiming divine sanction for the idea that people who break laws may be punished and deterred by subjecting their children to mental cruelty. This is cruelty defended by a Bible verse. The Bible, like a gun, is a dangerous thing in the hand of a crook.
 Segregationist autocrats throughout Western history have claimed that Romans 13 covers oppression or unjust law. But the centerpiece commitment of Christian social ethics is not order, it is justice. For a good introduction to the concept, Session might read Martin Luther King, Jr. letter from a Birmingham jail. A just law is a man-made commitment.
 code that squares with the moral law of the law of God, King God. An unjust law is a code that is out of harmony with the moral law. And how should justice be defined? Any law that uplifts people is just. Any law that degrades people is unjust. Trump's immigration policy is a counter-world clowns of degrace. At once, with simply hundreds of children, have been confined in a series of cages created by metal fences. The controversial family separation has accomplished at least one useful thing. It is an act of inhumanity by the Trump
 so gross, so rotten, worm-ridden in hair color. This policy debate has also demonstrated the ball-shrinkled extremists at the Senate of the Trump administration. Attorney General Sessions, you like to quote Bible scriptures. I have one for you. Read Luke 17, chapter 2. Jesus called a child over and said, whoever receives one such child in my name, receive me.
 What would cause one of these little ones who believe in me to stomp? It would be better for him to have a heavy needle stomp hung around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of his... I'm tired of these Bible-toting pimps quoting scriptures and confusing people for their selfish purpose. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Tom McNamara, all the women and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Dear Lord, help me every single morning to find faith in the midst of chaos. Give me the desire and the ability to see you, hear you, talk to you, and give you thanks to you. And as I do, I pray that I will draw nearer and nearer to you and that my faith will multiply exponentially, as I understand in new, deeper ways that you are everything I ever hoped you would be and so much more.
 amen trump say he believed putin that russia did not interfere in the election really president truden emerged from the historic summit with russian president volumin putin and helsinki on monday saying he doesn't see any reason to think that russia interfered in the u.s
 uh... twenty sixteen president nation now that is the biggest lie he ever told violent cuban just humiliated donald trump and trump humiliated america wow that's deep we want to turn right here in rockford uh... there's even now more a greater distrust of the system on friday
 july 13th the winnebago county state's attorney joseph scott chief mary hyde roth and rockford police chief dan o'shea announced the results of the winnebago county board county integrity task force investigation the death of rockford police officer jamie cox and abby patterson the two bullets rockford police officer jamie cox fired into eddie patterson last year during a traffic stop that led to both men's death constituted a justified use of force
 by the State's Attorney Joseph Collins said Thursday. On a personal view, all three are my best friends. However, I'm a precinct committment. I'm not a set out and I don't work for the system. If I would, I'd be fired. Some people that work for the system are afraid to tell their boss that he or she is wrong. That's why I say most people are a slave to the system.
 Now the power of a precinct committeeman can't be underestimated. A precinct committeeman is the person who legally is charged in getting out the votes on election day. He does his job well. A precinct committeeman asks political questions to find out the party and political views of every voter. That's called canvassing. That's what I did with this incident. Now that the system has spoken, this is what we have to say. You are dead wrong in your findings.
 There's only one black on the Winnebago County Task Force. There are no citizens on the task force. Please do not say that we are not qualified when you have a police and fire commission board made of citizens. Thus, this is what we saw that we got out of this. Once you started and had a parade of Officer Jamie Cox all over Rockford because the task force could not complete their findings and call him a hero, we knew then that you had already made up your mind. We just needed eight months to turn things into
 your way, and you did it. So let's look at the facts. Officer Cox worked a double shift by himself, where the policy state that other veteran officers should be working with him because he has not been on police force for over a year. Just because he was a veteran in the Middle East war should have been a rare fact for Officer Cox to have been with a veteran officer. Point taken. I'll finish it next week. Thank you.
 Next up, we have a new committee report. And first up, we have Pliny and Development, Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's one report from Planning and Development. The committee recommends approving the development agreement between the city of Rockford and the Second Congregational Church of Rockford Foundation for the demolition and redevelopment of the properties located at 511 West Jefferson and 306 North Port Street. Legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. We place this up for passage.
 And I believe we have a request to refer that back, but we need a motion to do so. So just to be clear for everyone, and I guess for you, Alderman Beck, are you making a motion to refer back that item to committee? Yes. Okay. So we have a motion and we have a second. All those in favor of returning this item back to committee say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Motion passes.
 Next up we have Code and Regulations Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, your honor. First committee report, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and gaming facility at 3204 South Alpine Road. Erica Columbia, CC and MN Enterprises doing business as SIPs is the applicant subject to conditions.
 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance the second committee recommends approval of the plat of 827th street subdivision and the third the committee recommends approval of the proposed additions to chapter 26
 of the Code of Ordinances to provide for the regulations of an application for small wireless facilities. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these three committee reports up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on the three items before us? Alderman Hervey. Just a question. I believe I have a different agenda. That was in June.
 It's quite all right. I need some extra time. I just want to mention one thing. Me too. So, Your Honor, I read that the committee report should be. All right. Let's go back. Alderman Shirelli, do you mind? Nope. Not at all. Alderman Durkee, would you please provide your motion? Okay. I apologize to the council. I was on the wrong date. I was reading from June 18th.
 The committee report is under Roman numeral 5A1. The committee recommends the approval of the home rental rehabilitation program, resigned development for the 512 College Avenue motion. And this is recommended to go back to committee. We have a motion to bring that back. Is there a second? We have a second. Alderman Harvey, do you have discussion on that item going back to committee?
 Alderman Herbie. MS. Would it go back to committee or would it be laid over? I guess I'm asking… MR. He's asking for a motion to go back to committee. MS. If it goes back to committee, will it come back by, in time for approval, by the 30th if there's agreement to modify it so that it's acceptable? MR. I think that would be the ultimate goal for everyone. MS. Okay. Thank you. MR. So we have a motion and a second.
 This is referring the home funds item on College Avenue back to committee. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed?
 The correct item will go back to committee. Thank you. My policy next up. We have uh alderman trelli I don't think you need to read all three of these items again, unless you really want to no, thank you. Okay Um, so we have three items before us this evening. Is there any discussion on the three items alderman hervey? With regard to number one. I know there's some questions about this. Um in the beginning has staff gone back and
 examine the premises to make sure that they comply with the requirements for a true restaurant staff did go back and i know now recommends approval for where they did not prior are you asking something more specific no no it's just i when we're in committee i think i and and i'll just say it again for the record my objection to this is
 continuing and that is when a proposal comes to us and it's more gaming parlor than it is a true restaurant I believe we should deny it not spend all the time that we did allowing it to be rehabilitated because I think the way you start is the way you're going to end up and I just have grave concerns as to whether this this facility is going to be truly a restaurant and not a gaming parlor
 alderman beach thank your honor on number three excuse me b three um we had discussion on the committee and i wasn't sure that i was satisfied with this unintended interference i know there was discussion about that i don't think i heard anything from either police for fire uh the thing that bothers me is it said i can read it here oh just give me a moment here
 Wireless providers will install small wireless facilities of the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety agency. And I know we had a lot of discussion around here, and I think we were led to believe it would be okay. But I'd be happier if the police chief, fire chief would tell me that they think it's okay and wouldn't be interfering with any signals.
 Chief Berkson. So we worked with Attorney Flores on this to make sure that there was language in there. So if there's any interference, that that would be shut down immediately. So there's language written in that we have emergency contact numbers. So if there's any interference with any of our portable radio system or mobile radio systems, that we can have that tower shut down.
 so the question that i would ask then your honor is in the event and let's just hope it would never happen but there'd be interference that would really interfere where it would be costly to a citizen or even to the city who stands liable then at that point in time uh for that problem mr partridge uh would you be able to answer that for us um thank you your honor it it
 Sort of a and what we refer to in the legal business as an incomplete hypothetical question that Alderman Beach is asking The law isn't really clear at this point in time. I haven't reviewed the statute and any accompanying liability I don't believe that the city would have any liability for it because we wouldn't be the ones creating the actual interference So I can I can give you that but
 off-the-cuff opinion but although i i don't i don't have an exact example to give obviously but if a police officer was calling for backup and had need and that was interference in there and that didn't get through and there was a problem i'm just to come i'm just making i mean we've got it written in the document so there must be some possibility that there could be as they would call it unacceptable interference if that language is there it's because
 There could be a problem, and I'm not trying to make a problem. I'm just trying to see how we deal with it. Any further comment? Well, I agree with Alderman Beach. I believe I agreed with him when it was on a committee on the issue. Hopefully, if there is any unacceptable interference, it would come at a time when –
 we wouldn't be in the midst of an emergency. It would happen fairly quickly. I would imagine that the cellular equipment would be in use all the time. And if we would have an officer in that particular vicinity, if there was going to be some interference, we would have warning well ahead of time before any emergency occurred. Any further discussion on the three items before us this evening?
 Alderman Toomberg. Thanks, Mayor. I'd just like to elaborate on B1 with Alderman Hervey's concerns. I would agree with her on those concerns in most cases, although in this specific case I'd like to reiterate that, again,
 part of the reason why i've spoken with the interested parties again they were looking at acquiring the space next to them that had all these these restaurant type equipment that's needed that fell through with the landlord of the with the building the the restaurant did not um
 i guess go out of business so it was held up due to them seeing if they could acquire that space they did not want to spend the capital to my understanding if that if those if that equipment was directly on the other side of the wall in a literal sense when finding that out now they are going to spend the capital to bring it up to the standards of the city and what they are asking so
 Thank you. Is there further discussion on the three items before us right now? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. No, I'm one. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. No, I'm eight. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Item number one, eight ayes, four noes. Items two and three, 12 ayes.
 All items passed. Thank you. Next up, we have finance personnel, Alderman Beckman. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first is the vouchers in the amount of $5,236,343.74.
 Next is the recommending approval of a tax exempt lease agreement for police vehicles and outfitting to PNC equipment finance of Columbus, Ohio for annual payments over a four year term of $468,544.12.
 an interest rate of 3.337% for a total cost of $1,727,679.92, funding sources of the police department budget for 2019. And the third item is recommending approval of the acceptance offer for 3012 Kishwaukee Street and the amount of $5,000 for the city-owned vacant lot through the multiple listing service. And I place these items up for passage.
 Thank you, Alderman. So we have three items. Is there discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Maybe I'm just reading this all wrong, but on number two, we have the words tax exempt, and then we have an interest rate. I'm not sure.
 Someone help me out these two words director Eklund. Could you please provide that explanation? Yes So the taxes at municipal leases a is a vehicle that's described as such by the IRS It's tax exempt for the lender We pay interest to them And we pay a lower rate because it is a tax exempt Investment for them. Is there further discussion on items before us seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? turkey
 Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Twelve ayes. Thank you. Items passed. Next up we have officers' reports. Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you, Mayor. Well, first of all, I want to thank you for speaking last week at the Rolling Green Association, along with Chairman Haney and Chief Ogden. And it turned out to be quite a lively and interesting meeting. And certainly we all thank you. Yeah. Other officers reports. OK. Seeing none. Moving on to unfinished business. We have codes and regulations. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have the traffic commission report the committee recommends sustaining of the traffic commissions recommend recommendation of no action for the following items Request to establish traffic control of Jefferson Street stopping for soper Avenue Thus repealing the existing traffic control of Jefferson Street yielding for soper Avenue place that up for passage So we have one item before us is there discussion I'm sorry alderman McNeely I
 I'm sorry, I don't see if you're just asking to reverse it. Take no action. Okay, that's fine. Thank you. Nothing. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, you're fine. A little sidebar. Go on. Oh, you're fine. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on this one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye.
 Chiarelli. 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Item is approved. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. The first item is the Tough Mudder Chicago, scheduled for Saturday, August 25th, Sunday, August 26th, with the listed times. The event will be held at 6100 Beltline Road. The second is Vesta Italiana, scheduled for Friday, August 3rd, Saturday, August 4th, and Sunday, August 5th.
 With the listed scheduled times, Your Honor. The third is Greenwich Village Art Fair and IDOT Resolution. Scheduled for Saturday, September 15th and Sunday, September 16th with the scheduled times. The fourth is Dash or Dash to Stroll on State. Scheduled for Saturday, November 24th.
 2018 and the fifth is Mary and bright stroll on state scheduled for Saturday and November 24th with the listed times place those items up for passage your honor thank you we have five items before us is there any discussion on the five items seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll Berkey Logan to bird frost Herbie Thompson Kelly Hoffman Beach Kenona's back McNeely
 Shirely 12 eyes. Thank you. So those items to pass just before we move on just want to say a special thank you to our friends from the viscer convention bureau for being with us tonight and Your tremendous work in a number of those events that are coming up. So, thank you
 Next up, we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank your honor. I have three items. First is an award of bid for citywide street repairs group number three to TCI Concrete in the amount of $2,214,878.66 funding sources sales tax.
 Have an awarded bid for Church Street and Court Street water main replacement to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford in the amount of $378,663.88. Funding source is the water replacement improvement account. And the third item is award of non-competitive contract for online legal research.
 services and to LexisNexis of New York City in the amount of $60,216 for a three-year contract. Funding sources of the legal department. I place these items up for passage. Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on the three items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones.
 beck aye mcneely shirelli aye 12 eyes thank you our planning and development new business item has been uh held or referred back to committee so next up we have code and regulations with alderman shirelli i think your honor first is an ordinance establishing a two-way stop control at the intersection of arthur avenue and north day avenue with arthur avenue stopping for north day avenue
 Thus repealing the existing traffic control of Arthur Avenue yielding for North Day Avenue. Did you get that, Your Honor? Could you repeat that just for everyone at home? Is everyone clear on that? No.
 Number two, an ordinance approving for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant gaming facility at 3204 South Alpine Road. The third is an ordinance approving the additions to chapter 26 of the code of ordinances to provide the regulation of an application for small wireless facilities. Place those three ordinances up for passage, your honor.
 Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there any further discussion on the three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Mogamon. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on two. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Beck. No on two. Aye on one and three. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Item number one, 12 ayes. Item number two, eight ayes, four noes. Item number three, 12 ayes. Excellent. All the items passed. Next up, we have Alderman Beck for finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. I was going to read them the two right. We're going to read the first two, and then we're going to take a recess. Can you please keep him from interrupting me, Your Honor? All right.
 all right i have three items i'm going to read in the first two for for a vote and then we will need to go into a closed session before we take action on the third item
 The first is an ordinance approving a tax exempt lease agreement for police vehicles and outfitting to PNC equipment finance of Columbus, Ohio for annual payments over a four year term. $468,544.12 at an interest rate of 3.337% for a total cost of $1,727,679.92.
 the next item is an ordinance approving the contract for purchase and sale of amara barazi for the city-owned vacant lot located at 30 12 kishwaukee street for the amount of five thousand dollars and i would place those two items up for passage thank you so we're just taking just the first two items up is there any discussion on just the first two items alderman thompson kelly i apologize for this but item number one how many police cars is is this
 And is this the end of the request for cars? Well, it's never the end. You know that. Director Haggerty, could you please provide? This is for 39 vehicles total, 28 marked and 11 unmarked that were approved by council for purchase. The chief said we're all good after this. I'm joking. But in the next 10 years, right, Chief? Yes.
 i get to control his mic at least in this place so um any further discussion i thought i saw it and no any further discussion clerk will you please call the roll on the first two items turkey hi hogeman hi thunberg frost hervey thompson kelly hoffman beach quinones beck mcneely shirely
 12 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Alderman Chiarelli, do you have some good news for us? I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters and labor negotiation matters. We have a motion and a second. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Aye. Beach? He said aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli?
 The roll. Here. Here. Frost is here. Here. Here. Excellent. So we have a quorum. We have one item outstanding, and that is from Finance and Personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. The item is an ordinance approving revisions to Section 5. Oh, wait. I am on the wrong. Section 5.4. Yeah, that's the one. I'm sorry. Okay.
 It's been so long since we talked about that item. I'm doing a dirky. No. All right. So it's an ordinance approving revisions.
 to section 5.4 through 5.6 regarding scoring promotional examinations for district chief fire captain and lieutenant and section 5.12 regarding promotions miscellaneous and the collective bargaining agreement with iaff and i would move that we suspend the rules we have a motion to suspend the rules is there a second alderman beach gave us a second we're going to do a voice vote on suspending the rules uh all those in favor of suspending the rules say aye aye
 Aye. Those opposed? Motion passes. Thank you. And I would place that item up for passage. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Volkman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 11 ayes, 1 abstain.
 Excellent. So the item passes. Is there a motion to adjourn? There's a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night.