Is there a motion? Alderman Frost? I'm sorry, Alderman Frost. One moment. If you could repeat that, I forget to turn on your microphone. Sure. Last week, I think it was Thursday, I spoke to Attorney Patrick Hayes and was able to put together an email that I sent to Mr. Hayes that I believe he submitted to all the aldermen on an analysis of the project versus replacing it versus repairing it. And based upon that, I haven't seen any input.
 further input on yet. So at this time, I've been told by Mr. Ryan that they're looking into some other further analysis of it. So at this time, I would make a motion to just lay this matter over until we get more information from... Motion and a second to lay over. Mr. Hayes, on a second layover, is there anything special that we would need to do to lay that over?
 No, but I would point out that item Roman numeral three, item number two, relates to the same item. And I'd ask Alderman Frost if he'd join that in a motion to lay both those items over. And then it takes a majority vote. Thank you. Thank you. And I would, at Mr. Hayes' request, I'm sorry. Sorry, Mr. Hayes. I didn't mean to.
 Yeah, demote you to that position. Lay them both over together, both miters. How about if we take a second motion to lay over Roman numeral 3, 2? That's fine. At the same time, second. Motion and second on both to lay over Roman numeral 3, resolutions number 1 and number 2. Any discussion or questions? Hearing none, all in favor signify with aye. Matter passes.
 Item Roman numeral four, ordinances, who is this from LTAP? Alderman Chiarelli? I'm sorry, Mr. Chiarelli, I did it again. Thank you. Under Roman numeral four, under ordinances one, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of liquor in conjunction with a restaurant, bar, and video gaming facility with an outdoor beer garden at 2515 Kilburn Avenue, subject to conditions.
 And I place that up for passage item up for passage is the liquor and tobacco advisory committee's approval For the sale of liquor in conjunction with the restaurant bar video gaming facility with outdoor beer garden and see to Limited commercial zoning district at 25 15 Kilburn Avenue Any discussion on that item alderman Thompson Kelly? I think you
 I am always happy to see a new business come anywhere in the city, especially in the 7th Ward. These individuals have invested their money, time and energy into opening up an establishment that had been there for years. So I would appreciate your support in this. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, would the clerk please take the roll? Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey?
 Newberg Beach Elliott McNeely Chiarelli 11 I to know your thank you matter passes if there's nothing further I believe that concludes our special meeting of the city council for this evening alderman Thompson Kelly yes I'm sorry we do do that only petitions and communications
 I have a communication which is a note from myself to the legislative lobby to schedule a meeting July 27th at 5 p.m. July 27th? Yes, at 5 p.m. And any alderman that has any information or want to put anything on the agenda, please feel free to contact me. Thank you. Thank you. Any further petitions and communications?
 right we don't have any other items for tonight no proclamations I don't have anything for officers reports does anyone have anything for officers reports Alderman get just thank you your honor I just wanted to I think I'll roll on tap and all the businesses who love
 run the little strip mall at the Rollo's corner across the street from the former Schnucks. They held an event yesterday and it greatly exceeded expectations. I think we easily had a couple thousand people out there. I know all my neighbors. I thank Alderman McNamara and his ward for his support of that. And it was really a great time to see the
 neighborhood to come together. My wife, my son and I really enjoyed it. In addition, they also raised us some money for the Special Olympics. So great to see everyone out in the neighborhood and once again demonstrating how strong an area that is in support of its local businesses. So thank you. That's very nice. Thank you. I saw that. It looked like it made quite a splash. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Madam Mayor Pro Tem.
 I got a call yesterday from one of my constituents who was very frightened at around 2 o'clock in the morning on a Sunday morning and she had seen, wasn't an 18-wheeler but a work truck, a larger work truck pull in front of her house and her security lights came on,
 engine, so she got up to check to see, and she didn't recognize the individual or the truck, and so she called 911. She was fearful that someone was going to attempt to break into her house, and so she called 911, and the
 911 operator said to her that they would try and get a police officer out there as soon as they could, but they were all busy at the time working with a fight that was going on somewhere in the city. So it wouldn't be immediate, but they would eventually get a police officer
 She was terrified and she was more than upset, but she did hang up and waited for over 30 minutes. And then she called 911 back, not with pleasant words, and still insisting that someone come because the truck was still outside and the gentleman had gotten out of the truck.
 And before the officer, within 20 minutes from that call, officers did arrive. However, the individual had pulled away. And she wanted me to make sure that I shared that with the mayor and with the police chief, that she was very afraid and that if the individual did try and break into the house by the time they got there, it would not have done her any good.
 She said she had prepared herself with a baseball bat and a bottle of ammonia in case the gentleman did try to break in. She knew no other way to protect herself and had no one else there in the house to help her to protect herself as well as her property. So she was more than upset that it took so long for a police officer to come out.
 But I'm upset with the 911 operator informing her of a situation that she believed all the officers in the city were at and not one could come to her house. So I just want to share that. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Alderman Chiarelli. Your Honor, I just want to express my deepest condolences to the family of Rosario Terrara. He passed away yesterday morning.
 instrumental in doing a lot of projects with this city it was a land surveyor engineer and just wanted everybody to know that again my condolences to the family and I'm sure the rest of the city council to the family thank you any further officers report alderman auto yes I would like to remind everybody that tomorrow night at 630 at Broadway Covenant
 the rolling green Association will be holding their quarterly meeting the guest speaker is Mister Ron floor he will be talking about where the direction of housing will be going not specifically newtown but the direction of where housing will be going so I urge everybody to please come to that meeting thank you all did a problem and really did you
 allow me a second time to speak. I do want to thank Public Works, the Public Works staff, for their work. They're on Marvin, the block between Green and Preston. The curbs were put in, an overlay was put in, and they are more than pleased with having new curbs. They haven't had curbs since they lived there, which is over 60 years.
 So they're happy with new curves. Also, Public Works also had the work, the sidewalks from South Johnston to Foster Avenue, new sidewalks put on both sides of the streets. The residents are thrilled that they have new sidewalks and it looks really great. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Officers' reports?
 I had one thing that I do want to mention. This weekend, Booker Fest will be taking place at Booker Washington Center. I don't remember the exact times. I think Friday is maybe from 5 till 9, somewhere in that vicinity. And then Saturday, like 11 till 9, and then on Sunday, I think maybe noon till 8 or something. I can't remember the times, but
 I do hope everyone will come by right at the corner of Winnebago and Morgan. You can't come down South Main Street anymore. So instead of taking South Main, if you would take West State or if you're on State Street coming east.
 come up to Winnebago and it'll take you straight there. We have, construction is great with all the stuff that's going on, but it can be painful at the same time. So, do have Booker Fest going on and I hope people can come out. And I do want to thank the police and fire departments for, they will have a presence at Booker Fest this year, teaching people how to be safe. And I think we'll have a robot and
 K-9 demonstration from the police department and the fire department. I call it the smoky house, teaching kids and adults how to get out of a smoke-filled house safely. So I do hope everyone can come out and enjoy the food, fun, and frolic on the Booker Washington grounds. Thank you. All right. There being no further office reports, is there a motion to adjourn the special city council meeting?
 Motion and second to adjourn. All in favor signify with aye. Aye. Matter passes. So with that, if there's no objection, I was asked to convene finance and personnel, the long agenda first. And hearing none, we will move straight into that. John Beck is not here this evening, so I will be