Will the board say nay? Motion passes. We will get started with the meeting. We will start out with an invocation from Chaplain Mark Miller. Is he present? Mr. Miller is not here. Alderman Beach, would you lead us in the prayer? And bring to you our needs, personally and corporately as this community. I thank you for every alderman around this horseshoe, our staff, our mayor, our police. those people that help this city function each and every day. Now bless us this evening. Keep our minds focused on what we need to do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Under item B, we have a roll call. Clerk, would you call the roll? Alderman Logeman. Here. Toomer. Here. Ross. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Present. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Meeks. Bonnie. Here. 12 present. All right, so we have a quorum under item C, the acceptance of the journal. Number one, the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on May 2nd, 2022. Is there a motion? So moved. There's a motion to approve in a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Aye. Motion carries under proclamations. We have zero proclamations. So we'll move to public the public hearing Which is alderwoman Torino pursuant to 65, Illinois compiled statutes five dash slash seven dash one dash one seven dash one dash eight and five eleven fifteen point one dash three for the agreement to annex for the following property a 3828 Spring Creek Road. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rocket Register Star on June 24, 2022. that notice informs citizens of rockford that the rockford city council will hold a public hearing on monday july 11 2020 at 5 30 in council shavers on the second floor at rockford city hall located at 425 east state street rockford illinois for the consideration of a proposed annexation agreement for 3828 spring creek road are there any comments or questions from the council members on the annexation no questions from council are there any questions or comments from the public Seeing that there's no questions the hearing is now closed. Thank you. Thank you all the woman Torino item for under petitions and communications We'll start at code and regulation committee item B Ism from Mike Atkinson land transaction officer regarding the authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 417 South Pierpont referred to code and regulation committee Item number two, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on July 19, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on July 25, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number three, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on July 19, 2022, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on July 25th, 2022 referred to code and regulation committee. Item for memorandum from Martin Bloom project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming special events, which include the ramp river run and tough mutter referred to code and regulation committee. Item number five, the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on July 13, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on July 5, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number six, memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding an amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 17-20. Article 2 noise and section 19 dash 3 offensive use of property referred to record to code a regulation committee and Finally item number seven memorandum from Nicholas Meyer legal director regarding amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances chapter 29 Article 5 towing services referred to code a regulation committee. Thank you elder Roman Torino will move to item C under finance and personnel committee and We'll give them a second to come right back. We move into public speakers. Okay. Thank you. Alderman frost. We're at item. C. Sure. Um, first of all, all these items will be referred to the finance and personnel committee. Number 1 is a member from Kyle Saunders. Public Works director regarding the award of the architectural services agreement for CPAC exterior facade restoration Number two is a memorandum for Kyle Saunders public works director regarding the intergovernmental city-state Railroad agreement for railway highway grade crossing improvements at Ford Avenue Cedar Street in the Canadian Pacific Railroad tracks Number three is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders public works director regarding a memorandum understanding between the city of Rockford and the state of Illinois for a complete street revitalization project a Number four is a memorandum from, again, Mr. Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an application to the Federal Highway Administration for the Bridge Investment Program Planning Grant for Jefferson Street Bridge. Number five is another memorandum from Mr. Saunders regarding a grant acceptance for the Illinois Department of Natural Resources Flood Hazard Mitigation Program. And number six is a memorandum from Jennifer Jagger, Community Services Director, regarding the acceptance of a contract with All Chicago for a rental assistance program. And as is indicated, all six of the mayors will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frost. We'll move into Item 5, which is the public speaking section of our meeting. Under our public speaking rules, you have three minutes to talk over the item you'd like to address. When you hear a buzzing sound, you'll be asked to complete your statement. Our first speaker is Prophet Youssef. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, it says the steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, transportation, Rockford. should have the bus run 24 hours a day, seven days a week, so people who don't have a car to get to work and school. Rockwood should have their own cab service to help Rockwood buses because most of the cabs in Rockwood are from out of town. If you listen to this idea, you could reduce crime, poverty, homelessness, and the dropout rate, and increase the graduation rate in high school and college. Because most of the people would have a job. More people would have came to that parade if they would have had transportation to get downtown. But because they are poor and they don't have a car, that's why you didn't see that many people downtown. And I also, oh, I'm glad you're here tonight, Mr. Chair. I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, Alderman Chapman. Happy birthday to you. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Our next speaker is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible. I will sing of loyalty and justice to thee, O Lord, I will sing. Hearty looks and an arrogant heart I will not endure. Wisdom and ideals are fundamental to sound government, as this spirit matters. Contrarywise, pride, greed, selfishness, cruelty causes strife and misery. A relevant analogy is the current China-United States relationship, for it shows how a rising power can dislodge a ruling power. And many in America see black citizens as a rising power that has been and still is denied justice, as the psalmist mentioned. All thinking blacks and many whites, realists, recognize that given an equal opportunity, blacks complete, compete, and excel in almost every endeavor. This is frightening to the ruling powers who will stop at nothing to prevent this dislodgement of number one. You hear, that is why you hear with increasing frequency of another American civil war, and it is not unthinkable. Chinese people who used to live in bamboo huts and earn less than $2 a day has surged past the United States with most billionaires in 2015 and is adding a new billionaire every week. It is the world leading producer of computers, semiconductors, communications equipment, and get this one, pharmaceuticals. Ships, steel, aluminum, furniture, clothing, textiles, cell phones, automobiles, all of this in one generation, simultaneously threatening to invade Taiwan, which produces 92% of the world's semiconductors that power smartphones, computers, and our guided missiles. If successful, the American economy will collapse or we go to war. There is a realistic fear that blacks could accomplish something comparable as we seek, for starters, $200 million from the Biden administration and the federal government, and we're going to get it. But unlike China, we are obligated to enact the ruling class of some order one that can change hearts, making harmonious and peace of living possible. Trusting the God of justice is real. I conclude we walk hand in hand. We'll walk hand in hand. We'll walk hand in hand someday. Oh, deep in our heart, I do believe we'll walk hand in hand one day. thank you reverend donson our next speaker is mr john tack brantley good evening all the persons and uh citizens of rockford illinois i'm going to detour from my regular speech because this past couple of months been very busy for me probably always highlight several benefits of keeping quiet first is the best policy you have nothing worthwhile to say to allow you to point the opportunity to listen to learn and to give something in common with those who are wise and make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak you have something important to say. Wow, we have come to the time where the white privileged elites can tell a lie and get mad when you do not believe their lie. When my special interest group can tell you what they want you to say and you have to do it. Let me go back. Why special interests groups can tell you what you can say or do before they will give you any funds or vote for you. That's a big difference from a true sponsor that do not tell you what you can say or what you can't do. However, they're supposed to know what your organization is doing in the community. I'm blown away how many people are doing that. Three questions about the coronavirus 19 and the system refused to answer my question. Instead they tried to cover it up, they called me a lie. Three years later everything I said and asked about the truth came to the light. I truly learned who my friends from my enemies are. I'm detouring because on June 19th a young lady was held I'm on hell hostage. She was held in an apartment with some young dudes where they was taking advantage of her. And she was 31 years old, got kids her day age. The father and mother were scared to turn to the police department. They turned to me. As an equalizer, we was able to go in there and I was able to diffuse the situation which we gave them a warning. We found her in there where they was having an orgy with this young lady that's 31 years old. Our citizens have not afraid to turn to the police. If we look over there at our young kids, you see Deputy Chief Carla Redd. You can turn to her, you ain't got to find me. And you also can turn to the Chief of Fire Department. Right over there, Tommy Meeks, me and Tommy Meeks go back way back, That's his daughter right there. His daughter, that's another person that you can turn to. This past week, Wednesday, I took three families to Alpine to wash their clothes. We left Alpine on Sandy Hollow and Alpine Street. A young lady in her 20s was standing on the corner soliciting money because she's trying to get away from her abusers. Thanks God that she's seen me on my Facebook page and she was reluctant to get in a van with me. We was able to rescue her off of that corner and take her to Victory Outreach and other organizations to help this young mom. We need to come together and work together. Thank you, John. The police cannot arrest their way out of crime. They need to have nots. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, John. Our next speaker is Ken Dickens. Ken Dickens? I wish she could. Our last and final speaker is Brenda Lynn Langdon. Good evening, everyone. For full disclosure, I am here as a private citizen, a taxpayer, and a property tax owner. I had no intentions of coming, but my organization, the Broken Wings Club, got flooded with video footage of what happened with the police over at the Park District. And so I said that I would come and speak because this is the second time I'm having this conversation with this body. You can't keep doing what's going on. This is how to stop. John has a point. There's going to be a civil war. I may be too old to participate in it, but it's going to happen. You gotta stop sitting there. If you have a gun and a badge, you cannot sit there and say you're a fear for your life. You can't keep antagonizing innocent people. You're making a bad situation worse. So I'm gonna talk in language that you guys understand. Lawsuits, payouts, settlements, non-disclosures. You gotta get on it. Carla can only do so much. And Carla, this is no disrespect to you because you are inheriting this. So when all this is happening, It's always looking like Nazi Germany out there. And I've lived in Germany, I've lived abroad, and I have lived in Dubai, Hong Kong, all these communist countries, and I have not seen anything as horrible as I see here in these United States. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Langdon. We'll move into the new committee report section under Section B, the Code and Regulation Committee. okay thank you your honor under new community reports the code and regulation committee item number one bless you to my colleague here committee recommends approval of the proposal to place for sale city-owned parcel located at 4xx short Horsman Street pin number 11-22-405-018 THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM NUMBER 2, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS SUSTAINING THE TRAFFIC COMMISSION APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH A NO PARKING ANYTIME RESTRICTION ON THE NORTH SIDE OF 23rd AVENUE FROM 15th STREET TO 575 FEET EAST OF 15th STREET, THUS REPEALING THE EXISTING RESTRICTION OF NO PARKING ANYTIME ON THE NORTH SIDE OF 23rd AVENUE FROM 475 FEET TO 575 FEET EAST OF 15th STREET. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. Item number three the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the west side of 9th Street from 4th Avenue to 50 Street of 50 feet south of 4th Avenue the legal legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance I item number four the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission recommendation of no action on the following items number one a request to establish an always stop at the intersection of wealthy avenue and greenwood avenue thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of wealthy avenue and greenwood avenue item two A request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Welty Avenue and Jackson Street, thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of Welty Avenue and Jackson Street. Number three, a request to remove the through street designation from Welty Avenue from Rural Street to East State Street. And four, a request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Arbitus Road and Williamsburg Road, thus repealing the existing one-way control of Williamsburg Road stopping for Arbitus Road. Item number five committee recommends approval of the annexation of 3828 Spring Creek Road pin number 12-17 103-001 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Item 6 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a mural on a building in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 715 North Madison Street subject to condition the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item item seven committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval or a special use permit for a two-family residence in a c4 urban mix use zoning at 1630 Broadway Subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item eight the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for six residential units in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1661 and 1667 Charles Street Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 9. Committee recommends denial of the variation to increase the maximum allowed height of a fence in a front yard from 4 feet to 6 feet along Camlin Avenue in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1839 Melrose Street. Nicole Lynch, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of approval. Item 10. Item 11. Committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for a bed and breakfast and an r2 to family residential zoning districts at 1535 each state Alan Patterson subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 11 quality committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory and Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the sports complex and a seat for urban mixed-use zoning district in an i1 light industrial zoning district at 305 South Madison Street and ROTFORD PARK DISTRICT SUBJECT TO CONDITION. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. AND FINALLY, ITEM 12, COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS SUSTAINING THE LIQUOR AND TOBACCO ADVISORY APPROVAL FOR THE SELL OF LIQUOR BY THE DRINK IN CONJUNCTION WITH A RECREATIONAL FACILITY CLUBHOUSE, BANQUET HALL, TEMPORARY BARS, AND BEVERAGE CARTS. an re rural state zoning district and our one single-family residential zoning district at 1902 Reed Farm Road Rutherford Park District Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare appropriate ordinance. I place these 12 items before you and also Standing I'd like to make a motion Bindings of fact for denial must be adopted for committee's recommendation to deny a variation to increase the maximum allowed height of a fence in the front yard from four to six feet along Camlin Avenue in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1839 Melrose Street. Nicole Lynch, applicant, and thus reversed ZBA's recommendation of approval. Thank you. When Section 6, New Committee Reports B, Codes and Regulations Committee, oh sorry, sorry, I'm reading the wrong things. I move to adopt findings of fact to reflect denial of a variation to increase the maximum allowed height of a fence in the front yard from 4 to 6 feet along Camlin Avenue and R1 Single Family Residential Zoning District at 1839 Melrose Street. The findings of fact can be read as follows. Binding of facts for denial of variation to increase the maximum allowed height of a fence in a front yard from four feet to six feet along Camden Avenue in an R1 single-family residential zoning district located at 1839 Melrose Street. Denial of this variation is based upon the following findings. Number one. Because of the particular physical surroundings, shapes, or topographical conditions of a specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would not result as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out. Number two, the conditions upon which a petition for this variation is based are not unique to the property for which the variation is sought. and are applicable generally to other property within the same zoning classification. Number 3. The purpose of this variation is based exclusively upon a desire to increase the value or income potential of the property. Number 4. The alleged difficulty or hardship is not caused by this ordinance and has been created by any persons presently having an interest in the property or by any predecessor entitled. Number 5. The granting of this variation will be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located. Item 6, number 6, the proposed variation will impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of public streets or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood. And lastly, number seven, the proposed variation does not comply with the spirit and intent of restrictions imposed by this ordinance. I do need a second on this motion. So there is a motion and a second for item nine. All those in favor say aye. I'm sorry, questions? Alderman Frost? I do need a second on this motion. Does it replace item number nine? No. Okay. So the item came out of committee as a denial, which is a reversal of the ZBA's recommendation. And if we're going to change the ZBA's recommendation, we need to adopt findings of fact. Typically that would happen at committee. It did not happen this time. So these are just adopting the findings of fact to go along with the denial. So procedurally, if you vote in favor of the motion, you're still, and then I take it, you would also then vote in favor of item number nine, denying the grade? Correct. Okay, thank you. Alderman Bonney. Would a motion to send this back to committee be appropriate now or after the current motion is considered? Neither. I'd like to move to send this back to committee. There's a motion and a second. That's automatic, correct? No, it would need a majority vote to send it back. Go ahead. I'd switch that to layover. move to lay this over if they laid over so my only concern is if we lay it over then what happens to the motion that's pending it all it is all laid over so there's a pending motion there's a motion a second to lay it over it'll the whole thing goes till the next meeting okay that item is laid over thank you alderman terena for reading those in are there any other questions on items one through twelve except for number nine Alderman Beach. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We cannot speak on 9, right? He's wondering if he can speak on 9. The item's already been laid over, so it's laid over without debate. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? All right. Seeing none, there's a motion on the floor. All those in favor of items 1 through 12 minus number 9, all say aye. Aye. Opposed? No. I need to abstain on item 10. and i'm eye for the rest okay we will move on to officers report or i'm sorry um item c which is finance and personnel committee thank you number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of fifteen million four hundred and forty nine thousand one hundred and thirty six dollars and twenty nine cents As approved to the Finance and Personnel Committee on June 27, 2022. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of city-owned property located at 1430 North Court Street to Rafael Inuana Esquavas in the amount of $1,000.00. Mr. And Mrs. Escuadros are adjacent property owners. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a memorandum of understanding between Ask Me Council 31, Local 1058-C, and the City of Rockford. For an extension of the payment of a recruitment retention and perfect attendance incentives using grant funds to Head Start staff, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. All right, so that's items 1 through 3 under finance and personnel. Is there a motion to approve items 1, 2 and 3? The motion here is presumed because these are all came out of committee. So he's taking those up for passage. Okay. Oh, yeah. Sorry. I wasn't paying attention. Any questions on items 1, 2 or 3 alderman turkey. Your honor and just a quick comment on number three last time I got anything for perfect attendance I think I was in elementary school. I just find it fascinating in this day and age We have to pay people for perfect attendance. I think that's goofy. That's my comment other questions Alderman key Donas number two is that is that an empty lot or is there something on their house or building? staff Alderman Hoffman The perfect attendance thing I don't know if we'd like Owen to speak to that or not But we found out that it worked it made a vast improvement All right any other comments or questions see none all those in favor say aye aye opposed aye Alderman Durkee? Just that these are roll call votes because they involve expenditure. These are committee reports, so they're not a final action, so we're able to take a voice vote. Okay. And then a roll call vote will be in their... The roll call vote will come in the ordinance? Correct. Yep. Okay. Thank you, sir. All right. So were you for number three, Alderman Durkee? No. Okay. I'm mean. I'm mean. I say right about the clerk Reminding me that the the vouchers are a final action. So we should take a voice or a roll call vote on that Okay, so we'll do a roll call on item one Clerk would you call a roll turkey? Hi, Logan timber frost Torino I fronty Wilkins Hoffman I rose I Beach Quinones Meeks Bonnie. Aye. 13 ayes. All right. Alderman Beach, did you have a question? I do, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I want to be recorded as no on number three until we can find out what the payments are, what the wages are when they say they're low paid. That's the reason why they've given an incentive. I'd like to know what that low pay is. in relationship to minimum wage and other things. So until we can find that out, then I'd like to be recorded as no on three. Okay, so two no's and the rest ayes on item three. So the item will pass and we'll move on to, did any staff member want to answer that or have any info on that question? Yes we can, we can say that Alderman Beach, Head Start employees have traditionally been the lowest paid employees within the structure of the city. What these funds are, they're part of the ARPA funds. These funds were to, as we are experiencing, our Head Start is experiencing the same thing that all Head Starts are across the nation. And that is a lot of school districts are absorbing them due to their qualifications. So what we're trying to do is trying to incentivize people to stay. to attend classes or to attend work, to show up. And we have shown that it has been extremely successful. This is something that has been passed by council previously. We're just asking for an extension because the funds allow that extension. Are they paid after appointed time then? No. In other words, they have to be there a year? Yes. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And are they minimum wage or greater than that? It's above minimum wage now, sir. We had to do a compensation study, so it is now above. We are working with finance as well as HR. We have them above minimum wage. Yes, sir. And have you told us what that... Yes, sir. That is in the packet as well. And again, this is something that you guys have approved previously council has, and it's just up for extension is what it's up for. Same exact thing that was previously approved by council. Thank you. All right. We will move to officer's reports. Alderman Tarina, go ahead. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to commend every single individual that was involved with the process. The Peaches events last weekend, July 1st and 2nd, it was the 30th anniversary of a league of their own. They had events on Friday night and Saturday night. I was able to attend the events on Saturday, which was playing in Celebrity softball game. My knee still hurts as a result of that game. And also they had like a street fair in front of Coronado. The Hard Rock had a reception event. before and then they did the premiere of the show, just literally everything I just thought was done with excellence. I thought it was flawless. And I thought like, wow, I was, It was just one of those moments where you were just proud to be from Rockford. And I hope that other people, I don't feel like Scott said it, you can't say it too, I hope that everyone talks about it because it just needs to be said. How well this event was executed. Just even from just the inclusivity, I saw just all of Rockford. The show itself was good. So the Amazon is just doing us proud. Also, I just really love that they've reached out to black historians to speak to the black experience of what it was like to be black in Rockford, what it was like to be a black baseball player in that period. I just felt like everything was just really on a world-class level. Our city was represented Well, you even had actors that said they've never felt more welcome in the city than they did in Rockford So it just said a lot so I just have to thank everyone that was involved from Just from planners to anyone that put money toward it. Just anyone involved in this just a very very special. Thank you It was so excellent So, thank you I just want to follow up a little bit on that because I was down there for the evening show to see the Coronado Theater packed. That was exciting and the theater organ was up. You hardly ever hear that anymore. That was entertaining. And they just were given a first-class show down there. I'll certainly tell that. Also I'd like to comment about the Ted and Tom show, the fireworks. I know that Joe Marino, I miss him, a good dear friend, and he's done a great thing for us. But boys, nephew, and Ted, they've took that thing over, and I've never seen a finale quite like we had downtown Rockford on the 4th of July. So thanks to those gentlemen who bring that goodness to our community. Thank you, sir. Alderman Wilkins. I just wanted to extend a thank you for the 4th of July parade. I know some tensions were high that day, but the Rockford Police Department, they definitely made us feel safe that day and how they kind of, you know, surrounded us and was around and definitely showed their presence with not only the individuals who came to participate in the parade, but those who were spectators as well. So I wanted to say thank you to you all and to everyone that showed up, because if you did come, you knew it was like raining rain. So hard like an hour before it so it was like is this happening? So thank you for that Also, I wanted to give a shout out to Lester Wright with the right way they held Their foot fifth annual kickball tournament this past weekend at Andrews Park It was a great turnout like ultimate arena. My body still hurts. I'm but it was good fun, we had some good food, some good rivalries going on there. So thank you to the city and to all of our sponsors who made that event possible, thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you. So ditto to Alderman Beach, Alderman Wilkins, Alderman Turina on all three of those events. I would just add that with respect to the TV series, I think I posted on Facebook, I think if this series really catches fire, really has the potential to put Rockford on the map because it really is focused on Rockford. And it also, in addition to telling the story of black players who weren't allowed to play, it also explores the LGBTQ storyline that was ignored by... Penny Marshall film great as it was. And I think those two things combined, plus just the quality of the series and the excitement that at least surrounded it here in Rockford for its premiere, I think it has the potential to really create a lot of buzz around Rockford. And I think it's, well, I'm going to go ahead and say it could do a lot of Transform Rockford's work for it. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman, did you have anything to add? I do. Thank you. I just want to say I worked that evening, the first one, Friday night, and I got a chance to speak to the producer, and there's a chance that it might be brought to Rockford. So I know there's discussions, and I'm excited about it, but there's a chance. I would just, is there anyone else that wanted to talk? Alderwoman Prunty, and then we'll go to Alderman Tumurch. I THINK FOR THE FOLKS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE ACTIVITIES AND FUNCTIONS FOR LEGAL THEIR OWN, I THOUGHT IT WAS WONDERFUL AS WELL. AND THANK YOU TO THE PEOPLE WHO PUT THAT TOGETHER. IT WAS, IT REALLY WAS VERY INVITING. LOTS OF GREAT ENTERTAINMENT. FOR I WANTED TO TAKE AN OPPORTUNITY TO THANK THE FOLKS WHO HELPED COORDINATE MY SIXTH WARD THIS PAST THURSDAY. THANK YOU, CARL FRANSON AND FRANCESCA FRENCH, WHO REALLY APPRECIATE IT. IT WAS SO INFORMATIVE. I'VE BEEN GETTING People have been reaching out to me time and time again to just say how much they appreciated the updates and the information. Really, thank you also for the information regarding Think Big. I think people are thinking how can they participate in the services that the city provides. Also wanted to thank Greg Harrell and the folks at plumbers and pipe fitters local 23 for allowing us to utilize their facilities so we had a very informative Six ward meeting. Thank you. Thank you all the Roman pretty alderman to Burke. Thank you mayor pro Tim I was humbled and honored to be part of the uh 360 approximately 360 motorcycle uh procession that brought the remains back of marine nathan carlson and he he was killed in the helicopter or the aircraft crash in california from mcchesney park and they brought him into o'hare and a very humbling experience um to be part of that and to see the Mochesne Park, Cherry Valley, Winnebago County, and Rockford Police Departments represented there as well. and to the state troopers who essentially closed down expressways in Chicago and all of I-90 coming all out to Rockford And all those and thank you to all those municipalities along the way First responders and residents who line the bridges to honor Nathan Carlson and it really is a tragic situation and we'd like to I think on behalf of City Council and in Rockford to extend our condolences to the family and Thank him for his ultimate sacrifice and service and to all those as well who serve our country Including my second ward Cohort Logan and all those who serve to keep us safe. Thank you. Thank you all the men to birth. I Alderman Torino. Congratulations. Thank you. Any further statements? I just wanted to add in regards to the Amazon event that took place, number one, thank you to Amazon for hosting the event down at the Coronado Theater. When you hear from the people of Coronado, you know, they're like, you know, we're Hollywood actresses that they came to Rockford prior to shooting and that they had a spiritual event at Byer field I think it says a lot about what a League of their own has done for our community and will continue to do and I just hope that We continue to engage Amazon in bringing production to the Rockford area and hopefully utilizing some of the governor's tax breaks and FOR HOLLYWOOD SHOOTS AND BRINGING SOMEWHAT OF A MOVIE INDUSTRY COMPONENT TO THE STATE OF ILLINOIS. SO I WOULD ENCOURAGE THAT. THE SECOND THING IS I JUST WANTED TO THANK THE FOURTH OF JULY COMMITTEE AND ALL THOSE WHO PUT ON THE PARADE AND WHO ORGANIZED THE fireworks. I did want to add that there is somewhat of a new trend that is taking place in the United States and it's drone lights that are being utilized throughout the country to put on quote-unquote firework shows and I think that should be something to take into consideration for the future whether it's YOU KNOW, 5, 10, 20 YEARS FROM NOW, BUT IT'S DEFINITELY A LOT BETTER FOR THE ENVIRONMENT. AND IF YOU GET TO GET A CHANCE TO WATCH SOME OF THEM ONLINE, THEY ARE QUITE AMAZING SHOWS. THE AMOUNT OF THINGS THAT THEY CAN DO WITH THOSE DRONES ALL UP IN THE AIR SHOOTING OFF LIGHTS IS QUITE FANTASTIC. BUT OUR 4TH OF JULY COMMITTEE DOES A FANTASTIC JOB JUST THROWING IT OUT THERE FOR THEM TO Maybe take into consideration. So, with that said, we'll move on to motions and resolutions item a planning and development committee. Um, I'll miss element. All the woman meets. under planning and development committee item one committee recommends approval of the proposed amended amarok tiff resolution calling for a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with the approval of the second amendment to the redevelopment plan and project for the amendment to the designation of the amended amarok hotel redevelopment project area thank you alderwoman meeks for item one clerk would you um is there a motion to approve Or no motion? No motion. Okay. For item one, clerk, would you call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes. So that item passes. Under B, we have Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the annexation agreement for 3828 Spring Creek Road. All right. For item one, clerk, would you call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 13 ayes. 13 ayes under 1. We'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of the award of the bid for the demolition of 3045 and 3049 Kishwaukee to Northern Illinois Service of Rockford in the amount of $53,550. the funding sources the construction services operating budget and the illinois housing development authority number two the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for city yards building demolition package to n-track in the amount of eight hundred and thirty four thousand dollars the project is estimated to be completed by may 2023 the funding source is the american rescue plans act funds number three the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the on-call private led service replacement program to dpi construction and n-track Group, for an estimated annual contract value of $200,000, the contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract renewal. The funding source is the water replacement and improvement account. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the rejection of the bid for the Alpine Road and Linden Road traffic signal upgrades. It is the recommendation of the Department of Public Works that the bid from William Charles Electric be rejected. Due to the large variance above the engineer's estimate, the project will be rebid at a later date after an evaluation for potential cost-saving measures or such times as additional funds can be programmed. Number five, the committee recommends approval award of construction engineering agreement for the downtown streetscape improvements to HR green of McKinney the amount of 79,000 $78. The project is estimated to be completed by October 31 2022. The funding source is 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number six, the committee recommends an award of engineering agreement for the 9th Street Reconstruction, the CES of Belvedere, in the amount of $85,365. The project is estimated to be completed by the winter of 2022. The funding source is 1% infrastructure sales tax and the CDBG. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for logistics parkway phase two to Willette Hoffman in the amount of $201,640.49. The project is estimated to be completed by 2023. The funding source is the CIP general fund and also the water replacement improvement account. I place these seven matters before you for consideration. Okay. Items one through seven, is there any discussion or questions on? Seeing none, clerk, would you call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Logum in timber frost. Hi, Terina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose, I each canoes Meeks I funny all right 13 eyes We'll move to new business on her code and regulation committee. I Thank you, Your Honor. Under Quota Regulation Committee, item number one, an ordinance approving the proposal to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 4XX Short Horsman Street. Item two, an ordinance establishing a no-parking-anytime restriction on the north side of 23rd Avenue from 15th Street to 575 feet east of 15th Street. Thus repealing the existing restriction of the no parking anytime on the north side of 23rd Avenue from 475 feet to 575 feet east of 15th Street Item number three in ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the west side of 9th Street from 4th Avenue to 50 feet south of 4th Avenue item for an ordinance approving the annexation of 3828 Spring Creek Road and number 12 17-1 3-0 0 1 Item number five, an ordinance approving a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 715 North Madison Street. Item six, an ordinance approving a special-use permit for a two-family residence in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning at 1630 Broadway. Item seven, an ordinance approving a special-use permit for six residential units in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1661 and 1667 Charles Street. Item 8 in ordinance approving a special use permit for a bed-and-breakfast in an r2 two-family residential zoning district At 1535 East State Street item 9 in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the sports complex in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district and an I won light industrial zoning district at 305 South Madison Street And lastly, item 10, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by drink in conjunction with a recreational facility clubhouse, banquet hall, temporary bars, and beverage carts at an RE rural estate zoning district, an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1902 Reed Farm Road. I place these items before you. Items 1 through 10 are placed forward. Are there any discussion or questions on items 1 through 10? Seeing none, clerk, would you call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye. Logoman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Abstain on eight. Aye on the rest. Bronte. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. Aye. Items 1 through 7, 13 ayes. Item number 8, 12 ayes. 1 abstain. 9 and 10, 13 ayes. All items pass under item C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located at 1430 North Court Street to Rafael and Juana Escovas, the amount of $1,000. They are the adjacent property owners. Number two is an ordinance approving a memorandum of understanding between ASME Council 31, Local 1058-C in the City of Rockford for extension of the payment of a recruitment, retention, and perfect attendance incentives using grant funds to Head Start staff. I place these two matters before you. Items one through two. are pushed forward um are there any uh questions or comments on items one through two see none clerk jerky i am one no one too logan hi timber all right frost hi terena hi grunty hi wilkins hi hoffman hi rose hi alderman beach i am one no one too quinones hi meeks hi Item number 1, 13 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Items 1 and 2 pass. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. There is. Second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. You're adjourned. Good job.