Good evening and welcome to City Council Meeting, the City of Rockford, Illinois. The date is July the 18th, 2016. Our invocation this evening will be led by Pastor Samuel Sarpea of Rockford Community Church. Can you pray with me? Gracious God, we live in such a trying time, a time that calls for deep reflection as a community and as a nation. Thank you for our men and women in uniform,
 for the community at large, for how much you have brought us and continue to work to bring us together. As our leaders tonight gather, give them wisdom, grant them understanding, and as a community we will all work hand in hand together to build this place to be a place that we all seek to live in peacefully. In your son's name we ask. Amen.
 pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Getschis? Here. McNamara? Here. Frost? Here. Connell? Oto? Here. Newberg? Here. Beach? Here.
 really cheer really 9 present thank you very much for doing for him although we will not be able to spend rules this evening do lack of a tenant the chamber we can still vote on vouchers and other items of business so what those items out with the help of our legal director parliamentarian if necessary as we go through the agenda this evening so motion except journal
 There's been a motion and second to accept the journal. Are there any amendments or changes? Alderman Neuber. Thank you. I move to reconsider the item listed in Roman Nubro 9C4, Resolution Award of Bid Linden Point Pond Drainage Repairs to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford, Illinois, for their bid of $176,656.
 dollars and 63 cents the motion second to reconsider item 9 C for the resolution regarding Linda point in the agenda is there any discussion your novels in favor of the motion reconsider policing if I was saying I was no things items up for reconsideration is a discussion mister Hayes any direction on the just one if you could explain the
 what a yes and a no vote does on the item as it relates to approving the project or disapproving the project. Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. Your Honor, the City Council, on a motion to approve this award of bid at its July 5th meeting, voted 4 to 6, so that item failed.
 What's before the council at this point, the matter having been reconsidered, would be subject to a motion. I'm assuming that Alderman Newberg will abide by staff's request now that the matter is up for reconsideration to move for approval of the award of bid. A yes vote, a majority of the city council voting yes by a roll call vote would authorize the bid.
 If a majority of the City Council does not vote favorably, then the matter will be declined and it can't be reconsidered. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. So we need, if we want to change the action from the last meeting, we need a motion.
 I move to approve the award of bid, Linden Point Pond Drainage Repairs to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford, Illinois, for their bid of $176,656.63. Funding source is the CIP. Motion moved and seconded to approve the award of the bid. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Getsch's Aye McNamara Aye Frost Aye Connell Odo Newberg Aye Beach McNeely Chiarelli Alderman Beach Do you want to vote on the Linden Point? Aye Thank you Eight ayes, one no The matter carries, thank you So the journal has been amended
 We have a item still on the floor for acceptance of the amended journal. Is there any additional discussion on the amended journal? Hearing none, all those in favor please approve the amended journal. Please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. No. Ayes have it. Thank you. Public speakers, I'd remind our public speakers they each have three minutes to make their comments this evening.
 We have several speakers. If they start to go over their time, I will be keeping time. I will ask them to wrap up their comments. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Exodus, the 14th chapter, 13th verse, Moses asked the people, Do not be afraid. Stand firm and you will see the deliverance the Lord will bring you today. The Egyptian you see today, you will never see again. The Lord will fight for you. You need only to be still. What I want to speak about tonight, ending mass incarceration in the black community by calling on black pastors to stand up and speak up.
 The crisis of incarceration this nation now faces demands people of faith, act with swift and fierce moral authority to transform, not just reform, a broken system. It demands that all of us, clergy, seminaries, teachers, and people in purists, mosques, and temples provoke a revolution of values that strikes at the heart of mass incarceration without exception. We believers are required to realize a just world. This is our calling, and we are falling short when it comes to how we treat those in jails, prison, and detention centers.
 Thanks to powerful community organizing and mobilization, many more people are connected of why mass incarceration must end. 2.3 million human beings lock up, as many as 9 million under some form of correctional control, including parole, probation, or waiting their day in court. And almost 500,000 people passing through civil immigration detention annually. Growing numbers of us, particularly if we are poor,
 black, brown, female immigrants, or having mental health issues, are facing incarceration, or have loved ones who are. We know that the United States incarcerate more people per capita than any other nation on earth, approximately 700 persons per every 100,000. And we know that the racially biased war on drugs has in the past 50 years incarcerated hundreds of millions of people
 for largely non-violent drug offenses, tearing families apart in the process, despite public perception. Poor people of color are not more likely to use or sell drugs than their white counterparts. So what explains the disproportionate ways we are locked up? To begin with, we are seeing the devastating results of the tough-on-crime rectory of the past 50 years. Public policies like stop and frisk, broken windows, promote over-policing of minor offenses which are the gateway to incarceration.
 The historic and pervasive criminalization of communities of color in the United States is a key building block of the current system of mass incarceration. Mass incarceration is largely about continuing to ensure the nation as a permanent slave and disenfranchised underclass who varied bodies and movement are caged in control.
 It's time for black ministers and black people to stand up, speak up against companies making money like blacks and brown people. In 2015, two companies were reaping record profits at the expense of those chronically dehumanized and marginalized communities. They made $470,500,159.12 last year. It's time for black pastors and black people to stand up and speak up against this injustice that they are doing to our people.
 and say we are not going to accept this garbage anymore. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Posta. Oh, can you hear me? Yes. Too bad. Uh... I... Last week, I heard something that Fishy Whale fell in love with, that we should elect our policeman. What a great idea. Incidentally,
 Fishy Whales Cookbook is available. $23. Now my speech. Remember, it is the smart ones that have gotten us into this mess we're in. We need stupid fishy whales to help make life perfect for all. At Mayer, we already have great leadership. I have been urging for months that Tom McNamara run for governor.
 Somebody stupid must run for governor. But nobody listens to me. Again, why do I bother? I am Fishy Whale, Roland Posca. I am still plenty stupid. Thank you very much. Our next speaker is James Mosley. Thank you all for having me.
 What I would like to talk today about is morale. Probably the most important thing in any community. I'm just going to read off the definition of morale. What is morale? Morale is the confidence, the enthusiasm, and most importantly, the discipline of a person. And that is very important because a lot of people are in hardships in the situations they're in because of their lack of discipline.
 which ultimately is because of their lack of morale. When someone's in a very low morale state of mind, their discipline is not aligned with the discipline of the law or the laws of the land. So you see higher crime rate, you see a higher dropout, you see a higher increase in negative pollution throughout the community, and that's a direct effect because of the morale of the community. You know, right now,
 I live in one of the poorest neighborhoods in Rockford on the west side. And that is the morale of that entire community is very low. I had someone, I told someone on Friday that they have a, every Saturday they have something at the park for all the kids that can go there. I never bring my kids. I have four of them. I never bring them.
 Because my morale is so low, I don't want to get up on my day off and go to the park. I want to soak in my depression, which most people really want to do when you are depressed and when your morale is low. And there's a lot of ways that we can boost a person's morale. Personally, for me personally.
 When I'm in a financial stable situation to give my kids everything I want to give them and not deny them because of my finances, it raises my own morale. When I could buy my wife a gift just because she's beautiful today, it raises my morale. And I was telling someone as long as black people are the poorest people in America.
 It really nothing else, any other reform won't work. Police reform won't work because there's still people with low morale doing undisciplined things that will get them locked up. So police reform, no matter what kind of reform it is, won't work as long as people morale are so low, as long as black people are the poorest people in the country.
 That is the first thing we need to address as a country as a city is raising morale raising the living standards for people And better in the community as a whole and thank you all for having me. You have a great day Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Don't worry. It's not ticking Hillary
 wants to make a big deal about Trump using a star on an ad that slams her for being corrupt and paid for. She says it's a star of David because it has six points and accuses Trump of being a racist. Meanwhile, Hillary has been taking millions and millions of dollars from countries that want to wipe Israel from the map. Oh, what a champion Hillary is for the Jewish people.
 It is said that one murder is a tragedy and a million murders are a statistic. Where are we as a people that this is acceptable? Stop the violence and the silence. Call Crime Stoppers. Where were you when shots rang out striking a young girl on 7th and 12th Avenue, just one block from Broadway? I'll say this again. We need justice.
 cameras on Broadway, and a dedicated team of officers to walk the mean streets of Broadway. You cannot interact with people from a squad car. It has to be face-to-face on a daily basis. Broadway needs boots on the ground.
 For decades, crime has been running rampant in our city. The approach that law enforcement is using is not working. Like the Obama administration, law enforcement is going after the ants and not the ant hill. You have to go after the ant hill to stop the ants from spreading throughout our city.
 Stepping on one ant at a time does not work. I will not be silent. I will be heard. And on a final note, every year I have a garden, and this summer plant came up, and I allowed it to grow, and here is what I have. Who would have thought? A pumpkin in the middle of July. Thank you. Thank you very much. My children will be excited about the pumpkin. I'm donating them to James and his kids.
 Your garden's way out of mind, so thank you. Our next speaker is Penna Broman. Good evening. I am a teaching artist from ArtsPlace, a program that is an apprenticeship for high school students run by the Arts Council. We are here this evening to thank the city of Rockford for all of the support that we have received in running this program, as well as the Park District,
 We work in the, some of our teams are in the Riverfront Museum Park, and another couple of teams are in the Mendelssohn Club. And we also have a team that's working outside painting a mural. I brought with me three of my interns on my team, which is the inter-arts team. We use all of the arts. Writing,
 sound, movement, drama, and visual arts, and we put them all together into performance pieces. We would like to invite all of you to our upcoming performances, and you should have received one of these flyers
 to let you know when it is, and you each should have received a complimentary ticket to these performances. Our visual show is on Thursday, August 4th, from 6 to 9 at the Mendelson Performing Arts Center. Our dance and interdisciplinary arts performance is Friday, August 5th, at 7 p.m., Saturday, August 6th, at 2 p.m., and we have a short film
 that will be presented on Saturday, August 6th at 7.30 and Sunday, August 7th at 3.30. This program is something that takes a bunch of high school kids, most of which come from socioeconomically-deprived situations, and it gives them hope, and it teaches them about what it means to have a job.
 They have to track their hours. They work every day from 12 to 5 to make this work happen. And then they have to sell their work or do a performance and they get to reap a little bit of benefit from that. They each receive some sort of a stipend at the end of the program. So they get the reward of what it means to have a job, put in your time, and then get a little something for your work.
 I'd like for you to meet some of our Arts Place interns. They will introduce themselves. Hello, my name is Christian Castaneda. I'd like to speak about just how much Arts Place has changed me as a person. Usually, most of Arts Place people are very shy
 Not really many friends, you don't really talk a lot, but once you find something you love, ArtsPlace is a great place to show it off. Like you just write or you draw. ArtsPlace is a place to actually open up to people who share the same passion as you. For me it's acting and I adore it so much. And going to ArtsPlace teaches me to just be open and meet people, meet friends. Find out that Rockford has more to offer than
 It seems there's so much around, so much in downtown is growing, and Arts Place is an amazing place for many teenagers. Thank you. Hi, my name is Toby. Arts Place has meant so much to me. I've been with it for six years. It's a place where you can feel safe and be able to show your creativity and believe in what you love to do, and which you get to show and you can be safe where you can bond together and just be together and have a great time with what you love to do. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Philip Phil. This is my sixth year at Artist Place. And like Christian said, normally people that come to Artist Place are nervous. I was one of those neat people who was nervous at first. But now, doing Artist Place for six years now, I've become less nervous. I've become more open to the public. Yeah, I usually was closed off at first, but now I'm completely open and having...
 People in the same interest as me makes me feel not like an old body. So, yeah, thank you. Thank you to all of the young people and the great work happening at Arch Place. Thank you. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening. Next, we have a public hearing under Roman numeral 3. Alderman Getchis will be leading that and Alderman Beck's absence tonight, so I invite him to come forward to lead the discussion. Thank you.
 I hereby call the public meeting to order. Pursuant to the Bond Issue Notification Act of the State of Illinois, the public hearing must be conducted by the City Council concerning the City Council's intent to sell bonds. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on July 8, 2016.
 That notice informed citizens of Rockford that the purpose of the hearing was to receive public comments on the proposal to sell bonds of the city in the amount not to exceed $13,225,000 general obligation bonds, sales tax alternate revenue source, for the purpose of rehabilitating 557...
 South Newtown Drive for use of Police District Station 3 and constructing District Station 1 at West State and Avon, and in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $750,000 for the purpose of completing the repair of the Concourse parking deck and to pay bond discount, bond interest, bond reserve account funding, legal, financing, and administrative expense.
 Are there any questions or comments from the public with regard to the city's proposal to sell bonds? If so, please kindly step to the microphone and give us your name, address, and make your statement. Seeing that there's no public comments or questions on the bond issue, I adjourn the public hearing. Thank you.
 Thank you very much Alderman Goetzschis. Moving on, Roman numeral four, petitions and communications. We have a special announcement this evening. I invite our friends from the Rockford Local Development Corporation to please come forward. This is involving the Diamond Award provided by or given by the National Small Business Alliance. What's that? We'll stand up here over there. Jim, do you want to come up? Kimberly, do you want to come up and grab a photograph maybe?
 And Mr. Ryan's coming around too.
 For many years, the City of Rockford, as I know our council members all know, has been working with Rockford Local Development Corporation on a variety of fairly complex, very involved projects. This actually predates my time in office. Going back to some of the deals for which they were recognized, they would include the South Main grocery store, the old Kmart that was on North Main redeveloped into a new development
 as well as projects that date back to the multiple floods that we had had in the Keith Creek area, working with them in order to be able to maintain our support for various grants we were pursuing at the federal level, all the way to the very complex and important deals that we're working on for our District 2 station on Broadway and many others.
 On behalf of the City of Rockford, it is a great honor to be able to work with RLDC. And I'm going to hand it over to Jim Ryan, who's going to say a few more words before handing it over to John Phelps.
 Thank you, Mayor. And for those of you who were on the council back in the early 80s, I know Alderman Beach was there, and I think that is it. But we also have former Alderman Victory Bell. And that was a time when Rockford was facing a massive restructure of its economy. We had one of the highest unemployment rates in the country, and former Mayor McNamara worked to help establish this with the –
 I believe the US Department of Commerce. When you drive down to the airport right now, one of the largest employment bases we have in the city, much of that land just to the north of the airport was what was called Greater Rockford Industrial Park, which no longer has any lots available for redevelopment or
 or owned by RLDC. But that was a creative way, you know, several years ago to really jumpstart the economy. And really that's what RLDC has been all about. They're pretty low-key in terms of what they do, but they manage, they have managed our revolving loan program, still do, for a lot of small businesses. They manage the SBA 504 program.
 But probably what has been most important over the last 15 years is when we've had issues, the mayor mentioned the floods of 2006 and 2007. We were faced with a situation where people were living in houses that really weren't even fit to be habitable, but we didn't have any federal aid at that point to do it. So we worked a creative process.
 thanks to the leadership of the mayor and city council and the leadership of this board, to do something that FEMA had never done before, which was allow a city to partner with Rockford Local Development Corporation to get those families back on track and to rapidly demolish those homes to eliminate the hazard. We mentioned the South Main grocery store. It was a tough project. RLDC took it on.
 We talk about the Turner project that's currently ongoing. Again, it was an innovative relationship. And so on behalf of what we do here as a staff to try to really work on economic development projects that are tough, that take a very creative financing, I want to thank you, John, for your leadership, as well as your board, to take those leaps of faith on projects that are difficult in the central city. Thank you. Thank you, Jim.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Jim, and City Council, for your confidence in us. And I'm pleased to have some of our board members here and my staff. Without them, we couldn't get this done. This award we received from the National Association of Development Companies, a national award where one of three recipients recognized unique partnerships to help community and economic development. This is really a shared award, though.
 Although we received it, each of the partnerships cited was with the city of Rockford. And so recognizing that shared relationship, Mayor, we'd like you to display this award in your office for the balance of your administration. And Jeff Ferenwald did ask me if you would give us an indication of what your re-election plans are, so we might know how long you're going to keep it. Make sure you get it. But thank you. Your confidence in us makes this happen. So thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. It will be an honor to display this award on behalf of a very appreciative city organization and city council. Thank you, and the recognition was very well deserved. Thank you.
 For further petitions and communications, we have another special presentation that will be given tonight by RAVE, the Rockford Area Venues and Entertainment Authority, otherwise known as the Metro Center Authority. I invite Craig Thomas, Troy Flynn, others that may be here to help make the presentation. Please come forward. Okay, so they have a PowerPoint.
 We're queued up. Who's got this remote? Is it something we can do manually over here? We should be able to. I'll just tell you when to click. Well, while you get that started, thank you, everyone, for allowing us to come here tonight. As the mayor indicated, my name is Craig Thomas. I'm the Rave Board Chairman. With me is Sunil Puri, who is also on our board, and he's the chairman of our Finance Committee. Great.
 Treasurer and John Phelps is our Vice Chair, he's back there. Troy Flynn's our General Manager and Gretchen Gilmore is our Chief Financial Officer. By way of background, I've been an attorney with Reno Zahm and Rockford since 1989. Prior to my appointment to the Rave Board, I was President of the Coronado Performing Arts Center for a number of years and prior to that I was President of the Friends of the Coronado, so I kind of came to this through the Coronado side of things.
 We've got a PowerPoint presentation here that takes you through the progress we've made since 2010. That was back in the spring of 2010 was when the mayors of Loves Park and the city of Rockford and the county board chairman asked for a new board to come on at the old Metro Center Authority, which has been renamed RAVE, and that's when we took over in the spring of 2010, managing the BMO Harris Bank Center, what since then became known as the BMO Harris Bank Center,
 Davis Park and now subsequently the Coronado Theater as well. We're going to go through some slides, but I encourage you, Alderman, this is a presentation of what we believe we've accomplished over this period of time. Jump in and ask questions. You don't need to wait if there's something for clarification. So if I could have you go to the first slide, and then Sunil, if you want to supplement. And if we can't answer anything, Alderman Frank Peach will, because he's on our committee, an illustrious member. Thank you, Frank, for being here. So if you want. I'm just guessing.
 If you look through the timeline, we start this timeline back in February of 07, which was before we became on the board. That was when the Blackhawks, with the foresight of the city here, signed their affiliation agreement to come to Rockford. And that's been a cornerstone for our success over these last 10 years.
 The initial term of that agreement was through June of 17. As I said, in April of 2010, this board was formed. One of the first acts of business was to hire SMG, a national venues management company, to manage the facilities for us. We were successful with their assistance in selling the naming rights to the former Metro Center, now the BMO Harris Bank Center.
 The term of that agreement runs through the fall of this year and we're in the process of renewal. There was an IGA with the city where the Coronado came under the auspices of RAVES back in 2012. And you see that in the July slide. Another critical juncture was in October of 2013, we brought the concessions effectively in-house through the SAVER
 At SMG, it's a food management company they have. And so we were able to basically bring that in-house. And that's been very, very beneficial to us, both from a financial perspective as well as a control food management company.
 All those things. So we've got that in place now. We just recently signed an IGA with the city and the county and the parking deck. Thank you all for your work in that regard. That deck is critical to our patrons and we're excited to have that come on fully functional over the next, hopefully this season. And then as you all know, just in the last couple of months, we renewed our affiliation agreement with the Blackhawks for another five years.
 This shows you attendance. So this is by the number of patrons that have come through our facilities. And as you can see, we've steadily grown attendance. There was a little bit of a dip there. A lot of that has to do with deciding on really focusing on bringing things in that aren't going to be extremely financially detrimental to us. There are things we take on. We do Friday night flicks where we do spend money to do that as a public community. But it's really making sure our promoted shows that we don't take on things where we're going to lose money.
 And so if you go to the next slide, this is a critical one. This shows the ticket revenue. So over that six-year period since our fiscal year 2010, there's been a 46% increase in our ticketed revenue, and it breaks down by venues there and sliced a little bit with the ice hogs you'll see as a significant component. If you go to the next slide. Thank you.
 This is our total event income. That's through our ancillaries. Everything we do, whether it's rent, ticket sales, concessions, everything. And as you'll see, that's increased 51% over the last six years. Should we go to the next one?
 One of the other things that we like to focus on, as I indicated, we are trying to be very, very good stewards of the support we get from the city and make sure that we are not putting shows in that are going to be financially detrimental to us.
 But what we also want to do is continue to increase activity. We know that the more events we have downtown, the more days we have people coming into our buildings, the more days people are going into the restaurants, the bars, and otherwise the establishments downtown. Just to add over here, as you can see, the ISOGS is a constant. There's 42 games.
 So while it has grown by 58%, the non-icehogs, which are the kind of the controllable events that we book, have grown by over 100%. So what we used to do outside of icehogs has actually grown over 100% over this five-year period.
 Okay, this really is the tale of the tape here. As you see back in July of 2009, so that's exclusive of the Coronado support, which was separately supported by the city both through a subsidy and back then the city also handled the utilities and some of the maintenance obligations, which now we all take on.
 There was an operating loss of $1.7 million at the Metro Center, and you roll that through the years, and this is we just closed our fiscal year. And that's combined between the Coronado and the Metro Center, so it's roughly $2.2 million if you took the Coronado into effect, so that was about $500 plus the Metro Center was $1.7 million, which has now dropped from about $2.2 million to $253,000. So I can't.
 focus on that enough, how significant that it has been for us to be able to do the improvements we're doing down there and focus on the things we want to do in the future.
 largely due to our finance team of John and Sunil, who have aggressively, and Frank as well is involved as a non-voting member. They've worked with our management, and I know they gulped a little bit when we put our budget in place last year, but they did a fantastic job meeting an aggressive budget, and that allowed us to get to this number this year.
 This is just a breakdown. So we contract with SMG to management. So all our employees are joint employees, effectively, of Rave and SMG. We pay them a fee, a contractual fee, a baseline fee, and then there's also an opportunity for them to earn an incentive based upon how well we do. And then we also, they get a fee for managing the concessions. So this gives you the breakdown. So it started at $175,000, and that was just –
 to run the metro center. Now it is the Coronado, the metro center, and if you see the big bump, that has really come from revenue that when we got rid of Center Plate, which was a food vendor, so now they're also doing the food part of it. So that's why, so in case you're alarmed by it, why it go from 200 to 400.
 is we took on the Coronado and we took on all the food service, and that is all paid for over here. And it's based on incentives. So we're okay as long as our deficit keeps coming down. We want to incentivize people where our interests are aligned in the right direction. That's exactly right. We at Centerplate, there was a significant fee they were being paid. Now we've got a joint partnership with them, and we've been able to realize a lot of those revenues ourselves that stay with us that don't go to SAVER and SMG. So, see, these are some of the –
 the loose goals, or the broad stroke
 items that we've had, we've significantly increased our cash on hand. I don't know if those of you aldermen who were around back then, Mayor, I know you were. In the spring of 2010, there were a lot of bills on the book that really had no chance of being paid any time in the near future. We actually negotiated a lifeline with SMG when we hired them a cash infusion of a million dollars that we've since paid off with them.
 We've also moved to Ticketmaster. So our accounts payable, we've decreased them. So those were the liabilities we had on the books. In addition to the other slides we showed you, we've decreased them. Besides the $2.2 million in annual deficit, we inherited well over $1.5 million in
 things we found in the drawers and bills that were paid. There was about a million that we were aware of and another $500,000 that came in and some insurance liabilities and some other things that were bills that we had to pay, which are now caught up. We've gone through a few CFOs just in the collections process, but accounts payable are now in good shape. Thank you.
 And it's important to note, a lot of those bills were to our local and regional businesses. They weren't getting paid. They're getting paid now. We pay our bills when they come due. As you all know, you've done a great job supporting the venues over the years, and there's a significant amount of debt.
 You note there we've about half of the 2 million operating loan from the 2010 has been repaid. That operating loan was just before our board came on place. There was that operating loan to pay off some other old debt and half of that's been repaid. So if you want to go to the next slide. Do you want a quick touch base on these? So these are the DCO grants. Just to show the capital improvements.
 again anecdotally when we walk the Blackhawks top management through they remarked about our facility and what great shape it was in. Those are the things you can't
 put a price tag really on what that means to them wanting to stay and do business with it, what it means when promoters walk through our buildings, and a lot of that has to do with the partnerships we've had through the city on some of these projects and the DCO grants. We've replaced seating and new floor chillers, we renovated locker rooms, we upgraded the LED lighting system, it's fantastic. We've got exterior lighting we've replaced.
 The ice floor covering system was all part of that. We put in a kitchen, so we have a full-service kitchen at the Coronado where we can make food. We replaced the sound system and then we put in a half house curtain system. It's a small ticket item but that was
 Pretty smart on the part of our staff because it has allowed us to put shows in, two-thirds, three-quarters shows in the arena, which we weren't able to do before. And it's been very well received by promoters, by patrons, and financially for us.
 So these are just some of the recommendations on things that we'd like to do and we will be doing in the very near future. Technological advancements for our broadcast production, basically for our Ice Hogs games, for our patrons to be able to follow the games. Upgrade our security system. If you've been there over the last year, you've seen that we've
 taking great efforts to enhance security there and to make sure that we're at the front edge of the curve when it comes to that. Enhancing our Wi-Fi capabilities in the facility. We're going to do some locker room renovations with the Blackhawks before the season starts. Some upgrades at Hog Heaven.
 We have some equipment things that we could use that would allow us to handle when we had, for example, the Bergstrom event, a thousand-plated dinner. There was a lot of things we had to rent to bring in, an irrigation system.
 Our Oink Outfitters store expansion, our staff has done a great job over there, and we are fortunate that we sell a lot of merchandise out of that. I just want to make sure we don't alarm anybody. So we don't have any intention of doing anything less than 1,000, maybe even 1,500 people, but we have a facility.
 where it's three and a half rentals and you own it. So we intend to deploy the dollars towards doing Bergstrom type of events. So until we have an appropriate conference center over here, the big events where these are big ticket, like General Powell that we got, you simply can't afford to do it in a place where you have 1,000 people. But if you can get 4,000 people, it's divided by the big event.
 The fees are very, very large. So we want to make sure that that is available and available without the extra cost of having to rent everything on a one-time basis where we just own it and we have the storage for it so we'll be able to take care of it in the interim. So it's not really competing with anybody. We won't touch anything that Giovanni's or anybody else can handle. This will only be over and above that. Thank you.
 And then finally on there, further infrastructure upgrades at Davis Park. In order for us to fully realize that facility and utilize it, we need to kind of first, as the neighborhood settles in there, there are some things we need to do there to be able to program in there that we can't make a decision or make that investment until we see exactly where things stand. But that would be down the road for us. This is one, I won't go through this specifically. You probably saw it in the newspaper. We advertised it.
 This year, we basically set records across the board on the ISOG side of things, both from our average tickets. Averaging over 5,000 a game is phenomenal for us, 11 sellouts, capacity, 95% of capacity, all those games. So it was just a great year across the board. Unfortunately, we exited the playoffs a little bit sooner than we would have liked to. Yeah, and Mike Peck, what was formerly the award that he won from the AHL?
 So across the AHL, we won the award for having the best business operations and the best team growth from a business perspective across the AHL this year. Okay. So when we came on board in 2010, we sold ice hogs here at a Cherryvale Mall, which –
 Didn't seem to be the most logical to some of us. It took us until 2011 to get the store. Actually, in our facility, as you can see, we've now gone from 57,000 to almost a quarter million in sales this past year. Our fans love it. We love it. It's been great. This shows you the concession and catering. Similarly, you will see what our concession and catering was last year.
 In those first couple of years was when we were with CenterPlate, and then this, I think it was 2012 we took over. And you can see it continues to grow. The variety, the availability, and what we're able to do, as Sunil said, the control, being able to handle it ourselves, gives us flexibility. It's been a great thing for us. Okay, I think, is that it? That's it. Okay.
 Anybody have any questions about any of those? Questions I'll open first. On the last slide, it said concessions and catering net gross income. So is that 1.5 million, is that the net income, the gross income? I've just never heard that term before. It is gross income. It's gross income after.
 So there's a net of cost of goods called a neighbor, okay. So it's gross before the saver to our food management company, but the direct expenses are taken out. That's the net there. I'm just curious the relevance of what's represented to us then. This represents net dollars that come to us, which we receive.
 put towards our net profit. This is how we came down from 2.2 million to 50,000. We weren't able to sell, we sold more tickets, but also maximizing by having control with saver and pricing
 It's our net profit so we can, it's a whole lot easier to sell a $3 Diet Coke than someone who's got a different motivation who's trying to make $5. Our goal is these are taxpayers, we also want to keep them happy at a reasonable price point and that has proven out in price elasticity. So if I can just follow up, so now it's this number then you're net, you're not paying then SMG or anyone else out of that order?
 Yes, we are. I think we should have maybe been clear on this. We're not paying for the cost of the hot dog or the burger.
 out of that 1.4? All the labor to make it, but there is a certain break-even point where we pay SMG X dollars, and then it drops after that. So as long as they're covered with their overhead, and that was part of that $400,000 fee. That was for Metro Center, Granado, and all the food. If you look at, just if I could observe also, based on some of your earlier slides, what's gone up considerably is your per-event revenue.
 which I think is reflected in this slide. So you're getting a lot more revenue per visitor. We refer to it as our per caps, per cap.
 per visit. And as we've stabilized the growth around downtown, the restaurants, other things, people feeling comfortable walking around, you know, we're not dealing with issues of any kind of concern with security or homelessness. All those things just feed into each other. The other challenge I just want to kind of leave you with, if it's okay, Craig, is just, you know, we are now, I believe, in 20-year bonds. We're in the eighth year of the bonds that we issued for the Metro Center renewal, or
 I think we have nine years left, halfway through. So don't spend all our money after they are done. We have something that's really working. I've been on the board six years. Greg's been there. We're not going to be there forever. We're going to enter a dialogue with you to see. Schaumburg may have a lot of things, but they don't have a historic theater like Coronado.
 We have, we've been blessed with a small theater in the old New American Theater downtown, which is a jewel in itself. We have a large Davis Park, which is an open-air facility, Coronado, like nothing else anywhere in the Midwest, and the BMO Hair Center, which is completely refurbished.
 We have the whole gamut of events that we can have, not counting and not trying to cause any controversy, the ability to be able to program more. You know, this is the uberization of America. How do we use the same capital assets more and more? So in the summertime, we don't do a whole lot over here.
 What if we were to be able to program at times when it's not being used, a community asset called Starlight. What else can we do? How do we make Rockford the destination for all arts and entertainment? How do we bring people in from southern Wisconsin, northern Illinois? If they're coming for one thing, they may come for something else. They may come from the symphony.
 How do we take this next 10 years of whatever opportunities we're gonna have available now that we've reached some stability and make Rockford that destination? How do we take it to the next level just like we did with sports visitors over here? We're gonna be like nobody else. We're gonna be known. That's gonna take us for the next 20, 30 years
 Based on the base that we have today, what dialogue can we have? What can we be thinking of and doing over the next planning in the next 10 years? It's not too early to start thinking about that. Thank you. Other questions from the council? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And thank you all for coming here and doing this presentation. I've been here long enough to see the Metro Center, the Coronado, and Davis Park go through some very trying times.
 times and certainly costing the taxpayers a lot of money over the years. So this presentation tonight, without pinpointing everything, certainly gives me hope, certainly makes it look like that we're making improvements there, and the taxpayers have no reason to doubt that there will be success in each one of those venues. I'm very happy about the Metro Center
 certainly about the improvements that have been made and are being planned to be made, because we went through years where things were not done. And then when we were presented with all the things that had to be done, it just seemed insurmountable. So I'm very pleased about that. I'm pleased about the Coronado as well.
 showing the improvements there, and certainly the numbers for the events for the Metro Center. I'm happy about that as well. So what I've been presented here tonight from you lets me think that you guys are on the right path and you're doing the right thing, so I do appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Other comments? Thank you.
 Briefly, if I could conclude, on behalf of our board of management, I want to thank all of you. I want to thank the city. I want to thank the staff here, Jim Ryan. Who's persevered through six years. And I truly mean it. None of this success over the last six years would have been possible without the partnership we have with you.
 Your trust and confidence in us and willingness to work with us and work through issues as issues came up has just been critical. For those of you who had a chance to see the Blackhawks at the press conference when they were there, you'll note that they were extremely complimentary of Rockford and doing business in the city of Rockford. And I can reiterate that in private conversations with John McDonough, the president of the Blackhawks, he made it clear
 that they understand Rockford, they very much appreciate Rockford, and they love being in Rockford. And that says something to the climate you're trying to create and the work we're trying to do with the arena. So thank you. Thank you. Before you leave, I just want to add my two cents in just thanking you, both of you, actually the entire board and staff.
 for the tremendous leadership you've been providing. You know, I know it's one thing to develop a plan, it's another thing to execute on the plan. I want to also thank Jim Ryan who was actually instrumental in the long, a lot of long nights, a lot of long days, and a lot of controversy when we were making various moves, whether it was acquiring the Ice Hogs, partnering with the Blackhawks. I think very deeply in this comment I made at the press conference,
 There was a lot of chatter as we were negotiating this renewal contract with the Blackhawks that I was hearing around the community, people suggesting maybe that – I was a little wondering, do they know something I don't know, that somehow the Blackhawks weren't happy, they weren't going to extend the contract. I assure you that was never, ever – It was, but I think what it really put –
 put a finger on was the fact that for some there's this deep self-doubt that somehow it must have been a fluke that the Blackhawks dealt with us. We're not worthy. We're not good enough. I think what we've proved through the exceptional leadership, and again, I want to commend you, you folks could be doing a lot of things with your time rather than volunteering on that board. And I just thank you for your tremendous commitment and passion. Thank SMG and the professional staff.
 SMG is an international player. They've done a tremendous amount to support us and really be a friend and a partner. I want to thank them for all their work too, but incredible results, incredible progress. And I know there were a lot of people who were very skeptical when we projected reducing that annual deficit.
 But you're on, I think you've exceeded actually what we projected in terms of retiring debt and getting on a really strong feed. So I appreciate also the challenge and think about what we're going to do next.
 I think we are in a great place to do so, and it's because of the commitment of the entire team. So thank you. I just want to thank our fellow board members who are not here also. A lot of people and the staff has put in a lot of time, and as far as those rumors are concerned, we need more channels on cable for more entertainment. I don't know why people make all this stuff up.
 But I want John Phelps, who left, to know that, you know, the Ice Hogs, if everybody doesn't know this on television, they should know, is a city-owned team, first and second only to, I guess, the Green Bay Packers, as John always reminds us. Thank you. That's right. Planning and development. Who's got P&D tonight? We have new committees. Has anybody got the P&D agenda tonight? We have two items. Someone's taking it.
 Alderman Getzis. In the absence of Alderman Durkee, I'll read in under Roman numeral 4, item C, Planning and Development Committee, memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager, regarding proposed Rockford I-90 Enterprise Zone boundary amendment, referred to Planning and Development Committee, and C2, memorandum from Jennifer Jaeger, Community Services Director, regarding approval of 2017 Community Action Plan, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you.
 Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. On Roman numeral 4D, we have the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on July 19th and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regulations Committee meeting on July 25th.
 The second is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events including Kishwaukee Tavern Bike Nights. Both these items will be referred to codes and rights, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. It will be referred back to Alderman Goetsch. Do you want to take those? Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 4.
 Item number echo 1, 2, and 3, memorandum from Matt Vintner, interim director, city engineer, regarding intergovernmental agreement, West State Street Linear Park, referred to finance and personnel committee. Memorandum from Patrick Hayes, legal director, regarding amendment to the city's hotel tax ordinance, referred to finance and personnel committee. Item number 3, memorandum from Patrick Hayes, legal director, regarding approval of the PB and PA Unit 6, 2015-2018 collective bargaining agreement, referred to finance and personnel
 I'll be referred. Thank you. Proclamations. We have two proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation is regarding American Motors Week. I'd invite Don Wise and Bob DeCasa and any other members of their group that might be here to please come forward and accept the proclamation. Whereas the American Motors Corporation was founded by George Mason January 14, 1854,
 Whereas American Motors Corporation, otherwise known as AMC, was an American automobile company established by the merger of Nash-Calvinator Corporation and Hudson Motor Car Company, at the time the largest corporate merger in U.S. history. Whereas AMC combined the Nash and Hudson product lines and our common manufacturing strategy with Nash's and Hudson's consolidated in Kenosha, Wisconsin, the oldest continually operating automobile plant in the world.
 And although a small company, AMC was able to introduce numerous industry innovations like aerodynamic body design, space-efficient interiors, and other important innovations.
 Whereas AMC's working ingenuity and strategy to rely on outside vendors, many from Rockford, Illinois, to supply components in which they had competitive advantages, that same approach now has been accepted for all automobile manufacturing. And whereas the owners of AMC vehicles wish to honor their marquee by having the 41st annual AMO
 International Convention in Rockford, Illinois. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, hereby proclaim July 24th, 2016 to be American Motors Week. And we urge citizens to welcome AMO and all of their followers to our great city. I'd just like to share a little bit. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. We're expecting close to a thousand people here, so it'll be good for the Rockford businesses, for restaurants, and
 local breweries, et cetera. I just want to invite everybody to the show itself. It's going to be at Tabella Shrine on Saturday the 30th of July. We invite you all to come down and look at all the beautiful cars. American Motors, a lot of you probably don't even recognize what American Motors cars are anymore. They're Ramblers.
 Javelins, AMXs, and we also have Scramblers. So there will be something of everything to see. So, again, invite you all to come and enjoy the show. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. Next, we have a proclamation for Phantom Regiment Month, and I invite Board President of the Phantom Regiment, Tim Farrell, and others that may be with him to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you.
 Do you have folks in the hallway? I do not. No. No, maybe next time. Yeah. Where it was originally named the Rockford Rangers, the Phantom Regiment Drum and Bugle Corps was formed in 1956 by a group of VFW 342 members.
 Whereas the Phantom Regiment is a youth organization dedicated to the development of self-esteem and self-reliance and encouraging teamwork, sportsmanship, and civic pride. And whereas comprised of performers with precious experience as musicians, dancers, and color guard members, the Phantom Regiment travels across the country every year, positively representing our community and competing with the country's very best.
 whereas the Phantom Regiment has received many honors throughout its history, including serving as the 1996 and 2008 Drum Corps International World Champions.
 The regiment has expanded to include four educational camps at Rockford University, annual events at Boleyn Catholic High School, and a high school marching band and concert band festival at NIU. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of July 2016 to be Phantom Regiment Month, and we encourage our citizens to congratulate the Phantom Regiment on their 60th anniversary. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, City Council. It's an honor. Appreciate the attention. We take our 60th anniversary very seriously. We've had a lot of ups and downs over the years, both competitively and financially, and we find ourselves in a fairly good position right now, and we are announcing the formation of a new percussion group here in Rockford. It's going to be located in Rockford.
 the downtown area on Church Street so that it has easy access to buses and people with transportation difficulties. It's middle school age. It's called Rockford Rhythm. So that's our new program for this year. In the future, we're looking forward to an all-star summer band formation in the city of Rockford. So we have plans for the city. Thank you very much. Alderman Beach.
 Let me get your microphone on just a moment. I can follow up just briefly on this fandom. I was out at Rockford University watching a rehearsal, and I can still remember them. We're standing in a circle, and they didn't have any music. And the director was calling on people at random to play their parts by memory. It's one thing to play a melody that you'd know. It's another to play the third or fourth or fifth part, okay? Okay?
 And I remember them saying to one or two people that couldn't remember, put your instrument down to run around this campus, which they did. Then they came back and said, here's the deal. Tomorrow rehearsal, you either know those parts or you're out of here because there are people standing in line to take your place. That's the kind of precision and commitment that drives that group to what it is today, and we sure are proud of them. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
 Further off, I'm sorry, I jumped ahead, but thank you very much. New Committee Reports, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Amendment No. 6B1, the Seasons Produce Outdoor Market. I think this is going to just lay over, actually. Lay over, I believe it is. Mr. Hayes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. It's information only. The staff reported at committee last week that the requester has not perfected the permit, so it hasn't been issued. The staff is considering that it's void and that if the requester comes forward, we'll notify the City Council and take action on the next request. So this was on the agenda for information only just in case an alderman wasn't present today.
 at the committee meetings and we wanted to report on that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Goetzes. Thank you, Your Honor. I have Roman numeral S6, item Charlie 1. Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $3,759,062.12 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on July 11, 2016. This item will lay over.
 Roman 061C is also Charlie, I'm assuming. Let me get you. Mr. Hayes.
 Our rules don't require actually the vouchers to lay over. They're subject to approval when they're presented. So they don't require suspension rules, although I know in Habit, because they often join other items, people say they're suspending rules on the vouchers. It's in order to take up that matter this evening. Thank you, Your Honor. Then with that being said, I will place this item up for passage. Thank you. The vouchers are up for passage. Is there discussion? No.
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Getches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Beach. McNeely. Chiarelli. Nine. I just hear a no. Matter passes. Thank you. Officers' reports. I'll just do my officers' report from my chair, if that's all right, this evening. Several items I just want to comment on very briefly. First is that there will be a hearing coming up.
 This week on Thursday, July 21st, 2 p.m. at the Rockford Mass Transit District Eastside Transfer Center, 725 North Lyford Road, to consider extending the boundaries of the Rockford I-90 Enterprise Zone. There's a memo that's been distributed to council members regarding this from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager from our Community and Economic Development Department. If there's questions, please feel free to follow up with our CD department or Mr. Williams specifically regarding that hearing.
 I also wanted to mention several items of local note and I'll finish with a special request.
 Note Alderman Durkee's father passed away. That's why he's not here tonight and likely will not be here a week from now Our thoughts and prayers are with Alderman Durkee and his family during this very difficult time It was he was not sick And so it came as a surprise and shock to their family and our thoughts and prayers go out to them another very difficult
 of violence occurred over the weekend. You know, sometimes there was a special, I saw in
 One of our nightly news shows over this last few days talked about violence in America. Obviously, in a moment, I asked for a moment of silence for the officers that were shot and killed in Baton Rouge. But we have tremendous challenges happening across the nation right now as it relates to violence in our communities. Yesterday, we had a 12-year-old shot.
 not likely the intended target of violence between two vehicles driving down 7th Street. Incredibly tragic event. That poor young girl is fighting for her life and our thoughts and prayers are with her and her family. We also had locally
 a vigil last week supporting the officers shot and killed in Dallas. I know the inspiration for that is, will provide the same thoughts and care and support for the officers shot and killed in Baton Rouge. But I want to thank the chaplains and our community members who participated in that all night vigil from 9 p.m. to 12 noon the next day.
 I also want to thank all of our local community members who participated in peaceful demonstrations over the weekend. We have tremendous challenges, but I think in Rockford, those types of peaceful demonstrations and those commitments and support for our officers are greatly appreciated. Also want to note...
 And if asked, please feel free to share the word that we take our management on police use of force very seriously. I talked to Chief O'Shea today about it. But in August, you know, approximately twice a year, we've been reviewing our use of force management. We've been doing this for some time now.
 We've taken a number of steps to try to ensure that all of our officers are safe and our community members are as safe as they can be dealing with these very, very challenging issues. But over the weekend, I had a chance to hear some of the comments from some of the community members concerned about our own practices, and I would just encourage anybody to attend next month's ComStat and RockStat meetings where we'll be going over our approaches involving use of force.
 I also had a chance recently to participate in a state of Illinois trainings and standards board conference discussing use of force. Frankly, we've done a lot of things voluntarily that are now mandated by state law. I think we should be very proud of the work of our police department.
 our partnerships with community members and I want to thank Chief O'Shea for continuing and really expanding those efforts. He was in a softball game over the weekend. He's trying to do everything he can personally do to connect with our community and I appreciate Chief your work and all the work of the many members, the men and women of our department, all the community volunteers that support the department. You know you can never if someone's truly committed to engage in an act of violence there's oftentimes
 not much we can do, but I can tell you we're constantly preparing and doing the very best we can to ensure the safety of our community, and a great debt is owed to the commitment of all of our officers as well as the community members that are supporting peace and health in our community. So I just wanted to take a moment to thank everyone involved with all those efforts. And one final point, this afternoon I had a meeting,
 I was honored to be at a celebration of Doug Brooks. Doug is retiring as a board member from the Rockford Park District Board of Directors. He's been on the board since 2003. He and his wife are moving to New Mexico. We wish them the very best, and it was a great honor to give Doug a good send-off today. And finally, I would just ask if we could stand, as I know we did last week, to give a moment of silence for those officers shot and killed in Baton Rouge, and we pray for peace. Thank you. Further officers' reports?
 Over the weekend, I had the privilege of attending the second annual Rock Party fundraiser, which is hosted in my neighborhood by Rural on Tap and brings together the whole neighborhood. There was a lot of great music with Miles Nielsen and the Rusted Hearts and Three Good Men. My son William gives the ice cream and sugar cones two thumbs up.
 We really appreciated that. Lydia's and Primo's Pizza provided a great food, and Rural on Tap provided a great selection of beers. Over the course of the seven-hour event, we had over a thousand people turn out. There was face painting. There was a clown. It was really just a fantastic, fantastic chance for the community to come together.
 I really want to thank them because this is helping to fill the void that's been existing in our neighborhood since the Schnooks closed down two years ago.
 And I know there's always a lot of talk as to how much does that neighborhood support its local businesses. And so as I was sitting there enjoying my ice cream at this party, I counted 11 businesses at that intersection that are supported by the neighborhood. Two of them are hair salons. So within sight of each other, within a block, there's enough market share to support a barber and a stylist competing against each other.
 because that's how many people turn out and support local business at that area. So if there's anybody who's watching who's looking for a place to start a business, I've got a building you can buy just right down on rural across from Rural on Tap. So once again, thank you for Rural on Tap. Thank you for everybody in the neighborhood for continuing to support your local businesses within walking distance of your house.
 Thank you. I'll let the panel.
 As an upcoming event at Silver Hill Pentecostal Church on 20th Street. They'll be hosting a Christmas in July on Sunday, July 31st at 11 a.m. There will be free backpacks filled with school supplies for the first 100 kids registered and free groceries for the first 50 families registered. A free lunch will be served and there will be bouncy houses, games for children to enjoy. For more information...
 check out their website at www.silverhill.church. Thank you. Thank you. For the officer's reports, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This weekend was...
 Booker Fest, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, and I attended it. Great crowd. I've been going there for several years now, and I think this is one of the best events. I went on Sunday, and it was packed. There were a lot of people, a lot of vendors, great entertainment for the crowd.
 and I truly enjoyed it. This was their 100th year celebration at Booker Fest. And it turned out really great, and I wish them the very best, and it appears that they're on their way. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Allam Newberg. Thank you. Last week,
 I was hostess of a Meet the Chief. I want to thank Chief O'Shea. I had 75 to 80 people at St. Bernadette's. Did a lot of questioning of them. He wouldn't let me ask questions, but that's okay. But that's what I want to see all around Rockford. If we have many people that work for the city, different neighborhood groups,
 The best way to learn who is working for the City of Rockford is to contact your alderman and or your neighborhoods and tell them,
 We'd like to learn more what this person does or that person. Our city personnel, fire and police, are so willing to come out and talk to the citizens of Rockford. I feel they're not being utilized. I hate to say I'm going to put more onto them in their work schedule, but I think that helps Rockford citizens learn who is working for them.
 We also are working, we're elected, but we are working for the citizens of Rockford. The other thing is, we had two peaceful demonstrations in Rockford this week. Went down and observed both of them. I wish the people of the United States could see how Rockford handles tough times in Rockford. I want to give...
 compliments to the people that were involved in the demonstrations and also our law enforcement that were there to make sure everybody followed their P's and Q's. But again, I was very, very proud of the citizens of Rockford, of how peaceful they were able to convey how they felt. But one last word is, and I don't know if people are going to like it or not, but we talk about
 Blue lives matter, black lives matter. I came up with something. Lives matter. Let's not worry about the color of that person. Every life of every person and citizen in Rockford and the United States, they count for something. Let's make it count every day. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports? I'm sorry, Mr. Hayes. Thank you for the promotion, Your Honor. Thank you.
 I want to point out that the gentleman behind the camera is Cruz Tapia. Cruz has been our videographer for a number of months. He's from Rock Valley College, but he's going to be attending ISU. This will be his last evening making you all look good on camera. And so I just wanted to thank him, and I hope you give him a round of applause and wish him well. Thank you, Mr. Hayes, and we wish you the very best. Congratulations. Further officer's reports? Yes.
 Unfinished business. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 8B1, the Liquor and Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant. The sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating area.
 Slash beer garden and the sale of packaged liquor limited to beer and growlers only in conjunction with a restaurant at 305 South main Madison Street 305 South Madison Street and 301 South water Street place that up for passage runner But for passage Roman numeral eight and be one is their discussion back to me
 Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak. I'd just ask council members, I know there was some concerns when we last discussed this establishment. I would just ask council members to please...
 consider supporting this important establishment. I think we've made tremendous progress with the sports factory, and speaking with the folks at the Park District as well as the owners of this establishment, I think it will only add to the full...
 the full experience at this venue. The restaurant that we're gonna be discussing is, it's a restaurant inside of the Sports Factory. There's also a concession stand as well that there will not be any alcohol sold at, either in-house or to-go, and you'll have to go up to the upper tier restaurant to purchase alcohol in or out. And I know there was an article, and I'll just mention,
 I too had concerns when it was first brought up about the growlers and speaking with the owners of the establishment and just doing a little of my own research. There's not many breweries that you can see or find across the country actually in my research that did not have growlers and this makes up nearly about 10% of their business
 I think we've all found them to be very responsible business owners in all aspects and very much about supporting our community. I mean, their tent down at the city market says Rockford Pride on it. It doesn't even say their establishment name. So I strongly ask each of you to please consider supporting this establishment, the owners, the park district, and the venue that we all have been working really hard to create. Thank you.
 Thank you Alderman Frost and Alderman McNeely. Thank you. After two weeks ago when this matter came up and there were, it started with Alderman Hervey and then there were several questions concerning the property more so than the operator. I reached out to Rockford Park District Executive Director Tim Dimke who was here earlier and
 I've forgotten some of the comments that were made when we were on the committee working on building this, but as Alderman McNamara made clear, Mr. Dimke made it clear that the concession stand is not going to be, I think, as Alderman Durkee and I mentioned, where I have been to other . . .
 soccer tournaments in Wisconsin or elsewhere where you actually can walk up to the concession stand and buy a beer. He made it very clear that no, that's not going to be the case here, that the concession stand will not be selling alcohol. However, he made a very clear point regarding the Park District properties having the ability to attract high quality vendors and we talked about Aldine Golf Course. Aldine Golf Course is celebrating its twenty-fifth
 anniversary at the end of this month, and I think they've gone through five different vendors that have actually had to come and leave and shut down and not be able to profit there under the terms and the conditions that exist.
 The point is that in this particular one, he said, you know, look, we need a restaurant like this to keep this facility operating in the sense that when there's no basketball or volleyball events here, they may, they're going to have the flexibility to have a multitude of other events there, whether it be a small trade show, a football game, a football game
 a meeting group, it was even mentioned a possibility of a wedding. And all those were events that would obviously be taking place when there's not a basketball or volleyball but just another use of the building. And when he explained that to me and he said, look, if you don't have a restaurant with the ability to sell liquor, then obviously really the market gets much smaller. So based on those conversations and obviously knowing the product that these folks have
 operate down the road on, I would encourage you to vote yes on it. I know some people were, there was a question about packaged liquors, and I think we got that through. I think that there would only be growlers that would be sold, no other packaged liquors, no serving of boaters or people coming by to buy a fifth of vodka or whatever. So it would strictly be the growler sales. And I guess one of the rationales behind that is the fact that
 this particular building is actually going to have a small microbrewery in it and so their beers may be different there than down the street because someone said well why if you really want to growler you could just go down the street and yeah you could so then I guess the point is then why make someone drive down the street but
 The other rationale is just the fact that the variety may be different here versus down the street. So I would encourage, we've put a lot of money as a city into this facility. It's a great investment for the city, and I would like to see, you know, a top-notch operator be operating in this great facility. Thank you.
 thank you for the discussion of the McNeill thank you Mr. Mayor I'm I to agree with my colleagues that spoke before me and I to did speak with the executive director for for the park district regarding this my concerned I initially was
 making sure that this facility was as good or better than the sports courts that are east, and not to have this facility just to accommodate individuals that from out of town to come downtown or individuals that live downtown.
 Prior to talking to the executive director last week, or a couple weeks ago, I did vote for it, knowing that just about any venue, you go to a sports venue, you can go and buy a beer, and I don't want anything to hamper the success of this facility.
 There is competition just to the north of this facility regarding the beers and being able to go out on the water with the beers. It's not, as stated earlier, it's not going to be where you can go in and buy a fifth of anything online.
 So I'm real comfortable with it and I think that this facility has to be just as competitive as any of the other two sports cores or any other venue that the Park District has, whether it be golf park or any other facility. So I do hope that my colleagues
 can see that this is not an exception. This is not putting the kids at any risk. The kids go to the other sports court, there's drink, alcohol that's served there. And so by having it served at this location is not putting any kids at any disadvantage. So I do hope my colleagues will support this tonight. And let's make this a success, thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Shrelle. Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Could we have Mr. Cagnone just confirm that the last four conditions are intact on this application? There seem to be a lot of questions and calls coming in from constituents about the discussion two weeks ago. I just want to make sure that the public knows that, that those conditions are still attached. Thank you. Mr. Cagnone, are there a few or Mr. Hayes want to cover the conditions involved as it currently stands? Go ahead.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I'll read through all the conditions since there's been so much conversation on the proposal.
 Condition 1, meet all building and fire codes. Condition 2, compliance with all City of Rockford liquor and tobacco codes. Condition 3, that the sale and consumption of liquor shall be limited to the interior floor plan as shown in Exhibit E and further depicted as interior only area as shown in Exhibit D. The only sale and consumption of liquor shall be limited to the area depicted as exterior only and also shown as patio tent area as shown in Exhibit D.
 To further explain that condition would identify the restaurant area and the outdoor patio associated with it, not the entire facility. Condition number four, there should be no consumption of alcohol outside of the areas depicted in exhibit D and exhibit E within the sports factory. The Rockford Park District may apply for a special event license for the sale and consumption of alcohol for the remainder of the site if they so wish.
 The hours of operation for the submitted business plan exhibit F as Sunday 10 a.m. to 12 a.m. with food operations starting at 8 a.m. Monday through Thursday 11 a.m. to 12 a.m. with food operations starting at 8 a.m. Friday 11 a.m. to 2 a.m. with food operations starting at 8 a.m. And Saturday 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. with food operations starting at 8 a.m. Condition number seven that the proposed use of alcohol services shall not have a cover charge
 Condition 8, the proposal shall not operate as a nightclub. Condition 9, no gaming shall be allowed by agreement with the applicant. And Condition 10, the sale of packaged liquor shall be limited to beer and growlers. Those are the stated conditions. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Getschis, McNamara, Frost, Connell, Odom, Newberg, Beach, McNeely, Chiarelli. Aye.
 Eight ayes, one no, Your Honor. That carries. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Motions and resolutions. Alderman Gutjes, can you pick that one up? Thank you. Under Roman numeral 9, Alpha 1, transfer city-owned properties to Rockford Corridor Improvement under the Blight Reduction Program and Partnership Agreement. Place that item up for passage. 9A1 is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gutjes. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Connell. Odo. Aye.
 Newberg Beach McNeely cheerily 8 I found better passes thank you element really thank you your honor actually there will be Roman numeral 9 being one the approval of a settlement and there's of the city of Rockford versus SNL Warshawski Inc. in the amount of $600,000 place that up for passage
 Thank you for passage from the line B1 having to do with the Warshawski property in the settlement. Is there discussion? Mr. Hayes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to inform the council that just prior to trial we were able to settle this within the authority of the city council prior that was established.
 The $600,000 amount represents a premium of $110,000 over the appraised value for the three properties. I would point out that because of the unique aspects of this transaction, the City is not exposed to any relocation expenses. Many of you are familiar with the Warshawski business, and I had the opportunity to use it on a number of occasions. You could tell that if we would have had to relocate that, we would have been exposed to considerable expense.
 I just want to make you aware that the property owner has allowed the city to complete formal phase one.
 prior to taking title to the property. That will put us in position to maintain eligibility for revolving loan funds for any environmental remedies we might find as we move forward, as we described to the city council as we were discussing this matter in the past. I appreciate the council's support in this matter. I feel that this is a good outcome. It's justified based on all the circumstances surrounding the transaction. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please fill the roll. Against this?
 Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? No. Odo? No. Newberg? No. Beach? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Seven ayes, one no, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Gatchas?
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral IX, items Charlie 1 through 12 for Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number 1 is award a bid for citywide floor mats and towels to GK Services of Rockford, Illinois for the amount of $21,300. Item number 2, award a bid for group 2 demolitions to JD Mark, N-TRAC Group and GIMAX Corporation. Item number 3 is award a bid for group 3 demolitions to N-TRAC Group.
 Northern Illinois Service of Rockford and JD Mark of Rockford. Item number four is an award of bid for group four demolitions to Northern Illinois Service. Number five is an award of bid for excavation hauling services to N-TRAP Group. Item six is an award of bid citywide sidewalk and ADA repairs to number four to Stenstrom Excavation.
 Item number seven is award a bid for citywide sidewalk and ADA repairs number five, extends from excavation, Rockford. Item number eight is award a sole source contract, water treatment equipment and supplies to Smith Ecological Systems. Item number nine is an award of non-competitive contract of police and fire vehicles to the Rock River Forest.
 Item number 10 is engineering agreement for a West State Street phase 2 land acquisition to O.R. Colon Associates. Item number 11 is tax abatement on foreclosed properties at 615 Furman Street and 908 South Main Street. Item number 12 is report of big or... Item number 12.
 12 was already approved when we did the motion. I wasn't certain that that was the way it would go, so I'm sorry that's on there twice. Okay, thank you. So I understand we've already approved item number 12, and then just for the chair, the legal director, for items number 8 and 9, award of sole source contract, award of non-competitive contract, we have the correct number of all the major assets. So those require the affirmative vote of?
 I think the purchasing director would verify that that requires 10 votes because it's sole source. So if Alderman Getchis would hold those items out. Thank you. I'll hold out items number 8 and 9. So up for passage are Roman numeral 9, I apologize for using phonetic alphabet, C, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, and 11. Thank you.
 I kind of like the phonetic alphabet. Brings some variety to the discussion. Very clear. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you. So under Roman numeral 9C, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, and 11, those matters are up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gets us. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Odom. Alderman Newber. Beach. Aye.
 McMilley Chiarelli 8 aye Chiarelli Matters passed thank you Alderman McNamara Thank you Mayor I have a resolution to authorize staff to submit a request to HUD for technical assistance Is there a discussion? Roll maneuver 9 D 1 Hearing none clerk please call the roll Gatchas Aye McNamara Aye Frost Aye Cotnell Aye Odom Aye
 Chiarelli, nine ayes. The matter passes. Thank you. Is there further business before the council? Hearing none, is there a motion to adjourn? There's been a motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.