I pro tem since the other meeting didn't occur within a meeting or the other vote didn't occur within a meeting. So don't be shy He wants to nominate me to meet Come on Chad Thank you very much all in favor say aye opposed Okay, we can move on under new committee reports under Code and Regulation Committee out of in Charlie 1 24th
 I haven't done this in a while. Kirk, clerk, please call the roll. Kirk, Captain Kirk. Yeah. Kirk. Kirk. Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Urbans. Here. Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones. Beck. Here. McNeely. Here. Chiarelli. Here. 12 ayes. Thank you. No minutes to approve, so now we can move back on to new committee reports.
 North Water Street, the zoning board of appeals recommends approval for a special use permit for a mural on a bridge at 124.
 North Water and 96 East State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place that up for passage. And number two is 2420 and 2422 South Alpine Road. It's a Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming facility at
 2420 and 2422 South Alpine Road. Subject to conditions, a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and place that also up for passage. Thank you. So we have the two items up for passage. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye, number two. You said aye, number two, correct. I'm seeing none, one. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose. Aye. Beach. And B1. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Item number 1, 1 abstain and 11 ayes. Item number 2, 1 no and 11 ayes. Those items pass. And then we can do officers reports. Does anybody have anything they want to report? Yes, Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you. I just want to state that all of the board members of RHA will be traveling to San Francisco starting on Thursday for commissioner training. We're going to be working on every commissioner to become certified. First of all, to bring up the standard of our board.
 What is really important about this particular event is that it is going to be in-person training rather than just online Training that we've gotten in the past. This will actually be a classroom two days of classroom training in addition on Friday night. I
 This may be of interest to the rest of us at some other point, but on Friday night, we are going to be going to a screening and discussion of 70 acres in Chicago, Cabrini-Green, and it discusses what happened there when they decided to try mixed income. This is really relevant to us because we are going to be continuing to tear down fairgrounds and rebuild it.
 What they've done in Chicago is their experiment and actually it is being called the second great experiment the first one was the building of Public housing to begin with the big huge towers then we went into rad conversions but now they are considering and
 these multi-income or mixed income projects to be the next great experiment. And one of the things I want to bring up is that many of us, when we talk about mixed income, it doesn't necessarily mean what we think it means. There is mixed income that is market rate and low income, and there are developments that are affordable housing and low income.
 And they make a great difference in what the development ends up looking like. And then they're also mixed use. So we're going to go and see how Chicago is done. And I understand that there was a lot of controversy over it, and we'll see if they ever worked it out. But if it turns out to be a really good screening, I would like to bring it back to our housing committee at some point to give us some guidance as we move forward. Thank you. Alderman Rhodes.
 I just wanted to make a brief announcement. The Nezna neighborhood is working in collaboration with a few community organizations, and one of them is with the city of Rockford with our new boarding up program.
 They are going to be working from August 1st through August 15th. They're looking for volunteers to help board up a property off of North Main. And if anyone knows about that property, I get about at least two phone calls a week on it.
 But those shifts are going to be starting August 1st, community organizations and volunteers will be working to clean up that area around the site. Just kind of prepping it on August 4th. There's an all day event where boards are going to get painted and placed on the windows and then the 5th through the 15th is they're going to be doing a lot of the installation work. So.
 If anyone is interested in helping with that project, they are to contact Cindy Hall. Her phone number is 779-348-7571, or they can email her at
 C-Y-N-D-I-E dot hall at Rockford I-L dot gov. She's going to be the contact person kind of organizing the event. So I appreciate the work that she's put into that along the ninth ward. And also, hopefully, we'll help a few of the other wards that we kind of funnel into. Thank you. For those office reports. Okay, we'll move on to new business ordinances. Autumn and Shirley, you're back up.
 A special use print for a mural on a bridge at 96 East State Street and 124 North Water Street. Number two is an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming facility at 2420 and 2422 South Alpine Road. Place those two ordinances up for passage. So we have those two ordinances up for passage. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Irving. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. One. No one to be used. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Item number one, 11 ayes, one abstain. Item number two, 11 ayes, one no.
 thank you those matters passed i believe that's all the business we have for city council so i'll take a motion to adjourn all in favor say aye aye we are adjourned and then we will move into finance and personnel um in attendance we have alderman