request for 3515 East State Street. This will be referred to Finance and Personal Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next up we have officers reports. Before I open it up, just two quick notes.
 One, I know many of you have been made aware that Alderman Hervey's brother passed away this past weekend, but just want you to know, Alderman Hervey, that we're all praying and thinking of you and your entire family. And if there's anything that we can be doing to support you in this difficult time, please let us know.
 The second item I have is we have some really difficult news this evening because Austin, our cameraman for the last two years, is retiring this evening. And Austin has done a phenomenal job, so thank you, Austin, for all your good work. And we also have Samantha, who will be joining us and is taking some very rigorous training as we speak. And we are excited to have Samantha with us.
 So I will open up alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you your honor. First of all, I'd like to acknowledge the fact that charlie petite Passed away from this community. Charlie has worked in city government and volunteers for over 50 years he's given a great deal of his time effort and To everyone in this community yet. Not just a minority community, but everyone he served on the shares of
 He served on so many boards, I can't even mention them all, but I wanted to acknowledge the Petit family this evening and all the things that Charlie has done for this community that he will not be forgotten. I also want to thank...
 The Boys and Girls Club, they made a wonderful announcement this week. It's going to be in the 13th ward. I have to say that because they thought it was the seventh. I'll take it, but it's going to be in the 13th ward. The wonderful sight on those children's faces from the Boys and Girls Clubs, from fairgrounds, over a hundred children.
 was there and I think it's going to be wonderful that we can partner and this is what we call a true partnership we don't have to pay them to be a partner it's going to be in the community and provide services for the children in the community so I want to thank the Boys and Girls Clubs and all the partners that do come in and partner with the Boys and Girls Club I also want to think
 Stephanie from Noah's Ark. We had a wonderful conversation in regards to some additional family services that we need to be providing in the community. I want to thank Todd for the information that was requested from our meeting in the red line version that I hope, Your Honor, that you continue to have a meeting with the county ourselves because the services that we need from the aldermen and the complaints that we have
 is very much needed in animal services. So I do appreciate you having that meeting, and I hope there's many more to come. Thank you. Thank you. And just for all aldermen, I think it was a pretty productive meeting. It was a large group that met to talk about animal services, and we are going back and forth with animal services contracts. So that's in process. So thank you, though, for the historical knowledge that you provide us and your advocacy. So thank you.
 alderman herbert thank you your honor i was going to ask in the meantime can we repeat or i don't know if it's posted on the website what rockford citizens should do for um
 for want of a better word roadkill animals that are dead and in the street until something is resolved with animal services so right now we're having them call public works and we'll make sure that we push that out again which which department streets or directors doctrine thank you mayor uh just have them call the street department number 779-348-7260
 72 and they can reach that number 24 7. okay that's right three four okay thank you that was the three four two seven two six zero any other items alderman hervey no your honor alderman rose no i'm just wanted to recognize two groups um and some of this
 It's about a week late, but I've been getting a few emails from residents about just the veterans memorial and in the garden that they've put in along the roundabout and You know you get an email from residents that talks about the pride that the group that has put forth that effort I know at times there are people that are watering late at night They're volunteering. They're they're putting a lot of hard work into that and
 I think recognizing them here at City Council, maybe even having them come down because it just looks gorgeous along that circle. And it's one of those places where four wards come up and meet. So it impacts a whole huge area of people who go through that North Main Auburn corridor. I think it would be something to recognize them on. The second item was, I wanted to also recognize the Rotello family. They put on a great event with the Tour to North End.
 It was super hot that day, but the amount of people that came out and biked along North Rockford, I think it says to area residents that there's a lot of fun things to do in our community and not everything is downtown, unlike here.
 alderman toonberg always says but there are some great events that happen all around our area so looking forward to getting a new bike and getting ready for that event for next year so but I wanted to recognize the Rotella family who organizes that event with the Olympic Tavern so thank you Alderman Urbans yeah I just want to acknowledge Life Church and the AEG Assemblies of God
 Pastor Norma, she tends to come down here. She's a city chaplain. She comes down and she prays so often. It's her church.
 They provided me with an opportunity to go down to Carlinville on a week-long camp. I wanted to mention it last week, and I forgot. But I had the opportunity of serving 1,200 students, 150 of them being our own, from Monday to Friday where they had three square meals. We had activities throughout the entire day. It was great. We had a bunch of different activities.
 games that we play, relay races and things like that, but they also had an opportunity to hear the word of God and come to the understanding that he's our shepherd and that with him we shall not want. And it was just awesome seeing the lives that were transformed. There were students there that
 There was a young man, he was a bully by the end of the event. He was in the front just surrendering his whole life to the Lord in tears. And it just touched my heart to see the transformational power of the Lord taking place in our lives. And again, I just want to give credit to Life.Church and the AG for providing such an opportunity for our youth to be involved in. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman McNeely, I'll come right back to alderman Thompson. Thank you. Mr Mayor and I thank you for allowing me to go on your behalf to a number of events over the last two weekends All of which were in my ward the event Think big at the UW Sports Center I think was an excellent event and I'm sure that if more people knew about it They would have been there what it was. I
 My understanding is a number of African American and Hispanic businesses that were pulled together to showcase what they have, and I think they're going to try and do it on a yearly basis. And all these businesses are in the city of Rockford.
 And the other event that was there was regarding the barbers, a barbers competition for cutting of hair. And the weekend before I went to Pastor Brown's event, a peace service that was held for the weekend. It was a two-day event, which was a great event as well.
 But I do hope that the organizers of the Think Big will try and get that word out next year too so that a greater part of the community will know about it. I shared it with some people and they weren't aware of it.
 The younger generation they like to use social media and it usually is effective but but not completely effective So I do hope that Some organizations help get the word out. I
 Really great events. Thank you. No, thank you and that I think big just a special Thank you to Sheila Hill Dante Matthews Matt Simpson and Marticia Brown and a whole host of others But they did just a tremendous job. I was really upset. I could not make a number of those. So, thank you Alderman Thompson Kelly and then I'll go to Alderman Hoffman
 Thank you for allowing me to speak again, Your Honor. I have a concern with the 2020 census. My understanding is R1 is now having classes or now having sessions on the 2020 census. Are we going to be involved or are we going to start having meetings with the aldermen as far as the 2020 census? Because this is very important that all the aldermen are involved.
 be aware and have the classes and know what to do with our census. I'm concerned about it. So it certainly is, and I'll let Wester Wurie speak to it. I would just say we are very engaged in it, and I think actually Wester may be leading the entire team for the region.
 um thank you mayor um exactly we are uh laura mayor and and myself are part of a bigger group laura's our communications manager bigger group uh regional complete count committee um and we just attended a training last week on setting that up so we will be setting up these re both a regional um complete count committee that's a u.s census bureau designation
 um to have a you know a regional effort to make sure that everybody is counted and then that breaks down there will also be a rock for a city of rockford complete count committee and i'll be chairing that team we're working with r1 and a number of other area organizations and we'll certainly be involving the the city council members on that we'll probably be ready to to brief the council probably within another month or so we'll have a a little bit more of a comprehensive plan we're also waiting to hear
 How federal and state dollars are going to be allocated towards some of that? That's been a little gray right now about how some of that that money that can be used to get the word out How that's going to be allocated. So thank you that information was very helpful We'll make sure though that we provide some updates for you alderman. Oh, thank you mayor I just wanted to thank our County Board members Joe Hoffman and Burt girl home start and
 and our beautification team, Jean Brown and Mike Pixler, for working on a project, and they got us another sign identifying Rolling Green. This one is located at Westgate and Broadway. So now we have one at Eastgate and one at Westgate.
 Wonderful Thank You alderman timber. Thanks mayor Speaking of beautification we had a house in the 1600 block of Harlem Boulevard in the Churchill's Grove neighborhood that was continuously Being called on and I had to call the out-of-town landlord numerous times and in this final case I had our association neighborhood association president make a call as well and
 and I then had a conversation on Saturday due to a phone call from a constituent that called and said, have you seen that house yet?
 and I came when I came back into town on Sunday I saw it and he had taken heed to the advice and hired a local landscaping company and did a absolute complete makeover of the home and so this house was a problem
 on Harlem Boulevard and we know how some of those homes are. So this now is a testimony to really putting some pressure on some of these individuals. And fortunately, this one came through and I think it may be up for yard of the month. I was hoping you wouldn't say you were gonna come over to my house and do my yard too. Well, we can negotiate, everything's negotiable. Any other reports?
 Seeing none, we'll move right along. We do have a number of appointments that have been laid over that are up for passage. Appointment of Todd Burton to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Aquanet Parham to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Ricardo Montoya-Picasso to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Yuria Krudup to Community Relations Commission.
 Appointment of Victoria De La Rosa to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Reverend William Martin to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Charles Pro Rock to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Eric Brown to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Aaron Hannigan to Community Relations Commission. Appointment of Nikki Lynch.
 to Community Relations Commission appointment of Jay where the Community Relations Commission are all up for passage this evening. All the others will be laid over.
 Uh, to August 1st, uh, until the meeting after August 1st, I do want to also draw your attention to item 15, which is appointment of Tony gas brainy as 2nd word alderman to fill the vacancy created, uh, when alderman Logan went, uh, overseas.
 for military service. If you remember, Alderman Logman provided myself and counsel with a letter recommending Tony. We have spoken a number of times and have done our due diligence and will be providing him as a name for your consideration at our next meeting. But we do have items 1 through 11 up for passage, so if there's any discussion on that we can have that now.
 Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I see there are a few of the nominees here in the audience. Could they stand so everyone can see if they're being appointed tonight? Yeah, we have Todd Burton and Chuck Pro Rock are both here with us this evening. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Any discussion on the appointment? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye.
 Toomer frost Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Quinones back McNeely Shirely 11 eyes 1 no. Thank you that items pass next we have motions and resolutions. We have Code and Regulation Committee alderman Shirely Thank You
 They were resolution authorizing the zoning officer to apply to the zoning board of appeals for the text amendments to the zoning ordinance that a Casino is a permitted use in c2 c3 and c4 district place that up for passage Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on the one item before us alderman heard just a question Mmm, excuse me if a an area is currently zoned as light industrial I
 Would we have to change that to a C-2, 3, or 4 in order to put a casino on that spot? I guess my question is, does it have to be done before someone could apply to put a casino on that spot? Or could they apply and at the same time ask for a zoning change? Mr. Dagnon?
 So the latter response would be accurate where they could apply for both simultaneously. To your earlier question, the permissibility based on the zoning officer's determination is C2, C3, and C4 districts is where casinos are permitted use. This text amendment would reflect that same determination as we go through the Zoning Board of Appeals,
 you know, under the state statute related to casinos, it does require zoning issues to be agreed upon. So theoretically they could submit the RFP response and simultaneously apply for zoning. Thank you. Any other discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkin. Aye. Logeman. I'm sorry. Toomer. Aye. Ross. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose. Aye. Quinonez. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Twelve ayes.
 I was just downright sad that you mentioned his name. One item I failed to mention that I think all of you will find important, or I hope you will, is there is a special housing committee meeting being held tomorrow evening at 530. It's a really good opportunity for the alderman to hear from Enterprise Community Partners, who is one of the partner entities of the National Resource Network, who's doing a lot of the assistance with our neighborhood plans.
 So I just want to make you aware of that. That's tomorrow at 530 here at City Hall.
 Is there, Alderman Herbert? Just one thing I wanted to say real quick. You probably don't hear a lot of positive things most of the time, but I wanted to thank you for your diligence in filling appointments to the various commissions and boards. I know you reach out to people. You've asked some of us, many of us, to dig deeper. If we can't come up with a name, you call back.
 many times to see if we've thought of any names and i i appreciate your diligence in making sure that we try to get more commissions and boards uh that
 Not just reflect the community but reflect people who sometimes are silent who just don't get out there and to encourage us to Go beyond the usual suspects. So that is appreciated. Thank you. I appreciate that It's a it's a team effort with all of you being huge partners I know there's even more that we got to continue to fill I know alderman McNeely provided me a name of someone I got to still connect with so I
 I just appreciate all of you giving names. It's what makes it happen. So is there a motion? Move to adjourn. Motion and second. Although, is there any discussion about that? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, say, all right. So we are going to move right into our strategic planning session. Chaz, do I need a roll? All right, we're going to begin with a roll call. Durkee. Here.