Alderman Durkee. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Alderman Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Hanley. Here. McNeely. Here. McNeely. Shirely. Eleven present. Thank you.
 So we have a quorum this evening. I'd also like to state the reason we have People both here present and virtually as we've deemed it uh except we I'll actually ask the legal director to provide us a commentary There's been a determination that having totally in-person meetings right now is not practical We're prudent given the ongoing covid situation. Thank you director myers. Appreciate it. Thank you
 Sorry for faltering there. Next up, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on June 15th, 2020? So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion here at City Council or online? Seeing none here or online, clerk, could you please call the roll? Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Shirely? 11 ayes. Thank you. Next, there are no proclamations, so we'll go to petitions and communications. I don't have any items under planning and development, so we'll go to code and regulation. Alderman Shirely. Your Honor, I have the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on July 21st, 2020 and the minutes from that meeting.
 for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on july 27 2020 i have the liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on july 21st 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on july 27 2020 i have a memorandum from lafayette the assistant city attorney regarding an application to modify an existing liquor license
 to add one additional video gaming terminal at Brewski's located at 4414 Charles Street. And I have another petition, which is August 15, 2020, the Rockford Day drive-in movie, Your Honor. I refer all those to codes and regs. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Next, we'll move to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. It indicates that there are supposed to be two bids.
 For a property located 1811 Crosby Street So I have a sealed envelope regarding 1811 Crosby Street building up the suspense there's already a check in here so This one as well Could you read in who made the initial bid in the amount before you open? Oh, absolutely so the first bid is from Linda McFadden who lives on Parkview Avenue and a
 Her bid is $3,000. So there's a check 10% for $300. And the second bid for this same parcel, it's a good as a money this one, but this bid is an amount of $1,500. So here's the check, $150. So therefore, this one was by Matt and John Boothby at 230 North Highland Avenue.
 Linda McFadden is the highest bid and if I will give both of them back to you Yes, and we will refer that matter to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number doesn't seem as exciting as it should but Well, I'm sorry Number two is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty finance director regarding the rave capital plan in this matter We refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee Wonderful. Thank you all the McRoss
 We've already went through public speakers this evening so now we'll go to new committee reports. I don't see that we have an item under planning and development so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Shirely. Thank you your Honor. I'm going to move to go to item number two first read that in because I have an amendment for item number one.
 so item number two the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford housing Authority for part 58 environmental review services for RHA projects the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance now on item number one I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports Roman numeral
 5B item 1 to reflect reversing the zoning board of appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from our three multifamily residential zoning district to see to limited commercial zoning district at 4321 West State Street.
 to reflect the following findings of fact. The denial of the zoning map amendment is based on the following findings. Number one, the proposed zoning map change is not consistent with article two, intent and purpose of the Rockford zoning ordinance for the following reasons.
 A, this proposal has not demonstrated it promotes the health, safety, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare for the citizens of Rockford because it is not consistent with the comprehensive plan and surrounding uses as detailed information has not been provided.
 B, this proposal does not protect the character, scale, and stability of the commercial district because the proposed development has not demonstrated it will meet all the development requirements for this site or the requirements of submittal for a zoning map amendment per the zoning ordinance. And number C.
 The proposed map amendment would not allow for a reasonable development to take place consistent with the CQ zoning district as insufficient information has been provided as part of the zoning map amendment request.
 And number two, the proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with the approval general plan as the development of the property is part of a larger parcel greater than 15 acres in size. And the request has not demonstrated it is part of the comprehensive and orderly development on the site. So I move to amend, Your Honor. Okay, so we have a...
 Motion to amend item B1. So let's take the motion first. Is there a second? We have a motion and a second. And we'll just take this amendment first. Is there any discussion on this specific amendment? I don't see any in council chambers. Mr. Myers, is there any online? No.
 i don't see any online so we're taking a specific amended or this motion for b1 first uh clerk could you please call the roll yes brainy thunberg frost hervey aye irvins hi thompson kelly hi hoffman rose beach hanley shirelli aye 11 aye
 Okay, thank you. So now we have two items before us be one that's been amended and be two Is there any discussion on be one that's been amended or be to see no discussion inside chambers? Is there any discussion online see no discussion? Line clerk, could you please call the roll? Yes, Brini Toomer frost Herbie. Hi Irvin's Thompson Kelly, hi Hoffman. Hi
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 11 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $8,996,562.65 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on July 13, 2020.
 number two the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the state of illinois for u.s business 20 from mill road to buckley drive the city's portion of the project is five hundred and thirty thousand three hundred and thirty one dollars the funding source is the motor fuel tax funds the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the state of illinois for the 20th
 over US bypass 20 bridge the city's portion is 64 thousand six hundred and forty four dollars the funding source is Motor fuel tax funds the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee Recommends approval of a marketing agreement for service line warranty coverage with utility service partners the estimated annual revenue is fifty thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars to the legal director shall prepare an appropriate ordinance and
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the head start collaborative agreement between the city of rockford human services department and trinity daycare. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number six. The committee recommends approval of the head start collaborative agreement between the city of rockford human services department. And Harlem community center hand in hand childcare, the city, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of an amendment to the 2020 fee schedule to include a zoning board of appeals special use permit application fee for murals. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number eight the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the state of Illinois for internet bandwidth The connection with the state is also used for required access to the Illinois State Police lead system The legal director shall prepare the appropriate number nine the committee recommends approval of the lien waivers for trustee properties to facilitate transfer the properties from the Winnebago County trustee to bidders
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and there are several property addresses with the lien amounts attached here to your honor I place those before you Thank You alderman frost we have nine items before the council. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Alderman Beach. Thank you. I'd like to just talk about number four, please C4
 i'd like to know how the revenue was estimated as the percentage of gross sales i'd like to also know what the length of this is and if we get an increased commission as the revenues increase just a little bit more information about that particular issue thank you director saunders
 Thank you, Mayor. The revenue is estimated at 10% market share per year on our residential customers. So our residential water customer total number is 47,000. So 4,700 customers, and we would see 50 cents per policy that they elect. So the average policy election is 1.8. So doing the rough estimates for year one, our estimated revenue is $50,000. Thank you, Mayor.
 To answer the second question regarding the 50 cents per elected policy, that's consistent with USP's other marketing agreements. So I'd be more than happy to ask that question, but it's my understanding that that's consistent with the other markets they operate in. And then in terms of the terms, this would be a three-year marketing agreement that allows for up to three marketing campaigns each year. Thank you. The reason I ask that question is really the –
 the basis of them wanting to use is our name the brisley rockford i mean that's the basis behind it um as i talked to our finance director today i mean that's that off balance sheet value of the numbers of people we have in the rockford area and um i just
 Don't certainly want to look away at $50,000 of revenue. That's wonderful But you know maybe in the second year it ought to be 57,000 or 60 maybe in the third year should be $70,000 and I I'm just wondering if we should ever look at designing our contracts based on how they you know Increase in value and the worth of doing business with the city of Rockford. So just a thought I don't want to stand on
 yn ystod y nos, ond mae'n fy mwynhau ein bod yn arwain ein hunain yma wrth iddynt fyw. I fy marn i, wrth iddynt fyw, rhaid i ni fyw gyda nhw. Felly diolch yn fawr iawn am adael i mi siarad, Sir. Diolch. Rwy'n mynd i'r cyfarfod. Director Saunders.
 Ac roeddwn i eisiau ychwanegu hefyd, maen nhw'n ystyried bod y ganlyniad hwnnw'n mynd i gynyddu y flwyddyn dros flwyddyn. Yn farchnadau eraill y maen nhw'n gweithio mewn, maen nhw'n gweld caff cyfrif y farchnad ar ychydig 30%. Felly, os ydym yn dilyn trend tebyg, byddwn yn edrych ar blwyddyn 3 ar gyfer 150,000 o ganlyniad blynedd. Felly, wrth i'w dyfu, rydyn ni'n dyfu. Iawn, felly mae'n bosibl y byddai 50,000 yn y flwyddyn cyntaf yn ystod y flwyddyn cyntaf. Ie. Diolch, Sir.
 Diolch. A yw unrhyw drafodaeth arall yn y Cymru? Nid oes drafodaeth yn ymlaen. A yw unrhyw sylwadau ar-lein? Alderman Hervey, a ydych chi'n cael cwestiwn? Alderman Hervey, a ydych chi'n cael cwestiwn? Alderman Hervey, a ydych chi'n gyfarwydd? A ydych chi'n cael cwestiwn? Iawn, rydyn ni'n symud ymlaen. Felly mae gennym y 9 o'r rhain yn ôl i chi. A yw unrhyw drafodaeth ymlaen yma? Dydw i ddim yn gweld unrhyw drafodaeth ymlaen yn y Cymru.
 Gasbrini. A. Toonburg. A. Frost. A. Herby. I ddysgu bod Herby wedi colli cysylltiad. Er mwyn i ni ymddiried yn ffynnu drwy ffôn, mae'n rhaid iddi ymddiried yn ffynnu'n llawn, felly bydd angen i ni aros hyd at i mi allan-ddiogelu'r cysylltiad. Felly, byddwn ni'n... Felly, ydych yn dweud...
 Rwyf am aros ar hyn o bryd hefyd, ond i fod yn glir, os fydd hi'n llwysio'r cysylltiad yn y tŷ, mae'r cyfarfod cyngor yn cael ei wneud hynny, er bod ni'n gorfod... Rwy'n credu ein bod ni'n rhaid sicrhau, os yw rhywun yn mynd i ymdeimlad o'i tŷ, mae'n rhaid iddyn nhw ymdeimladu'n llawn, felly mae angen i ni ddatblygu'r sefyllfa, ie. Felly, a ydym ni'n rhaid i ni wneud ymstafell cyflym pan mae hyn yn digwydd? Byddai hynny'n ein cymharu. Gallwn ni fynd allan i
 Yn ystod y cyfnod, mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o ddiddordeb. Mae'n ddigon o ffyrdd o
 Rydyn ni'n cyfweli yn ôl i'r sesiwn agored. Dyma'r cyfnod cyflym. Diolch yn fawr i'r Cyfarwyddwr Trommels am gweithio drwy'r sgwyliau technoleg. Yn ôl i'r sesiwn agored, Gweithiwr, gallech chi alw'r rôl? Frost? Ydw. Herby? Ydw. Irvins? Ydw. Thompson-Kelly? Ydw. Hoffman? Rose? Ydw. Beach?
 Hanley? Ydy. Chiarelli? Yn ystod 11. Iawn. Diolch i chi ac rwy'n sori am yr anodd. Rydyn ni, i adlewyrchu y bobl, 5 C, ar gyfer gweithredu a phersonel. Mae pethau 1-9 yma. Alderman Frost, a oes gennych chi beth bynnag i'w ychwanegu cyn i ni ofyn am unrhyw drafodaeth?
 i believe there's a motion that you may have alderman frost for item four uh that was at the end the motion your honor would be on um item number four concerning the uh marketing agreement as far as the term of that i believe the uh the motion would be i'd make a motion to amend that matter to add the language that it would be for uh for a one-year term
 With up to two one-year extensions. Thank you. There's a motion. Is there a second? Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on the motion or the amendment inside council chambers? Seeing none. Mr. Myers, is there any online? Seeing none. Clerk, could you please call the roll simply on the motion to amend item four? Yes, Verini. Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Aye.
 Hervey? Aye. Urbans? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Shirely? Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. So the motion moves forward. So now Alderman, you have items 1 through 9. Item number 4 has been amended. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on items 1 through 9?
 Seeing no discussion on items 1 through 9 inside council chambers. Is there any online? Awesome. Alderman Hervey, do you have any questions? Yes, Your Honor. Question sort of comment. I wanted to know with regard to the are the five that the city had some objections to because well the one because of the bank stabilization I believe Director Franson mentioned that there were some others.
 Have those been deducted or removed from this list? Director Fenton? They have not been removed from the list but we are making contingent all the lien waivers on the satisfaction of our objections and that property being transferred to the City. Thank you. Any other? Okay. Well, I wasn't quite done. Okay. If I may. Okay, thank you.
 I just wanted to make sure that was clear. But the second part is I would like to request that for future reports that we receive information as to the buyer and the sales price. If we're going to waive these liens, I want to be able to make sure that city council has a chance to look at them and make sure there are no unacceptable –
 current landlords or property owners or investors, whatever you want to call them, because very often we know best who the bad ones are in our ward, and also that we know the sales price, because I still contend that waiving these liens should be contingent upon city taxpayers being made whole, where the sales price equals or exceeds
 The amount of the lien, the city should be reimbursed for these liens. I understand, you know, some of the old ones that we're trying to work through some of those. But I still don't think that unless it's the trustee is asking for money to be able to repair some of the properties. I don't believe taxpayers should be allowing someone to profit from the sale of these properties. OK, thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Irvins, do you have any questions? No. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you have any questions? No, I have some concerns, but no, not at this time. Okay. So right now, Alderman, there's nine items before you. I've seen no more further discussion virtually and no conversations here at council. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Yes, Framing. Schoenberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye.
 Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Deet? No. Hanley? Shirelli? Aye. 11 ayes. Thank you. We'll hold officers' reports since we're going to have to go around the horn somewhat until the end. Unfinished business, we have nothing under planning and development. We do have one item under code and regulation. Alderman Shirelli? Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 One item and I'm gonna make an amendment to that item. So I'll read that in right now your honor So I move to amend the committee report under unfinished business committee reports laid over Roman numeral 7b item 1 to reflect sustaining of the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval of a Modification to an existing liquor license to allow liquor by the drink in conjunction with a private club bank
 banquet hall and video gaming in an R2 two-family residential zoning district at 320 Kent Street to reflect the following amended conditions number one meet all applicable building fire codes number two compliance with all city Rockford liquor codes number three the hours of operation will be limited to
 to that allowed by the city of Rockford liquor code number four the license premises she'll have no more than five video gaming terminals number I'm sorry that was number four number five window display signage is limited to 20% of the window area number six there shall not be any temporary exterior signage number seven the window shall not be covered with bars
 or other devices that block the windows. Number eight, the window shall not be covered by a film. Number nine, any pending general ordinance cases must be resolved prior to the issuance of the license. Number 10, an outstanding general ordinance fines must be paid prior to the issuance of the license. Number 11, all conditions must be met prior to establishment of use.
 Number 12 the liquor license holder shall operate as a club in compliance with the definition in the city of Rockford ordinance section 3-1 the premises shall not have a cover charge or be open to the general public without issuance of a special event permit and
 Number 13 the exterior of the prep exterior of the premises excluding any utilized Unutilized. I'm sorry. I'll read that again the exterior of the premises including any utilized parking areas shall be properly maintained from litter trash and other garbage and
 Number 14 pursuant to the submitted security plan including the 14 surveillance cameras locations the liquor license holder shall ensure that all Installed surveillance cameras are operable at all times and are capable of recording onto a medium That can be easily stored and later referenced by any Rockford police officer the liquor commissioner or any other agent of the city
 Any major changes to the security plan, for example, removal or installation of security personnel shall be provided to the city. Number 15, the respondent shall make reasonable efforts to enter into an agreement with the youth bill to have an additional camera placed. And youth builds property to be directed towards the main entrance of the out of going to club.
 Number 16 the ID card reader scanner shall continue to be used for all members and guests who enter the premises The data shall be maintained for at least 10 days and shall be provided to law enforcement Upon request I place this amended item up for passage your honor. Thank you. So we have one item before you in coats and rags and there's an amendment before you is there a second for that amendment I
 So we have a second. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on that amendment? Alderman Hervey, do you have any questions on that amendment? Yeah. My only question was, were those publicized, the amendments on the agenda prior to now? Or when did that amendment come up? I didn't see it before now. I haven't seen it. I just heard about them just now.
 So when were those attached? One second. Director Mark? I believe the amendments were sent out to all the aldermen two weeks ago with a request for comment by Attorney Vaughn. They were in the first agenda packet? I believe they were sent out to the aldermen not as part of the agenda packet but part of a stand-alone email following a discussion when they were first proposed committee or committee.
 either committee or council these were proposed at committee what date were they sent out yeah because i sure definitely don't remember those my apology if i skimmed over them but i don't usually miss my emails like that this one um i certainly would have wanted to look at more in detail never mind i don't i'm not so sure i have any objection to any of them the one with youth bills
 I just question whether it's fair to require them to get youth bills to put a camera on youth bills building. Right. I know youth bills had an objection to it previously. I know they have a new director now, but I do not want to hold them accountable for something that they can't control. That's the only one. Understood. So are you making a motion to take that item off or Director Franzen? Sorry. Okay.
 Just to answer the Alderwoman's question, it was first emailed to council members on July 6th. July 6th. Assistant Attorney Vaughn and also earlier this afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. One moment, Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I'm trying to go through each one systematically. Alderman Hervey, do you have any further questions? No. No.
 Okay. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, and now I'll come to you, Alderman Irvins. Did the owners or the operators of this establishment agree to all these conditions? Director Myers, who's going to respond to these? Director Myers? Unfortunately, I'd have to speak with Attorney Vaughn on this. I don't recall hearing from her that there was objection to these conditions. Okay.
 Because this is the first time I've heard of such restriction on an organization. Is there a history, a problem with the police department or police reports why these restrictions are so stiff? If I may, Your Honor? Alderman Hervey? Yes. Yes, there was a history of trouble. There were a number of gunfire incidents, always when they had an S permit.
 Well, a couple times when they had some of their club member events. That was prior to the time that I worked with them, as did the police department when Carla Red and I both worked with them to help them vet their members and deny membership to people who had criminal backgrounds.
 suspected gang ties, any of those kinds of things, and not to allow even their members to have birthday parties and things of that sort if the connection could prompt some negative invitees or negative activity. So they've done quite a bit with that. They've worked with SWIFT. They've gotten cameras. They've increased their security and how their security monitors
 closing at the end of the night, which is where most of the problems would occur. So they've really cleaned it up and fixed it up. And I do want to give them a chance to grow their business and expand it. By the way, I found that crib, it was in the wrong mailbox. So that was my fault. I don't know why my city email does that, but apparently it did. So I don't think there's no objection as far as I know, to any of the conditions.
 Just that one that bothers me. I don't want to see them have a license problem if YouthBuild says, no, we don't want to get into security cameras. Are you making a motion, Alderman Hervey? The motion would just be this, that if YouthBuild, we can pass it as it is, but I would like to, well, yeah, I would like to make a motion that we add that if YouthBuild refuses to grant or to allow cameras,
 on their establishment that the Aragona Club would be excused from that condition without further action by council. Thank you. So we have a motion on the floor. Is there a second? We have a second by Alderman Rose. Is there any discussion inside council chambers to the amendment? Is there any discussion to your own amendment, Alderman Hervey? One second. No. Is there any discussion by you, Alderman Irvins, to that amendment? No, thank you.
 thank you is there any discussion by you alderman thompson kelly to that amendment alderman beach you had further discussion well no not um yes i do okay this camera that's supposed to be on this building directed towards the main entrance that seems like it's pretty critical issue there so if we're not going to put it in that building which i agree to what they're saying is there going to be some other alternate place that's going to direct a camera towards that
 Okay, so I guess Mr. Meyer, is there a way to amend Alderman Hervey's amendment if that gets voted through to include some alternative found to include a camera facing the entrance? I think, Mr. Mayor, there's two issues. One is item number 14 regards to a security plan being submitted.
 that lays out 14 surveillance cameras and item 15 is the reference to using their best efforts to enter into youth build to provide those cameras so you know even if youth bill doesn't enter into the contract item number 14 still controls and that there's still a requirement that the security plan be complied with regardless of the contractor would be to install thank you great thank you
 Does that satisfy you, Alderman Beach? Sure, thank you. Thank you. Any other further discussion inside? Okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll on the amendment that Alderman Hervey put forward on this item? Alderman Gasparini? Can you explain that again, please? What was the question you asked me? My understanding from the amendment from Alderman Hervey is that she does not want this establishment –
 to be negatively impacted if a different organization does not want cameras on their property facing This establishments front entrance and what then mr. Meyer said it the way I understand is that there's going to be a security plan review to which if Youth bill does not want the camera on their property in the security plan review They would ensure that there is still a camera facing the front entrance. Thank you clerk. Will you please call the roll? I
 Aye. Irvin? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Wheat? Aye. Hampton? Aye. Okay, so now we have one item before you that's been amended. Is there any discussion on that one item that's been before you here at City Council? Seeing no discussion here in person, Alderman Hervey, do you have any further discussion? Alderman Hervey, do you have any further discussion?
 Alderman Hervey, do you have any further discussion? No, Your Honor. Okay. Alderman Irvins, do you have any further discussion? I do not. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you have any further discussion? No, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Director Myers, I'm fearing this conversation director Myers. What's your further discussion? just want to clarify that the what the last vote was on Alderman Herbie's amendment to Alderman Shirely's amendment so this vote is actually on Alderman Shirely's amended amendment just make it simple Sorry about that. That's my fault. So Now we have an amended amendment
 So I'm just going to run back through real quick. Alderman Thompson Kelly, Alderman Irvins, Alderman Hervey, you have any questions on the amended amendment? No. Awesome. Clerk, call the roll. Yes, Brainy. Aye. Toomer? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Shirelli? Aye. 11 ayes.
 Awesome. We have one item before you that's been amended and amended, and it's before you, so I think we've discussed it to death. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on it? Seeing none, Alderman Hervey, do you have any questions on it? No, Your Honor. Alderman Irvins? No. Your Honor. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? No. Thank you. We have one item before you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Brainy. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye.
 Aye. Thompson-Kelhey? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Hanley? Chiarelli? Aye. Levin? Ayes. Okay, thank you. Next up we have motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development. We do have two items under code and regulation and hopefully it doesn't have any amendments to it. Alderman Chiarelli? Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate your humor.
 Okay, so I have two items. The Rockford Fire 911 3K Family Run, that's scheduled for August 15th. And the event location will be at 391 North Trainer Road. Number two is the Ramp River Run, that's scheduled for August 29th.
 And that will be at the 202 Market Street at Market Street at Water Street. City Market Pavilion, place those two up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have two events before you. Is there any discussion inside council chamber saying no discussion? Alderman Hervey, do you have any discussion on this item? No, Your Honor. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? No, Your Honor. Alderman Irvins? No, Your Honor.
 No, Your Honor. Oh, man, we're moving along. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Brainy. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Hanley. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven, aye. Thank you. Awesome. Item...
 Items are approved. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an award of bid for Head Start Learning Materials to discount school supply of Monterey, California amount of $32,000. The contract duration is one year and three one-year options to renew for a total of four. The funding source is the Human Services Operating Budget. Number two is an award of bid for City Yards Warm Storage Roof Replacement to H.C. Anderson Roofing of Rockford.
 in the amount of 131 345 dollars the funding sources the property fund operating budget number three is an award bid for city-wide we debatement to ak t services at los park affordable solutions of rockford jj paris of rockford slabo and sons of caledonia raised rodriguez of rockford and chapman services of rockford for a total contract amount
 Of 175,000 based on unit pricing, the contract duration is one year with four and four one-year renewals for a total of five years. The funding sources, the construction services operating budget.
 Number four is an award of RFP for automatic license plate readers cameras to vigilant solutions of Livermore, California in amount of $233,374 based on unit pricing. The funding source is the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grants. Number five is a resolution to adopt the annual financial report and the auditor's management letter to the mayor and city council for calendar year ending December 31, 2019. Number six is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for use of motor fuel tax funds.
 For us business 20 the mill road to buckley road the amount of 1.5 million dollars Number seven is a resolution for the improvement on the only highway code for use of more fuel tax funds for 20th Street over us bypass 20 bridge in the amount of $100,000 number eight is an award a bid for citywide repairs group number five 2020 residential to Rock Road companies of Janesville, Wisconsin amount of one million seven hundred and sixty seven thousand four hundred and twenty dollars and fifty eight cents
 The project is fund is estimated to be completed by October 16, 2020. The funding sources, the motor fuel tax funds number 9 is a supplemental resolution for improvement under the Illinois highway code 2020. General maintenance for use of motor fuel tax funds for the city of repair. Package number 5, and the 2020 bridge preservation for total of 2.1Million dollars.
 Number 10 is a resolution for authority to pay the attorney fee and cost award in the amount of $117,836.26 plus, if any, post-judgment interest, which was ordered in the Sweeney et al. v. City of Rockford, case number 2015MR265, and indicates we need to suspend Rule 15. I place those 10 N's before you.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. So we have 10 items before you. We're going to take the first nine. Well, we'll take the motion to suspend Rule 15 for Item Number 10 first. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on suspending the rule there? Seeing none in Council Chambers. Alderman Thompson, Kelly, do you have any questions? No, I don't. Alderman Irvins? No.
 No, I do not. Thank you. Thank you. And Alderman Hervey? No, Your Honor. Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll on the motion to suspend Rule 15 for Item Number 10? Gasparini? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes.
 thank you so we have uh 10 items before you uh item 10 has had rule 15 suspended is there any discussion inside council chambers about the 10 items before you sir alderman hervey do you have any questions on uh any of the 10 items i do your honor with regard to number nine and i apologize for not seeing this earlier
 This doesn't match. Is this an addition to the items that we had before, or is this a modification of one from the committee? Thank you, Mayor. They should be the same items that pass through on or from committee. So this is just a modification to our MFT resolution, making those expenses eligible or an MFT eligible expense.
 I can't find the one for 2.1 million. Yep, it's actually, sorry, Alderman Hervey, it's item B on the Special Finance and Personnel Committee. Oh, I'm sorry. Sorry about that. Thank you. I was looking at my previous approval. Sorry. Thank you. No worries. Any other further questions, Alderman Hervey? No, Your Honor. Alderman Irvins? No. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? No, Your Honor. Okay, so we have 10 items before us. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Breeney. Aye.
 Aye. Tumberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Those items pass.
 First is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for Part 58 Environmental Review Services for RHA Projects.
 And number two is an ordinance approving a modification of existing liquor license to allow liquor by the drink in conjunction with the private club banquet hall and video gaming. And in our two family residential zoning district at 320 10th street, subject to conditions one through 16 up for passage. Thank you. So we have two items before us.
 Two items before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those two items? Seeing no discussion inside council chambers, Alderman Hervey, do you have any questions? No, Your Honor. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? No, Your Honor. Alderman Irvins? No, Your Honor. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gasparini? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye.
 Beach. Aye. Hanley. Chiarelli. Item number 1, 10 ayes, 1 abstain. Item number 2, 11 ayes. Thank you. Next up, those items pass. We have finance and personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with the state of Illinois for U.S. Business 20 from Mill Road to Bulkley Drive. The city's portion of the project is $550,331. The funding source is the motor fuel tax funds. Number two is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the state of Illinois for the 20th Street over U.S. Bypass 20 Bridge. The city's portion is $64,644. The funding source is the motor fuel tax funds.
 Number three is an ordinance approving the marketing agreement as amended for the service line warranty coverage with utility service partners. Estimated annual revenue is $50,760.
 Number four is an ordinance approving the Head Start collaborative agreement between City of Rockford Human Services Department and Trinity Daycare. Number five is an ordinance approving the Head Start collaborative agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services Department and Harlem Community Center Hand in Hand Child Care. Number six is an ordinance approving an amendment to the 2020 fee schedule to include a zoning board of appeals special use permit application fee for murals.
 Number seven is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the state of Illinois for internet bandwidth. This connection to the state is also used for the required access to Illinois state police lead system. Number eight is an ordinance approving the lien waivers for trustee properties to facilitate transfer of the properties from the Winnebago County trustee to the bidders listed by the property address and lien amounts listed.
 Below I place those matters before you under for both. Thank you. So we have eight items before us Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those eight items? Seeing no discussion inside council chambers alderman. Herbie. Do you have any questions? No, you're on alderman Irvins. No, yeah ultimate Thompson Kelly No, no, no awesome Clerk could you please call the roll? Yes, rainy to bird frost Herbie
 Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Shirely? Eleven ayes. Thank you. So before we get to officers' reports, just two quick notes.
 One is really exciting. The Family Peace Center started taking their first clients, mainly virtually today. So I just want to say thank you to all of you for your support and advocacy to help us get to where we're at today. Obviously, we really want to have clients physically in the space. COVID has delayed some of the reconstruction of that space, but that'll be opening soon for clients to come in physically. But I can tell you, again,
 Wasn't later than 830 this morning that I know they already got calls for service. So your advocacy and efforts are already in action And helping folks with that. I also had Asked if chief Berkson would just touch on briefly Some of the technology issues that we've been experiencing at the 911 center chief Berkson. I
 Sure. Last Wednesday we had some issues with our 911 center notifying some of our trunks, which are wireless calls coming into for 911. We're not coming through where the dispatchers could hear the caller very clearly. In an effort to make sure we mitigated that, we did a switchover where all of our calls went to the county center. We practice this twice a year.
 in case we actually have to do it, which we did. Then we sent our call takers to the county center. Working with AT&T, they identified early this morning that it is an issue on AT&T's side with one of the PBX controllers that manages those lines. We did find a workaround. For right now, we have all of our lines, wireless lines, transferred over to landlines. So we have all of our telecommunicators back at the 911 center for the city of Rockford.
 We do not have any delay in answering those phone calls. They are clear and able to listen to the caller in a sufficient manner that we're comfortable with. We're hoping to have the new part installed tomorrow by AT&T, but there is no disruption to service as of right now. We've got to work around with AT&T and appreciate everyone's patience over the weekend dealing with that. Thank you, Chief. So I will ask if there's any officers' reports inside council chambers. Alderman Huffman.
 Thank you, Mayor. I would just like to thank Deputy Chief Dahlke. He gave an excellent report on Wednesday at the Rolling Green meeting and told us about all the wonderful engagement that our Rockford police are involved in. Our neighborhoods, most people were really surprised to know that all that activity was going on. And then he said that you had also given instruction to begin dealing with the mental health issue. And I thank you for that.
 Thank you. Any other officers reports inside council chambers? Seeing none, Alderman Hervey, do you have any report? Yes, Your Honor. I would like to ask if we could observe a moment of silence for one of the true giants of not just civil rights, but justice.
 People's rights and the improvement of the United States as a country that lives up to his ideals, and that is U.S. Representative John Lewis, who spent, I think it was 32 or 33 years or terms or something in Congress. He's been there as long as I remember.
 And I recall him from the early days of the Civil Rights Movement. He didn't just march with Reverend King. You know, most people remember him from the Bloody Sunday, the march across the Pettus Bridge in Selma. But as a student, he also was a leader in civil rights.
 And he consistently and always maintained that nonviolence had to be respected and had to be observed. Anyone who joins what they claim to be an African-American civil rights protest or initiative who uses violence.
 against anyone is not a part of the African American civil rights movement. And I believe John Lewis was one of the people who kept us or called on us to hold on to that ideal. And I think it's still list today. So I would ask if we could observe a moment of silence. Absolutely. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Hervey.
 And that's all. Okay. Alderman Irvins. I have nothing, Your Honor. Thank you, sir. Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 Yes, Your Honor, I do have one thing. You mentioned the Peace Center. I wonder if it's possible that we, the aldermen, can get a list of contact phone numbers to where if we do have referrals, we have the information to do so. Absolutely. It is on their website, which is rockfordfamilypeacecenter.org, but I will make sure that you get, all aldermen, get the full list tomorrow morning or later this evening.
 Yeah, because we all don't know all the services they're providing at that location. Thank you. Absolutely. Great point. Any other reports? Someone please give me a motion to adjourn. Don't move. We have a motion. We've got a second. No one's discussing this. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gasprini. Schoenberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Hanley. Aye.
 Shirely, 11-X. Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website at www.webex.com.