Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, July 22, 2024. This evening, we're fortunate to have Chaplain Dave Zaremski with us this evening to provide us with an invocation. Lord, we ask for the grace to know and accept your will, and then put our best judgment into action for the good of our community and our families. Amen. We ask that you bless all our government leaders and our citizens gathered here together, that we work together for our common good. We ask that you bless our policemen, our firefighters, first responders, and their families. Please keep them safe. And finally, but not least, we pray for peace in our country, our city, and abroad. We pray in your name, Jesus. Amen. of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Chaplain Zaremski. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee, Logeman, Thunberg, Tarina, Pranti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonney. Eight presidents. Do you... did you have frost or prunty i know i see them but they are here they are here but not here i feel like my dad when i asked if we were there yet he was like yeah we're there we're just not there yet okay thank you we do at least right now have a quorum to begin sir a motion to approve the journal and proceedings for the special city council meeting held on july 15 2024. we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed okay Thank you. This evening we do not have any proclamations, so next we'll go to Planning and Development Committee, and we have Alderwoman Hoffman who will read those items in. Thank you, Mayor. A, number one, memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding a proposed development agreement with Tad Moore Sustainability Institute to establish the Industrial Sewing Machine Operator Apprenticeship Program at 6116 Mulford Village Drive, referred to Planning and Development Committee. 2. Memorandum from Sarah Lathes, Housing and Program Manager, regarding a proposed residential neighborhood sign program referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderwoman Hoffman. Next, we'll go to Alderwoman Trina for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. Item number one is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 30XX, 3030, and 3036 Searles Avenue referred to Code and Regulation Committee. number two is a memorandum from tim hinkins interim public works director regarding modifications to chapter 27 trees and shrubs the city of rockford code of ordinances referred to corner regulation committee number three is a memorandum from mike hackinson land transaction officer regarding the authorization the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned vacant lot located at 702 South 3rd Street referred to code and Regulation Committee and lastly a memorandum from Mike Atkinson Land transaction officer regarding the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned vacant lot located at 821 Oakley Avenue referred to Code and Regulation Committee thank you Thank you, Alderman Trina. Next, we'll go to Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one matter. It's a memorandum from Jamie Rott, Water Superintendent, regarding the proposed intergovernmental agreement between the City and Winnebago County for Edgebrook Phase 4 water main replacement resurfacing on Hickory Lane, and it will be for the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you Alderman Frost. Next we're going to go to our public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers. You'll have three minutes to address the city council. If your three minutes is up you'll hear an alarm go off. If for some reason that alarm does not go off I will notify you that your three minutes is up and I just ask that you close your comments. If you have any additional materials or anything you want to be handed out Our clerk can provide it to City Council or you can email it to myself and I'll make sure that the council members get that information our first public speaker this evening is Lori Fleming evening. Good evening everyone To the mayor god bless you. I love you. I To Carla Red, Chief of Police. She's not in here. Thank you for appointing her. To every alderman, thank you, thank you, thank you for just giving me a chance to speak tonight. Okay, my name is Lori Fleming. I'm a native born and raised here in Rockford, Illinois. I do many community events, but this one is very special to me that I'm putting together. It's called Faith in Blue. It's when we get the pastors, preachers together. priests they all come together with the men and women in blue to try to bridge the gap between our communities to make them safer stronger it's a national event anybody could take their phones out and google it it's been going on for six years now and this is I do believe Rockford's first but I think it's important because when we had all those stabbings I'll never forget I saw mayor I saw chief I saw all these people around you all Not once, not twice, but three. And I just started, Lord, lift them up. So the name of my program is Lift Them Up, Faith in Blue, which will take place October 12th. at First Covenant Church here in Rockford, Illinois, and we're going to bridge the gap, and our community is going to come together because we want to have a better relationship with police officers. We want every alderman, we want you to walk in together as one because this country is divided, but we are going to unite this country, this city, one city at a time. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 13th chapter, the 21st, it says he that walk with wise men should be wise, but a companion of fools should be destroyed. What I want to speak about tonight, male carriers are facing growing threats of violence amid waves of robbery. The United States Postal Service mail carriers known for trudging through rain, sleet, snow to deliver mail are increasingly dealing with another hazard on their delivery routes. Armed robberies. Mail carriers who are unarmed are a growing target because they sometimes carry personal checks to... prescription drugs which criminals can convert into cash. Some criminals also rob carriers to get hold of mail keys they use to open up mail boxes, allowing thieves to steal valuable contents in mail boxes. Postal carriers' robberies climbed 30% to 643 incidents last year, while the number of robberies resulting in injuries doubled to 61 in 2023. All told, robberies grew 6-fold over 10 years, while the number of postal carriers held at gunpoint increased at an even higher rate, according to what I analyzed most recently last week. A postal carrier lady was killed in Chicago delivering mail on her route. In a New Hampshire town, a mail carrier who was robbed for his mailbox key. Police later arrested an 18-year-old man from Lowell, Massachusetts and charged him with robbery. Them cases follow more robberies, targeting mail carriers. Postal carriers should be able to do their job without any concern of someone putting a gun in their face or in any way assaulting them while they're just trying to do their job and deliver to the American people that mail. In addition to being traumatized for letter carriers, these robberies represent a threat to democracy. The government and law-abiding citizens should crack down on these criminals. Also, they want to tell Miss Cassidy, which she ain't here tonight, who worked for City Hall and Miss Diane who worked for City Hall downtown and Mr. Corkley who's a bus driver for Rock and Mess Transfer just for a long time and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Barbara Murphy. Good evening. I'm in the ward. where the Kmart facility has been proposed to change into a U-Haul business and a box storage place. As we know, that's in Malford, an East State, one of our major business districts. And in this ward, we would prefer it stay retail, restaurants, and various office. We'd prefer that it be subdivided, that building into that type of area, rather than having U-Haul trucks parked in there. So it is a more pleasant area, a more vital area, and for people that comes into Rockford, can shop there. And as far as The Kentucky Fried Chicken building that's been standing there for years, and it hasn't been made into any new restaurant, it's the first thing you see when you drive down that lot on East State. Why that hasn't been either sold or taken down would really be appreciated. And that's about all I have to say on this. Thank you. Thank you. The next public speaker this evening is Deborah Rusk. Good evening. I'm here also to speak on the Kmart development. As Ms. Murphy said, it's a very busy intersection, and it would really be nice to see something coming in there as far as retail stores. I know they say that major box stores are not being developed anymore, but I think the place could be divided into two. Something like Forest Plaza where you have individual stores, and I think that would be very pleasant to have something else. I would love to see a Trader Joe's come in. That would be absolutely awesome to see. And instead of having to go all the way into Algonquin to go to Trader Joe's, that's one of my favorites. Thoughts but yes, and also we don't know where the trucks are going to be parked all their vehicles Are they going to be parked out front? So that people know that they're there and And it's just the idea that this is supposed to be one of the busiest intersections in Rockford and new people coming in and this is what they're going to see is for storage facility. And we already have numerous storage facilities in our ward. I mean, we're talking already on State Street, we're talking Mulford, our Cherry Valley area. American Road, you've got Sandy Hollow, you've got Linden Road, Charles Street. I mean, there are numerous storage areas, and I just really don't see where we need one at one of the major intersections where visitors are going to come and this is what they're going to see instead of something that's really going to give back to the city as far as taxes for people buying stuff and then just having new restaurants put in. That's my concern, and that's what I'm thinking. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Janice Mathis. Thank you. Thank you. I come up on the tail of Lori talking about the faith in blue. This is something that I really, truly believe in. The middle of 2000, I stood here in this room and I was honored with a Janice Mathis week because apparently someone seen what I was doing and they believed in me and they pushed me on. So I stand here today and I'm asking, pleading that you guys will get behind us. This is a national event. Yes, the Governor Pritzker has been invited. We want to get behind our men and women in blue. We want to push them. Also, the clergy, because whenever there is something violent that happens, those are the two people that stand up first. You'll find the clergy and you will find the police. And today is a time that we need to be united. and like never before. So I really hope you guys can hear the urgency in my voice to let you know. I do have a package for every alderman here, so that way you guys can look at it. It is a national event, and we are honored to be able to bring it to Rockford. And so Rockford, I don't know if you guys noticed, but Rockford made a certain list, I'm not gonna name, but guess what, we're gonna go, and we're gonna stomp that out. We're not gonna let these different things be attached to Rockford and so they're going to see us come together. We're going to be united and we're going to let all of the states, the cities, whatever, to shine and see that Rockford, thank you so much, that see that Rockford, we know how to come together, we know how to stand together and yes, there is going to be a fee. There is going to be a ticket sold. So that is why we're soliciting you guys help because we want the police to be able to come with a plus one for free as we honor them. So anything that you guys can do to help us, I really, really appreciate it. And I feel like I'm like the temptation. I'm not too proud to beg. Laughter So I need some help. I need some help. And on that point, I'm going to say thank you so much. Oh, Mervin, oh, I'm sorry. But in the package, you'll see we do have one of your own police officer who got a recording contract. And he was on America's Got Talent just the other day. And he will be in our city performing. He is dressed in his blue and his badge. And so we want you guys to come out. Please, please, please, and support. Thank you. That may be the first and best reference of the temptations at City Council. I'll attend just off that. Also, I think I see, and I believe we are fortunate to have retired County Board Member Dorothy Redd with us. I just want to say thank you for being with us and thank you for your service. Next, we will move along to our new committee reports. We have planning and development, and we'll go to Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you so much, Your Honor. Under planning and development committee item number one, committee recommends approval of a development agreement with the iconic building LLC for the cost of repairing a retaining wall and installing a decorative fence at the parking lot along north side of the 200 block of East Jefferson Street. The city will reimburse the developer's cost up to $290,000. The funding source is the Madison Street Project CIP Fund, and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. So, counsel, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Loganman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Pronti? Hoffman? Beach? Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bailey 11 eyes. Thank you. Next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Tarina Thank You Your Honor The committee recommends approval of the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 605 North Main Street a vacant commercial building commonly known as the armory pin 11 23 1 7 9 0 1 5 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. We have one item before us Is there any discussion on that one item clerk? Will you please call the roll? I? Lovamen Aye Thunberg Aye Frost Aye Tarina Pratty Hoffman Beach Barrios Aye Meeks Bailey Fonney Aye Eleven ayes Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Erin. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $13,045,416.55. The first one is to approve the voucher. The second one is to approve the voucher. as approved at the finance personnel community held on july 15 2024. number two the committee recommends approval of the lease agreement between the city of rockford and happy walk for property located at 211 elm street suite d for a five-year term with expiration date of july 31 2029 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of an IGA between the City of Rockford and the County for Project Safe Neighborhoods Fiscal Year 2023 grant award in the amount of $25,000. The agreement does not require a cost match. The term is from January 1, 2024 through September 30, 2026. The funds will be used to purchase cameras and equipment for a quick deploy vehicle. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these three matters before you. Thank you Alderman Frost. Council we've got three items. Is there any discussion on those three items? Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you so much. Item number three, project safe neighborhoods. How long has this been in existence? I don't know if I can ask this question right now. Does this come back up later? Yeah it does. Alderwoman Meeks do you mind if we vote on it now and Chief Red will be back in and we can ask and make sure you get an answer before we do the final vote. Sure. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions that we can answer at this time? Okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Loganman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Pratty. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. 11 ayes. Thank you. We missed Alderwine. Oh, I'm sorry. Meeks. Aye. You said no, I'll abstain and all three items. No, just three Okay, so 11 eyes on one and two and ten eyes on three I for one and two abstain on three Thank you. I'm 11 eyes on one and two and one abstain on number three Next we'll go to unfinished business reports laid over and we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina your honor The committee recommends approval of a special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of 240 apartment units, clubhouse, and a three-story assisted living memory care facility consisting of 136 beds. In a C1 limited office zoning district at 6654 Garrett Lane, thus reversing the zoning board of appeals recommendation of denial subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So council we have one item before us. Is there any discussion alderman frost? Yeah, don't shoot the messenger But I received an email from alderman Durkee Earlier today that he had to attend a family or a friend's funeral out of town and he wanted to be here With respect this item because it's in his district So he asked me and I said I would I would make a motion at this time to lay this matter over Okay, we have a motion to lay this item over. Is there a second second? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion on the layover? No discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Loewenman? No. Thunberg? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Franti? Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bailey? Bonnie? Ten ayes, one no. Item slide over and the older woman meets just to go back to your question on item three That was regarding the project safe neighborhood a fiscal year grant award of 2023 grant award in the amount of 25,000 that does not require a cross match Approximately 2018 I'll talk about it when we revisit it for or absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry about that. I Next, we have officers' reports. Is there any council member who has a report? Next would be appointments laid over. All of these appointments are up. We have reappointment. Oh, yeah. Alderman Prunty. You're good. I looked down and you were done. I was moving. Well, thank you for going back for me. I just wanted to... I WOULD JUST SAY HOW MUCH I APPRECIATE THE HELP THAT MY NEIGHBORS WERE ABLE TO RECEIVE FROM THE CITY. I KNOW THAT IT FELT LIKE A LIFETIME DURING THAT STORM WHEN TREES WERE DOWN AND TREES WERE IN THE STREET AND, YOU KNOW, YOU DIDN'T HAVE ELECTRICITY, YOU DIDN'T HAVE CABLE, YOU WONDERED ABOUT YOUR FOOD, YOU DIDN'T, YOU KNOW, YOU WERE SITTING IN THE DARK, NO AIR CONDITIONING. I know it felt like a lifetime for some people, but I actually had a neighbor come to my door today out of the blue and appreciate what we were able to do and then also ask for us to do a little bit more. So I just wanted to thank you all for what you did do. And then thank you especially with that tree removal. I think some people were able to take advantage of that. Thank you for your service for all departments that had the opportunity to chip in. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I also want to say thank you to our Public Works Department. They really worked. And I was just kind of numb here for a while. But on next door, they're really singing their praises and that of our fire chief and fire department for all the work. People recognize it. They're frustrated. They're angry. Um, they're scared because we've had everything including rifts of roofs blown up blown off. Um, I ended up with a gas leak so we've had everything hit our neighborhood and These folks just stepped up and nobody griped whenever I called They were just so pleasant Even if I was stumbling around with a whole list of addresses and everything. They just stayed with me. So They were all wonderful. Thank you. Great. Thank you Alderman Lugman, I Just wanted to echo what alderman printing alderman Hoffman said I won't go into too much of the gratitude But I think it is really important for the neighbors to see that not only their city elected officials out there, but then also folks from City Hall just knowing that They are being supported too. So Yeah, I know I'm in touch and hopefully we can get some support from the state I know everyone always looks for support from the state during these types of disasters But especially down in that Keith Creek neighborhood in the southern part of our city I know those folks were So experienced some pretty severe devastation But yeah, I just wanted them to know that the city is here for them to to try to work through this as best we can Thank you. Thank you alderman to Burke. Thank you mayor special thanks to Interim director Hinkins again on speed dial this week Thank you very much for being prompt on third ward constituent concerns quite a few on the flooding issues as well as a yesterday morning at about 6 in the morning, coming around the S curve on Guilford. There was a tree down right in the middle of the S curve, which was extremely hazardous coming down blindly through that curve. And an hour and a half later came by and it was gone. So I called that in, but it was they were prompt and quick and it was as if nothing happened. So our public works department really does go above and beyond quite a bit and really do appreciate them in these times of need as in now. Thank you. Thank you. Other reports. Okay. Okay. Next, we'll go to appointments laid over. All of these appointments are up for a vote tonight. We have reappointment of Sonji Collins to the Civilian Oversight Board for a term expiring December 2026. We have reappointment of Jonathan Medina to the Civilian Oversight Board for a term expiring 2026. We have reappointment of Norma Barrero to the Community Relations Commission for a term expiring June 2027. We have appointment of Scott Garwick to the Community Relations Commission for a term expiring October 2024. This appointment is filling a vacancy created by the resignation of Victoria De La Rosa. have reappointment of rudy valdez to the rockford fire and police board of commissioners for a term expiring march 2027 we have reappointment of molly brauns to the library board for a term expiring june of 2027 reappointment of jamie getchas to library board for a term expiring june of 2027 reappointment of dennis horton to the library board for a term expiring june 2027 reappointment of Simone Cameron to the housing Rockford Housing Authority for a term expiring June 20 29 reappointment of Jeff de Benedetto to the Rockford Housing Authority for a term expiring June 20 29 we have reappointment of Jamie Sanchez to the Rockford Housing Authority for a term expiring June 20 29 we have appointment of Ashley Sarver to the Rockford mass transit district for a term expiring June 2028 this appointment fills a vacancy created by a resignation of Steve Ernst We have appointment of Andrel Bragg Shaw to the Winnebago County Mental Health Board for a term expiring June 2028 we have appointment of Jeff Nielsen to the Winnebago County Mental Health Board for a term expiring June 2028 we have reappointment of Jennifer Spencer to the zoning Board of Appeals and and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board for a term expiring June 2029. Is there any discussion on those 15 items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aging on 13, I am the rest. Pronte? Hoffman? Beat? Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Bailey? Bonnie? We have one abstain on number 13 and 11 ayes on the rest. Thank you. Next, we will go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. All right. Thank you. I have six items. Item number one is a motion to reconsider the proposed redevelopment agreement, special use permits and variance applications for 5909 and 5949 East State Street. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Polish Fest. This event is scheduled for August 11th from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. The event will be held at St. Stanislaus Church, located at 201 Buckby Street on the church grounds. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the Ramp River Run. This event is scheduled for August 17th from 6 a.m. to noon. The run will begin at 7.30 a.m. The event location will be at 202 Market Street at Water Street, the City Market Pavilion. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the Tough Motor Chicago. This event is scheduled for August 24th and August 25th from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. each day. The event location will be at the Chicago-Rothra International Airport, 2 Airport Circle. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the Ramp River Run. item number five the committee recommends approval of the labor day parade and idot resolution this event is scheduled for september 2nd from 10 a.m to noon road closures will begin at 7 a.m the event location will be on 7th street at railroad avenue north to east state west to wyman street south to chestnut street ending at the davis park entrance and lastly number six the committee recommends approval of a resolution for city council closed session minutes thank you Thank you. Council got six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items alderman Logan? Thank you mayor Um, just in reference to item number one Um, i'm not going to be supporting this uh, this motion to reconsider um from what i've seen nothing significant has changed and This is the the third motion to reconsider that if memory serves that we've considered Just in the last 12 months to meet with aldermen are switching their votes kind of expose that expose facto After a vote, it's indicative. You know that were either as a body like not doing our homework The first time or being influenced and it was a ten to two vote last time so I just don't think it's a good look overall I've been opposed to this to this these motions to reconsider every time that they've I I certainly respect the opinion of both sides, whether you voted for it or against it. ultimately I don't think these motions to reconsider are helpful for the city or this body in my opinion. Thank you mayor. Yeah, thank you other comments Other woman meets. Thank you so much. So it was me who made this motion to reconsider I think that's what we have the ability to do when we want people to reconsider things. So that's what we do. I And so I brought it forth again because I wanted everyone to take the opportunity this time around to really look at some things that I know that we discussed, but I don't know on that particular day if some of those things really hit for everyone. And so to come back and have that opportunity to listen to people The whole process that this developer went through to get to that bottom line, to get rejected, a local developer. I think there's something to be said about us really taking what happened in that moment into consideration. There were some comments related to... Not wanting to see storage and I have to agree I mean that was my initial reaction when I made my vote the first time was I don't want to see storage on State Street I didn't want to see storage to be honest with you if I had a choice. I wouldn't want to see it still But in this particular situation, I think we're getting down to the point where our choices are limited and And there are options that we have on the table right now that I think would be very beneficial to our city, very beneficial to that street. Some of the questions were, are the trucks going to be seen? We've already discussed that. We've already worked through a solution to the trucks and moving it to the side. And that's what I find with this is that there was so much that was done. to get to where we are right now, and bringing the outlets and bringing the restaurants, and bringing the offices, and having that opportunity to do that is what saying yes to this development would do. Saying no to it, in my opinion, is gonna keep it exactly what it looks like right now, and I think the plans that were presented to show the difference between what it looks like now versus what it could look like with new development, I think it's something that we absolutely, as a council, should reconsider. So I hope everyone does take the time to really look through. I can say for a fact, for me, you can call it me not doing my homework, however you want to put it. What I will say is I was dead set I read a lot about what was going on, but I was dead set on not wanting storage, and that's what made me make my decision. And though I'm still not completely for it, I think we need to look at a bigger picture for Rockford, and that's what I hope that we do when we hopefully take the time to at least reconsider it and have a full discussion about it. And that's all that I ask. Unfortunately, there's a lot of faces missing to make a full vote again. But that's OK. We're going to have fun with this. Thank you so much. Thank you. Clerk, just want to make sure, clerk, that you have Alderman Rose entered. Alderman Rose, just to make sure that you're aware of where we're at, we're at motions and resolutions. We're at code and regulation. We have six items before us, as you have in front of you. That's where we're at. Any other discussion on the six items that we have before us? Alderman Bonner. Thank you, Mayor. So I have to agree with Alderman Logerman about this reconsideration for sure. And his comment in this morning's rrstar.com was attributed to failure to do homework and succumbing to arm twisting. And as he noted, it was an overwhelming 10-2 decision. You know, I, and obviously, state the obvious, I mean, I did this to reconsider the Barbara Coleman project. And I think it was a very, very different scenario, though. I didn't change my mind on that issue. My vote stayed the same. But we had an important decision on a huge project with a high level of public engagement and one alderman absent and a one vote margin. And so while, as a matter of fact, I had my arm being twisted in the opposite direction to not make that motion that eventually reversed the decision, I thought it was important in the interest of good government to allow the absent alder person to be able to vote and to take that consequential vote and the chips would fall where they may. This instead is... Just bad government and other than the you know, I don't know what the motivation here is as all in the logoman pointed out there You know, there's nothing new before us everything that including correct including the Issue with where the trucks are being parked has been as thoroughly vetted. It's been through ZBA codes and regs It's been laid over. It's been through council. I And this is not, you know, since Barbara Coleman, not the first ill-conceived motion to reconsider we've had. I mean, we reconsidered cannabis consumption that failed in April on a 3-8 vote, was brought back in May, and it still failed in a 5-9 vote. So, you know, I don't understand why we are reconsidering things when, Little or nothing has changed and the vote Margins are substantial when this was placed on the agenda. I was not here like two weeks ago but I understand we had some guests who spoke about the that we need to as a council we need to adhere more often to our professional opinions from our staff and I I don't disagree with that, but I would point out that in one very long discussion, I was the only alderman who supported staff on the curb cut or opposing the curb cut for the news tower. I see that all over in Thunberg, which as our staff said violated the spirit of a special pedestrian friendly zoning district that we have downtown and As our chief of police suggested it was maybe an unnecessary danger and they congested area So why were we doing that? I can only conclude it was the arm twisting that was going on behind the scenes for some restaurant owner who insists on having valet parking and Who we have yet to is yet to be identified. We don't know if Who we did that for? But I do have and I've read before a retire somebody with a professional opinion who lives in the ward not far away and he is a retired municipal planner who lives in the Boulder Creek Development just down the road on Mulford and he wrote again and could not be here tonight So I want to share his letter It's from Jerry Swanson Was dismayed when I read that the City Council would reconsider the denial of the SUP for the Kmart proposal The city can do better than a cookie cutter retail project anchored by a large U-Haul rental facility I reviewed the site plan and other documents submitted by the developer and find the entire project Lacks lacking functionally and without a static merit. I I spent much of my 37 years as an urban planner overseeing developments in communities the same size or larger than Rockford, and I was even in charge of current development in Rockford from 1979 to 1981. If the city approves this project, it would be signaling that the stated objective for Rockford To become a top-tier community is no longer valid if this project is denied there will be better projects that will be presented I believe this Intersection is ideally suited for a market rate apartment project having excellent access to medical grocery retail transportation office and other uses this would require an amendment to the land use element of the city's plan something the council could initiate and Please feel free to share my thoughts with the other aldermen if appropriate. Thank you for standing up for the residents of the 14th Ward and the City as a whole. Now again, I ask myself what's changed since we voted on this originally? So those same speakers who were, or the people who came with the speaker two weeks ago, all either live on the northeast side or in the neighborhoods surrounding Rockford Country Club and Forest Hills Country Club, and they essentially said that on the southeast side we should just settle for good enough. And I wonder if any, if they would have accepted warehousing and transportation. truck rental going into the vacant grocery on Riverside that is now Ortho Illinois and something that if we again put perhaps TIF money to this and put you know, send this message that this is not what we want that maybe we can get something a little more not necessarily retail but retail adjacent a little more creative, you know, I I Don't understand this idea that you know if I the older person bringing this motion if I were suggest to her that we That her wards should settle for should trust app and settle for whatever crumbs they they throw at you I don't think she would take that very kindly You know to me. It's just it's another chapter in our diary of low expert expectations nothing said Two weeks ago when this was placed on the agenda helps me see how self-storage at one of our busiest commercial intersections in the quality in the in the city Qualifies as transforming Rockford forgotten argument made by those advocates is that about listening to professionals? Is that they are not elected by voters. I retirees and business leaders want to try to control the levers of government without sticking their necks out to run for office themselves But in addition to that, you know one other thing that's new is that they're the city following The action two weeks ago placed this on the city's Facebook page. There has been a lot of public Comment on that page 53 people have commented clear majority opposing this motion to reconsider and Opposing the project and I'm going to read some of those comments because I don't know that a lot of us read those. I From Amanda Norman, they voted right the first time. That area doesn't warrant storage units. From Lynn Wenmacher, it would be nice to see some real property development in this area. Didn't the owner make a deal with an Asian restaurant, then back out of the deal? If that is true, I'm concerned about the legitimacy of any future developments with the property owner. From Courtney Burns, too many storage buildings and car washes in Rockford. From Jackie Elizabeth, like Rockford needs another storage facility. From Scott Phelps, way too many storage places in this town already. Another one is not needed. From Elizabeth Panawich. Pena-gua. Don't need any storage space from Arturo Frescas because that's what we want to see when driving down East State Street. Stores, restaurants, oh, look, storage. From Bobby Bakker, not another storage facility, please. From Jim McDonald, McDowell. Mini storage is the lowest tax use out there. In my line of business, mini storage is a placeholder that only pays the property tax. They are not working hard enough to get highest and best use, and that is the point of zoning, to force highest, best, and appropriate use. Mini storage simply is the wrong use in this spot. From John Olson, storage on prime real estate. Wonder why and who is getting favors for this. from sabrina green oh joy a storage place like we need more can we get something else from vicki hall let the owner walk all over you like miss carly did and make you look stupid make you look very stupid way to go not enforcing what you told her to do um another thing that i think is is new is i did have a conversation following the action two weeks ago with the Legal director I understand who's not here tonight, but perhaps Angela hammer attorney hammer can speak to this which is this threat by you Hall that and also in the Alderman making this motion shows pictures of what you Hollis what the Kmart building looks like now that is the Kmart building owned for the last six years and left baked vacant by you all and Who's allowed it to look like this and there is there are legal avenues that the city could pursue if if you all actually? Follows through on this threat to leave this property vacant has to do with Declaring the property abandoned and it's okay with the mayor. I would ask that if attorney hammer could elaborate on that I Attorney hammer, thank you mayor There is a mechanism in the Illinois Municipal Code by which a municipality can petition circuit court to declare a Property abandoned provided that it meets certain statutory requirements I can't speak to whether those statutory requirements are met in this case, but that is one option for us to to pursue Thank you. That's all I have Thanks, I would also just for the record some of those folks don't live in Rockford like Sabrina green lives in Tokyo based on her Facebook so alderman frost I'm a little confused. I thought we were just talking about the motion to consider not not the merits And what happened at the curb cutting and what happened at Coleman yards? And what happened about a myriad of comments including what people post on social media, but since that's all come to light I Just feel obligated to speak about this. So first of all a motion to reconsider our mechanism that we have In our rule book right here that allow us to do exactly what we've done And the fact that we've done it three times in 12 months isn't a felony We have that right and if I guess if the council wants to try to change that and get rid of That particular option we have I mean, I guess they someone could try I I don't have a problem with I mean sometimes people I think use motion reconsiders for their own personal agendas or to you know They think one person was gone and maybe it'll change a vote You know, I don't know. I mean, but you're I mean, I think fact of that It was when this came before as before it's true. It was that it was a two to ten vote. So I mean, I I don't know because Frankly besides myself and Alderman Trina who were the two that voted for it? No one else said a word. I So I'm a little bit confused on, you know, some positions when you don't say anything or do anything. But I just wanted to address a few things. The storage in this property would be indoor storage. It would be very similar to the indoor storage that exists at the other Kmart that closed at the corner of Riverside and Forest Hills, which, frankly, I drive by multiple times a day, and it's turned into a rather nice development. And it looks better than the alternative, which is sitting vacant. And before anyone makes any threats, they really should check their homework. If a property is empty and vacant, but it's properly maintained, their sprinkler system's up to date, their grass is cut, you can't just haul them into court and try to scold them for being an abandoned building. It's ridiculous. Furthermore, someone that says that this highest and best-used corner could be an apartment complex? Seriously? I mean, I mean, I mean, is his zoning one on one in land use requirements completely thrown out the window? I don't get it. But here's what I do know. If the council chooses to vote against this, it's I don't think anyone's any threats. But if whoever the owner is decides that wants to leave it alone for a while, they can't. And I think I talked about this last time it was up, but so everyone's so afraid about, like, what's going to go there. And really, I think it has green space. It has outlots. It has landscaping. A resident asked about the trucks. That's a great question. That was my big no vote initially was I didn't want 40 trucks sitting out along Mulford Road. And those trucks would be hidden in the back southwest corner where it's heavily wooded. And you would not be able to see those trucks from either State Street or Mulford. Let's just take a look down memory lane since we've had some long-winded speeches tonight already. Let's look across the street, which used to be the Venture store that was owned by Montgomery Warts. It's now anchored by Valley Foods, and it was also anchored for many years by a low-league grocery store. You know what's over there now, across the street from this vibrant corner? There's two discount stores. There's a blood plasma center on the side of the building. There's Secrets Adult Lingerie sex shops. So be careful what you wish for because you may get more of that here on this corner. Anyone that thinks you're waving the flag, and no offense comparing it to, and I'm not saying this because it's in my ward, the Eagle Store that's now owned by Ortho Illinois, that was a really nice brand-new built shopping center with multiple tenants that still has multiple tenants in Ortho Illinois. This is a much larger building than that. It's going to be difficult to find a tenant or a owner to come in and reutilize this property, except in the way it's proposed now. I said this before. Yeah, I would love to have a Macy's or a Nordstrom's come to this large site, but here's the newsflash. That's not happening. And so what is happening is you have a corner that literally has sat still for a long time. I understand that U-Haul's owned it, but they've had a proposal together because they've done this around the country. And frankly, it's not throwing in the white flag. It is the best and highest use of this property. I mean, anyone that keeps thinking you're going to get some sort of grade A development there, you're highly mistaken. and i hate to say that i mean i grew up in rockford i drove by this intersection multiple times kitty corner from here the old k's merchandise store you have the state dcfs and public aid building um so i i'm just i'm at a loss for someone that thinks that you're going to get this quote unquote top tier tenant you have a top tier tenant right before you tonight and you have a a plan where they're investing Don't know the dollar month a significant investment into into the four out lots Fixing the water problem adding up basically a park Which is a complete buffer from the store and some people want to say you're throwing in the white flag Well, good luck because I'm just curious in ten years down the road What the shot it's gonna look like and anyone who votes to kill it to me like yeah I voted to kill that deal and look what it's still sitting empty. Thank you other comments alderman rose. I Exactly what Alderman Frost said. Exact same thing. I mean, I think that's one of the things. U-Haul is a multibillion-dollar corporation, and while they have openly said that it's not a threat for them to sit on this property, I mean, they've had this opportunity now for six years to do it, and they have brought us a very good development. And I would just say, I had a very similar project that was proposed for West Riverside. And the developer, I said to them, I want to see green space. I want to see it look nice. See a storage facility if you if you so put one in there that looks decent and This what this is that project right? And so when people say well, you wouldn't want this in your ward I'll take it. You know, this is something that is bringing in some retail. It's it's putting a nice park there I just I think seeing that this is shooting low is so unrealistic and again like alderman frost You know, six, ten years from now, it's going to be one of those questions of, you know, why did Rockford say no to this? Because it's a sitting building and it's just going to continue to sit. Thank you. Other comments all the way in the mix? Yeah, I just want to be clear. I did do my homework, and I still changed my mind, and I have the prerogative to do that. And I also want to say I find it interesting that it's discussed about, you know, some of us changing our minds when there was almost like even over a year-long process of planning for this. that an alderman was a part of and changed their mind right before the vote. So I just find it interesting that you want to put that label on me, but not yourself. Thank you. Another discussion. We have six items before us. Alderman Prenti. Hi. I just want to talk about a different item. I want to talk about... Why not? Maybe, maybe. I want to talk about item five. Okay. The Labor Day Parade. Just wanted to say that I have been a proud member of the Rockford Education Association for more than two days and two decades, rather. I'm sorry. Thank you. Two days. It's been rough. Two decades. And I'm While last year I did not have the best experience at the Labor Day parade, I support this parade and hope that it will be as inclusive as it has been in the past. So I will be supporting the Labor Day parade. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Beach and then Alderman Toomer. Thank you, Your Honor. We have... had and still do a lot of old buildings in Rockford that have sit for years and years and years. And then, right at the time, a developer comes along and says, I got an idea. And they take it, they take the old building, and they do good things with it, i.e., tonight, the armory. All world long has the armory sit down there. And there's been discussion about tearing it down and not tearing it down. And yet, someone's come along and said we can do something with it. Now, the fact that this U-Haul building, the K-Mart, is right across the street from the 10th Ward, I do have some interest in it. And as I told Wally Haas later, I said, I'm not willing, frankly, at this time, to give up on the fact that there might not be some other development that can come, even though K-Mart, even though U-Haul said, We're not doing it. That's fine. They can say it. They bought it without subject to zoning. They bought it the way it is. And when we tried to run it through our process, we saw what the vote was, 10 to 2. I respect our alderman that voted for it. I'm not willing to give up on it. I did my homework, too. I went to the zoning board meetings. I sat through every single one of those things to listen to what people had to say. My vote still was no. And so thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak this evening, but I'm not ready to give up on it. It's a beautiful area. It's a beautiful part of the city of Rockford, and it's growing. I'm not willing to give up on it yet. That's why I'm not going to support the reconsider of this. My vote was given a couple of weeks ago. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I will be brief. Can you pull that down? Can you pull your mic down? Sure. I'm going to take a little bit, a slightly different approach. I have looked into this, I feel, quite a bit. And previous to tonight, especially, I appreciate the work and consideration for these outbuildings, the retention area, the park. That is no question I believe that would improve that corner. We know that's a highly visible corner, a highly traveled corner. What I am, though, and what constituents of mine have reached out to me, although it's not the ward, The third ward is the fact that that facility, and even I have heard that a member of our administration has stated once it becomes a U-Haul facility, self storage, that's pretty much it from here on out. I think that we as a city would be more encouraged to be striving for something better especially when we look at some of these other cities. I know we use peer cities in our state, so I'm actually not referring to those. I'm referring to other cities that I know that, whether it's RACVB or Community and Economic Development have scouted other communities, Grand Rapids, Michigan, I know maybe Greenville, South Carolina. I can't imagine at one of their corners of this stature, and I know it, and I'm not a fan of a state facility necessarily within spitting distance of this corner either, that they are having such debate about a U-Haul facility at one of their corners in one of those other communities that we would like to emulate in many ways. So it is. I wouldn't use, well, no, I won't use that phrase. So with what is in front, I appreciate. What's in the back is an issue that I think Rockford is selling itself short on. Another item, and what I meant by taking a different approach, or saying something I don't think that has been said on Council floor is that I have been extremely appreciative myself personally at the professionalism of Mr. Orput. He is, I think, has approached us with extreme professionalism. and I wish him well with these other endeavors. My understanding is Edgebrook is being one of them that is in his portfolio. I think Edgebrook does a fantastic job. I guess if the stars were aligned in such a way that would allow us to give this project a green light to do the outbuildings, but then yet Keep that separated from the backside issue I would uh, I would love to see that but apparently that isn't the case tonight if I Was mistaken on Edgebrook mayor. I think I was correct. Was I not you are okay? Thank you, it has been a Yeah, and so I would uh, yeah, I would like to thank mr. Orpah personally on Going for thank you. Thank you any other Discussion on the six items before us clerk. Will you please call the roll? Frost Rose Beach Rios Bailey Danny seven nose on number one 12 eyes on every major. Thank you. I Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee, and Alderman Frost. Your Honor, number one is the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for office supplies and furnishings to the Logsdon Stationers. In the amount of $175,000, it's a one-year contract with four possible one-year extension options. The funding source is the departmental operating budgets. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Board of Engineering for stormwater ordinance revisions, HR Green, in the amount of $110,380. The ordinance revisions will look to modernize and simplify our ordinances while still meeting our requirements under the NPDES permit. The funding source is a 1% sales tax. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a change order for police vehicle equipment installation to data supply. The original contract amount was $444,000. There's a change order of $41,934 because the original bid did not include the installation of the moving radars as well as graphics for the vehicles. Number four, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the DCEO LIHEAP Health and Human Services Grant Award for additional funds In the amount of $4,015,550, the new grant total is $6.495 million. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from October 1, 2023 to August 31, 2025. I place those four matters before you. Thank you, Alderman. Counsel, is there any discussion on items before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Cervino? Pranti? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose, Beach, Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. Aye. That's 12 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to new business planning and development, Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you so much, Your Honor. Item number one, an ordinance approving the development agreement with... the iconic building LLC for the cost of repairing a retaining wall and installing a decorative fence at the parking lot along the north side of the 200 block of East Jefferson Street. The city will reimburse the developer's cost up to $290,000. The funding source is the Madison Street Project CIP Fund. Thank you. Thank you. Council, there's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? clerk will you please call the roll logeman toomber frost terena prati hoffman rose beach radios meeks bailey 12 eyes thank you next we'll go to code relation committee and older woman terena Thank you. I have one item as item number two was laid over in ordinance approving the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned Parcel located at 605 North Main Street the building commonly known as the armory. Thank you Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before us clerk? Will you please call the roll? Tumor Terina Prachi Hoffman Rose Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. That's 12 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the lease agreement between the city and Happy Walk for the property located at 211 Elm Street for a five-year term. Number two is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city and the county for project-safe neighborhoods in the amount of $25,000. It does not require a cost match. I place these two matters before you. thank you is there any discussion on the two items before us clerk will you please call the roll loberman timber frost terena prattie hoffman rose beach barrios meeks bailey bonnie it's 12 eyes thank you alderman frost do you have an item that you want to discuss i'm sorry but um at this matter i would make a motion to convene in the closed session to discuss Pending litigation we have a motion is there a second? Is there any discussion all those in favor of going into closed session? Please say aye Try it again and all those in favor of going into closed session. Please say aye All right those opposed. Thanks. We're gonna take a brief recess So we are back into open session clerk. Could you please call a roll? Hogan man, Toonberg frost Terina Prachi Hoffman Rose Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey. You have Logerman and Frost as well. 12. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed have good night.