We have a motion and a second. All in favor? All opposed? Motion passes. So I'd like to have the clerks call the roll. Durkee. Here. Toonberg. Here. Ross. Kirby. Irvins. Here. Hoffman. Thanks. Rose. Here. Quinones. Thank you. Alderman Trelle under Roman number 2B. The plat number three of Ash Anjali subdivision I placed up for passage.
 So there's a motion to confirm B1 under Roman number two. Any questions on this? Does it need to be a roll call, sir? Clerk, call the roll. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you very much. Are there any officers' reports? Alderman Hoffman. I give every one of you a copy of an award that RHA received on July 12th.
 The important thing about this award is that it is a pilot program for the Rockford Police working with the children in fairgrounds. And it's about teaching the children how to work with the officers, but also teaching the officers how to work with the children.
 For those of you that are not aware, there is a program called Tennessee ACE program that will explain things better. But children that are subjected to chronic stress caused by poverty, hunger, domestic violence, and other issues are experiencing anxiety.
 development problems with their brains. And this is causing some behavioral issues, that it's a permanent disability. And so some of the children are losing the ability to understand cause and effect.
 Because of that they cannot be dealt with in the same way that we have traditionally raised children And so our officers are learning to deal with these children and then the children are learning to respond to the officers Again, if you'd like to know more about the Tennessee ace program I put that on this sheet and I'm not going to go in explain the whole program, but I've given you quite an in-depth look
 explanation on it and at this time we don't have a good reporting plan it is a pilot and we are working with the school district to follow up on the results of continuing with this program working with the police thank you any other yes Oliver Thompson Kelly
 I'd like to notify the residents of especially the uh, northwest residents of tree trimming scheduled by command And what does weather that we've been having? Uh, we've had quite a few limbs being broken And trees down but they are coming in with the tree trimming and I hope our public works department is going to work in conjunction with them Uh in doing so
 I also want to ask the chief, I received a notice of a fire flow testing water for the fire department. Is there a schedule that will go along with that so we can notify the residents at our neighborhood groups when the hydrant testing will take place? Oh, that's public works?
 Yeah, the Water Division is coordinating that in conjunction with the Fire Department. We'll be sure to each week release kind of where we've been and where we're going. If you'd like any additional information, we'd be more than happy to kind of lay out our plan for the next six weeks. Thank you. And I want to announce that Christian Union Church, which is located at 1705 Kilburn Avenue, will be having a back-to-school presentation.
 picnic August 10th from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. I would like to request of the patrol officers to patrol that area for the safety of the children. Chief, thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Alderman Ruby. MS. Thank you, Alderman. MS. I just want to let Fifth Ward residents know that we will have our monthly meeting this coming Thursday, the 25th, at 6 o'clock, and that will be at our police substation number 1.
 Thank you. Any other aldermen with officers' reports? Yes, Alderman Tunders. Today I was able to do a delegation from Terre Haute, Indiana, from the YMCA and the mayor of Terre Haute, and also individuals from our local Rock River YMCA, along with some members of the rowing club there.
 looking to they ever they're a community that is similar to ours and some of the obstacles that we are overcoming and confronted with and they are coming up though also to emulate the rowing program over at the
 over at the Y on the rock river they have the Wabash River there but it was just it is an exciting time and for us to showcase our city and also the regatta that takes place here every year that brings an economic impact a half a million dollars through our hotels and and restaurants
 And so I'd like to thank everyone from the Y that came out for that meeting and it was a great way to showcase our city Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right under motions and resolutions 5 B all the material park activation that's scheduled for July 24th 2019 and August 4th 2019 they set up for passing you've heard that the most is for passage any other discussion for the need of roll call sir. I
 clerk please call the role all right all right hi hi hi hi hi hi thank you sir a motion to adjourn all the favors they are thank you very much that's the shortest city council meeting we've had