... getting help. Most of juvenile committing crimes in the United States... Three minutes have passed. Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. John Rutley? Good evening, uh, Acting Mayor Frank and all the men and all the women and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Um, James, uh, King James Version said, What does it profit my brothers if someone say he have faith but does not have work?
 Can faith save him? Thus also faith by itself, it does not. Her work is dead. But someone say, you have faith and I have work. Show me your faith without your work, and I will show you my faith by my work. You believe that there is one God, you do well. Even the demons believe and tremble. But do you want to know, O foolish man, that faith without work is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by work when he offered Isaac? This has been a very busy day.
 year and we have hit the ground running starting off this summer with the Father's Day Cookout Juneteenth. Just this past weekend we were at Mercy Health and Safety Station. The best part of going to Mercy Health, we were able to get all of our youth and teenagers an Illinois Child Identification Program fingerprints and DNA photo. Saturday morning from there we stopped at the library for two hours. We had twenty-eight youth and four adults.
 Then on Sunday we was at Kingman Authority Church Service and from there we attend 100-stone cookout at Black Hawk House in there. We left before the heavy rain came down. We want to thank all our sponsors and the van driver for making this day happen. We came with 20 youth and 3 adults. This past couple of weekends, as said, this Sunday we was at the library, Book of Washington Center and a few other places.
 Saturday morning at the community vs the police officer softball game Marinette Field we won 8-6 this is the second annual softball game and I was the winning pitcher I pitched all five innings right before the old age of 62 so I got two
 are balls in a row dollar-like that organized this event had people in the community had lost a loved one to crime we gained special recognition to a tie up and remember that came out we left there with you and I bear for a break from the yes we went back to book Washington to the book a fair we watch 815 destiny before the book affairs we left there with you and you spot and said in the party was in doubt uplifted by we had like to work
 815 perform again once again we want to thank our sponsors and the only downside of this weekend we do not have enough transportation to take all the people that wanted to go with us this weekend coming up next month is working on taking 60 to 80 people to magic waters this year would be our fourth year going thanks to the project and our sponsors john three okay because i just finished
 We are having a back-to-school cookout at North Main Manor on the 17th, and we're going to be blocking off a portion of North Main Manor, and we're looking for help for back-to-school supplies from different organizations to help us. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Petitions and communications? I see nothing from Plain Development. The Honorable Chiarelli, closing regs chairman. Thank you.
 The first item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding the upcoming special event picnic and plane air. And the second item is a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 1220 Comanche Drive pursuant to the annexation agreement. Both those items will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, sir. Alderman Hervey, excuse me.
 on behalf of the finance and personnel committee there's a memorandum from angela hammer city attorney regarding the proposed intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the rockford public school district 205 for an exchange of services to support the rockford 50 program in this matter we will be referred to the finance and personnel committee is that the only one you have there that is i see one here regarding the private tree removal program
 That's fine. There's number one that wasn't highlighted and I was told not to read it, but I'll read it now since it's been brought to my attention. Number one is the memorandum from Mark Stockman, Director of Public Works, regarding the establishment of private tree removal loan program. And this matter will also be referred to the Finance Committee. Thank you. Is Christine Hiltrup here? Would you come forward? Is this open?
 This lady here represents the League of Women Voters. We're all familiar with what they do throughout our country and throughout our city. And there's a proclamation for you this evening. I'd like to read it. It says, we're the League of Women Voters.
 is a non-partisan political organization encouraging informed and active participation in government and whereas the rockford league of women voters was founded april 22nd 1922 two years after the state organization had been established and whereas for 95 years the league has worked to promote democracy and educate the public on voting rights
 provide candidate information, and eliminate important issues for the day, whereas in 1970,
 The League worked to establish power or protect our water and environmental resources and to address the issue of groundwater protection. And whereas in 1980, the League sponsored study of environmental issues that led to a voice in the Biron nuclear plant licensing, thereby improving plant safety. And whereas the current League of Women Voters of Greater Rockford continue to serve the community by influencing public policy through education and advocacy.
 And so it's with great pride to you, Christine, the Mayor has proclaimed the League of Women Voters of Greater Rockford Day, and he's witnessed and signed it here on the 24th day of July 19, excuse me, 2017. Would you care to speak? Please do. I would just like to thank everyone for this proclamation on behalf of the League of Women Voters of Greater Rockford. Thank you so much.
 New Committee Reports. Closing Rates. Roman Numero 5, New Committee Reports. B1.
 For everybody to know, I'm holding that item out this evening. Number two is the committee recommends approval of the plat number one of ZX subdivision, the Amarok Hotel and Convention Center. Number three is the committee recommends approving the city-initiated annexation of 4316 Wilshire Avenue. And number four is the committee recommends approval of the proposed ordinance to authorize the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages.
 Liquors and the buildings owned and operated by the Rockford Public Library. I'm also holding that item out this evening So be items number two and three your honor items number two and three under 5b any comments from the alderman No, all right. Do we need a roll call vote on this? Court we please call the roll No one to I in the rest no one to I in the rest Item number two
 Thank you, sir. Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Sorry. Madam Clerk, may I change my vote on number two to no? Thank you. Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Yes. The committee recommends approval of vouchers this week in the amount of $4,600,000
 $631,511.21 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee during its meeting held on July 17th, 2017. Okay, you've heard the amount of voucher to be approved. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Do we need a roll call on this as well? No. All opposed, same sign? Thank you. Calls now for officers' reports from the alderman. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Just one item. The Fifth Ward will have its monthly meeting this Thursday, 6 o'clock p.m. That's going to be at the Montague Branch Library. All right. Thank you so much. Alderman, Kwanosis, please. The aldermen here in the city of Rockford to the All Girls National Baseball Tournament will be held this week starting Thursday the 27th. It will be at Byers Stadium and
 a sports corps North Maine we have a participants coming from all over the United States and Canada I'd be hardball ages 18 I 18 so if you only you know we want me all out there on I was there are going to be a kind of a ceremony that the older ceremony at six o'clock the 26th six o'clock is that at the stadium at the state at the stadium itself right okay on early
 Second piece to that, the organization that's sponsoring this and bringing this here is partly in celebration of, help me if I get it wrong, the All-American Girls Baseball League. This is the backdrop for the movie A League of Their Own. Oh, yes. And the Rockford Peaches and the Wisconsin teams during the war when women's baseball teams basically had this great,
 support from communities across the country. And I know that some of the former Rockford Peaches will be there. I think Helen Waddell, I hope I pronounced that right, is going to be there and some of the others. So I do hope people can come out. And just a quick
 kudos to the Friends of Bayer. This is a relatively small group of people who have done a yeoman's job to rebuild that park. They've uncovered some of the old cinder. I actually ran track meets on that cinder track. Yes, it was 50-some years ago, but I did it anyway.
 And they are restoring it to the original look and feel. Just tremendous work. And I want to thank the people who went out this weekend. All I did was take them some water, but they were laying the electric lines. And as the machine dug it, somebody had to come behind it and fill it in. So thanks to the volunteers who got out there and did that. Thanks for that report. Yes, Alderman Tillingbrook. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to say thank you.
 to public works. Mark Stockman and all your crew. And ComEd, the Churchill's Grove neighborhood, especially out of the Third Ward, really got whacked on starting Thursday morning, especially. Major power surge. Appliances,
 A lot of things got damaged due to that, but it was a major power surge. A lot of us didn't have power for all of Thursday into Friday morning, and then when we got power, then the major storm came through on Friday afternoon at 3, and that's when a lot of the trees came down, along with more power lines and such. So I've been at work, hard at work, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. I thank ComEd for
 Also, bringing out ice and water and buses as cooling centers. There was one out here Saturday morning I checked out. So they've done a great job along with ECOC, hand-in-hand with Public Works, Mark, the
 Director, you guys really did a bang-up job, so thank you very much. The people of the Third Ward really appreciate it, and I've heard nothing but good from the residents, so thank you. Thank you for that report. All the best.
 Well, specifically to Mark Stockman, I had a resident or a constituent that for years she's stayed in this house and she said no one from the city has ever given her the time of day, no previous alderman, no one from public works or anything. But they have pictures for years of just bad flooding and she was in tears after Mark Stockman came out and showed her that, you know, we do care. So.
 I just want to say that. I appreciate it. I always appreciate it when we say thank you to our staff. So important.
 Yes, Alderman Thompson-Kelley. I too want to thank our Public Works Department for doing an outstanding job, as well as comment. But I would like staff to discuss, we're going to have a lot of trims and limbs and things down throughout the community on private property. So I would like staff to explain to the residents what to do and how to bundle those up for the pickup on their garbage pickup day.
 Thank you. Mr. Tubman? Up to about four inches in diameter, they can cut them up into three foot sections, bundle them up and put them out with their yard waste. Larger items are going to require that they very likely have a friend who can cut it up, help them haul it away and dispose of it properly. Some may even need the services of a tree service to come out and help them dispose of the debris.
 Thank you, because I know there will be questions on that manner. And also today in the mail, there's a letter that was received for our electrical service supplier that's going to be going to our residents in the community. There is a number on there that you call if you have any questions about what third-party server you want for your electrical services. Thank you. Right. Yes. Over the road. That was the one in the mail.
 New York Times this past weekend and his staff, Mitch Leatherby as well has done a bang up job. And also thank you to Mr. Gullrup from ComEd in getting those supplies out to Rockford and making sure that there was ice and water and air conditioned bus here for our residents. So I'm urging citizens, if you still have utilities,
 I've had some people concerns with AT&T to keep calling them and get them to respond to those calls. But our city's done a magnificent job, so. Alderman Shirley. Thank you, Mark, for all your work and your staff's work. Just to follow up question on that, I received a lot of calls about the standing water and the prevalence of mosquitoes. Does the city have a policy of spraying mosquitoes or is there something that we can tell the residents about that?
 We did some minor spraying applications for festivals like on the waterfront downtown. The mosquitoes that are the most problematic, however, are most active between 9 at night and like 2 in the morning.
 And that's, by coincidence, that's when people are still very active moving around, whether it be downtown or possibly even through the neighborhoods. It's pretty much an ineffective way to deal with mosquitoes. We do occasionally, and we still can make applications to mosquitoes.
 waterways or detention areas. It's a larvicide that controls the mosquito before they actually become adults. So if a citizen has an area like that in a detention pond or a stagnant waterway, just give us a call and we will try to address as many of them as we can. Realizing that we are out this week still cleaning up tree debris from all of the city trees that came down during this event.
 Thank you. Thank you. Yes, Alderman Loverman. I just have two things quick. I sent an email today to Mark Stockman and Harry Noble. I had a constituent on the corner of Dawson and Jackson. They were very pleased not only with the work that was done but with the crew that explained to them and really did a public relations statement.
 a magnificent job with public relations connecting with the residents and I think that's an important piece of government work too that, you know, the job isn't, is number one, completed, but then two, explain to the resident so that the, you know, all of our residents feel heard, their complaints or their issues are addressed. And so that was, I think, a really important
 very much going above and beyond the call of duty. The other thing that I just have a little suggestion, on Saturday morning, the city put out on their Facebook page a comment update, which I thought was fantastic. But then I kept, I was at an Army National Guard drill and got slammed with some phone calls. So I felt a little impotent as an elected official being able to give any further updates. So if it's at all possible for
 you know, the Information Office to keep pumping out updates throughout the day, you know, on a day like Saturday, that would be, I think that would be something that our residents would appreciate. Even if there's not really a whole lot of new updates, I think that's incumbent upon the work of government is to keep pumping out information to our residents too. So that's just maybe a small improvement from the storm, but yeah, I'd,
 Magnificent job by staff all around and you know alderman and everybody in managing this storm. Good thought. Thank you very much. Staff take note of that. Suggestion to pass on to the Mayor's office. Yes, Alderman Frost. I feel remiss if I also didn't thank Public Works, the entire department from mark on down, the entire staff.
 that obviously did a great job dealing with a number of constituent calls. You know, when we as aldermen get these calls, people are very frustrated. You know, I had some folks that had not water in their basement, but the sewage came into their homes, and it's not a public works issue, but our staff took the time to explain
 and provide information, at least folks have the idea that we're working hard for them and doing it like it was said in a professional and competent way. So I thank all of our departments, but this weekend I know Public Works went the extra mile to work overtime and get a lot of that done. On a second note, this weekend was the tour to North End, which is not in
 do at the fourth ward, but it's a bicycle event that Zach Rotello from the Olympic has put on I think now for I think seven or eight years and I've done a number of them. It was expanded this year to include over 13 businesses ranging from Al Grace on the north side of North Main all the way down south I guess to the Rathskeller. It was luckily there was some moment of good weather and everyone had a great time in the
 And lo and behold, I did actually see another alderman there on a bicycle. Well, actually, he wasn't on a bicycle. He was inside the beer tent at the Raskaller. But he claimed that he was actually. He did ride a bike and was going to ride a bike later in the day, and that was Alderman Thunberg. So it was a nice event, and everyone, all the citizens of Rockford, really had a great time at the event. So I know there's a name for the entity that puts it on, but I know Zach Rotella worked really hard on it.
 and they did a great job so thank you a rebuttal alderman trumberg i was multitasking that's great that's great any other officers reports all right let's move on to uh most of the resolutions a planning development committee alderman rose
 Planning and Development Committee has a resolution approving the scheduling of a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with approval of a redevelopment plan and project for the designation of the Amarok Hotel Redevelopment Project Area. So you've heard that. Any discussion on that resolution? Do these require votes or can we just straight on vote for them? Roll call. Clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Aye. This is for the public hearing.
 No. Aye. Aye. No. All right. On to Codes and Regulations Committee. Alderman Torelli. I have six items this evening. The first item is IDOT land transfer for underground utility relocation. Second item is the Midtown Ethnic Parade and Festival. The third item is off the waterfront block party.
 Greenwich Village Art Fair. And the fifth item is the head of the Rock Regatta. And the sixth item, I am holding that item until later this evening after a closed session, Your Honor. So I place those items up for passage. All right, any questions on one through five before we vote? Does it need a roll call? Clerk, please call the roll. So moved. Aye. Aye. Cross. No one voted on that. Yes, they did. Until later this evening. No one? One aye. The rest?
 Do you want to add anything? Aye. Number three, number six. Thank you very much. Thank you. Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. First is an award of bid for the Spring Creek Road and resurfacing to Rock Road companies of Janesville, Wisconsin amount of $1,425,532.25. The funding source is sales tax.
 The second one is an award of bid for the 2017 Fast Track Demolition Package No. 1 to Northern Only Service, the amount of $43,640 for the demolition of 1007 North Sunset Avenue and some other properties as well. Also to N-TRAC in the amount of $27,857.
 for the demolition of several properties as well, and to JD Mark in the amount of $26,515 for the demolition of some properties. The funding source is the sanitation funds. The third item is an award of bid for the demolition program package number two to JD Mark of Rockford in the amount of $63,892 for demolition of specific properties. The funding source is the blight reduction program funds.
 Next is the award of non-competitive contract for the Coleman Village Remedial Action Plan and Engineered Barrier Plans and Specifications to Fair Graham of Rockford. The remedial action plan proposal is $15,000 and the engineered barrier plans and specifications proposal fee is $110,000 for a total amount of $125,000.
 The funding source is the U.S. EPA revolving loan funds. Next, number five is an award of non-competitive contract for workers' compensation attorney services to Hyle Royster Goldkern Allen of Rockville, Illinois for a rate of $165 per hour.
 The duration of the contract is three years with two single year renewals. The funding source is the Workers' Compensation Fund. Number six is an engineering agreement for the Spring Creek resurfacing to Willett Hoffman and Associates in the amount of $57,090.02, the funding source is sales tax. Number seven is a resolution for the improvement under the Illinois Highway Code requires council authorization for the use of the motor tax.
 funds for the North Alpine box cover in the amount of $800,000. Number 8 is a resolution for the application to the United States Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration, EDA, to assist with the cost for site improvements to support the renovation of Barbara Coleman's site under the Economic Adjustments Assistance Program. I place these 8 items up for passage.
 Right there's a time to let up for passage any discussion on any items. Yes, Alderman Irving's the Spring Creek Road, how long ago was that? research read Are you asking about Number one the resurfacing of Spring Creek Road. Yes in your question How long ago was that done? Like how often are we doing that? Oh, I
 Mr. Stockton that question was brought up last week in committee and the last time the road was resurfaced approximately 18 years ago about 18 How's it any follow-up question? Okay, any other discussion if not clerk before the roll Thank you very much under Roman numeral 8 B. Allamanturelli I
 Your Honor, I've got two items. The first is an ordinance approving the vacation of Wyman Street and Green Street in accordance with Platte No. 1 of the ZOAC subdivision, the Amarok Hotel and Convention Center. And the second is an ordinance approving the city-initiated annexation of 4316 Wilshire Avenue. The third item is being held out, Your Honor. All right. So we have two items under 8B. Any discussion? No.
 Under one or two clerk, please call the roll. All right. No, no one. I am too. No one. One. I am too. Thank you very much. I'm a traveling. Do you have something?
 Yes, Your Honor. I'm under the nine? Yes. This evening, I'd like to move to go into closed session to discuss pending and threatening litigation matters. Okay. There's a motion to go into closed session. Aye. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Same sign. Roll call. Really? Okay. Aye. Aye. Aye.