I have with me Ward, Alderman Karen Hillage, who served as mayor pro tem this evening. Second. Second, I think. All those in favor say aye. Opposed? We'll jump. Thank you for your confidence. We start out with the invocation and the pledge of allegiance. Chaplain Herbert Johnson. It remind us of the people whom we are called to serve. We pray that you will bless the presiding officer, our mayor, city council, fire and police department,
 Rockford School District and all of the citizens that make up this great city. In Jesus' name we pray, amen. Amen. And tonight, we have, we sadly acknowledge the passing of Mayor Michael McElroy of Decatur, Illinois. Mayor McElroy passed away on Friday, July 17th, and at this time, we offer a moment of silence in his memory, if we could have a moment of silence for Michael McElroy. We can have a roll call, please.
 Thurkey? Here. McNamara? Here. Frost? Here. Kirby? Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Here. Beach? Elliott? Beck? Shirely? Ten present, Your Honor. Acceptance of the journal, the previous meeting's proceedings. Move and second in favor of the journal, say aye. We have no public hearings tonight. We have no, we do have, we always have public participation, so we'll start with that. First up is Roland Poska. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees. I'm a member of the Board
 we need to get everyone in the world to do the impossible. Daylight saving time at noon, July 4th. Look up to share a moment of interdependence with the world. An hour later, to share a moment of interdependence with the world. Look up at noon, July 4th, God's time. 2016, July 4th.
 Save the date and times. Between the two noons, join the second economic conference hosted by Fishy Wales. They say bad news sells newspapers. I say great news can save newspapers. Do something great. Do the impossibles and save the newspapers. And keep doing it. The impossibles
 Thank you. Next we have Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 27th chapter, the 10th verse, the psalmist says, Though my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me. What I want to speak about tonight, Superman. My favorite TV program while I was growing up was Superman. Clark Kent was a bumbling idiot. Lois Lane couldn't stand him. Jimmy Olsen didn't respect him. He was always messing up.
 But Lord have mercy, don't let him find a telephone booth. The criminals of Metropolis would be wrecking havoc on the city and someone would ask, where is Superman? I would be sitting on the floor with my brother. Clyde Kim would take off his glasses and unhook his tie.
 I would look at my brother and say, there he go. My man would go inside a telephone booth or closet or something and come back out with a red and blue jumpsuit on. Then my man would go streaking across the sky, arrive on the scene and change everything. He would catch bullets with his bare hands, bend gun barrels and toss crooks around.
 because who he really was came out and he stopped hiding it under his suit. It's time for pastors in Rockford to take a trip to God's telephone booth. We need to take off our old suits, our timid Clark Kent way of thinking, living and talking, and put on our spiritual jumpsuit so we can step back out into the world in which we live and stop the killing, violence, and crime in Rockford
 come faster than speed and singing, more powerful than public unrighteous, able to leap even a single bound. May God help you to be his man or woman and stand up for him. Ask him right now to prepare you to represent him today to stop the killing, the violence and crime in Rockford and be like Superman. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Rabbi Youssef. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good evening, all the men, all the women, and our citizens of Rockford and Illinois.
 Proverbs 17, verses 27 and 28 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. First is the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure that you pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something important to say.
 Just the other day I was asked, what is black on black crime? And where did it start from? So I got very quiet and I asked myself that same question. Guess what? I decided to go to my second home, the library, and do my homework. I spent over five hours studying what is black on black crime. Why the phrase black on black crime suggests and inherit criminality that black on black crime as specific phenomenon isn't a thing. Yes, the vast majority
 of crime against African Americans are committed by other African Americans, and yes, black men face a higher murder rate than any other group in the country. But those facts are easily explained by the residential, segregation, and property residency peoples commit crime against those closest to them, like living in housing areas.
 and the particular circumstances of many black communities which are marred by concentration of poverty and non-existent economic opportunity. What's the big deal, you might ask? Why can't we use black-on-black crime as a shorthand for those particular problems? The answer is difficult.
 violent crime is a hyper-segregated neighborhood. It doesn't happen because the residents are black. Their race isn't incidental. The whole reason these neighborhoods exist is racial policy by the political lawmakers. But there is nothing about blackness that makes violence more likely. Focus on the black part of the equation. Take this violence, the violence
 out of the realm of policy and into the world of cultural ill. Black on black crime describes the pathological and social abnormality that can be fixed by political action. Remember, fixed by political action. Those people are just that way. As such, we should lead them to their device and defend ourselves as necessary. That's a racist statement invented by the
 certain members in the FBI and a few ditto leaders like they say, Alan Schaub, they ignore the problems of the black people's killing or robbing and non-existence. So now let's go, let's get back to Monday night. So why do you think I bring this up? Just this past weekend we had a hard time finding and getting transportation for our youth and adults.
 We went to the Book of Washington Fest. We had a March Against Violence that we wasn't able to attend because we didn't have transportation. We was at Leavens Lake. And now I'm just going to finish off by saying this weekend our youth was in the Olympic competition. And they, Fairgrounds kids and the Ellis Heights kids was running. They took first and second place. They won Saturday. They won the day. Sunday they was at Leavens Lake.
 and we took 38 kids there and the kids was like, John, we want to dance, we want to get in the competition. The other kids was like, y'all ain't practiced, y'all can't dance. Our kids, seven of our kids got from fairgrounds, got into the competition, took second place and now they're going to be in the finals for the $15,000 contest. We looking at
 Coming up tomorrow at the at the Henry Adams School, we're having a town hall meeting with the superintendent of school where the citizens will have an opportunity to talk to the superintendent of school. That's very important. Coming up this Thursday,
 we have a meeting at the salvation army because we have did a survey after 80 people the kids that was cheering and up uh 50 of them did the survey so we're taking the next step into running programs at the salvation army there's a lot of things out here for i used to do but they don't have the opportunity because we don't have the transportation to get there from point a to point b and we got to cut through the red tape i was informed that the
 uh... the school bus system is getting rid of some of the old school buses we need to find a way that we should be able to utilize some of these buses to utilize to transportate our kids from point A to point B when I took thirty eight kids to church Sunday I had thirty more that wanted to go but we had no room no transportation to move them so that brought tears inside me so I'm leaving it in the Lord's hands so we can find a way to
 to transport our kids, to take them out the negative environment and show them something positive. Thank you for letting me speak. Thank you, Mr. Ramley. Okay, petitions and communications? I'm sorry, we have one more speaker, Mark Beeman. Is Mark Beeman here to speak? Alright, then we'll move on to petitions and communications. Alderman Thompson-Kelly?
 I have a memorandum here for myself to the council members. Please submit to my attention with a copy of the legislative. We're going to have a meeting for Monday, July 27th at 5 p.m. in conference room B. So if there's any items you wish placed on that agenda, please contact myself and a copy to the legal department. Greatly appreciate it. Thank you.
 further petitions and communications. We have three items. The first is a memorandum from Jovita Donahue, Economic Development Administrator regarding an application to request Section 108 Loan Guarantee from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. This will be referred to Planning and Development. We have a memorandum from La Kefara Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney.
 regarding an amendment to the 2014 development agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement Incorporated. This will be referred to Planning and Development. We have a memorandum from Seth Sommer, the building code official, in charge of construction development services, with the updated list for demolition across the city. These three will be referred to Planning and Development. Are there petitions on which rally?
 I have the July traffic commission minutes I have the liquor and tobacco advisory board in those only Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on July 21st and the minutes from that meeting for consideration of the codes and regulations committee meeting on July 27th
 I have a memorandum from Kelly notes assistant operations manager for seven upcoming special events the black family reunion the rockford Lithuanian club car show St. Peter's school summer family picnic American Legion post twelve oh seven end of summer luau screw city beer fast green which village art fair and say it's constant teen and Helen Greek fast
 I also have a memorandum from Mark Rose, the land acquisition officer, regarding the proposed alley vacation adjacent to 709 Dickerman Street, and all those items will be referred to the Codes and Regulations Committee. Thank you. I have a memorandum from Matt Vittner, city engineer, regarding the construction agreement with the Illinois Railway for improvements to the airport drive railroad crossing, and I refer that to finance and personnel. I'm sorry, Alderman Beach.
 back up to the planning development committee report do we have a list of houses that are going to be on a list to be demolished or will that be passed out to us let's ask staff yeah they'll be passed out to you I have a current, I have a list right with me if you want no I was just wondering because it wasn't here I wonder if they're going to get it out to us or if we already have it talk to Ignoni
 Thank you, Your Honor. The memo prepared by Seth includes the latest rankings for consideration by Planning and Development City Council. I'll be happy to forward that to the full council electronically. Additionally, Seth will be distributing an update of the residential demolition program, not only for 2015 but 2014. That will be coming out, if not tomorrow, on Wednesday to put everything in perspective. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am.
 Any further petitions or communications before we move on? We do not have any proclamations tonight, so we'll go on to committee reports. Yes. Alderman Chiarelli. Your Honor, the first committee report I have is a committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of various vacant lots for a minimum bid of $1. The bidder must participate in the Mode to Own program, preference to the adjoining property owner. The legal department shall prepare the appropriate ordinances.
 ordinance number two is a committee recommends proposed sale of vacant lot at 308 South Central Avenue for a minimum bid of $11,000 that includes advertising the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance your honor I move to suspend the rules on those two items your honor I place those two items up for passage
 our own program and they'll make a lot of 308 South Center of those two things. I'm sorry, 308 South Center was demolished as part of the RCI agreement, Rockford Corridor Improvement. That development agreement was just referred by Alderman Durkee to committee for amendment.
 part of that amendment will affect this property. So it asks that this lay over so that that amendment can catch up. And I apologize. It should have been cribbed and it was my oversight. So if number two could lay over, I'd appreciate it. And then when the RCI initiative development agreement is amended, we'll include that in it. Your Honor, I will hold out item number two, the sale of a vacant lot at 308 South Central Avenue. Further discussion on any of these? One item.
 No further discussion. This is a committee report, so a voice vote is adequate for the committee report on this item. Then we'll take a voice vote on Roman . Aye. Thank you. Committee reports. Thank you, Your Honor. I have Roman numeral 4C, items 1 through 6.
 They are the vouchers and the amount of item one is the voucher amount of 11,917,186.67. Item two is approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the state of Illinois for parking at 302 South Main parking lot. And three is the approval of the intergovernmental agreement amendment with Illinois Route 2 South Main Street with Rock River Water Reclamation District.
 I'm sorry, that's for the additional sanitary sewer between South Main Street and Cedar Street and Chestnut Street. Item 4 is the lien waiver request at 18XX Montague Street to CCS in the amount of $345.50. Item 5 is the reduction of fine for 1323 Broadway to $1,000.00.
 Item 6 is the approval of the fine reduction request for 4112 Amherst Lane to $500. And I place those six items up for passage. I'm sorry, I asked for suspension rules on those items. Second. Seconded to suspend the room at Rule 4C, Items 1 through 6, all in favor of suspending the rules, say aye. Rules have been suspended. Thank you. Then I would place them up for passage. Okay. Up for passage.
 in the room in room 4, CE 136 is their discussion. Alderman Kirby. Just with regard to 18XX Montague Street to CCS, are there any restrictions or requirements on what goes on the lots? I'm sorry, on this particular property, once we waive, I'm assuming that has a house still attached? I couldn't recall from last week if it was a house or if it was a vacant lot.
 any development or any type of thing. Nobody can address that. Thank you. This is a vacant piece of property. There is no structure on the property, and there's no conditions set forth in regards to what the future use of the property is. Discussion? We have voice vote. No, we need roll call. No, on number four. Aye on the remainder. Aye. Now on officers' reports. The chair is now.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I had a conversation with our Director Trammels regarding their search for a website developer and he wanted me to offer the opportunity for any alderman who would like to participate in the final.
 They've narrowed it down to at least three different potential companies and would welcome the opportunity for any alderman who wanted to be a part of that process. As they go down to the final selection of their recommendation, I wanted to just put that out there. So if anybody is interested, please contact Director Trammels. Thanks. MS. Further officers' reports? Alderman Tosca-Colley. MS. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to announce that Wednesday, the first meeting of the Board of Trustees,
 Tuesday night at 6.30. Dr. Jarrett from District 205 will be at West Gateway meeting at 6.30 p.m. That's 200 North Johnston at Henrietta School, if anyone is interested. And hopefully he'll share with us the boundaries and the lines of the new district for the new school year. I also would like to...
 share a conversation that I had with a landlord in the community.
 In going through the neighborhood and getting the complaints that I did all weekend There was a piece of property that the grass wasn't cut in overgrowth and in disrepair and They had a for rent sign So I called the landlord and his response to me and I asked him would he please take care of the maintenance on the property? His response to me was why should I?
 The city is, I just call the city, have them to cut it, and I'll wait long enough, and they'll forgive the liens, and I'll get the property back. So that was kind of disheartening, all the things that we've come up with to try to get rid of abandoned property and neglected property for a landlord to say, you know, this is his next move is to allow us to cut the grass, and he'll just wait and come next.
 community development for to forgive the liens. So I just want to caution us when we're forgiving all these liens and the circumstances that we're forgiving these liens to be careful because we are setting and opening the door wide open for individuals to take a lien, each of us. So I would greatly appreciate the community department being aware. We do have individuals in the community that have such an attitude.
 I also received several phone calls again this weekend for the disturbance on North Horseman and Auburn Street. I really would appreciate the chief giving me an update on what is taking place because the complaints have been for seven months, and they're not getting any better. They're just getting worse. And I understand someone was shot there, and also Animal Clinic was shot, fired, went in their establishment as well.
 Chief, do you want to address that? Sure. We had two individuals that had non-life-threatening injuries shot in the foot. We had 25 shell casings that were recovered. Actually, the next day, the animal clinic building was shot at. We're working the case with detectives. We can't treat the location like we can. Okay.
 with bar owners because there's some more things that we can do and certainly our hands are tied a little bit but we've worked with the owner in the past and when we can make arrests we certainly will. Have any of these been turned into legal for them to start processing? I know we had an initial conversation in January, the location has not been as
 busy the last 30 days or 45 days as it was so busy Saturday evening. It's an after-hours bar location where many individuals after 2 in the morning have a tendency to frequent that location. It takes a lot of resources, police resources, but we'll do everything we can to work with the owner to get him into compliance so we don't have this happen again this weekend.
 Thank you. I appreciate that because the calls that I'm getting is a great deal. And they don't know what's happening, and they are afraid. I have residents that are afraid to sleep in their beds. They sleep on the floor because of every weekend for the past seven months this has been taking place. So I like to caution legal to take action.
 to you I look at what it is we can do to not allow this type of disrupting a whole community and legally and that this business owner in this community and eight police and all the efforts that they're doing and could you follow up with me please thank you thank you I'll come back well I just want to follow up on our cuts and Kelly some
 concern about people who kind of just sit back and let the city cut their grass. And I actually did have somebody come or mention to me that it's cheaper for them to let the city do it because typically with the city, by the time they can get around to it, they
 probably only mows it like three times a year, you know, where if they were gonna pay somebody to come out and mow their lawn, you know, every other week or whatever, that it ends up being more expensive. So I'm wondering if it's not time for us to take a look at what we charge people. And I don't know if our hands are somewhat tied
 by that, by the state, by not having home rule or things like that. But it may be a time for us to look and see if we can jack up the price because if it's cheaper for someone to have us mow it than to get a private person to mow it, there's something wrong with that picture. So I just would ask staff to check into that and let us know. Mr. Cagnotti nodded his head.
 Your Honor, thank you. We'd be happy to review that information and provide it back to the council as a whole. You know, our current fee structure
 An ordinance allows us to one, recapture a direct out of pocket cost associated with the mowing which goes out the bid. But in addition to that, we have an administrative fee that's also included as part of the overall charges once we have the mowed property. So we'll assess that as it relates to our existing time, sort of point out some of the concerns that may be taking place with the program and areas for improvement that we
 that back to the council as a whole. If that's something you want preferred to go as a branch, you'd have to do it that way as well. Just one more follow-up please. Along with that, I wonder if it's not time for us to reevaluate the length that we allow the grass to grow to. I remember years ago, out of Encana's, I believe they used maybe a 10-foot long grass.
 There used to be 12 or something like that. The mechanics had us move it down to, I think, 10 or 9. So, you know, I think everybody in this room knows by the time grass gets to 9 to 10 inches, I mean, by the time it gets mowed, it's going to be 13 or 14. So maybe we need to look at moving that down to like 6 or 7 or I don't know.
 Just to confirm those statements, Alderman, you are correct. It previously was 12 inches in length created a violation. It was amended down to 10. At the time that there was a discussion by the committee, they were debating 8 inches or 10 inches and decided to go with 10 inches. I think it's worth looking at whether 8 inches is appropriate or not. Typically, in our experience, if it's getting up to 8 inches, it's likely going to go to 10 or beyond. So I think it's worth evaluating it.
 Thank you. Further officers' reports...
 Thank you. I just wanted to say thank you to staff for putting together the motto and flyer as well as all the amount of time that they've put into it. I also want to thank the police department. On Sunday I was given a phone call from a constituent who lives in my ward but happened to be with someone in a different ward and stated that they ordered a number of goods offline and two of them came. The store that they ordered them from said that all items had been delivered.
 They gave me a call. I called Lieutenant Red and within hours the person who had posted them on Craigslist was arrested. So it was a great outcome and the constituent was very happy so thank you to the police department. Anita Harvey. Thank you. I wanted to acknowledge and thank both police and fire for their participation in the 99th
 Well, in Booker Fest this weekend, it was great. The police department had, I guess they were some of the explorers, and people really loved the interaction. They were, I didn't even see them for a while. They were all out in the group. The fire department was there with the Humvee, and a number of people went over.
 asking about it, so I thought that was great. This is Booker's 99th year and next year will be Booker Washington Center's 100th year in Rockford. They've been through some struggles. It wasn't exactly smooth participating with police and fire, so I wanted to thank them for their patience, too. Second, I wanted to respond to the issue with the grass ordinance. I wanted to ask that we take it even a step further and, you know,
 have both the legal department and our community services review
 all of our quality of life ordinances and look not at what we do but what we can do. Instead of attaching liens, can we attach fines for some of this behavior and actually reduce those to a judgment? And I spent a long time with Director Hayes this afternoon on the phone about this and actually go after people. I think Rockford's getting a reputation where it's easy to be abusive.
 And I think we have not just landlords, but even property owners, occupied property owners that will put junk and not take care of their homes because they feel that we have no enforcement ability. And maybe it's time to take a look at not just what we charge, but how we actually go about collecting it.
 I also don't want us, and I know we just voted to waive these liens, and maybe that was because CCS is taking over the property. I think it's a bad policy to start waiving liens when taxpayers had to pay for something. I think it's just teaching property owners, as Alderman Thompson-Kelley said, why bother with it? If I don't want the property anymore, just let it go to waste and let the city take care
 it. And I'm hoping when we look at increasing the fines or the fees for mowing that we can make a distinction between vacant, unoccupied, not vacant, but unoccupied properties and occupied properties. I don't want to punish the homeowner who's sick and maybe lets their grass get a little bit too long versus the person who simply isn't going to maintain the lawn. So thank you.
 Further officers report to Alderman Beach. Thank you, ma'am. Along that same line, are these charges eligible to be collected through the state tax like others? Thank you, Your Honor. With the state program, if we are choosing to put a lien on a property with a fine, then they will not take those as collections. For some of the mowing fines, we are putting those on water bills.
 on the collecting and that fashion so that's one methodology that we're using what problem yes thank you thank you sir I I just didn't want to follow along with my own her people senior that I think we need to look at restructuring how we assess the charge of how we're going to collect it and organized in such a way that we can get it back through either the water bill or office people through the state and I'll
 I think it's maybe time to review it also. I think comments made to that are good. Thank you. Alderman Thompson, Kelly. You said some water bills. Are we not doing this across the board to collect some of these fines that we have? Thank you. No, I mean, if there are fines to be put on a bill, then that is being done.
 I can verify what we collected last year on those items. When I said some water bills, I meant not everybody has a fine to be collected. Okay, thank you. Alderman Harvey, just a request. When we have our August 31st, fifth Monday meeting, could we maybe get a profile of what statutorily we are permitted to do versus what our current ordinance is
 allow us to do and see where that disconnect is. I know you can't attach just everything to a water bill, not as easy as it sounds, but I'd like to know what enforcement action, because we're not home rule, that's one thing, but what are we permitted to do and then to what extent do our ordinances reflect using that authority for property standards and
 community pride issues. So that, I don't know, I just talk to so many people who just feel victimized, especially by the tall grass. They're good people, they take care of their lawns, and by the time our folks are getting around to mow it now, it's a hay field. You know, I had one that they cut, and I told Mr. Hayes today, the grass was so long,
 And when they mow it, they just mow it. They don't rake it. It was so long that I could not walk the dog along the sidewalk. I mean, literally, your feet and your clothes are just getting covered in it. That's no way for people to have to live. So I'd like to get that in time for our fifth Friday and ask that that be an agenda item. Staff, is that? I'm sorry, fifth Friday. Sounds like a bar date or something. Fifth Monday. We have had an inordinate.
 rain this season so tall grass is a problem. Alderman Beach? I would thank you ma'am. I was just wondering for those that are attached to the water bill, is it possible that a resident would pay the water bill and not pay the mowing and have the water shut off for non-payment of the mowing when they pay for the water bill? How's that handled?
 thank you that's not a situation that we see quite very often but I believe in some instances we've actually put people on a shut off list for water when those bills have not been paid but that's something that I would like to verify and get back to the city council on further officers reports hearing none we will move on to unfinished business my mic is still
 Okay, Alderman McNamara. Up for passage or vote, reappointment to the Traffic Commission, voice vote on this discussion? Okay, Alderman McNamara. I just have a quick question. I'm sorry I didn't see it earlier, but sometimes it hasn't been included. I guess specifically about this gentleman, how long has he served on the Traffic Commission? And then in the future for all applicants or appointees, could we find out how long they've been on some of these committees?
 the answer to how long he's been on the commission. Director Hanselman? I can get an answer for you, Alderman. I don't know how long he's been on there. And this is a reappointment, and so if we were to, if there was some concern about wanting to know more about reappointing them, it wouldn't hurt us to lay it over, because they're already serving, so it's not like there's an open seat that's needing to be filled. Just wanted to put that out there.
 If the council is happy to approve this tonight, we can do that. Second. There is a motion and a second to lay this over. All in favor say aye. I think it might be automatic. The appointment will be laid over. I'm done with that one. Motions and resolutions? Alderman Chiarelli. I have a motion and a second. I have a motion and a second. I have a motion and a second. I have a second. I have a second. I have a second.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a committee recommends approval for a special event permit and an SP permit for consumption of liquor on public property for the Olympic Tavern for the Tour du Nord End event scheduled for Saturday, August 1st from noon to 5 at 2327 North Main Street. And second, the committee recommends approval for the Midtown District Ethnic Parade and Festival scheduled for Sunday, August 30th
 12 to 6 p.m. the parade steps off at 1 p.m. at West State and Wyman ending at 500 7th Street where the festival will be head held place those two items for up for passage for passage and all seven the numbers one and two any discussion hearing no discussion all in favor say aye aye opposed motions passed thank you for their motions and resolutions
 I'll take back. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Room 8, Item C, the first item is approval of the award of the bid for citywide crack ceiling to complete asphalt service company for the cost of $80,000. Next is demolition package for North Main Street, Pack and Seat, N-Trek Group for $102,370.80.
 Next is the North Main Street Demolition Package D to M-TRAC Group for their bid of $71,906.40.
 Next is the approval of the award of bid for 1322 10th Street demolition to N-Track Group for their bid of $23,169.30. Next is the East 8th Street streetscape to landmark contractors for their bid of $183,064.50.
 Item six, the award of the bid for former Lord and Eclipse and Depot remediation project to environmental contractors for their bid of $413,264.70. Next is the award of sole source contract for TASER for the police department to TASER
 For an upfront cost of $29,961.95, year two would be $4,449. Year three, $4,449. Year four, $4,449. And year five, $4,449 for a total of $51,729.95.
 Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for fuel to petroleum trades and Blake Oil in the amount of $1.83.03 per gallon for unleaded and $2.2602 for equipment services diesel and $2.30 basically for on-road diesel.
 Next is the approval of the engineering agreement amendment for the West State streetscape with McClure Engineering for an additional $63,580 for a new not to exceed cost of $130,430.39. Next is the approval of the engineering agreement for Harrison Avenue corridor reconstruction 9th Street to 20th Street with Misman Incorporated for a not to exceed amount of $1,876,302.30.
 Next is the engineering agreement for Bucky Creek and Harmon Park repairs phase three with Ballinger, Locke and Associates in the amount of $66,125.74. Next is the improvement, the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code
 for North Alpine Box Culvert over the Keith Creek North in the amount of $200,000. Item 13 is the approval for the resolution of improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for Harrison Avenue Corridor Reconstruction, 9th Street to 20th Street, in the amount of $4 million.
 Item 14 is approval for the city-state agreement for Harrison Avenue reconstruction from 9th Street to 20th Street between Rockford and Illinois Department of Transportation. The total cost of $23 million with the preliminary estimate of the city's cost of $5,560,000. And then finally, item 15 is the approval of the 2015 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant application for the police department. I place those 15 items up for passage.
 Okay. Move to second at Upper Passage, Roman numeral 8C, numbers 1 through 15 is their discussion. Alderman Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to number 5, what is the funding source? Because the question last week, the initial proposal was to take it from the sidewalk fund. And I thought that was questioned or rejected and we were going to have it amended.
 funding source. I think Mr. Ryan or Director Hanson. We're going to take that out of the 9340 general fund for the CIP which is a $2 million reserve instead of the sidewalk line item that we have in there. I'm sorry, we're taking it from what? There's a reserve in the CIP for $2 million. We're going to take that out of that 9340 line item fund.
 2 million reserve is for this year yes that's what we keep on hand okay further discussions yeah one of the follow-up from all the right yeah well no it's a different item I don't know if anybody else had questions on that one but my next one was item 10 for the engineering fee or engineering agreement to miss me is all of that Rockford or is there a percentage
 state or federal funding, or is all of that coming from Rockford's $5 million, or is it in addition to our $5-plus million contribution?
 It's an 80-20 split and our portion would be about $375,000 out of that $1.8 million. Okay. So the... Can I... I'm sorry. Go ahead. Just to add on to that. So just to clarify what Irving was asking was our total cost is the $5.5 million including all of these different fees. Yes. Okay.
 yeah that will include yeah that it also includes the water that's it when you go to the last item the 5.5 6 million is what our cost would be along with what the water would pay out and then the the other 400,000 from the reclamation district that would be the whole city cost I just wanted to ask can we go back to putting the funding source in these in these reports it used to be on there after each one it would say the funding source is you know CIP or
 whatever it was and somehow when we changed our meeting structure that went away and I don't feel comfortable voting on some of these without knowing the funding source because they're split. You know, we talk about that at committee then when we're voting on it here the funding source disappears. Okay, let's give Jim Ryan a shot at it. The funding source is stipulated in the memos but I think we can provide that so that it would be right on the agenda item.
 You're looking for Alderman Hervey? We're only at council meeting because we've been through the agenda items, but as we're going through, I can't click on each one and then find it and read it. Just have some sort of abbreviation that this is federal fund of federal funding, 80, 20 percent local and the funding source. Or if it's CIP or if it's ward budgets or exactly what it is. Thank you.
 The funding source element is in every resolution which is attached to all the agenda packets. Going forward we'll include the funding source on the agenda if that's what council prefers. The reason that it was excluded from the agenda.
 and or isn't included on the agenda is that so much now is out electronically available to all but we will be happy to put that in the agenda is going forward if that's your direction yeah it would help this just even you know now I'm going through the agenda but as we're going down through it it's not on the agenda item itself you actually have to go into the memo and then read the memo it's it may be in the memos it is in all the resolutions as well
 Thank you, Director Hayes and Alderman Parabate. Any further discussion? Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. On item number two and three, the North Main Street demolition items, what is the plan for the excess property that the state's not utilizing for the road? Are they going to put that out for bid for purchase? Is there an opportunity to recover some of the funds? Yes.
 Jim Ryan? That would depend on parcel by parcel. Alderman, some of these demos, the majority of that will be taken up by the multi-use path as well as the Kerman gutter. But we can get you a report that outlines what are the major surplus property pieces, whether those would be –
 marketed by I dot for a you know an adjoining parcel holder we can kind of take a look at that's a good question and if they are you know excess property does the city get reimbursed if the I dot sells that property or does it all go back to the state if they were purchasing the and I think we're working on behalf of the state under this agreement that would all go back to the state right because we're utilizing their funds correct
 thank you further discussion alderman beach thank you madam mayor uh on a number one and number eight uh number one last week in committee we were trying to at least i was trying to figure out why this year there's no crack ceiling that happened in the neighborhoods you guys understand that this particular committee report only covers the arterials and
 home the collector streets so that's that's just one question I have on that and then I have another comment on number eight track your hands and yes I'm prior we can add any quick ceiling to any residential streets that we want to do that the ultimate would like to do if you have any you know streets that we needed corrects or you'd like to see correct seal we can do that
 so so I'll follow up with that not been there so in the future are you asking the owner than the previous three for crack ceiling I thought that was my understanding that that that those are the conversations they go on when you go through your neighborhood planning periods if you want to do crack ceiling we're we're available to do that well so this crack ceiling then alright I think I think I understand that but it's not how I understand in the past
 I'm not sure I ever said it that way. I'm not going to belabor it tonight. Number eight, how long is this contract for? Director Blatt? Thank you, Your Honor. I believe it's for a three-year period with two one-year extensions.
 The reason why I ask is because as we see the gas prices falling and some experts are telling us that by before the summer is over, it would be down around $2 a gallon retail for unleaded. How does that play into what we have now going forward for three years?
 Director Black. Thank you. It was added to the, it was discussed during the Finance and Personnel Committee. I thought it could have been clearer in the memo. But the pricing for this contract is based on a specific index.
 plus a certain amount. And it's a price that changes on a daily basis. So that price, to your concern, that price is going to change on a market basis. We provided a unit cost there based on what the price was at the time of the bid opening, meaning the index plus
 whatever they bid above that. Okay, so this that we're voting on is maybe not even the right numbers. Right, right, exactly. It was just a way for us to put a basis to award to the lowest bidder. All right, thank you. Any further discussion or comments? Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you. On item number seven, my understanding from last week's meeting is that the tasers are going to be initially given to a select few, I believe some sort of supervisors. My question is what is her schedule to get them out on the street where I would like to see them sooner rather than later? Chief? The earliest we would see those out would be October 1st and they'll be all supervisors
 would be including lieutenants in any of the chief commands structure and also some of our SWAT team members when they're deployed on a SWAT team. So that's the earliest that we can get out based on our fall training and also on the purchasing and then training those officers to utilize that. So that's a pretty aggressive IFIL reverse, it's very aggressive. If we can go out sooner, we certainly do that. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? We have up for passage. We have a question.
 throw a new see I don't want through 15 I guess you have a new wall call yes clerk if you would call the roll and we have Alderman Gatchas joining us now you're here aye aye Beach aye nothing nicer okay the item is passed new business
 I'm sure I mean I'm sure yeah so I don't know how to really under our code and regulation of Roman numeral nine being one the sale of the lots
 The approval by ordinance of sale of vacant lots under the municipal code requires the affirmative vote of 12 members of the city council. There are only 11 present. I'd appreciate it if this matter could lay over and if you'll still call. So moved. Item 2 laid over previously. So moved. Thank you. All right. Moved and seconded that Rm. 9B1 will be laid over. All in favor of laying that over say aye. Aye. Item is laid over. So moved. Item 2 is laid over.
 So we just have finance and personnel? Yes ma'am, correct. Okay. Thank you. Under Rm. 9c. 1 and 2, first is the Intergovernmental Agreement with the State of Illinois Department of Central Management Services for parking at 302 South Main Parking Lot. Item 2 is the Intergovernmental Agreement Amendment for the Illinois Route 2 South Main Street with Rockford.
 Rock River Water Recommendation District to include additional sanitary sewer on South Main Street between Cedar Street and Chestnut Street. And I suspend rules on those two items. Second. Okay, it's been moved and suspended. Moved and seconded to suspend rules on Roman numeral 9, item C1 and 2. All in favor of suspending rules, say aye. Aye. Rules are suspended. And I place those up for passage. Okay, up for passage. Passage.
 Roll number nine, C1 and 2. Any discussion? None. Clerk, would you call the roll, please? I will. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye.
 Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Shirely. Aye. Levinizer. Okay, items passed. Is there any other business to bring before the council? Motion to adjourn. Motion seconded to adjourn. All in favor of adjournment say aye. Aye.