Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford Special City Council meeting for Monday, July 24th, 2023. Clerk, can you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Prenti. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Barrios. Here. Bonnie. Here. Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum. First item up under new committee reports goes to Code and Regulation Committee. Elder Woman Tarina. Here. 6830 Spring Creek Road the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming terminals in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 6830 Spring Creek Road Canna Cafe is the applicant. Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Counsel we've got one item before us. Any discussion on that one item? Alderman Beach. Thank you Your Honor. Is this a new restaurant or are these new termites? terminals there, or is this just adding? I believe it's at a former subway location, and they'll be adding three terminals, not the full five. Alderman Durkee? This is in my ward. It was a subway. It was converted to a different style of cafe. Now they're pursuing a liquor license. It's in a well-trafficked area. area That it comports with the use. I'm not a big fan of gaming things But we've sort of decided that we would do that and it it fits well So any other discussion clerk, will you please call the rules? turkey timber Frost I Tarina I Prunty all right I rose I each I I Are you all right Bailey? Hi, Bonnie. Hi 11 eyes. Thank you next we'll go to motions and resolutions We have nothing under planning and development nor code and regulation committee. So we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. I thank you number one is an award of it for city-wide payment preservation micro surfacing to ac pavement striping amount of 43 670 dollars the project s may be completed by september 15 2023 the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax number two is an award a bid for brook road improvements to end track in the amount of 1 million 408 177.35 cents it is estimated to be completed by october 13 2023 the funding source is cdbg and one percent infrastructure sales tax number three is a word of non-competitive bid for citywide payment preservation pressure pave to donaldson construction in the amount of one hundred and three thousand five hundred dollars the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax Number four is an acceptance of the Illinois Department of Human Services Homeless Prevention Grant Award for additional onset of funds for a total amount of $741,241. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024. Number five is an acceptance of the Illinois Association of Community Action Agencies Department of Human Services Employment Barrier Reduction Pilot Grant In the amount of $171,000, the grant does not require a cost match, and the grant is from July 2023 to June 30, 2024. The funds will be used to provide services according to grant specifications. I place these five matters before you. Thank you. Council, we've got five items. Is there any discussion on those five items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Aye. Coffman grows each barrios Bailey Bonnie 11 eyes thank you next we'll go to new business we have nothing under planning developments we'll go back to coding regulation committee and alderwoman Trina thank you your honor one item an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink class l50 in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 68 30 30 Spring Creek Road thank you Excellent we have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? tumor frost Tarina Prenti Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Bailey Bonnie 11 eyes Excellent we have nothing under finance and personnel so we'll have our most favorite thing alderman frost For negotiation matters We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Okay, we are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Tunberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Bailey. Bonnie. Send present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.