But thank you for the work that you do on behalf of us. And also as a chaplain, I want to commend our fire and police departments. A couple of weeks ago, I saw firefighters from Station 11 coax a man with significant disabilities upstairs after he had gone down in the basement. He's too afraid to walk up. Last night, I was even with the officers that are here, and it seems like every time they go out, they're treating people with dignity and respect, and I'm just so grateful for them. Would you bow your heads and hearts?
 God of our fathers and mothers, we ask your blessing upon this assembly tonight as we gather to work on behalf of all those who have voted for them and even some of those who did not. They have taken upon their shoulders the burden of weighing out heavy options for our community as they have pledged to work together for the good of all the citizens of Rockford.
 Bless them with listening ears, open minds, and wise souls, and help them to know that even when they do not agree on every decision, the decisions of this body knit together in selflessness and service to others and forged together for the good of public is a powerful thing. And bless them in all of their work. Amen. I would like to introduce you to the body of the United States of America, for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible.
 Tonight we have both committee meetings as well as council meetings, and so we're holding council at the beginning tonight, and it will be followed up by two committee meetings. We have five public speakers, and first up is Sharon Nesbitt Davis. Oh, thank you so much. I missed a week, and I forgot. Thank you. First, we will have the clerk please call the roll. Toomberg. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here.
 Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirelli. Ten present, Your Honor. Thank you. We have no journal to approve, so we can move into public speakers, correct? I just don't want to have two mistakes in a row. We have five public speakers. The first will be Sharon Nesbitt Davis. Each public speaker will have three minutes to speak.
 Hi, I'm Sharon Nisbet Davis, Executive Director of the Rockford Area Arts Council. Brought a few friends with me. We just want to thank you. 22 years ago, it was really a suggestion of the then-Mayor Box that the Arts Council start a program like one he had seen in Chicago.
 We started Arts Place, which is an apprenticeship program for teens, and we've been doing it now with the help of the city and Northern Community Foundation and many others, NEA. We're able to do this and give these young people a summer of apprenticeship with a professional artist to create art.
 All year, I work on grants and ways to make this happen, and it is my absolute joy to see it when it does. And we want you to have that opportunity as well. So with permission, they want to distribute...
 Tickets. Is that all right? We would love that. All right. And they don't have to jump over. They were going to do flips over, and they can just walk in. I don't have that flexibility. I know. The flips would be pretty cool. They could actually do that. So they will be distributed. These are complimentary tickets. We have our performances this week at the Nordlof Center Tuesday and Wednesday.
 And then we have the art exhibit on Thursday at Mendelssohn Performing Arts. That exhibit is free, but of course we hope that you will buy the art. The proceeds that are earned from the shows go back to the youth as stipends. They've been getting points all summer for being on time, being productive, cooperative, and they all are.
 I just want you to see the results of what your contribution to the Arts Council does, and it will make you happy, and it will make you really know that we've got a great future. So thank you all. Thank you. Oh, and that's Megan Baylor, the dance artist that does incredible work. Thank her, too. Thank you, Sharon, for all the work that you do. I know how much time and energy you put into the Arts Place and the Arts Council, so thank you.
 Next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Romans, the 12th chapter, the second verse, it says, Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. What I want to speak about tonight, how to use the rapid system to transform rockwood to a winner in one year, six months, 22 days, one hour, 10 minutes, and 15 seconds. The rapid system stands for R, recommend, A, agree, P, perform, I, input, D, decide. A practical system for defining decisions, roles, and accountability.
 person the recommend role leads the process. He also is responsible for obtaining and evaluating the relevant facts and other inputs, then proposing alternate course of action. People who must agree to a recommendation are those who must sign off on it before it can move forward.
 form role in the process involved the individual group who will perform or execute the decision. It's this party's job to implement the decision properly and effectively. The people with input responsibility provide the relevant facts that are the basic of any good decision.
 they also offer their own judgment based on their experience. The deed people decide. The decision maker obviously needs good information, good business judgment, a grasp of the relevant trade-offs and a keen awareness of the organization that will execute through this. Giving the deed to one individual ensures single point accountability. As President Harry Truman said, the buck stops here. If you use the ROCRA system, you could bring in ROCRA for $4,565,250,175.20 in one year. ROCRA is a great organization. It's a great organization.
 You have to be more creative to transform this city and you must break the habit of not trusting each other and holding on to power and not sharing it with others. This habit you have is keeping you from growing. You have fallen victim to no growth paralysis, a broad profound systematic illness worsened by constant denial.
 It represents a serious threat to the health of Rockford. Growth is the oxygen of any business. The key to business life or death. Growing business grows. Strengthening business dies. I also have been wanting to tell Mr. Tim Hanson's wife and Mr. Matt Knott, the fireman, and Mr. Mike Dunn, the director of the airport, this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you.
 The next speaker we have is Mr. John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara and all the citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 27 says, With all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention. Faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the field and in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard and help you get the job done, deserve to share your success.
 Be sure that in all your worrying and planning and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most. I'm piggybacking off of my sister over here. This weekend, Saturday and Sunday, Renewal Turning Point Program and RHA Neighborhood Network, we had chicken and rice lunch with the Muslim Church. And from there, we went to the library.
 Afterwards, seven of our young men from the Fairgrounds housing area got a free haircut at the barber shop on 42nd and Auburn Street Beauty Supply Store. We ended the day by me taking the young man to Burger King for some ice cream, uh, social.
 on a hot summer day. On Sunday we went to the King's Authority Church. After church we stopped at St. Paul Lutheran Church on Kilburn Street, their 27th annual block party fest. We ended the day at Leavens Lake for the last chance to get in the final talent show contest.
 Our young ladies, 815 Diversity, won first place, and so they will be in the finals next week. Oh, yeah. And Brother John Tech won the 50 and over contest the second time this year. One of our youth won a $20 basket from Alpine Bank. Another one of our youth won $80 from Alpine Bank. And seven of our youth won $10 gift cards. We want to thank all of our sponsors that helped to make this weekend happen. Most of all, our van drivers, our personal drivers,
 and they have to take over fifty youth this weekend we are looking at what will provide you for program events that will give them something to do during school after school plus on the weekend we do not have funds but what we do have is faith that the work will be done on tuesday
 We go into the Rockford Department night out, thanks to the chief of police giving me some more flyers because we ran out at Leavens Lake last night. On Wednesday, I'm taking 60 youth to Magic Waters. I want to thank the power district for paying for 60 other youths.
 but I have 67 that are going. Where I need a donation for food and gas. We cannot bring food inside, but we will be eating on the outside of Magic Water. Next is our biggest day of the month. North Main Mountain Renewal Turning Point Program, the RHA Network,
 is our 10th annual back to school book bags and cookout. We are looking forward for the many different organizations, company, social service agencies, city council members, and the community to help us with this event. Thank you for your time and contribution. Thank you, John. Next speaker is Mr. Bjorn Holmberg. Sorry, I don't have any tickets for you. I was speaking about the proposed gas station downtown in which I either own several lots being sold to the owner
 of the proposed gas station. I am the owner of the two remaining buildings on that city block. Whether it is my small request to have pine trees, such as Blue Spruce, along a 10-foot natural barrier along the entirety of the two remaining properties on this city block,
 One of them considered to be the oldest house in Rockford, removing the proposed dumpster far away from the residences of those who either own or work at businesses downtown, or redesigning the storm sewer so it no longer drains into one of the last brownstones in our city. It is my desire and hope that all projects are looked at with an eye towards their aesthetic, utility and legacy. As we are all residents of a community that has the opportunity with many new leaders
 to continue working towards a city that's time has come and can be an example for all cities in Illinois as to what can be accomplished with an earnest vision and plan as to who we are and what we represent. Whether we are long-term residents, businessmen, immigrants, tourists, et cetera, it is incumbent upon us
 um, come on us to have all projects that are done in a manner that's represented to all that we care about each other, even if we disappoint or disagree with one another. Let it be said that each and every vote has been thoroughly thought out and researched as to its effect for us today and for future generations. We are hardly perfect, but at a minimum, we can set a standard for all projects to bring beauty and utility to our city to attract jobs, people, and visitors. There is a community star rating system, um, that I've given information to the mayor,
 That's you, Mike. That may be a help to this process. There are so many projects and people who have helped to bring a vision to Rockford that was not always there. Let this, as well as all other projects, be a part of a vision that will welcome all, as well as retain many who are here now so that they don't leave for, quote, unquote, better opportunities. Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker is Mr. Jim Phelps. Pardon me, Madam Officer.
 Thank you for letting me address the City Council for the third time on bicycle safety and unfortunately illegal use of bicycles on city sidewalks in our business districts. Unfortunately on Wednesday morning at about 820 I watched attorney James Moore get run down by a bicycle as he exited Wired Cafe with a cup of coffee in one hand and two file folders for clients in the other.
 which all hit the ground. Mr. Moore stopped the bicyclists, Mr. Moore is a cyclist as well by the way, and explained to him or started to explain to him that unfortunately you cannot ride your bicycle in these sidewalks in these business districts and immediately was assaulted by the bicyclists.
 I was talking to Brent Hughes, as you know, is a developer down here, and we're just enjoying Cafe Culture at Wired. I leaped off the chair I was outside and ran to Mr. Moore's aide, and when he asked for someone to call the police department, I immediately called 911.
 You know, I am so fed up with this because as a business owner and as a property owner down on 7th Street, which is also a commercial district, this is a common occurrence. And finally, someone of note was hit by a bicycle.
 Now, what do we have to wait for to see this body and this city take action on this problem? Do we have to have a mother pushing a stroller out of a wire cafe and watch her toddler get totaled? Does it have to go that far?
 You know, you spent millions of dollars in the last, let's say, 8 to 12 years improving downtown. You're about to spend tens of millions more to do the same. Do you want this all to go down the drain? Because I'll tell you what I experience as a business owner outside of your community when I'm vending. People ask me where my business is. I'll say Summit Street. And by the way, I grew up in Mean Streets in Milwaukee. Summit Street's not so bad.
 But there are people who will tell me, I will not go to Rockford. Are you at the mall? The mall's not even in Rockford.
 They will not come and visit me, and I have a feeling they're not coming to visit me for one reason, because they tell me. They don't feel safe here. As a pedestrian, as a cyclist, I don't feel safe at times here on some of our public sidewalks. This is a really crucial thing that this body needs to address.
 I mean, if our quality of life is to improve, we need to start doing the little things that have huge impact. Because I'm telling you folks, the moment, I'm repeating myself, the moment you have grandmother coming to see their granddaughter at the sports factory from Naperville or wherever, who's not from here, and gets hit by someone on a mini bike or a gas powered bike, which I've seen on the sidewalks here too.
 or a bicycle and gets injured, that will be the last time you see sports teams come here. So this is a very important issue. I pass the appropriate ordinance to the police and I appreciate to see some action on this. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Phelps and thank you to all the public speakers. Tonight we have one proclamation.
 And I would ask newly appointed Assistant Deputy Chief John Posey, as well as Officer Chris Bakey, to come on up. How are you? How are you?
 Whereas the 33rd Annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford, Illinois, to join forces with thousands of communities across the country in promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts. And whereas the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Park District Police Department are hosting the local National Night Out 2017 at Dahlquist Park,
 The citizens of the 10th Ward play a vital role in assisting the Rockford Police Department through joint crime, drug, and violence prevention efforts in Rockford. And whereas it is essential that all citizens be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and the impact that their participation can have on reducing crime, drugs, and violence in our community. And whereas police community...
 And whereas police community partnerships, neighborhood safety, awareness and cooperation are important themes of National Night Out, now therefore I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, August 1, 2017, National Night Out, which is tomorrow. And Assistant Deputy Chief, would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 I'm not going to say any comments that I know Chief O'Shea would say right now. But... He's behind me, so I feel bad. All right. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. On behalf of this proclamation, we accept it and look forward to tomorrow evening's events. First of all, National Night Out has been held annually since 1984. Looking back here in Rockford, historically trying to find when we first began to participate, I've seen our participation goes back well over 20 years.
 Last year in 2016, 38 million residents across 22,000 communities in the United States participated in National Night Out and is expected to grow again this year. National Night Out allows for positive community interaction. It celebrates both police and community partnerships and allows residents to get out in their community to take a united stance against crime.
 This year's event is going to be held tomorrow evening, August 1st, at Dahlquist Park. For those who aren't familiar, Dahlquist Park is located at the intersection of 29th Street and Oak Grove Lane in the city of Rockford, of course. The best landmarks I can give you is that it's behind the Valley View High Rise, which is located at the intersection of Fairview and State Street. The event begins at 5 and will run until approximately 8 in the evening. Officer Bakey here is with me this evening. He's one of the event coordinators.
 What they have lined up for this evening, or tomorrow evening, is music, a variety of police demonstrations and displays. There will be activities for children. There will be information booths. There will be a large number of giveaways for those that do turn out. And of course, there will be food. For those that can't make it to tomorrow night's event, we encourage them to do things in their own neighborhoods to help continue to foster this program.
 We suggest having neighbors over for a cookout, inviting your children and your children's friends out to host a game night at the house. Getting out and maybe meeting the new neighbors that recently moved in or just going for a walk in your neighborhood to be seen. The important thing is to get out and build relationships and forge lines of communication which truly helps fight crime in our community.
 In closing, Mr. Meyer, thank you. Council, thank you as well for this. And once again, tomorrow night, Dahlquist Park between 5 and 8 p.m. We look forward to seeing everybody out there because a great turnout will definitely keep this program going in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 For those maybe new aldermen or citizens who have not attended a national night out, it really is an enjoyable evening. It's free for all the residents of the city of Rockford. It typically moves about our community but really exemplifies the work that our department has been doing over the past several years to build those relationships with our community. So I'd encourage the aldermen as well as citizens in the audience who are at home watching to attend tomorrow's free event.
 Under motions and resolutions, I believe we have Alderman Durkee set up to do this. Wonderful. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item under Roman numeral 4A under Planning and Development Committee. It's a resolution approving scheduling of a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with the approval of a redevelopment plan and project and the designation of the Amarok Hotel Redevelopment Project Area.
 I place this up for passage.
 approving the scheduling of the public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with approval of the redevelopment plan and project for the designation of the Amrock Hotel Redevelopment project area to reflect that the first meeting of the joint review board will be held at 10 o'clock a.m. On the 18th day of August 2017 and adoption of the resolution as of the 31st day of July 2017
 Is there a second? You don't have to be. Is there a second? Second. Aye. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I pledge the amendment. Second. Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. No. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Cunones. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Eight ayes, two noes. Aye. Aye. That's it. We're not voting on that.
 Officers' reports. I just want to mention two things. This past Sunday, I
 Was pastor Malone's Lewis Malone's 40th anniversary and just want to say a special Thank you to alderman Hervey who I thought did a wonderful job In celebrating pastor Malone and some of the historic Events he's been part of throughout our city Secondly, I want to welcome miss Charisse hunter to City Council chambers and welcome you to the city of Rockford We're excited to have you as our human resources director. So thank you for joining us. I
 And I would open it up to the floor if anyone has any questions or concerns. Alderman Herbert. Thank you, Your Honor. Just very quickly, I wanted to mention very often when we think of our first responders in the city, we obviously think of police and fire first because those are the ones that we mainly see. But I want people to remember that public works and our city staff as a whole really –
 carry on important functions. I think at one point, I did some work for the city of Akron when I was in law school, and more public works people died in trenching accidents than we had in our...
 safety services in, I can't remember what the time period was, because we didn't have good safety standards. So they would get buried in mud and drowning when they were trying to replace water mains or something. So I do want to remember sometimes when we're giving
 wishing for people's safety, that the guys, even at ComEd, who are up there on the wires when we have power outages, and digging those trenches and keeping our water clean and everything else that we depend on to keep the city running. I don't want them to ever think that they're not forgotten and that their health and safety is not put first also. Thank you. Thank you. Other reports? Yes.
 Seeing none, we'll move on. Under ordinances, we have code and regulations. Alderman Shirelli? Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5B1, I would like to hold that item out this evening. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. Excellent. Have a good evening.