Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, July 31st, 2023. This evening, we are fortunate to have Chaplain Ken Henley with us this evening to provide us with our invocation. Let's pray. Father in heaven, as we come before you this evening, we ask, Lord, that you would be here and guide the minds and hearts of those that are on the council. Lord, that they would be able to do the right thing for the city. And most of all, Lord, that they would do the things that are best for the citizens of this city. Lord, we also ask that you would bless our fire and police departments, Lord, as they go about their daily task protecting us. at keeping us from harm and danger, that they may go home from then to their shift and be with their families. So I ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Move the man. To bird frost Terina Rose, I'm sorry Hoffman Rose Beach barrios Bailey nine present. Okay. We have a quorum someone has a cell phone that may be on a ringer or alarm Next do we have a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on June 5th 2023 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion? I No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Next, is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on July 17th, 2023? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Okay. So council and I guess those who are with us this evening, citizens as well as those at home, just want to take one moment. Over the course of the weekend, we've lost... So when it was near and dear to the city of Rockford, specifically to the Rockford Police Department and Dominic Caspero. Dominic Caspero served our community for more than 40 years. With the vast majority of that, more than 35 of those years with the Rockford Police Department, as well as with the county sheriff's office. He served as an interim chief for the city of Rockford from 2005 to 2006. I would say, which I've said a number of times in the last couple of days, but I think is true and something that was always startling but always so wonderful to see, is every single swearing-in ceremony for new officers, promotion ceremony or retirement ceremony, Dominic Aspero was present. At any of the promotions or retirement ceremonies, I don't think I've attended one as mayor or as alderman that those who had the opportunity to speak, those retiring or those being promoted, I think every single one of them mentioned the impact that Dominic had on their professional life or their personal life. I can tell you, you know when I thought about running for alderman back in 2013 2012 whatever that was When I ran for mayor in 2017 again when I was thinking about running again in 2021 He was one of those people I reached out to to meet with Certainly a person of high character high integrity And did our community so well and so many facets especially around public safety. I would say I As you got to talk to him and you got to know him, probably his best work and things he was most proud of was not police work, not public safety work or city work. It was his family. He died tragically over the weekend and suddenly over the weekend and leaves behind an amazing wife, Pamela, a daughter, Kathleen, and a son, Michael. And I would say he would think that that's probably his best work. uh with that i would ask if you would join me for a moment of silence thank you we'll also say i don't have it in front of me the exact dates and times but i believe Thursday afternoon into the evening is visitation services and Friday early, well, Friday morning, I believe nine to 10 is visitation and 10 to 11 is service. If my memory is correct, someone else has can Google that and make sure that that's accurate. That would be great. But I will also email that out to the council members. Um, I do have a proclamation, but did someone have a statement or alderman rose? Yeah. Thank you your honor We also lost a former ninth ward alderman the past week Mary Francis Harris passed away on July 22nd and she Was interco in the development of feste Italiano She was the former ninth ward alder woman and And just, you know, just to understand her development in the political world, she was also the 1976 Democratic National Convention delegate for Jimmy Carter. So one of those people that was highly respected in her day as a alderwoman, and we lost her back on July 22nd. Thank you Alderman Rose. Next, We are fortunate. We have one proclamation this evening. I'm really excited because we have Assistant Deputy Chief Paul Gallagher, who loves coming to council. Come on up, Chief Gallagher. Thanks for being here. I didn't tell you you were going to be out. Come on up here. Sneak right up in here. Okay, uh, 1st, I will say, uh, and I mean this, thank you. Uh, the work that ADC Gallagher is doing is taking over community services work, uh, and already, uh, is doing a phenomenal job. We've had a number of neighborhood improvement initiative, uh, events and programs outside of all the other stuff that you're doing. Uh, and it's it's really appreciated the work that you've already put in and the work that you and your team are doing. So, thank you. Whereas the National Association of Town Watch, NATW, is sponsoring a unique nationwide crime, drug, and violence prevention program on August 1st, 2023, entitled National Night Out. And whereas the 40th annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford to join forces with thousands of other communities across the country in promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts. And whereas the Rockford City Council plays a vital role in assisting the City of Rockford Police Department through joint crime, drug, and violence prevention efforts in the City of Rockford and is supporting the National Night Out 2023 locally. Okay. And whereas it is essential that all citizens of Rockford be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and impact that their participation can have on reducing crime, drugs, and violence in Rockford. And whereas it is essential that all neighbors of Rockford come together with police and work together to build a safer, more caring community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, August 1st, 2023, to be National Night Out. Chief, would you like to share a few words? Sure. FIRST, I'D LIKE TO THANK YOU FOR YOUR KIND WORDS ON THAT AND KIND WORDS FOR DOMINIC ESPERO. I APPRECIATE THAT. I WORKED WITH HIM FOR QUITE SOME TIME. I'D ALSO LIKE TO THANK THE CITY COUNCIL FOR ACCEPTING THIS PROCLAMATION. AND OUR EVENT IS A BIG EVENT FOR THE COMMUNITY. NATIONAL NIGHT OUT STARTED YEARS AND YEARS AGO. AND IT'S OUR BIG FOREFRONT TO GET THE to work with community, engage with community. So we have the event coming up August 1st, as he said. The event starts at 5.30 p.m., goes to 8.30 p.m. We have food, games, interviews, We have plenty of opportunities for kids' activities and plenty of opportunity for the kids and adults to interact with the Rockford Police Department. There will be plenty of us down there, and we're looking to have a good time. So I know it's 24 hours away. We've been pushing a lot of it, but anybody you can spread the word to, social media, anything, we'd appreciate it. Oh, yes, I'm sorry. It's at the Market Pavilion, so same spot as the City Market. All right. Thank you. thank you uh next we are going to go into our public hearing uh we have a public hearing for the pre-annexation agreement for 68xx auburn street and i'll turn it over to alderwoman terena thank you your honor i'd like to call to order a public hearing for the pre-annexation agreement for 68xx auburn street Public hearing had previously spent a public hearing had previously previously been scheduled to be heard tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5 11 15 1 3 for the consideration of a proposed pre annexation agreement for 68 XX Auburn Street a The hearing has been rescheduled for August 21st, 2023 at 530 in council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois. Thank you. Thank you. Next we will go to petitions and communications and we're without a chair for planning development as well as a vice chair. So I am going to turn this over. The next in line would be Alderwoman Hoffman. Could you read those two items in for us for planning and development? Alderman Rose, could you read those? Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. There's two items for Planning and Development Committee. A memorandum from Ifeanyi Mugbano, City Attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for the continued use of 2221 North Winnebago Street for Resident Officer Program. The Rock House referred to Planning and Development Committee. And then number two, a memorandum from I Fiani Mugbano, city attorney regarding a license agreement between the city of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the continued use of 908 8th Avenue as a strong house referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Thank you. I have one item. I have a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic and Development Engineer, regarding an honorary street name change for Pierpont Avenue to Van Vliet Way. Referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. There's a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the approval of a franchise agreement between the City of Rockford and NICOR Gas Company. This matter will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next we'll go to public speakers. For our public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right and back left of council chambers. You can use either microphone. You have three minutes to address the city council. You'll hear a buzzer ring or a cell phone alarm ring. I ask that you close your comments at that time. And our first public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. Who through faith subdued kingdoms? This brings to mind symbolism of suffering, sacrifice, covenant, and triumph. Symbolism, Congressman Danny Davis and others who's working with me and our group, the church where Emmett Till's body is enshrined is a historic situation. Good, Congressman. Substance, Congressman Danny Davis and others working with us, is feeling that 65 acres of land and those empty factories in Chicago with those jobs that will pay an average of $95,000 annually without a college degree with a total payroll of $475 million. That's substance. We're looking forward to perhaps here in Rockford 15 acres with a $60 million payroll. So let us get started now so that will be my position when we get together next week Highlighting the plight of 24 million black citizens in America living in poverty, a humanitarian crisis if ever there was one. Willie Wilson, and I stand here and hold this article in my hand, in July the 13th, he put it in the Chicago Tribune. He blamed politicians, black politicians, black civil rights leaders, and black clergymen, and non-blacks for encouraging this disgraceful situation. Any person in any of those categories not challenging this disgraceful status has forfeited the right to be respected as any kind of leader. The wealth gap between whites in the United States, 188,000. Hispanics, 44,000. Blacks at the bottom, 24,000. This is especially sad. When you think about communist China is threatening global trade. Last week, they sent 37 fighter planes through the Taiwan Straits and three battleships. Sixty percent of the global trade goes through the Taiwan Straits. They've proven that they can blockade it and it hurts the American economy. We need to get back to manufacturing. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 31st chapter, the 10th verse, it says, Who can find a virtuous woman? What I want to speak about tonight, you should pay doctors more and specialists more in Rockwood to keep them here in Rockwood. You usually see me with my better half, my wife. I had to take her to Madison, Wisconsin, to see a specialist because they don't have now here in Rockwood. That don't make sense. And on top of that, you're losing revenue and you're losing good people. Also, didn't want to tell Oldman Beach's wife this for a long time, Tim Hanson's wife this for a long time, and Nyle Thompson's wife this for a long time. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. God, happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, my good friends. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Doc Ward. Good evening, everyone. I recently wrote a letter to you, Mr. Mayor, in regards to the objections I had for 13th Quarter Alderman, Mr. Bailey. I think I referred to him as Joseph Bailey. Sorry about that. It's Jeffrey Bailey. My apologies. Since your message is deemed that past presidents had no business in the war vacancies, and for those of us who signed those petitions for our representative, it would seem that We were incapable of choosing a representative for the 13th Ward position. However, it would seem the past precedent was used in the case of the 5th Ward and in the case of the 7th Ward where their purposes were granted. But when it came down to the 13th Ward, it was vacated. As you pointed out, and which you had every right to say, you wanted a change. We would hope that your appointment to the City Council was not a bribery stamp for your policies. So I must believe you should have called a special meeting to explain to the residents the 13th Ward and to Miss Williams That's why you chose. Mr. Bailey over Miss Williams We understand that sometimes things all we can't always get what we want, but we still felt the explanation was necessary the fact that we're getting curbs and sidewalks now and After Mr. McNeely had tried for I don't know how long to get rid of the sidewalks, now we're getting them. Some of us seem to think that, oh, that's just a make-you-feel-good situation and that nobody really cares what happens to the 13th Ward. And when I say 13th Ward, I'm talking about past Kilburn Street going west. There's all kind of land over there that's underdeveloped. You've got Springfield-Harrison Corridor. You've got West State Street. And people just shrug their shoulders and just say, oh, well, well, you know, they don't care about anything over there anyway. But we do. People really do. And I just want you to give some consideration to that fact. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Flossie Hoard. Good evening, Mayor McNamara and to this body that make up this meeting. I'm going to be honest, disheartened, but I'm coming in a way. I'm going to be obedient to the will of God. I come tonight to share my disillusion and very much disapproval of a couple of meetings that I watched a couple weeks ago. I watched city council members, clergy, all the people that was for the Barbara Coleman building, take a stand and advocate for what they wanted. Some of those clergy's live on the west side of Rockford where three and four young black males are dying each week to gun violence. Some of the older people used to live on the southwest quadrant of Rockford, no longer live there but advocated for. Even a school board member came down and supported it. Where 46% of all the failure rates not graduating from high school is in her district. And not one meeting has been called. You know, Mayor McNamara, I watch the news. I see how hard you're working to bring this city up to standard. Advocating for business across the city. Building new things downtown. But nevertheless, you're not advocating for business to come west. And I'm not talking about southwest, I'm talking about west-west towards Freeport. We have no medical facility, we have no bank, we have no social setting for parents, no way to network, we have no major food chains. But yet and still, people are advocating for money to go into the southwest corridor. when some of them pretty much live on the west side, haven't advocated for anything to come west. Why am I here tonight? Disheartened as I may be, I've been called to give watch over this city. I would ask that each one of you would read Ezekiel, the 33rd chapter. You can start at the first verse, but I'm asking you to read verses 6 through 8 when you go home. It is a disgrace to the west side of Rockford for us not to have anything over there as citizens, taxpayers. And you're constantly advocating for downtown to become a utopia for people that enter off the bypass through North Main and will be entering off 11th Street coming into downtown. Mayor McNamara, your city will not prosper. It will be overtaken by floodwaters. Because God is not a prejudiced God. He's a just God and this city have had the chance to do right by all this Citizen, but it continued to perpetuate the poverty on the west side of Rockford And I understand the police are out doing all they can but this is bigger than the police mayor McNamara Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you our next public speaker this evening is Bob Schleyhuber Good evening everyone, Mayor of the City of Rockford. Thank you for having me. My name is Bob Schleyhuber. I'm a Rockford native and a peace builder. You have a flyer in front of you. I wanted to personally invite you to our International Day of Peace. celebration at Rockford University on September 21st. At 4 p.m., the esteemed Reverend Desmond Tutu's daughter, Naomi Tutu, will be here in Rockford to deliver a Peace Day lecture. And following that lecture, we'll have a Declaration of Interdependence exhibition If you remember our good friend Roland Posca, the artist, and his declarations of interdependence, used to be in City Hall in the main lobby collecting signatures. For the last 10 years, I've traveled around the world with those Rockford produced pieces, collecting signatures from thousands of people in different countries and cities, showing our interconnectedness. This year, in collaboration with the International Day of Peace and Rockford University, we've started a 15-set series of the Rockford Declarations. Each of those declarations are telling different stories of connectedness in our community. One's going to faith communities, one to sports, one to nature, one to arts. one covering the different ethnicities that have made up our community, and one's traveling to Rockfordians that live outside of Rockford to show our city's reach across the world. After the meeting today, I'll be outside City Hall with one of those declarations, the one celebrating the different ethnicities, connecting here with the city government that represents all of those people that make up our great community. If you would like to add your name and birthday and take your picture in front of City Hall, I'll meet you guys outside. Otherwise, we hope to see you on the 24th. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening next. We'll go to new committee reports We have nothing under planning and development. So we'll go to code and regulation committee and older woman Torino. Thank your honor I have 14 items to read in I'm number one committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a two-hour parking restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace and From the end of Indian Terrace to 25 feet north of the end of Indian Terrace, thus repealing the no parking any time restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace. From the end of Indian Terrace to 25 feet north of the end of Indian Terrace, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate work. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking any time restriction on the south side of Mound Avenue from the end of Mound Avenue to 65 feet west of the end of Mound Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval for official car parking on the west side of Court Street from West State Street to 130 feet north of West State Street, thus repealing the no parking any time restriction on the west side of Court Street. From West State Street to 130 feet north of West State Street, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following items. A request to establish two-hour parking and residential permit parking restrictions on the east side of Indian Terrace from Mound Avenue to 45 feet north of Mound Avenue, thus repealing the no-parking-anytime restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace from Mound Avenue to 45 feet north of Mound Avenue. A request to establish two-hour parking and residential permit parking restrictions on the south side of Mound Avenue from Indian Terrace to 45 feet west of Indian Terrace. A request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of 13th Street and 5th Avenue, thus repealing the existing traffic control of 5th Avenue yielding for 13th Street. And a request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Trenton Avenue and Hudson Street. Number five the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit for the storage repair sale And marketing of heavy equipment and vehicles in the c1 limited office zoning district at 4306 35th Street subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Number six the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for the plan mixed-use development for self storage buildings and outdoor storage of passenger vehicles recreational vehicles trailers and boats Variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 30 feet to 10 feet along Cannon Street and Sewell Street Variation to reduce the required setback from the front yard setback for a 10 foot high fence variation to eliminate interior landscaping and and a variation to eliminate the required landscape type C buffer in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 1902 Wills Avenue, subject to conditions of legal directives to offer the appropriate ordinance. Item number seven committee recommends the same as only board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a body art service in the seats Who limited commercial zoning district at 58 59 sports hills road subject to conditions legal director shop occur the appropriate ordinance number eight committee recommends the same as only word of appeals approval for the modification of a special use permit for for the outdoor storage of a 10 u-haul trucks and the c3 general commercial zoning district at 529 and 519 West Jefferson Street and 301 North Winnebago Street subject to conditions legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number nine the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural in the c4 urban mix use zoning district at 411 7th Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 10 Committee recommends sustaining the zoning word of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mix Use zoning district at 502 7th Street subject to conditions legal direction prepare the appropriate ordinance number 11 committee recommends sustaining the zoning word of appeals approval Recommendation of a denial for a variation to increase the maximum allowed business identification wall signs from two signs to four signs and a variation to increase the maximum allowed sign square footage from 240 square feet to 411 square feet in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 999 South Perryville Road, number 12. The committee recommends sustaining the zoning word of appeals. recommends approval for a special use permit for a four-family residential unit and a variation to reduce the required parking spaces from eight to four in c3 general commercial zoning district at 3202 kishwaukee street the legal directors have prepared the appropriate ordinance number 13 committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1025 and 1029 south main street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance lastly item number 14 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1 0 0 7 and 1 0 0 9 South Main Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance I place these items before you for review thank you so we have 14 items before us is there any discussion on those 14 items clerk will you please call the roll turkey Logerman? Aye. Toomberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prenti? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Barrios? Aye. Sorry, nine ayes. I'm sorry, ten ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item. The committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $2,789,497.94 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on July 24, 2023. Thank you. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina? Prenti? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Bailey? Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent. Next we have officers' reports. Any council members want to report out any items? No? Mr. Barrios? Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to thank Kyle Sanders for the great job he's doing with the sidewalks in 11 Ward. We walked 11, we walked over 30,000 square feet. It's just unbelievable. Thank you very much. He's doing a great job. Thank you, Kyle. Thank you. Any other reports? We'll just make you all aware that, again, tomorrow night is National Night Out. You know, our city team has done quite a bit of work. That's down at the City Market Pavilion from 530. to 8.30 p.m. Also on Thursday, the U.S. women's baseball team is playing at the historic Bayer Stadium. I would urge you all to get out and support that event. They will have a block party prior to the game. Pretty wonderful to see us be able to attract the U.S. women's baseball team there. Also on Saturday from... On Saturday, sorry, bear with me. Saturday, August 5th. From noon to 5 o'clock, Think Big Entrepreneur Expo is taking place at the UW Health Sports Factory. Also, I will tell you two other events on Saturday. From 9 to noon is a Cars and Coffee that is located right in front of Katie's Cup on 7th Street, as well as Jazz on the Lawn Cafe. at Pilgrim Baptist Church, 5 to 8 o'clock on Saturday. So a busy Saturday if you want to go to events. Any other reports? Okay. We'll move right along. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. There is nothing under planning and development. There's nothing under code and regulation. So we'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Eric. number one is the contract extension for snow removal equipment and operators to regional snow services the award is based on unit pricing for a five-year average annual cost of 1.3 million dollars the funding source is the street department operating budget staff recommends exam the current contract and original pricing with regional snow services for additional two years with an optional one-year extension number two is an award a bid for city-wide sidewalk and ad repairs package number two to norwest construction and the amount of 250 901.50 is estimated to be completed by august 31 2023 the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax number three is an award bid for citywide street repairs group number four alleys uh to nor to norwest construction in the amount of 440 238.50 the projects that may be completed by october 13 2023 and the funding sources the cip general fund and the 1 infrastructure sales tax Number four is an award bid for citywide pavement markings, Thermo, to countrymen of a rapid amount of $106,487.55. It is estimated to be completed by September 30, 2023. And the funding source is the motor fuel tax. Number five is an award of bid for Broadway Road Dye to N-Track Group in the amount of $808,540.63. It is estimated to be completed by November 3, 2023. The funding source is a sales tax, DCO, director's grant, line item appropriation from Representative Dave Vela. Number six is an award of bid to Norwest FOR THE NORTHWEST CHANNEL REPAIR PACKAGE DPI CONSTRUCTION IN THE AMOUNT OF $51,095.51, THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY SEPTEMBER 15, 2023. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE CIP GENERAL FUND. and number seven is awarded bid for bike plan striping to countrymen of rockford in the amount of ninety one thousand nine hundred and thirty four dollars and sixty cents the projects asked may be completed by october 13 2023 and the funding source is sales tax i place those seven matters before you thank you alderman frost council there's seven items before us is there any discussion on those seven items clerk will you please call the role turkey logan toonberg frost terena printing Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Bailey 11 eyes. Thank you next we'll go to new business. We have nothing under planning and development committee So we'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman tree. Thank you. I'm back to read these items again for your enjoyment I have 12 of them Number one, an ordinance establishing a two-hour parking restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace from the end of Indian Terrace to 25 feet north of the end of Indian Terrace, thus repealing the no parking any time restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace from the end of Indian Terrace to 25 feet north of the end of Indian Terrace. Number two... ordinance establishing a no parking any time restriction on the south side of Mound Avenue from the end of Mound Avenue to 65 feet west of the end of Mound Avenue number three an ordinance approving for official car parking on the west side of Court Street from West State Street to 130 feet north of West State Street thus repealing the no parking any time restriction on the west side of Court Street from West State Street to 130 feet north of West State Street Number four an ordinance approving a modification of a special special use permit for the storage repair sale and marketing of heavy equipment and vehicles and the c1 limited office zoning district at 4306 35th Street Number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned mixed-use development for storage buildings and outdoor storage of passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles, trailers, and boats. Variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 30 feet to 10 feet along Cannon Street and Sewell Street. Variation to reduce the required setback from the front yard setback for a 10 feet high fence. A variation to eliminate interior landscaping and a variation to eliminate the required landscape type C buffer in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 1902 Wills Avenue. Number six an ordinance approving a special use permit for a body art service in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 58 59 Forest Hills Road number seven an ordinance approving a modification of special use permit for the outdoor storage of 10 u-haul trucks in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 529 and 519 West Jefferson Street and 301 North Winnebago Street a Number eight ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in the c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 411 7th Street number nine an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural and and a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 502 7th street number 10 an ordinance approving a special use permit for a four family residential unit and variation to reduce the required parking spaces from eight to four in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3202 kishwaukee street number 11 an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1025 and 1029 south main street and lastly number 12 an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1007 and 1009 South Main Street Thank you. Thank you Okay, council we got 12 items before us any discussion on those 12 items Clerk will you please call the roll turkey Logum in Toonberg frost? Tarina Brunty Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Bailey 11 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favour say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.