We're going to give the alderman about two more minutes. I had to take a quick break. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, August 3rd, 2020. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Gasparini. Here. Toonberg. Frost. Here. Herbie. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Here. Irvins. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones.
 Hanley Here McNeely Chiarelli 11 present Alderman Hervey Alderman Hervey was on mute Thank you Sorry
 does that make 12 present no it's still 11. okay so we have a we have a quorum uh is there a motion to approve actually before i ask for the motion i just want to make a note uh that i've determined that due to the covet 19 pandemic that an in-person meeting only is not prudent or practical at this time so therefore we have individuals participating remotely as well
 Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on on June 22nd 2020? Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Is there any discussion on line? No discussion on line. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Gasparini? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Hervey? Holdenman, Hervey, you're on mute. Thompson, Kelly? Here. Hoffman?
 Beach, Quinones, Hanley, Hanley, Yes. Shirely, Alderman Hervey. Aye. I'm sorry, is my mute not coming off? Your mute's off now. You hear me? We can hear you. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. The color doesn't change. Sorry. No worries. So we have no proclamations this evening. We have petitions and communications and we will go to alderman for code and regulation. It's 12, 2020, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on August 24th, 2020.
 The second is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation for water connection for the City of Rockford at 107 and 110 Lincoln Park Boulevard. The third is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of water connection to the City of Rockford at 5154 Spring Creek Road. I'll refer all three of those items, Your Honor, to codes and regs. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. Next up, we'll have Planning and Development and Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First one item is a memorandum from the Carl Frankston Community and Amendment to the Development Agreement with 2227th Street, LLC. This will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. First is a memorandum from Jamie, sorry, Jamie Rott, Water Superintendent, regarding the IEPA Revolving Loan Fund application approval and authorizing ordinances. This will be referred to the Finance Committee.
 personnel committee number two is a memorandum from Todd Cagnone City administrator regarding a one-year lease extension between the Friends of Coronado and the City of Rockford this be referred to the finance and personnel committee and number three is a memorandum from Todd Cagnone City administrator regarding the recommendation from Community Relations Committee on body worn cameras and this banner will also be referred to the finance and personnel committee
 thank you alderman frost uh we've already done public speakers but i don't believe shane nicholson was in is shane here with us to see not seeing him we'll keep going uh we'll go to new committee reports uh we have nothing under planning and development so we'll go to code and regulation alderman shirely thank you your honor
 The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a through street designation on Springbrook Road from Spring Creek Road to Bell School Road, thus repealing the existing through street designation on Springbrook Road from Spring Creek Road to east of city limits.
 Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a through street designation on Bell School Road from Springbrook Road to Riverside Boulevard. Number three, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the following items. The first, establishing a four-way stop control at the intersection of 22nd Street and 10th Avenue, thus repealing the two-way stop control on 10th Avenue and 22nd Street.
 Number two, establishing a four-way stop control at the intersection of Bluffside Drive and Chesterfield Avenue, thus repealing the two-way stop control on Chesterfield Avenue and Bluffside Drive. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of the zoning map amendment from C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District to R1 Single Family Zoning District at 1626 Clifton Avenue.
 Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store and gas station in a C2 district at 3121 North Rockton Avenue. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the retail store and a C2 zoning district at 6363 East State Street.
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining LTAB's approval of the modification of an existing liquor license to expand the outdoor beer garden in a C3 zoning district at 4412 Manchester Drive. Number eight, 1536 Seventh Street Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends the approval of sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the banquet hall and restaurant at 1536 Seventh Street subject to the amended conditions.
 It just came through committee, your honor. Number nine is 1060 West Riverside Boulevard and 3600 North Main Street. The Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board, let's see, first denied the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with restaurant video gaming. But the committee approved.
 sale of liquor and drink sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in a c2 commercial district at 1060 West Riverside Boulevard and 3600 North Main Street to include five gaming terminals your honor Subject to the conditions. I believe that's all of the committee reports that we have placed those up for passage your honor. I
 Thank you, Alderman Shirely. So, Alderman, you have nine items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those nine items? Saying no discussion inside council chambers on those nine items. Glenn, do we have anyone online who has questions on those nine? Okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. No on number nine. Aye on the remainder. Thompson-Kelley. Aye.
 Aye. Hoffman? Beach? Quinones? Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? Items 1 through 8, 11 ayes. Item number 9, 2 noes. Thank you. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. All of those items passed. I should note, next up, we have Finance and Personnel and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $5,829,628.70.
 As approved that the finance and personnel committee held on July 27 2020 number two the committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of city-owned property Located six eight XX wrote road to first Midwest group of Rockford for their bid of two hundred and two thousand dollars number three The committee recommends approval of the adoption of the rave 20-year capital plan for both the BMO Harris Bank Center And the corner performing arts center the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Alderman, we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items inside council chamber? Seeing no discussion inside council chamber. Director Trommels, do you have any discussion on mine? Alderman Hervey. Alderman Hervey, you have a discussion? Yeah, I do. I just wanted to clarify. I thought I asked this at committee, but with regard to the capital plan for BMO and Coronado,
 Although we're adopting the plan, we are not required to take every single action or take every single action under this timetable. Is that correct?
 Alderman Hervey, it's very similar to what we've done with the capital improvement plan. So each and every item will come before you on a personal note. I'll just hold it against you. Now. I don't know why I'm looking up as if you're up in the sky, but no, you are exactly right. It is just like it is with the capital improvement plan. We approve the overall plan and then alderman will have the ability to vote on the items as they come forward.
 Okay, thank you Wonderful. Thank you any other further discussion online. Mr. Trammels. No, sir. None and alderman Durkee here in council chambers He's resigned who's the interim who's the interim director who will be handling a lot of this for the short term mr. Cagnone, thank your honor. Your honor. Gretchen will be the act during Director in the short term. What's your last name? Gilmore Gilmore
 Any other discussion either in council or online? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Hervey. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. Chiarelli. Alderman Hervey. Cormier. Yes. Aye. Thank you. Eleven ayes. Thank you.
 i thought you're going to start saying bueller bueller next we'll go to appointments laid over i'll hold officers reports at the end uh appointments laid over we have four appointments reappointment of eric brown to community relations commission reappointment of aaron hannigan to community relations commission reappointment nikki lynch to community relations reappointment of jay ware to community relations commission is there any discussion inside council chamber on those four
 Is there any discussion online about those? No. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. Shirelli. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one item. It's a drive-in movie event scheduled for Saturday, August 15th. And the movie location, 3915 East State Street, which is the old Magna Grocery Store parking lot. Place that up for passage. Thank you. So, Alderman, you have one item. Is there any discussion inside council chambers about that one item? Seeing no discussion inside chambers. Director Trammels, is there discussion online? No, sir. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Dierke. Aye.
 Yes, bring me to her. Herbie hi, Thompson Kelly hi Hoffman. Beach, you know, and I. Sure 11 nice, thank you next up we'll go to finance and personnel all the across. Thank you. Number 1 is the word of it for the 2020 demolition group 13 and Northern only service.
 for demolition of 11 properties listed below in the amount of eighty seven thousand nine hundred and ten dollars the contract duration is 45 days the funding sources the community development block grant and sanitation funds number two is an award of bid for citywide bridge preservation plan 2020 to m m concrete of stockton illinois amount of one hundred nineteen thousand five hundred and twenty five dollars the contract is expected to be completed by october sixteenth twenty twenty the funding sources the motor fuel tax funds
 number three is an award of rfp for camera expansion program to montel technologies in the amount of forty three thousand seven hundred and sixty three dollars the funding source is the project safe neighborhoods grant number four is an award of non-competitive contract for technology assistance consulting to montel technologies for a contract one of seventy thousand dollars the contract duration is from april one twenty twenty two march thirty one twenty twenty two the funding source is the project safe neighborhoods grant
 Number 5 is an award of engineering agreement for the 11th street quarter study to Crawford Murphy utility of rock for the amount of 199,980 dollars and 43 cents. The contract duration is through 2021. The funding sources, the motor fuel tax funds, 39,997 dollars and 69 cents. And statewide planning and research funds of 159,990 dollars and 74 cents.
 Number six, the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for use of motor fuel tax funds for the 11th Street Quarter Study in the amount of $40,000. Number seven is award of non-competitive contract,
 Water meter supplies to core and main of Belvedere for an estimated annual value of $200,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year, the funding sources of water fund operating budget. Number eight is an award of non-competitive contract for the automated meter reading endpoint supplies.
 To Itron of Liberty Lake, Washington for an estimated annual value of $100,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the water fund operating budget. Number nine is an award of a non-competitive contract for mechanical water meter supplies to Badger Meter of Milwaukee, Wisconsin for an estimated annual value of $200,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the water fund operating budget. I place those matters before you.
 Thank You alderman frost so alderman there's nine items before you is there any discussion on those nine items inside council chambers Seeing no discussion inside council chambers director traumas is her discussion outs on mine. No, sir None clerk, will you please call the roll turkey? Yes, rainy Toomer frost Herbie I Thompson Kelly. Hi Hoffman each Quinones Hanley
 Aye. Chiarelli? 11 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to new business. There's nothing under planning and development. We'll move to code and regulation committee. Alderman Chiarelli? Thank you, Your Honor. So, I have an ordinance establishing a through street designation on Spring Creek Road from Spring... I'm sorry, from Spring Brook Road from...
 Spring Creek Road to Bell School Road, thus repealing the existing through street designation on Spring Brook Road from Spring Creek Road to east of city limits. An ordinance establishing a through street designation on Bell School Road from Spring Brook Road to Riverside Boulevard. Whose whose word is all this? You should you should have to read that in. I hope I was thorough enough for you.
 The third is an ordinance approving zoning map amendment from C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District to R1 Single Family Residential Zoning District at 1626 Clifton Avenue. I have an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store and gas station and a C2 Limited Zoning...
 Limited commercial zoning district at 31 21 North Rockton Avenue Number five is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the retail store in a seat to zoning district at 6363 East State Street Number six is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to expand the outdoor beer garden in a c3 zoning district at 44 12 Manchester Drive and
 Number seven is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the banquet hall and restaurant a c4 zoning district at 1536 7th Street the amended conditions number eight is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and a c2 commercial zoning district at 1060 West Riverside Boulevard and 3600 North Main Street as amended in committee your honor. I
 Place those ordinances up for passage. Thank you. So we have eight items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers about those eight? Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to number one, it's my understanding, Mayor, that the change doesn't really...
 Make any modifications to thorough street because springbrook is considered that already just because of. The previously it's set from spring spring creek road to the city limits and that the city limits have. Changed over the last, I don't know, 30 years, I guess, but so there's, there's no, there's no increase in traffic being allowed at this time or it's just made really for a clean up on the matter. So.
 So, thorough streets can have stop signs that already exist there anyway, is that correct? That's accurate. Thank you. Any further discussion inside council chambers? Seeing none, Director Trammels, is there discussion online? No, sir. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach.
 Hanley? Schiarelli? Items 1 through 7, 11 ayes. Item number 8, 10 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Those items pass. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost. Thanks. Number 1 is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located 68XX Rote Road to 1st Midwest Group of Rockford for their bid of $202,000.
 Number two is an ordinance approving the adoption of the RAVE 20-year capital plan for both BMO Harris Bank Center and the Coronado Performing Arts Center. I place these two matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frasso. Alderman, you have two items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those two items? Seeing none, Director Trammels, is there any discussion online about those two items? No, sir. All right. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Your key. Your key.
 Gasparini? Aye. Tuber? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? 11 ayes. Thank you. Before we do motion to adjourn, I'll do officer's reports and I'll just go online first. Alderman Hanley, do you have any officer's report? Not today. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, do you have any officer's report?
 No, Your Honor. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you have any officer's report?
 Yes, I do, Your Honor. Okay. First of all, I want to acknowledge the executive orders that you passed for the businesses, small businesses downtown, for bringing their businesses back. I have a concern with the businesses on Auburn Street as well as East 8th Street that flies those flags, slots, and...
 they're getting deemed by code enforcement and reopening their business and they need that advertisement. I was wondering if we could take a look at that and look at what we're doing to these small businesses that we need to have an executive order to support them in opening up their business. Did you get all that?
 I believe we did and if you could just make sure that I do have an understanding of this is it sounds like you want to allow some kind of temporary signage or flags to help some small businesses and different corridors that are not downtown. Is that accurate?
 That is accurate. Okay. We'll have our staff work on it, and we've been trying to be as accommodating as possible and kind of be as loose on some of those restrictions as possible. So we'll reach out to you and work on that for you. And that's what I explained to them because they felt they were being treated differently than downtown. Thank you, Your Honor. No problem. Thank you. Any officers' reports inside chambers?
 None. Awesome. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Yes, Perini. Aye. Thunberg. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. Thank you. Have a wonderful night. Stay safe and healthy.