Good evening, everyone. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, August 5th, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Here. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Here. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Logaman. Here. 12 present. Thank you. Excellent. We have a quorum for this evening's meeting. Next, we're going to go to our invocation. We have Judy Moell of the Baha'i Center of Rockford. Hello. First of all, I'd like to say thank you to all of you. I got a new street surface in my circle, so good job. Okay. I was told that Thunberg says thank you. Thank you. So, anyway, thank you. And we'll start just by saying, dear God, thank you for our city and all the wonderful projects that are taking place in the city. And I ask you to assist all of our city council, the mayor, all the leaders of all the groups all the agencies in town to make good decisions that will help all the people of Rockford regardless of ethnicity, religion, gender, or any other differences we might have, but to help make projects that work for everybody. I'm gonna say a prayer from the Baha'i Writings. Oh my God, oh that, oops, just disappeared, okay, there. O my God, O thou who endowest every just power and equitable dominion with abiding glory and everlasting might, with permanence and stability, with constancy and honor. Aid thou by thy heavenly grace every government that acteth justly towards its subjects, and every sovereign authority derived from thee that shieldeth the poor and the weak under the banner of its protection. I beseech thee by thy divine grace and surpassing bounty to aid this just government today. the canopy of whose authority is spread over vast and mighty lands, and the evidences of whose justice are apparent in its prosperous and flourishing regions. Assist, O my God, its hosts. Raise aloft its ensigns. Bestow influence upon its word and its utterance. Protect its lands. Increase its honor. Spread its fame. Amen. Reveal its signs and unfurl its banner through thine all-subduing power and thy resplendent might in the kingdom of creation. Thou verily aidest whomsoever thou willest, and thou verily art the Almighty, the Most Powerful. Thank you. This evening we have one proclamation and we're fortunate to have Sergeant Tillman and Officer Murphy with us for the proclamation. So if you would like to come forward. Whereas the National Association of Town Watch is sponsoring a unique nationwide crime, drug, and violence prevention program on August 6, 2024, entitled National Night Out. And whereas the 41st annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford to join forces with thousands of other communities across the country in promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts. And whereas the Rockford City Council plays a vital role in assisting the city of Rockford police department through joint crime, drug, and violence prevention efforts in the city of Rockford and is supporting National Night Out 2024 locally. And whereas it is essential that all citizens of Rockford be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and the impact that their participation can have on reducing crime, drugs, and violence in Rockford. And whereas, it is essential that all neighbors of Rockford come together with police and work together to build a safer, more caring community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, August 6, 2024, to be National Night Out. Sergeant Tillman, would you like to share a few words with us? Yes. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Council, for this opportunity. We are hosting our National Night Out tomorrow starting at 5.30 p.m. until 8 p.m. We will have a blood drive that begins at 3 p.m. We have over 60 vendors for this event, so this is much larger and bigger and hopefully better. than it was previous years. We look forward to engaging with the community and getting to know all of the vendors and other people that are here within Rockford and having a great time. Thank you. Thank you so much and thank you for all the work that all of you do on behalf of our community. Thank you. Thank you. Next we're going to go to petitions and communications and we'll go to planning and development committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Item number one, we have a memorandum from Sarah Lees, Deputy Director of Community and Economic Development, regarding an agreement with Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity for 2024 Critical Home Repair Program. Item two, we have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding the proposed 2024 Rockford Regrow Grant Program funded by the Cannabis Fund. All items will be referred to Planning and Development. Committee item number three. We have a memorandum from Todd Cagnone City administrator Regarding the proposed solar option and lease on city-owned property located at 844 South Horse Avenue AND ITEM FOUR, WE HAVE A MEMORANDUM FROM ANQUINETTE PARHAM, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REGARDING AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF ROCKFORD HEAD START PROGRAM AND ROCKFORD PUBLIC SCHOOL DISTRICT 205 FOR OPERATIONS RELATING TO THE 2024-2025 SCHOOL YEAR. THANK YOU, ALDERWOMAN WILKINS. NEXT WE'LL GO TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE AND ALDERWOMAN TERINA. THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. I HAVE SIX ITEMS. ITEM NUMBER ONE IS A MEMORANDUM FROM JERRY. Jeremy Carter, Traffic and Development Engineer, regarding a proposed honorary street name change on Foster Avenue to Iser Tilsen Way, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Traffic Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on August 14, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at Code and Regulation Committee meeting on August 26, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number three is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager, Permits and Special Events, regarding upcoming special events. for cycle on second the stroll on state dash or dash 5k referred to code and regulation committee number four a memorandum from scott capovilla planning and zoning manager regarding the shady lane road dedication plat referred to code and regulation committee number five a memorandum from jacob rubin assistant sissy assistant city attorney regarding a proposed text amendment to the city of rockford zoning ordinance 80-009-D for non-conforming gravel driveways and parking lots, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And lastly, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding a short-term rental ordinance, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thanks. Thank you, Alderman Tarina. Next, we're going to go to Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Aaron. Number one is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed release of liens on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels to facilitate the sale to private owners. Number two is a bid opening for property, which is a vacant lot located at 316 North Hinkley. And the bid is from, looks like, Ronald Alfred Carter. Thank you. And there is a money order for $100. However, it looks like the bid is $1,000. I've been putting 10% down. I'll hand this back to you. He lives at 326 North Hinkley. And number three is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, City Engineer, Public Works Director, regarding a hire request for a senior engineering technician. All three news managers will refer to financing personnel. Thank you. And Alderman Frost, I'm going to call on you as chair of the Legislative and Lobbying Committee for another item. Yes. Under Legislative and Lobbying, there is a memorandum from Alderman Rose regarding a proposed ceasefire resolution, and this will be referred to the Legislative and Lobbying Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of Council Chambers. You have three minutes to address the City Council. You will hear an alarm if my phone works properly, which will mean that you need to close up your comments. If the phone malfunctions, I'll make sure that you're aware that the three minutes has expired. Our first public speaker this evening is Denzel Winter. Good morning, Council. I'm Denzel Winter and Jesus said, suffer me the little children. And I tell you, my heart has been overwhelmed to see our little children out there. Not out there causing trouble, but out there making money to buy school clothes themselves, you know, helping the parents out themselves, buying bikes themselves. And that makes me feel really good. It's not just in one area, I go all over so I can see what's going on in the neighborhood. And it does my heart really good to see our children, our babies, becoming entrepreneurs. And it's a wonderful thing because, you know, I can remember when I was a little man, you know, I did snow shelving. I went, I helped, went to the store for people. So it does me really good to see that we have children that don't have to be told to go out and go sell this water. They just do it on their own. So we got great people coming up. Our little people are great people. All we have to do is sit there and cultivate them. So, and one thing that I'm looking into is becoming a mentor to help these children, you know, and talk with them. Because we don't need them out on the street. We don't need them running in the games. We just need them. We just need the guidance. And with that, that's all I have to say right now. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. In the book of Luke, the second chapter, the eighth verse, it says, There were shepherds in the field, and keep a watch over their flocks. The angel of the Lord appeared to them as the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Fear not, because I bring you good news. I'm here tonight to bring good news to the people of Rockwood. What I want to speak about tonight is how to transform Rockwood by the power of God in one year, six months, 22 days, one hour, 10 minutes, and 15 seconds. If you use my system that I invented called the TREE system, which stands for Transform Rockwood Economic, by using your own resource, the first thing you have to do is change the way you think if you want to change the condition you're in. The first resource you have are your people of rock. Ninety percent of the people of rock are mechanical inclined. You are known as inventors of the Midwest. Your second resource is manufacture. I call it the king of all industry. It got us out of the Great Depression. You specialize in manufacturing. The third resource is the tourist industry. I call it the queen of all. Your fourth resource is the Rockford Airport. Your fifth resource You are smack dab in the manufacturer triangle. Your sixth resource is logistics. You are known as the logistic hub of the state of Illinois. Your seventh resource is your strategic location. Rockland is smack dab in the heart of the Virgin Interstate, 39 Interstate 90 logistics, golden corridor and home to the fastest growing cargo in the world. Chicago, Rockland, and Nash, no wonder. 2006, seeing UPS invest $25,379,215.18 in expansion and equipment upgrades and $7,421,516.54 in its air freight . Rockford, Illinois, is probably the third largest economic gold corridor in the United States. Your eighth resource is the BMO Center. Your ninth resource is the City Market. Your tenth resource is Memorial Hall. Your eleventh resource is David Park. Your twelfth resource is the Coronado Center. Your thirteenth resource is the North Loft Center. Your fourteenth resource is the Library of Downtown. Your fifteenth resource is the bus. Have it run 24 hours a day, seven days. Your sixteenth resource is open a bingo DOWNTOWN. YOUR 17 RESOURCE OPEN THE SKATING RING DOWNTOWN. YOUR 18 RESOURCE IS THE FOREST QUEEN BOAT. YOUR 19 RESOURCE IS THE TRAIN TRAIL. YOUR 20 RESOURCE IS THE GOLF COURT. YOUR 21 RESOURCE IS THE MISUNA. YOUR 22 RESOURCE IS MITWADE VILLE. YOUR 23 RESOURCE IS SWEDISH AMERICAN HOSPITAL. YOUR 24 RESOURCE IS MERCY HEALTH HOSPITAL. OPEN THE ONE BACK ON THE WEST SIDE. YOUR 25 RESOURCE IS SAINT ANTHONY HOSPITAL. IF YOU USE MY TREE SYSTEM WITH YOUR So you could bring in Rockford in revenue 38 billion nine hundred me seventy five thousand three hundred and eighteen dollars a year Enough money to eliminate Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you our next public speaker this evening is Stephanie Hicks So many of you know me I'm from care for pets I've often often come when there has been something on the agenda that is pet related. I am here now just making you aware of a resource that we have. You guys all have this on your desks. I will get buzzed and I will stop as soon as that timer goes off because I did not time this. But I did want to talk about our impact and what we're doing in the community. and offer this to any of you that feel like you have constituents in need in your ward, that you might have a location in mind that we can set up to do one of these. While they are pet health vaccination clinics, they're actually to help out owners in the Rockford and Winnebago County community members. And just briefly to say how that is, these are for low-income pet owners. Most people cannot afford a vet visit to get updated on rabies vaccinations for their pets. That means that if the neighbors call in barking or something like that, the owners are then getting citations of which they also then cannot afford. They need to be using that money for groceries. Microchips, pets get loose, they get impounded, they don't go home if they don't have a microchip. Again, having to use their limited resources trying to bring their pets back home. county rabies license. Thankfully the county has worked on this to bring this down since we are fully subsidizing this event to a cost that is reasonable. Ordinarily this is 40 to 50 dollars for an unaltered dog which people can't afford to fix their pets already and then the tag price is just insane. Also comes with citations. Spay and neuter is for population control and also dogs and cats can get illnesses in infections that are deadly that then they can't afford the vet care for. We're giving out free pet food, then they can use those month the money that they have for their own groceries and rent and other needs that they have as well as other vaccinations that keep their pets healthy again. So they're not ending up in a situation of needing. hospital care, vet care that they can't afford or their pet gets sick, they can't afford it and then they get a citation on top of that because they're not providing vet care which is by state statute they have to do which is hard. So you're citing somebody for something they can't afford to do to begin with. We didn't do these for a few years because we did not have access to a vet. But we do have a consistent vet now. We did one in Bill Rose's ward in coordination with Voices, which was amazing. We had 100 people, pets, show up. We're doing one that's in Winnebago County for August. If you have constituents that can go, great. If you want to help host one of these in one of your wards, if you feel like your ward is in need, reach out. You had 15 seconds to spare. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Okay, good evening, Mayor, Mayor McNair, all the persons and our citizens, but most of all talking with the people that watch us every Monday when we come here. As of 15 years ago, August 2009 was the day that Mark Anthony Balmore got killed and Kingdom Authority Church was the day that next month, September, was the day I've been coming here speaking at City Hall Council Meeting. We've got two arguments that's been here for longer than I have. Frank and I believe Karen. Y'all two been here just as long as I have speaking. So what my point is that I'm trying to make is that we got an election coming up. And what irks me the most is that our Democratic, the only person I see that's standing up to Donald Trump is Pamela Harris. I'm going to say it and say it again. Our Democratic Party is weak. They are some weaklings. We have a lot of people that want to vote, but don't get out to vote. I'm talking to you all, because if you don't get out to vote, if Donald Trump get in office, he's going to pass that Project 2025. And don't start complaining when he messes with your social security, your public aid. I can go on down the line. I'm talking to our Democratic arguments and mayor And everyone else is Democratic leaders need to start talking about Project 2025 and get out the vote. They should not be just hearing that coming from me. Now, if you don't believe that the people don't believe what I'm saying, I have my witness right outside, that church van. It took me less than, I don't know, I need to raise $5,000. In less than a week, three weeks, I was $1.70 short from $5,000. The mayor blessed me. The Winnebago County Board blessed me. The teacher union blessed me. Three other unions blessed me. In less than five weeks, that proved that what I say and what I do in the community is the fact and the truth. And I want to know how how can a felon, a convicted felon, can vote when the regular felons can't vote? But Donald Trump is convicted for 34 counts of felons and yet he's running for president. Is that or is that not a demigod or one where I should say an antichrist? And so I also want to get off of talking about Project 2025, but I had to speak with your sister, Tom, today. And they're going to set up where we'll be able to take our kids to be able to go to the art museum, because a lot of our kids came before us to go to the art museum. And also, just talking at the end Patriot Parade, talking with the mayor, talking with the chief of police and the chief of the sheriff's department, we have turned a seed into a plant. Now Dr. Reed wants us to start taking 20 of our youth to the prison system so they can see what's going on in the prison system. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. And before I go, the NAACP parade is this Saturday. Thank you. Thank you. We're talking about the NAACP parade. Thanks. Our next public speaker this evening is Robert Pace. I want to speak broadly this evening about the Garrett Lane housing complex. In our city and our nation, we are experiencing a very severe housing shortage. A recently commissioned study for Rockford said, with all the economic developments we're seeing and as planned for our city, we will need 3,000 to 9,000 additional residential units. Places like the proposed Garrett Lane project are the solution, not the problem. I made a visit to that location yesterday. The streets are newer and well-equipped to handle whatever increased traffic that we'll see. Plus, there's a newer fire station in that same area that will support the infrastructure that's needed there. Ideally, we need 25 to 30 more projects like the Garrett Lane facility, Coleman Yards, and the Rockford Watch Company complex to meet the housing needs of our community. More affordable housing and upscale housing will be key to Rockford's future success. We will also can't look the other way when it comes to seeing affordable housing is also at the root of the problem for all the shortages we're seeing in the workforce. Housing programs offered through HUD as Section 42 low-income housing tax credits are the key to energizing our inner city business districts with public and private partnerships that are very popular in the larger cities and are now being seen in Rockford. We must also realize that increasing the density of our city's neighborhoods, we will be increasing the average per capita income of our neighborhoods. And it's that per capita income that is what the retail stores look at to determine if they want to open a location in that particular community. So it's very important that we increase the density. As far as leadership, we need leadership in Rockford. that is seen as friendly to investors and developers to accomplish that perception we need to help citizens in our neighborhoods understand denser populated more walkable neighborhoods are with locally owned retail shops are the future of our city and nation we also need to review our zoning and land use policies to assure that they welcome new developments and investors in closing We need more developments like Garrett Lane. Please think about what I just said when you cast your votes for the future success of Rockford and the quest to meet our housing and employer needs. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we're going to go to new committee reports, and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. item one we have committee recommends approval of the amendment to the 2024 workforce development initiative agreement between the city of foxford and lt construction in the amount of 150 000 the added funding will allow for the estimated completion of up to an additional 12 000 square feet of sidewalk improvements this additional request would bring the total workforce development program value to 675 000 the funding source is revenue replacement through the american rescue plan funds the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you council there's one item before us is there any discussion on that item clerk will you please call the roll turkey hi timber frost terena grunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Oreos Meeks Bailey, but 14 eyes, thank you next we're gonna go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Torino. Thank you mayor I have 13 items number one the committee recommends approval of the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 721 South 3rd Street a vacant lot and Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 821 Oakley Avenue, a vacant lot. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Number three the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime except para transit restriction on the south side of City View Court from 125 feet east of Eagle Drive to 155 feet east of Eagle Drive the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the request to establish a bid block pedestrian crossing and the 400 block of Roxbury Road and Number five, the committee recommends approval of the modifications to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances for Chapter 27, Trees and Shrubs. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six the committee recommends approval of the annexation of three zero XX 30 30 and 30 36 zeros Avenue The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number seven the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store in the C for urban mixed-use zoning district at 1313 Broadway subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and 8. The Committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink, in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2019 South Main Street. Subject to conditions, the Legal Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 9. The Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals' approval for a variation to increase the maximum impervious surface ratio From .40 to 0.65 in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1719 Post Avenue. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development for six two-family residential units in an R3 multifamily residential zoning district at 6002 Fulton Drive, subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 11, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum permitted fence height from 6 feet to 8 feet in a rear yard in R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3 John Woods Drive. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 12, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for the following variations at 7801 East State Street. A variation to increase the maximum square footage permitted for two wall signs from 240 square feet to 305 square feet. A variation to increase the maximum permitted height for directional signs from 6 feet to 9 feet. 8 inches, a variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage for directional signs from 10 square feet to 34 square feet, and a variation to allow interchangeable wall cabinet signs in a C3 general commercial zoning district subject to conditions. A legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, number 13, the committee recommends approval of a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for accessory structures from 720 square feet to 988 square feet, In an R1 single-family residential zoning district at Harlem Boulevard, excuse me, 1239 Harlem Boulevard, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderwoman Trina. Counsel, there's 13 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 13 items? Alderwoman Trina? Thank you, Your Honor. I'm trying to find it. Oh, number eight. So I just wanted to make some comments about number eight. Okay. So last week in a codes and regs meeting, I did vote no. And I explained because I needed to have a conversation just to be more comfortable about my decision. Just because I know that area very well. It's right across the street from a monastery. It's right by a grocery store that has a lot of soliciting in the parking lot. So I'm just sort of, I just feel very protective over the area just because I just want to make sure that the right business owners go there. But I did have an extensive conversation with the owners yesterday. very, very kind people. I really do like the vision for the restaurant, so I just wanted to let everyone know that I will be changing my vote to a yes, and I am in support of the business, and I just look forward to, Just what they're going to bring to the area. It's an important location important restaurant to the fifth Ward so I'm happy that they're choosing to Sort of establish their family dream in that location and I wish success for them. So, thank you. Thank you alderman Rose. I Yeah, for item 12, I just had a question for staff on what was the staff recommendation and were there any recommendations made by zoning on those signs? And just kind of giving us just that general background information for 12. Thank you, Alderman Rose. City Administrator Cagnone? Thank you, Mayor. Staff recommendation was for approval of these items. We took a review of the size and scale of the development. And as you're aware, it's a significantly large development. So we wanted to understand if the proposed variations and the increase of wall signs as well as some of the directional signage would be out of scale. Upon review, we didn't believe that would be the case. The Zoning Board of Appeals also recommended approval. I don't recall any specific comments coming out of ZBA, not that there weren't. I just would have to look that up further. Okay. Thank you. That's all I needed. Any other discussion on the 13 items before us? Alderman frost. Thank you with respect to item number four the no action on the pedestrian crossing at 400 Roxbury I just I was just curious if someone could give a better understanding of why the Traffic Commission took no action on that item. Thank you director Hankins Yeah, it was mostly due to the roadway geometrics making it a dangerous location, tough site visibility for people to cross the street at Roxbury on that curve there. I mean, are people crossing from the medical facilities back and forth there already, though, as pedestrians? Or what led to the ask? And I'm having a hard time hearing you. I just want to make sure that you heard it. I believe Alderman Frost asked about people crossing to the medical facilities. The request was made by Rockford Gastroenterology. Sorry about that. So I believe it is their workers are parking across the street. We don't want to promote that crossing there, but I believe that they do cross. Thank you. Other discussion on any of the 13 items that we have before us? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. No. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Fonny. Items 1 through 3 14 eyes item number 4 12 eyes 2 nose items 5 through 7 14 eyes and I'm 8 13 eyes 1 no 9 14 eyes 10 13 eyes 11 a 12 14 eyes 13 13 eyes. Thank you. Those items are approved next. We'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost They got it Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $10,956,124.85 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on July 29th. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City and Rockford Township for Edgebrook phase four water replacement. The preliminary construction costs... for the township is $14,850. The preliminary cost for the city and township which were together is $3,412,596. The final cost will be based on final quantities as detailed in the agreement. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these two minutes before you. Thanks, Alderman Frost. Council, we've got two items. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Moorhead. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to unfinished business. We have nothing under planning and development or finance and personnel, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Aye. Your honor The committee recommends approval of a special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of 240 apartment units clubhouse and a three-story assisted living memory care facility consisting of 136 beds in a c1 limited office zoning district at 66 54 Garrett Lane Thus reversing the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. I Thank You alderman Torino council there's one item before us is there any discussion on that one item alderman Durkee Thank You Your Honor First I wanted to thank the council for delaying the vote Because I had to be at a funeral So I appreciate you delaying the vote so that I could speak on the matter interestingly the lady who died was a close family friend and I She I've worked with her and her husband when I was a Democrat and it was a while ago, huh? Probably before you were born No, I'll tell Ronald Reagan I got hooked by Reagan, but in any event, you know the funny thing she they had a they had a saying That was really good both of them and what they're saying was what are you doing for the people and They said it all the time and whenever they politic whenever it did stuff they That was their moniker. What are you doing for the people? I think my opposition most of my points I've already been made you guys have heard it. So I'm gonna try to use my natural charm to persuade you My powers of persuasion such that it exists, but if you look back at this area of There is a big map. There is a central plan map that the city created and how this land was to be used It's available to look at each of the segments were zoned in particular in a particular fashion This area in question was zoned c1 and c2 at the time with the master development why that was I don't know Right now I think it's not a bad idea but that's how it was designed and that's what was supposed to be done and People purchased their property based upon zoning. They based it upon across the street, this was going to be C1, C2. In a sense, the city made a promise, more or less, this is what our design is, and people bought their house based upon that. So the developer knew that when he bought it. So everybody knew. There was no secret here. There was no surprise here. And so the developer now wants, in a sense, for the government to put their thumb on the scale to favor his interest. The developer knew what he was doing when he bought it. And nothing precludes the developer from developing C1 and C2. Nothing. He could do whatever the zoning was. But he's deciding, he's asking you to put his thumb on the scale. And rest assured, those homes that are across the street, and the vast majority of this project is across the street from R1 zoning. Those, a multi-family scale project like this with the memory home will deleteriously affect the homeowners homes, their values. It will. Nobody wants, if you have a choice, you're going to buy a house, there's a house for sale on Garrett Lane and there's a house for sale somewhere interior. You're not going to buy a house anymore on Garrett Lane because of what you're going to look across the street. People may say, well I would do that. The three rules of real estate are location, location, location. So I would beg to differ. I don't know that anybody would make a conscious choice to do that unless the price of the home was dropped. The price of the home drops because of the apartment complex. So this project proposes around 240 living units on a postage stamp. It's 18 acres. If you were to look at a, you could do this on Google Maps, pull up that area, count the single family homes. There's about 260 other single family homes in a much larger area. Doubling the density using only 18 acres. The land was not designed to do that. I think also it will have a negative impact on Midway Village. Oops, I'm sorry. It opens up to the back of this property. So I don't know what kind of traffic and what that would do to Midway, how they would handle that. Because you're now, again, making a fairly easy access of this high-density project in and out of Midway Village. But interestingly, this is the same project that more or less that was proposed in 2021. It's more alike than different. There's been some changes. It's more alike than different than the project proposed in 2021 that was rejected by the city council. For some of these very same reasons I know for these citizens that there is a risk in buying By open land there always is but the city by zoning makes a representation to these homeowners that this area is is what it's going to be and the city for Developers and for residents needs to be consistent in what it designs and what it draws up. I know things change and But the city has to be consistent in how we approach things so people can buy things, businesses or whatever, and have a predictive sense of what will happen to that property. Again, the developer is not hindered in any way in developing his property. He just should comport with the C1, C2 designation as we as a city said this was going to be. The PUD, when he gets a PUD, he does have some leeway and freedom into changing this project. I personally don't think this project is going to be as is proposed. He basically states that there will be $2,500 a month rent. I don't know that he'll get that. There are townhomes in my ward, Bell School Road and others, and the townhomes... which are two townhomes adjacent, not big structures, with lower density, are getting about $1,800 a month. I don't know where he's going to get the other $700 among people that are jammed up like that. I don't know what the value will be. So I'm anticipating this will change. But the other aforementioned reasons were the... The density, the high traffic volume along Garrett. The Garrett-Perryville intersection is inadequate for this. The traffic engineer said there was no backups on Shiloh and Guilford, which is right. But that project doesn't exist now. And what it will do, it will push people up to Guilford and, I'm sorry, Guilford and Garrett, where there will be a backup. There is already a backup on Mulford. And, uh, lean in here, I drive that. And so the traffic, there is a lot of congestion there. So that, you know, the, uh, those are the reasons I opposed to it. I think they're fairly legitimate reasons. But, um, like I said. This is impacting residents. I've had now two people, you heard one, there's another one also in the room, two people only that said they're in favor of this project. And all the people I've talked to and contacted, I'm sure there's other people in this room, but they haven't talked to me. But two, but none of them live in the area and none of them live across the street. And I don't know that any one of us would want zoning changed next to us and a project be built. When you anticipated land use differently, so I just asked that you reject it this project I think there's there's adequate land for the developer to convert this to a residential area using townhomes or other avenues where he can Get a return on investment if he wants to come back with a lower density that would more comport with the area and I don't you know either the memory home I don't know that you know much of the people would have a lot of trouble with but the apartment complex just too dense At this point so thanks for again for delaying the vote and And allowing me to speak. Thank you Alderman meets Thank you So I'm trying to think back to 2021 when we first had this conversation and I just I don't remember all of those key points that were brought up this evening as reasons as to why I said no. I'm drawing a blank. I can't remember exactly why, but I don't recall those being the reasons. What I do recall is Midway Village sending a letter stating that they had no issue with the development. I wanted to ask a question and I don't know who to direct the question to so I'm just gonna direct it to you mayor Sure, how many actual residents spoke out? Against this project that live in the area. Can you tell me that or perhaps alderman Durkee? So I can't I I personally can't speak to the number of residents who may have came to ZBA. I'll ask staff if they know of residents who came or wrote letters. I can tell you in emails roughly Alderwoman Meeks, you guys all probably have been on the ones I've gotten. I'm guessing 15-ish? Maybe up to 20, maybe down to 12, somewhere in that 12 to 20-ish range. So let's say 30. How many homes were in, are in that vicinity? Does anyone have the answer to that? It depends on what you call the vicinity. Most of my calls I'm getting are actually from a ways away in Bella Reserve, not across the street. I'm just thinking of the area directly adjacent to where the development is taking place, kind of surrounding the fire department, kind of the area that was mentioned. Okay. That's housing surrounds the area. Mr. Cagnoni, could you give a stab at that? Thank you, Your Honor. We're pulling up the ZBA minutes just to clarify the objectors that may have come forward. My communication with interested parties has also been to properties that were closer to Guilford Road than they were to Garrett Lane. But also, just to make sure that our record's clear, just if I could provide some information as it relates to the staff report. This is a planned unit development for 240 apartment units, a clubhouse, assisted living memory care facility consisting of 136 beds in the C1 Limited Office Zoning District. So the property is currently zoned, C1 Limited Office Zoning District, which would allow the property owner to pursue a special use permit for the plan unit development. Our recently approved 2040 plan designates this property as medium density residential and office. Within the C1 district, you are allowed to have residential uses above the first floor, But the nature of this project, understanding there are townhome buildings individually designed with no ground floor, office, as well as the senior facility and the assisted living memory care facility, our ordinance allows for creative type designs and a planned environment. unit Development so this it is acceptable for the applicant to apply for this but obviously a plan unit development goes before the zoning Board of Appeals and ultimately the City Council for consideration to consider whether It's appropriate in this area or not. I think the other point of record that it's important to understand is that You know prior to 2018 to see one district did allow residential uses of multifamily as a permitted use within the district. So prior to 2018, the property could have developed going through the platting process with apartment complexes up to 15 dwelling units per acre. When we updated the zoning ordinance in 2018, It would have required what's being requested here, a planned unit development. The property to the south, you know, would have developed prior to 2018 when medium-density residential was allowed on the parcel's hand. I make all that just to make sure that as council considers that the record's clear in regards to the facts and the information under consideration. Don't know if Sarah she was trying to pull up the minutes just because I had it and then I lost it and I was Unable to find it If she has it she can give a little bit of update on the objectors present at the hearing So it looks like midway village spoke in favor of it or had withdrawn their objection and there were six residents that were there To talk against the project. Great. Thank you so much. Just one other point of clarification. Sorry to interrupt You know when this was before City Council in 2021, I do not believe there was any final action by City Council It was ultimately held out and then never brought forward. Thank you for that reminder I knew something happened there and I just want to point out because I have just a little bit I just first I want to clarify this. This is I It's titled Rockford Senior Campus. So the expectation is that it'll be primarily seniors living in these apartments? Is that the expectation? Mr. Cagnoni or Ms. Slade? You know, that's the property owner. So Rockford Senior Campus, LLC, that's the corporation that it would be under. But I would not characterize the apartment units as being focused on seniors. And I just want to say, and then I'm done, because I have had experience in senior living and it was more independent living situations, the rent for those individuals varied between $2,000 and $4,000 on the low end, and then on the high end between $3,500 and $7,500. So I just want to say those are kind of the going rates for senior apartments so that seniors can come out of their homes and live into an apartment and have kind of wraparound services around them. So I'm not saying it's a good price. It gives me a lot of anxiety for them, but it is the reality of the situation that we're in. So I just want to say that. Thank you so much. Thank you. I had alderman Rose and I believe alderman Durkee want to make another comment or did you have a specific comment? occasion that with Midway village Patrick oh, I have an email that Patrick O'Keefe is still concerned about this this project and its effect on Midway village so just a Understand that it just so alderman Durkee has an email saying some concern he did come out and support of it at all meeting. I Alderman Rose. Yeah, I just wanted to, you know, I had just had the opportunity to go to Midway Village. And I was just a little bit surprised that, you know, it was a beautiful day. It was something that you would have thought more people would be enjoying the place. And it just kind of seemed like it just wasn't maybe being utilized as it could be. And so I think, like, a development like this could bring some new life to – that That place where you know people can go for a walk or check out the Vietnam Memorial or or go take pictures or visit the museum I think you know, these are the types of developments that actually bring about more development that bring about more support for the organization's and That surround them and so, you know Midway Village. I think their biggest problem might be that they might have to hire some more staff for their museum and and offer some some more events because that obviously would be something that As an organization we you would probably want more, you know having that problem of more use than Not as much use but I did have a question for staff and then a follow-up on Since it was brought up the last time, the first initial development by the other company, are there some specific key differences to this development versus the previous one that you might want to point out or that might have gotten kind of a city approval for this new development? Mr. Kegnoye? or no i will um attempt to provide the differences i think mr capovella could probably do a better job than i um but my understanding there's been significant changes from the previous development in regards to reconfiguration of the building location overall height of the building making sure that there's amenities brought forward such the clubhouse that support the residents when you When you look at the visual appearance from Garrett, they somewhat have created an internal court versus an exterior court to, I would say, buffer the visual experience from driving by the facility as well as take into some of the past considerations that were made by Midway. Yeah, and so I just wanted to follow up as, you know, when I was, I think it was probably seventh or eighth grade, I think the edge of town was at Rockford University. You know, it was East 8th Street wasn't developed at that point. And so it was really interesting because as you get older and you recognize that more development comes to your town, things change. And you kind of forget the fact that most of East 8th was cornfields. Right. And that area was zoned agriculture. Right. And so I just think it's important for us as a city council to understand that zoning, with zoning comes fluidity, right? Is that as times change, so does that fluidity in a sense that what, you know, Alderman Durkee kind of talked about as a promise from Rockford that this is the zoning. Zoning changes all of the time. And if it did not, we would not have development along East 8th Street. We wouldn't actually have development anywhere because the fluidity of development has a requirement for things to change, for special use permits, for us to take second looks at how a certain area needs to, you know, needs to be developed. needs development. And so I just think it's important for us to have an awareness of that and understand the fact that you know, if we go off the premise that once something is zoned a certain way that it is forever built in that fashion or that it's a promise to someone. I think we're not being really honest with ourselves in a sense that zoning has a certain sense of fluidity to it and that I think this development meets that requirement to where number one, it's not even changing the zoning, it's offering a special use permit for it. And I think that has to be something that needs to be brought up as we have these types of conversations around development. Thank you very much. Thank You alderman frost, you know, I agree with many of the points alderman Durkee raised and I understand the condon He's in especially with respect to us too many constituents You know And he's been there before when the Meijer store came in right and people live behind where the Meijer store was gonna go and I get That this particular parcel of land was owned commercial it would you know if if either the developer that did the large development to the south and west of it and or somebody else like a group of homeowners wanted to buy this area they could have and i guess i mean with respect to midway village i mean i mean for every one time i go into the museum i probably ride the bike path 50 times and when i feel like going a little longer i ride down along garrett lane along this long piece of property and you're behind the home depot behind the slumberland store And the particular homes that are south of Garrett, there's, I'm looking at them after, there's about five streets that run north and south behind there. But the south side of their subdivision borders Argus Drive, which, again, is the back of the Target store and the Hobby Lobby store and the Aldi. So I get it. They're kind of crunched in there. But, you know, on the east side is the Home Depot complex and then Best Buy and everything else. So I think I heard from one person over there the majority of emails I got was the same exact email I don't know who actually authored it one gentleman told me he did he was the author I got 15 emails from this the same email from people that live in the Bella Reserve subdivision and they've been through a Litany of discourse to on what happened behind their subdivision but I mean When you buy behind a big chunk of vacant land, I mean, I don't know what else you really expect. I mean, we can't – I mean, look, I would love for this – it's beautiful to ride by. It's a – 20 some odd acre parcel of Prairie grass, but it was not intended to stay that way as all the rows indicated I mean the intent was not for this to stay vacant green green space forever I mean in a perfect world it'd be nice if you know Midway village would have bought an extent of their bike path or you know, they're they're World War two reenactment zones But they don't want it and so it's for sale someone bought it and You know It's within the zoning. to do it. I mean, again, I think a very legitimate concern is the traffic issue with people exiting. It's already terrible when I go to Home Depot that's where I exit Garrett on the Perryville to go north and it's sometimes you got to make a right turn because it is dangerous there and I'm hopeful that our county will do some sort of study with respect to the intersection and see what can be done. So for those reasons I mean I think In a perfect world, I think it maybe could be used better, but I mean in this particular chance under the zoning that it is I just don't have any problems with what's been proposed to go in there and who knows maybe maybe it won't be that dense But we did on my desk. We had actually I Back in April, we had a strategic planning session on housing and development. And one of the items in here was opportunities to change the Rockford housing landscape. And it says there are several opportunities to improve the housing situation for Rockford. Demand for new housing over the next 10 years is analyzed to be between 3,291 new units. So if this is true, I'm not saying it is, but if the study is true, then we are going to see coming before us probably more special use permits or PUDs for other housing coming forward. And it's difficult to say no when the study indicates that we need quite a bit more housing. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Bailey? Yeah, my question is, I don't live in that area, but I've driven through there. How many rental units do we have in that specific area? I know that across Guilford you have some residential homes, and you have the reserve, and then to the left you have another residential area. Unit so I'm curious to how many apartments do we have in that area if any? Let's get staff first Director lays or mr. Cagnone and want to throw a Thank you your honor I couldn't tell you how many you know Rental units there are in that area And we'd have to define what the area is and To give you that answer Sorry, I would be just guessing. Thank you Alderman to Merck. Did you want to provide a comment? I thought you I'm sorry not alderman to Berg I'm looking at alderman Durkee talking to you Alderman Durkee. Did you have anything you want to state just the comment? There is an apartment complex several apartment units long don't know the street name and It's one block in from Mulford and extends down toward the men's clothing warehouse, that strip mall. There's a large number of units on both sides of the street back in that corner. Thank you. Yeah, I knew of those, but thank you. I don't know the amount of numbers, but it's fairly substantial. Well, yeah, and the reason for that question, I can't support this special use permit because I think that with the – The homes that are in around that area that means that the design needs to be modified I know developers all about the dollars and cents, but I think with what Durkee said about The density I think that's too dense And so I would support it if there was some consideration given to the redesign of looking at town halls Timber Thank You mayor This developer did make some concessions. Is that correct? Yes, mister So some of those and correct me if I'm wrong were is it going to be considered a gated community? Are they literally gonna have a wrought iron fence around it? I'm not certain if there's gonna be a fence around it or or not there is I mean it's developed with the you know, driveways and, you know, on the interior courtyard surrounding the buildings. So it's not a public road through it. They're going to have a walking path now through the property, I take it? Is that another... Correct, there'll be pedestrian system throughout. There's a pool. There's a clubhouse I'm not full of all the amenities within the clubhouse, but there are a number of them Okay, so I mean there are some amenities on there with you know walking path and and pool and clubhouse You know if this was as far as traffic is concerned and I appreciate the the the concerns of the individuals that are immediately in that area that do have some traffic concerns. If this was developed the way it, say, is zoned currently, and you had multiple office units there and maybe some residential duplexes, what have you, But there's going to be traffic there involved as well. I mean, if that was multiple office spaces along that route, there's going to be traffic coming and going in that retrospect as well. So either way, unless this just stays an empty field, any development along there is going to increase traffic. We have many times here on council, Have done and well take for instance the Avon project. We just approved that That is I guess categorized as low income But or what would you categorize it as officially I can't affordable housing affordable housing and But again individuals who have to meet certain criteria jobs Full-time jobs etc. And just need you know, basically a hand up not a handout I am all for that It in this project in particular brings a different aspect to the equation is that it is going to be market rate and I think there is a need not only for individuals in our community that would like to downsize and stay in our community. I think the alternative is many times and too many times I should say, for individuals in our community that would like to stay here in Rockford, have these kind of amenities, have to go into Huntley, other areas outside of our city. This will enable individuals who would like to downsize and stay in our community, stay in your family, have a place to do just that. And I think there is a need for that in our community. I would like to see more of these in our community. And obviously it's not just for us as the... 12th Ward alderwomen asked it's not just for seniors obviously Can be for young bucks like the second Ward aldermen as well So I will be voting for it and support it. Thank you. We're moving along. Is there any other discussion? Turkey Logamon timber frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. No. Bonney. Aye. 12 ayes, 2 noes. Moving right along. Next we have officers' reports. Is there any reports from aldermen? Alderman Toonberg. Thank you, Mayor. A few of us aldermen received an email regarding the lovely roundabout area. And one of the concerns is many people who have had the pleasure to go to the new restaurant in the area, Plume, the old Duraskaller. A great place to sit outside. One of the, I think, one of the best in the city. But yes, you do have to put up with the noise that goes by. It is a tradeoff. I had the pleasure to speak with this individual. And yes, there are some concerns on... noise as far as cars Motorcycles I full transparency. I ride one, but I don't have the neighbor hater pipes on them but so I was gonna just address this to the Chief not really addressed, but just make this where the chief that you know, they're There are concerns in the community with some of these vehicles that are Being excessive in their noise and that does include very much so cars as well So, thank you. Thank you Alderman Rose and alderman burrios sure Just wanted to share a few events coming out that I think some residents might want to look into and attending the first one is Saturday, August 10th, there is the Honor of the Mounds gathering. It's the 26th annual Honor of the Mounds, which is down at Beattie Park. They have a whole host of Native American arts and crafts, speakers throughout the day, sacred fire for prayer, Native American drumming and dancing, Native American food, and living history demonstrations. And this event is free for families. Again, it's at Beattie Park. Saturday, August 10th, and I'm looking at the time. It says 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Just knowing the organization that puts us on, it's the Native American Awareness Committee. They've been doing this event now for 26 years. I think there was a small break in the COVID years, but Just a phenomenal group of people looking to educate people more around our Native American culture, especially the gym that we have down at Beattie Park that has the three effigy mounds and not many places have those. So, Just wanted to share that with individuals. Also, there is Polish Fest coming up on August 11th, which is Sunday. So I know a lot of people like to enjoy that, the food and fun and celebration of Polish Fest. So that is at St. Stanisław Kaska Parish, and that starts today. Mass at 11 a.m. And then the event officially kicks off at 12 p.m. Until 7 30 p.m also, I think there is another event which is the a Rockford Boxing Classic, which is coming up on Saturday. And that, I believe, I don't know the times offhand, but I know that's a big event that's now on its third annual event downtown. If you're interested in boxing, come and check it out. So kind of a fun, friendly, family-friendly events here in Rockford that I wanted to just share with individuals. My last announcement is really a big shout-out to RAC VB and their work John growing Kristen Paul who are going to be putting an instant new our install on Huffman Boulevard And they will be doing the reveal on that on eight one five day. So Drive by Huffman Boulevard check out the new public art piece there and I and enjoy the new art along Huffman Boulevard. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Barrios. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to thank you, especially you, Mayor, and City Council, public work, and all the staff that was able to put a program together with LT Construction. Between June and July in the 11th war, they did almost 14,000 square feet. That's a big progress. Another thing, TANK is working really, really hard with our kids, teaching them how to work. hard for their money but it is so nice to see prague in our wars and i really thank you major and city council to approve these programs and our engineer that coordinating all these jobs really really great job thank you thank you alderman bonnie oh sorry there you go um i just wanted to talk for a minute about something that i brought to council about this time last year which was uh packet of photographs that showed the decline into deplorable conditions at Versailles Apartments on East State Street in the 14th Ward. A complex that as the name implies, you know, named after the French palace was once considered, you know, the pinnacle of luxury rental housing in Rockford and what it has become. And just to update the council, there's been a lot that has transpired since then, really a full court press put on it by our fire department and building department that led to a comprehensive inspection that ended up with citing of the absentee landlord for 45 different code violations. That then progressed to an administrative hearing. which occurred earlier this year at the beginning of the year as part of an agreed order there's a record of one hundred thousand dollar fine against the current landlord and I wanted just last week we had a meeting to update residents and where we are so I wanted to thank everybody who and staff who has helped bring it this far realizing that especially having listened to the residents there's still work to do that includes uh administrator cagnoni and uh the mayor who sat through two hours a two hour long meeting and listened to the extreme frustration that still lingers with the residents and despite the progress that's been made because of um you know the work that uh may still need to be done but especially i wanted to thank pre-state legal services for um attending the meeting and speaking to the residents about what their rights are as tenants and in you know what they you know what they may have to accept and what they don't have to tolerate and it's just been a it's been a long difficult process and it's not over or probably maybe even close to over but it um It's been a that prairie state Legal services told them all that they should commend themselves for having gotten this this far and Prairie State was also Impressed startled by the fine that has been issued against this landlord. And so again, I just want to I It's been a it's been a big effort over a whole year now and Thank everybody who's been involved in helping get us this far. Thank you all the warm weeks I just wanted to Speak a little bit about the forward for fun program That we have through the city of Rockford. I remember having a conversation prior to this coming about and and wanting to see more events in the community and I appreciate you mayor McNamara for helping work through all of those kinks and really help implement bringing that program and the reason why I bring it up is because I had a resident come that had just noticed there were a lot of new faces moving into her neighborhood and so what she wanted to do instead of just you know She wanted to get to know the individuals in her neighborhood and I think that was the whole reason why this whole program was brought About and I'm super proud to see all of the big events that are happening the festivals and fairs and all that are supported through Forward for fun But I also want to just remind everyone kind of the reasons why this was brought out was to really get neighborhoods and communities to And about and block parties and coming together So it was really nice to see that and just want to remind everybody out there They're forward for funny for forward for fun money for some of us still around Some of us might not have any but some of us still do so take advantage of that Resonance of the twelfth ward. Thank you. All the wrong front. Thank you. I just wanted to Just say one thing, well, a couple of things. Wanted to remind people of our informational session that is taking place on Wednesday, August 7th at 6 p.m. at Orton Keys Community in the community room. um this is a collaboration between commissioner valerie hansard of the 18th district alderwoman gabrielle tarina myself and alderman jeff bailey our invited guests are the city of rockford human Health and Human Services Department, the City of Rockford Public Works, the Fire Department, ComEd, Four Rivers Sanitation Authority, the NAACP will be there to do voter registration. Rockford Promise will be there to talk about their program. Rockford Public Library will be there. People can sign up for a library card as well as we will have the Winnebago County Health Department the YMCA and the University of Illinois extensions, SNAP and 4-H. Please join us, come, learn more about what the county and city has to offer and speak with your representatives. I'm very pleased with that collaboration. Next, oh, everyone is welcome. Even if you don't live in those areas, everyone is welcome. Next, this one is really important for the 6th Ward. I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank city administrator Ty Cagnone and interim public works director Tim Hinkins and the city team, everybody that was involved in the sidewalk repair that was next to the beauty supply store on 11th Street, that had been I don't know what happened to it, but it had been a mess for a few years. And I just wanted to thank you all for getting that done. And specifically, I would like to thank Pablo Solazar, Solaris, Solaris. I'm sorry, not Solaris, Solaris. According to the interim director, Hinkins, Mr. Salarez does an excellent job running our entire sidewalk program, workforce development program, and downtown streetscape program all by himself. And so I thank him. You all really did an excellent job. It looks good. People have reached out to say how much they appreciate it. They don't have to walk in the street when they get to that area. They don't have to get off the sidewalk and go into the street when they get to that area. So thank you and appreciate it. And that's it for now. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bailey. Yeah, I just want to comment on my colleagues' comments about noise at the Plum Restaurant. It's good. It reminds me of Chicago and Cleveland having the noise go by the restaurant, so that's a good thing. The other thing that I want to report on is that I've been working very closely with the Healing School Framework. Lewis Lemon, I've had several meetings with Principal Alicia Jones. talking about different ideas and innovations. I'm in the process of trying to recruit people from the community to participate with the help that they need there at Lewis Lemon. So I just wanted to share that with my colleagues here on staff. If you know of any volunteers that want to help out at Lewis Lemon, please have them contact me or the principal because we need all the help that we can get with the Healing School framework. Thank you. Thank you. Other updates? I'm seeing none. Just want to remind you that our Alderman Berger. I just want to echo to April that sidewalk, well, once we no sidewalk for more than two years. So I was grateful to see something happen in their area. And thank you for the coordination of our public work. Thank you. Thank you. Lots of compliments to Public Works tonight, which is great. Thank you, Interim Director Hinkins. Also, I believe next week or the following week, sometime in the next two weeks, City Council will get an entire update, kind of that mid-year update that we typically provide you here at City Council, so you can look forward to that. Sergeant Tillman was here accepting the National Night Out Proclamation with Officer Murphy. Just want to remind everyone 530 to 830 is National Night Out and that is free, open to the public. Want to have as many people there as possible so that's tomorrow night 530 to 830. Really our officers do a great job every day But it's if you haven't been would just urge that you do come on down to the city market pavilion It's a great opportunity to meet nearly all the departments of the city and so many other organizations But also get to know the officers who are out there every day Last thing is I just want to say a thank you to our staff They're Emily Schmidt and the mayor's office of domestic and community violence prevention has been organizing for the last several weeks An educator summit it'll be our seventh annual educator summit this year summit was actually sold out It'll have at least 300 attendees starting Tuesday and we'll go through Wednesday and and they have national speakers coming in to speak with the teachers, really providing education and training, especially in how to address children who have been impacted by some form of trauma. And so it's just a great effort that that department and portion of the office has put together and wanna say thank you to them. Next, we are going to move to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, nothing under code and regulation committee, and we will go to finance and personnel committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the water bid for the Cornell Art and Performing Arts Center exterior facade improvements to burgland construction. in the amount of $2.395 million. This is estimated to be completed in 2025. The funding sources are the DCEO TAP grant, the RIF TPI grant, Friends of Coronado, and the Redevelopment Fund. Number two, the committee recommends approval of a bid for the fuel system modernization to Stenstrom Petroleum of Rockford in the amount of $1,394,477. It is estimated to be completed in 2025. The funding source is the Equipment Fund Operating Budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a bid for Public Works Materials of Northern Illinois Services. current contracting rock road companies and n track group for an estimated annual of 200,000 based on unit pricing the contract duration is August is through August 31 2025 the funding sources are various departmental operating budgets Number four, the committee recommends approval of award bid for citywide street repairs group number three to NTRK in the amount of $744,224.32. The contract duration is through October 2024. The funding sources are the 1% infrastructure sales tax and the parking fund. 5. The Committee recommends approval of a bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group No. 4 to Rockwell Companies in the amount of $1,358,633.17. The contract duration is through October 25, 2024. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. 6. The Committee recommends approval of a bid for Group 30 Demolition Package to NTRK in the amount of $80,300. For properties located at 912 North Day, 1026 16th Avenue, 1210 8th Street, and 2946 Kinsey Street. The funding source is the Community Development Block Grant. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of a reward of RFP to SCADA Consulting and Support Services to enhance network relationships. ENHANCED NETWORKS AND CONCENTRIC INTEGRATION IN AN ESTIMATED AMOUNT OF $150,000 BASED ON UNIVERSAL PRICING. THERE IS A ONE-YEAR CONTRACT WITH FOUR POSSIBLE ANNUAL EXTENSION OPTIONS. ANNUAL PRICE ADJUSTMENTS FOR CPI WILL BE CONSIDERED CONTRACTED UNIVERSAL ONLY. THE FUNDING SOURCES ARE THE WATER FUND OPERATING BUDGET. 8. The Committee recommends approval of a joint purchasing agreement for Dell servers and storage to Dell in the amount of $55,000.66. This is a one-time purchase. The funding source is the Information Technology Fund Operating Budget. Number nine, the committee recommends approval and award of engineering services for risk and resilience, oh, excuse me, assessment and emergency response plan, five-year review and revision to engineering enterprises in the amount of $49,574. The contract duration is through September 30, 2025. The funding source is the Water Fund Operating Budget. 10. The Committee recommends approval and award of professional services for commercial advanced metering infrastructure design and bidding to Strand Associates in the amount of $128,000. The contract duration is through May 30, 2025. The funding source is a water replacement and improvement account. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the Award of Architectural Services Agreement to Construction Period Services for Coronado Performing Arts Center exterior restoration to Wisjani Elster in the amount of $130,000. The contract duration is the 2024-2025 construction period. The funding source is the Redevelopment Hotel Motel Fund. I place these 11 letters before you. Thank you. We have 11 items before us. Any discussion? Burke, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarania. Aye. Frunty. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next we're going to go to new business. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Wilkins. Aye. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is an ordinance approving an amendment to the 2024 Workforce Development Initiative Agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction in the amount of $150,000. This additional amount would bring the total Workforce Development Program value to $675,000. The funding source is revenue replacement through the American Rescue Plan Funds. Thank you. Any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion. Alderwoman Prenti. Thank you, and I know we've already passed some of this. I just would like to kind of know how How it's working out how the folks doing yeah absolutely Mr.. Hankins do you want to provide a little quick update on the LT construction program sure it's it's uh Been very successful so far the graduates have full-time jobs in the Union out there I think it's a a Was it eight out of ten? I think eight out of every ten or something like that. I don't know the exact statistic, but it's overwhelming going forward into a future career. I can also add, Alderman Prunty, I had the opportunity to meet with Pastor Tank just recently. maybe three weeks ago four weeks ago and just talking about this year's group uh he's always very proud of every group but he thinks this group is moving the fastest getting the information obtained quicker and just doing an ex excellent job i mean one thing that shows you how good it's doing is i think every year we've had this program we've had to come back before you and say we need more money to keep them working um they just continue to work at an incredible pace. This year it's a little bit faster than most because a lot of the places that are there working is around our parks, as you saw in the 12th Ward, so you don't have those driveways that may stop or stall them or slow them down. I shouldn't say stall, slow them down a little bit, but he was incredibly proud of the group this year, for sure. Alderman Berrios, Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Your Honor. Okay, so you see that this program is working? And I would like to see more programs like this to cover all the wars, to help our streets and our sidewalks to move forward for improvement. Thank you. That's the time. Just so everyone recalls it's not the same as the streets and the sidewalks, but when we approved a think big program That included a workforce initiative, but on vertical construction not the horizontal alderman Hoffman Thank You mayor No, I don't know if this is 100% true and so I'm going to look to Hinken and mr. Hinkins to verify but I'm told that one of our people was female and and she's been hired by the unions and is now one of the first female cement layers in our city. That was last year. That was last year. Absolutely. That is true. And now this year I think there's two. We now have a female cement layer. And this year I believe we have two females. Two? Oh, two altogether? This year we have two females on the work crew. Last year we just had one and was hired and did an amazing job. Any other discussion? We had that one item before us. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logaman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one an ordinance approving the request for authorization to place for sale the city on parcel located at 721 South 3rd Street number two in ordinance approving the request for authorization to place for sale the city on part parcel located at 821 Oakley Avenue number three in ordinance establishing and no parking anytime except paratransit restriction on the south side of City View port from once 55 feet east of Eagle Drive Number four, an ordinance approving the modifications to the C of Rockford Code of Ordinances for Chapter 27, Trees and Shrubs. Number five, an ordinance approving the annexation of 30XX, 3030, and 3036 Cirrus Avenue. Number six, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store in a C4 Urban Mix Uzone District at 1313 Broadway. Number seven, an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink. conjunction with restaurant and video gaming terminals in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 2019 South Main Street number eight an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum pervious surface ratio from zero point four to zero point six five and our one single-family residential zoning district at 1719 post Avenue number nine in ordinance approving a special use permit for planning a development for six family residential and units in the r3 multifamily residential zoning district at 6002 fate and drive number 10 ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum permitted fence height from 6 feet to 8 feet and 8 in a rear yard and R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3 John's woods Drive number 11 an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum square foot is permitted for two wall signs from 240 feet to 305 square feet variation to increase the maximum permitted height for directional signs from 6 feet to 9 feet 8 inches of variation to increase the maximum permits for footage or directional signs from 10 square feet to 34 square feet and variation to allow to interchangeable wall cabinet signs in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 7801 east state street number 12 an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for accessory structures from 720 square feet to 988 square feet are one single family residential zoning district at 1239 harlem boulevard lastly number 13 an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of 240 apartment units clubhouse and a three-story assisted living memory care facility consisting of 136 beds and a c1 Office district by 66 54 Garrett Lane. Thank you Thank you all the woman Trina council 13 items before us any additional discussion on those items alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor It's just a matter of clarification Item 9 I voted no on committee report on b10 and b10 Will be supporting this I just misread it so just there's no there's no confusion I'll be supporting that so there's an error on my part and the other vote. Thank you, sir Thank you any other discussion clerk. Could you please call the roll turkey? Logoman timber frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach I Mario's makes Bailey Bonnie I'm one through six 14 eyes item 713 eyes items 8 through 11 14 eyes and 12 13 eyes item 13 12 eyes Thank you next we're gonna go to finance and personnel alderman frost Number one is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Township for edge book base for water main replacement The preliminary cost for the city and township to work together is $3,412,596. The final cost will be based on final quantities as detailed in the agreement. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account. I place this one matter before you. Excellent. Council, any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tubert. Aye. Ross. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Rose. Beach. Aye. Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 14 eyes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion we have a second anyone want to discuss it. No, okay all those in