Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Prenti. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Meeks. Here. 12 present. Excellent. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on June 7, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 next is there a motion to approve the Journal of proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on June 14th 2021 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign excellent both are approved
 i've already done proclamations uh we'll move to public hearing and alderman alderwoman tarina is going to conduct our public hearing thank you so the notice of this hearing was given by publication in the rockford register star on july 14th wait i'm sorry let me backtrack a public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 illinois compiled statutes
 511-15.1-3 for the agreement to annex for the following property, 4274 Antelope Drive.
 Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on July 14, 2021. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, August 2, 2021, at 530 in the Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall, located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed pre-annexation agreement for 4274 Antelope Drive.
 are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre-annexation okay no comments are there any questions or comments from the public no comments and okay so since we have no questions or comments for both we will um the hearing is now closed
 Thank you. Thank you all the woman Trina next we'll move to petitions and communications We have nothing under planning and development committee. So we'll move the coding regulation committee and that is you again all the woman You will be hearing from me a lot this evening
 So our first item, there's five, six items. We have a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney regarding the 2021 contract between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. Memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager, Permits and Special Events regarding upcoming special events, which include the Rock River Food Truck Fest, Crew City Brew,
 screw city beer festival churchill grove annual garage sale and tour de north end another memorandum for mike hackinson land transaction officer regarding a request for authorization to grant easement to four river sanitation for 15 city-owned vacant properties traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on august 11 2021
 And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on August 23rd, 2021. Item number 5 memorandum from Mike hackinson. Land transaction officer regarding the proposed sale of 81 various city owned surplus properties and item number 6, memorandum from Scott capavilla. Planning and zoning manager regarding the final plot of high crest center subdivision. Thank you next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman frost.
 thank you your honor um first we have a memorandum from kyle saunders our public works director regarding city comment agreement for north main street from uh auburn street to riverside boulevard uh the edson street burial this will be referred to finance the personnel committee number two is a memorandum from lisa warren head start director regarding an agreement with first student for head start bus transportation services for the 2021 through 2022 school year this will also refer to finance the personnel street
 Number three is a memorandum for Jennifer Jagger community services director regarding the acceptance of the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois grant award This will also be referred to finance the personnel committee. Thank you. Thank you. So we've already done public speakers So we'll move to new committee reports. We have no new committee reports under planning and development We'll move to code and regulation and back to alderman alderwoman Torino. Thank you your honor so I have
 14 items I'd like to place up for approval. Number one, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for zoning map amendment from C1 Limited Office Zoning District to R1 Single Family Residential Zoning District at 6684 Newburgh Road. Item number two, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on the building on a C1 Limited Office Zoning District at 1238 East State Street.
 item number three committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on a building in a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 765 north madison street
 Item number four, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a text amendment for section 80-009-D. All properties and commercial and residential districts with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots legally established shall conform to the regulations contained in section 50-013-A of this ordinance by November 1st, 2023.
 Nothing in this provision allows illegally established non-conforming parking lots and driveways to remain. Item number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the front yard along 20th Street from four feet to six feet in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 2343 16th Avenue. Item number six.
 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from c2 limited commercial zoning district to r2 two family residential zoning district at 10 21 12th avenue
 item number seven committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on a building in a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 513 east state street number eight committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from i-1 light industrial zoning district to c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 700 south main street
 Number 9 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval. For the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and an outdoor seating area in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6521 and 6565 Lexus drive.
 Number 10 item excuse me committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in an outdoor seating area in a c2 Limited commercial zoning district at 730 North Lyford Road item number 11 committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval Requiring that traffic at on 4th Street be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with 22nd Avenue. I
 number 12 committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish residential parking on the south side of park avenue from north church east to the alley 13 committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a three-hour parking on the south side of park avenue from north court street to 90 feet east of the north court street thus repealing a portion of the existing parking restriction
 Of no parking anytime on the South side of park Avenue from North court street to 150 feet East of North court street. Woo. That was a, that was a tongue twister. And I don't know where 14, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish residential parking. On both sides of north church street from park Avenue to west Jefferson street. Oh, we got three more, four more. I said 14 before, but I meant 18, I meant 18 items actually.
 Committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval that traffic on David Drive be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with Charlotte Drive item 16 committee recommends Sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a mid block pedestrian crossing on Hunter Avenue approximately 380 feet north of Charles Street 17 the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish residential parking on both sides of Park Avenue from North Court Street to North Church Street and
 item number 18 zoning board of appeals recommends approval for a special use permit for a drive-through in conjunction with a fast food restaurant in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1680 north alpine road and 4420 high crest road all done uh so i need to do anything actually okay great finished okay all right
 No, thank you. So, Alderman, we have 18 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 18 items? Alderman Logan?
 I'd like to move to lay over item 18. I've had a few constituents just reach out to me as far just citing some traffic concerns with regards to the 1680 North Alpine Road, but just like a little more time to liaise with the local residents there and the applicant Over the next week or two 18 if there's a motion to lay over is there a second? I
 We have a motion, we have a second, so that automatically lays over. So we have 17 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 17 items? Other woman, Terina. I had a question about item number 10. I remember reading that they wanted, that Cracker Barrel was looking to be, the rest of the restaurants in the area had liquor licenses, so in keeping with the rest,
 They wanted to attain one as well. Do they actually intend to serve alcohol? I'm asking because that's traditionally a kind of a breakfast restaurant.
 So I'm just want to verify why we actually need a liquor license. Mr. Captain. Alderman Tarina, is this something they're doing? They started in Tennessee where they're headquartered and they're starting to morph into the state of Illinois. And it's just a natural progression to come to bring a liquor license to Rockford. They're only projecting 3 to 4% of their sales would be alcohol. But they do serve breakfast all day, but they also have a lot of
 a home style meals as well throughout the lunch and dinner. Thank you. Is there any other discussion on the 17 items that we have before you? Alderman Prunty. Thank you. I don't have a specific item, but I was just wondering if I could get the number of murals that we have approved this year. We certainly can.
 Just you want those that are approved this year or do you want all that are in the city? Well, I'm going to be taking pictures. I'm going to be taking pictures, so whatever you can give me is great. We can certainly do that. Any other questions, discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Staying on two. Bogeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No one. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Item number 1, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes. 1 abstain. Item 3, 12 ayes. Item 4 and 5, 11 ayes. 1 no. Items 8 through 17, 12 ayes. Thank you. Next up, we'll move to Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 uh number one in the committee recommends approval of vouchers the amount of six million five hundred and sixty six thousand seven hundred and one dollars and sixty two cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting held on july 26 2021 number two the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the rockford park district for camp hope the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i place these two minutes before you
 Thank you Alderman Frost. There's two items before you Alderman. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. 12 ayes.
 Thank you. Next, we have officers' reports and just two quick items. One is we do have National Night Out, which is tomorrow, Tuesday, August 3rd. All aldermen, all citizens are invited. It's at Blackhawk Park, 101 15th Avenue, and you can enter on Christina Street.
 Next is as we did last week or as the Fire and Police Commission performed last week with the finalists for the police chief position. This Wednesday, there is a live question and answer with the four fire chief finalists. You can find all of those details on the City of Rockford's website where we've dedicated a page to the police and fire search.
 You can also find all of their resumes and other information about when the Fire and Police Commission meets, all located on the City of Rockford's website. And also you can find the details for tomorrow's meeting through the City of Rockford social media. Is there any other aldermen who would like to have reports? Alderman Logan.
 Yeah, I just want to talk. I had a pretty good outing with Fire Freighter John Larson, did a little ride-along with Rockford Fire, learned a lot. And I think it's, I mean, I would recommend, certainly recommend it, and I'm sure the Rockford Fire Department would definitely allow any other further ride-alongs because there's a lot of behind-the-scenes work.
 You know just tons of behind the scenes work that our firefighters do that is very it's beneficial for us to Understand and realize so I appreciate the Rockford Fire Department for receiving me a couple weeks ago. Thank you mayor Thank you any other officers reports alderman Durkee. Yeah, thanks your honor. Um, just a couple of things I read the editorial in the Roger register star
 over the weekend about the delta variant i know you're one of the authors and i i understand the overarching point of the article and before i review some of the stuff just so it's very very clear i believe in vaccinations um always have growing up we had i had some distant relatives with polio i've seen polio overseas medically
 And I understand what happens to people when they are not vaccinated. So I'm a big advocate of vaccines. I understand some people's hesitancy. But there was a couple of points in the article that were concerning, and one of which basically the article stated that.
 When we began all this, we were trying to stop the spread of the virus. And that's not really what we were trying to do. We were trying to flatten the curve. There's no way to stop the spread of the virus. COVID is here, it'll mutate just like the flu, it's not going away. And as we learn more and more about the virus, as we can change possibly vaccines and treatments, we'll get a better handle on it.
 And I'm confident that we'll do that medically. There's now treatments for people as they've been exposed before they land up in the hospital, they're under investigation.
 I don't quite know where that sentence came from. It seems like we've moved the goalposts. We were trying to flatten the curve, not stop the spread. Can't stop the spread. But more concerning was a statement in the article where the Delta variant was referred to, quote, a far more contagious and dangerous than the original virus.
 I understand the theories behind the contagious element whereupon people infected with the Delta variant carry and harbor more copies of the virus. But the comment of dangerous has no basis in that. I don't know which one of the authors I'm assuming, Your Honor and Chairman Chiarelli, not doing that for a living, that the author of that
 Came somewhere from the health department. There's absolutely no data to suggest that the Delta virus The Delta variant is more deadly than the Alpha even though there's a difference between being spread easy and being Causing more harm to an individual the three studies that people are quoting two studies that people are quoting is a study speak into your mic and
 I'm sorry. Thank you. Everyone at home wants to hear what you're saying. The was a study in India comparing a the viral and that's where the Delta virus variant came from. Basically, you and they also use a vaccine we don't use.
 And if anybody knows the demographic of India, it's an extremely poor country with very poor access to health care. They have lousy air, people with a lot of respiratory disease, and it is not comparable to the United States. Yes.
 None, I I'm stunned that people would use that the other is a study that came out of Scotland with somewhere over 130 people that was tried to be published in a peer-reviewed article didn't make it and it landed up only as a letter in The journal Lancet these these types of things are forming the basis to to cause Fear I am I have no idea why I
 England is the one of the best studies right now and the Delta variant the case fatality rate is less than 1% this is the England data anybody wants to see it it's available for publication I mean it's available in their publication the death rate for the Alpha the case fatality rate for the Alpha merit variant was 2% the current death rate for the Delta is 0.3% in England and
 They spiked and now they're on their way down. So I don't understand, that's their health data. So where this comment that the delta is more dangerous, I really don't get it. This is our current, this is the United States. This is CDC data. This is in February. These are by age group. This is age of 65 and above with most people succumb to the disease.
 This is in February. Here's our spike as of last week. It's down here presumably Delta variant Okay, I have no idea who put that in the paper and it's not true And so if we're gonna address our community and if we're gonna threaten Re-upping mitigation. I really call upon the Health Department to use good data and to stop using terms like a more dangerous variant so
 It bothered me a little bit, and we're going back to school, and the same thing is going to happen to school children. CDC data showed that approximately 600,000 Americans have tragically died from this virus with a COVID diagnosis. Right now in the United States, 335 children, unfortunately, have died of this virus under the age of 18, and they just had COVID as a diagnosis code on their record.
 It's unclear from the CDC data whether or not they succumb to it. This data is also verified from a Johns Hopkins study.
 I understand, I understand we have to attack this virus. I understand the tragedy that that is involved with it and I understand medically. How we need to attack it, how we need to vaccinate people and encourage them to. Do all sorts of things get their body mass index down to get their blood pressure under control and do all that. But we don't need.
 Is somebody to state that this delta variant is more dangerous than the alpha? There's no science right now. It may evolve. It may come to the point where, yeah, it looks like the delta variant may harm more people. But right now it's not. The vaccinated, the current vaccine.
 As far as breakthrough vaccinations, according to the CDC, July 19th, 4,072 vaccinated Americans have been hospitalized with symptomatic breakthrough infections of COVID.
 Of 161 million who've been vaccinated, that's a breakthrough hospital hospitalization rate. It's not a death rate, a case fatality rate. It's a breakthrough hospitalization rate of less than 0.003%.
 Better still, it's unfortunate, but still only 849 of those patients, unfortunately, have succumbed to the disease, which you all know mostly have not been vaccinated. I'm sorry. These these data are people who've been vaccinated, but the death rate from those breakthrough infections is 0.005 percent. OK, the alarmists need help.
 to really forego what they're doing and educate people properly about disease. And actually, quite frankly, stop politicizing this disease. And I hope our community, our health director and our health officials will step up and actually consider some of the data that's out there. This data, like I showed you, is all available, but it's not being discussed.
 So thank you, Your Honor. I know I bloviate about this every now and then, but I had to address the comment regarding the Delta variant. Thank you, sir. Yeah, no, you certainly did. So just to be clear, I wrote it, and I said dangerous, not deadly. So big difference. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'd like to congratulate one of my Third Ward constituents, Curly Thompson. He's going to be formally installed this Sunday as commander of American Legion post-340. So anybody who knows Curly, he is a big advocate of downtown especially. Sometimes he tells our mayor and myself to step aside because he is the true mayor of downtown. Yeah.
 So at 2 o'clock is the social hour down there at the American Legion on South Main. 3 o'clock is the installation. Apparently Celeste Latham, the 12th District Commander, will be doing the installation or doing the ceremony for Curley, and I was told her husband is the
 Mayor of the big booming thriving metropolis of sandwich, Illinois. So mr. Mayor, I don't know if you and him are tight But he's gonna be there as well possibly Thank you Alderman frosted you have your hand raised. No any other reports would tell you I had the opportunity to go to a
 Winnebago County's senior living facility and behind it used to be called Winnebago County poor farms poor farm If you have the opportunity go and visit The the grave sites there more than 600 men women and children who were buried there I believe and don't hold me to the exact year off the top of my head. I believe it was 1853 to 1954
 really remarkable and read the history of it a county board member Goral Angie Goral provided just a really wonderful history of it I'll see if I can get it and send it to all of you because it's really interesting things right here on North Main any other comments all right we'll move on both of the appointments under appointments laid over both remain laid over until August 18th
 Then there is no item under for motions and resolutions. There's no item under planning and development committee So I'll move the code and regulation committee all the woman Trina Thank You mayor I have another five items. I'd like to place up for approval, please number one the committee recommends the approval of an agreement to annex to the city of Rockford in exchange for water connection for the property located at 42 74 antelope Drive and
 The committee recommends approval of the Tough Mudder Chicago. This event is scheduled for Saturday, August 14th and Sunday, August 15th, 7 to 4 both days. And it will be held at the Chicago-Wyford Airport. Item number three, the committee recommends approval of the Ramp River Run. This event is scheduled for Saturday, August 21st from 6.30 AM to noon. And it will take place at 202 Market Street at Water Street.
 Item number four, the committee recommends approval of the Working Patty Party. This event is scheduled for Monday, September 6th from noon to 7 p.m. and will be located at 202 Market Street at Water Street at City Market Pavilion. And then item number five, the committee recommends approval of the Greenwich Village Art Fair and IDOT Resolution. This event is scheduled for Saturday, September 18th from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and the location will be 711 North Main Street, Riverfront Museum Park.
 Excellent. Thank you. So we have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? I believe Alderman Kroenke had a motion she was going to read on one of these items. Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Printy. Sure. Thank you.
 I make a motion to amend the proposed resolution to state the following with regard to the event dates for the Tough Mudder event. The Tough Mudder event will be held at the Chicago Rockford Airport to Airport Circle on the following dates and time. Saturday, August 14th at 7 a.m. through Sunday, August 15th.
 At 4 p.m. Thank you. So we have a motion before us. Is there a second to amend? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion on the amendment to item B? We'll just take that first. All those in favor of that amendment say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay, so now we have five items before you. Item 2 has been amended for the, amended. Is there any discussion on those five items?
 alderman bonnie thank you hi maybe i'm asking the obvious question what's the difference between the amendment we just approved and what's was originally before us
 So before us, it was from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. each day, and now it's from 7 a.m. Saturday through, or excuse me, from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both days as if it closed at 4 p.m. both days, but it doesn't. They have some overnight stuff, so it's from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.,
 What I'm reading says 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. I don't know. It does. All right. So what I said before was that it was 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. each day. Each day. This, what Alderman Prunty read in, says it starts on Saturday at 7 a.m., goes all the way through the night. Ah, okay. You might want to do that late at night. I don't know, but it ends at 4 p.m. the next day. Thank you. Any discussion on those five items? Alderman Frost, do you want to do it late into the night? No.
 So we have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Yerke. Logoman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Nix. Bonney.
 Excellent. Next up, we'll go to Item C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the 2021 citywide pavement marking to countrymen in the amount of $58,524.95. The project is estimated to be completed in 2021. The funding source is the motor fuel tax funds.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the demolition of 810 South Main and cleanup of 818 South Main to N-Track in the amount of $24,900. The funding source is the general fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the amended resolution for improvement on the Illinois Highway Code, which requires council authorization for the use of motor fuel tax funds for U.S. Business 20 from Mill Road to Buckley Drive for an amended reduced amount of $575,000 in the original amount.
 Requested amount was 1.5M dollars number 4, which goes in tandem with number 3. the committee recommends approval of the supplemental resolution for the improvement under the Illinois highway code. Which requires council approval for the use of motor fuel tax funds for city wide general maintenance 2021 in the amount of 925,000 dollars. I placed those 4 items before you Thank you. Alderman for also alderman. We have a.
 Four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Frunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Devaney? Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. We'll move to new business. There's nothing under planning and development, so we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Tarina.
 All right. All right. I have 18, another 18 items to place before you. Number one, an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from C1 limited office zoning district to R1 single family residential zoning district at 6684 Newburgh Road. Number two, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C1 limited office zoning district at 1238 East State Street. Number three.
 in ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 765 north madison street item number four in ordinance approving a text amendment for section 80-009-d all properties and commercial and residential districts with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots legally established how conformed to the regulations contained in section 50-013-a of this ordinance by november 1st
 2023 nothing in this provision allows illegally established non-conforming parking lots and driveways to remain item number five an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height
 In the front yard along 20th Street from 4 feet to 6 feet in the R1 single-family residential zoning district at 2343 16th Avenue. Item number 6, an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District to R2 two-family residential zoning district at 1021 12th Avenue. Item number 7.
 An ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 urban mix use zoning district at 513 East State Street. Number 8, an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from I1 light industrial zoning district to C4 urban mix use zoning district at 700 South Main Street. Item number 9, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by...
 the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in an outdoor seating area in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 65 21 and 65 65 lexus drive item number 10
 in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant in an outdoor seating area in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 730 north lyford road item 11 in ordinance approving that traffic on 4th street be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with 22nd avenue item 12 in ordinance establishing residential parking on the south side of park avenue from north church street east to the alley
 item 13 an ordinance establishing three-hour parking on the south side of park avenue from north court street to 90 feet east of north court street thus repealing a portion of the existing parking restriction on no parking anytime on the south side of park avenue from north court street to 150 feet east of north court street item 14 an ordinance establishing residential parking on both sides of north church street from park avenue to west jefferson street
 Item 15 in ordinance approving that traffic on David Drive be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with Charlotte Drive Item 16 in ordinance establishing a mid block pedestrian crossing on Hunter Avenue approximately 380 feet north of Charles Street item 17 in ordinance establishing residential parking on both sides of Park Avenue from North Court Street to North Church Street and
 And last, but certainly not least, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a drive-thru in conjunction with a fast food restaurant and a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1680 North Alpine Road and 4420 Highcrest Road. Yep. 18 was here. Thank you. So we have 17 items before us as 18 was held out with those 17. Is there any discussion on those 17 items?
 clerk will you please call the roll berkey hogeman hi thunberg frost no one four no one five terena prenti wilkins hoffman beach kinones meeks bonnie
 item number one 12 eyes item number two 11 eyes one abstain item three 12 eyes item number four nine eyes three nose item number five eleven eyes one no item six through seventeen twelve eyes excellent thank you uh next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman frost thank you john number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the rockford park district for camp hope
 Thank you Alderman. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Fonney. Aye. Twelvise. Thank you. We will go to the bearer of bad news, Alderman Kevin Frost.
 I make a motion to convene in the closed session to discuss both labor negotiation matters and pending and threatened litigation matters So there's a motion now, there's a second is there any discussion All those in favor say aye Those opposed. Okay I said normally do a roll call
 Okay, we are back into open session. Clerk, could you please provide a roll call? Durkee. Bogeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Tarina. Got Durkee. Frente. Durkee. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. Here.
 11 present. All right, so we're back in open session. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion we have a second any discussion no discussion all those in favor say aye Those opposed have a great night