Let us pray. Father God, in the name of Jesus, we come to you humbly. We know how. First of all, telling you thank you for another day's journey. We ask you now, Father God, for you to season our thoughts and our words, Father God, as we come together to try to take care of the business of the city. Bless each city official, each elected official, each elected official, each elected official.
 first responder and your citizens of Rockford Father God in our neighborhoods Father God let us come together and make decisions for all our people in Jesus name we pray amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Here. Ross. Here. Herbie. Here. Here.
 Here. You know what I asked? McNally? Here. Sure. Here. We barely need to see what he was worried about. Thank you, sir. I ask for a motion to approve the adjournment of the city council meeting. Second. We have a motion and seeing no discussion. Aye. Those opposed? Motion passes. Next we'll run to the . I saw a tab that's not working. We won't do anything for today. Thank you, Your Honor. I hereby call the public hearing on the proposed motion to approve the adjournment of the city council meeting. Second. I. Motion passes. Next we'll run to the .
 sale of general obligation sales tax alternative revenue bond in the amount not to exceed $23.1 million to order. Pursuant to 30 Illinois compiled statutes 350-1, a public hearing notice must be conducted by the City Council prior to the bond sale. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Times on July 24, 2019. That notice informs citizens of Rockford of the total bonds to be sold, the pledged revenue, and the purpose of the bonds.
 the bonds will be used to construct and equip a convention center a police evidence facility and parking lot improvements are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed bond sale concern no questions your honor the public hearing is hereby adjourned thank you now i'd like to call another public hearing uh i'd like to call a public hearing on the proposed sale of general obligation waterworks system alternate revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed 25.6 million dollars to order
 pursuant to 30 illinois compiled statutes 350 slash one a public hearing must be conducted by the city council prior to the bond sale notice of this hearing was given by publication the rockford times in july 24 2019. that notice informs citizens of rockford of the total bonds to be sold the pledged revenue and the purpose of the bonds the purpose of the bonds is to fund improvements to water meters and related infrastructure improvements
 Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed bond sale? If so, kindly step to the microphone, give your name, address, and make your statement. Any takers? If not, there are no public comments. The public hearing is hereby adjourned. You did a really wonderful job. Thank you. Thank you. Lots of practice.
 So next up, we will move to proclamations, and then we're going to go through petitions, and then we'll do public speakers, and then we're going to get a little off schedule here. So first up, we have proclamations. We have August 2019 will be Winnebago by local month. So if those members would like to step forward. You can enforce. I love it. You guys keep coming. Good to see you. We're up to line number four.
 Talk about feeling intimidated. Talk about pressure.
 Whereas, Winnebago Buy Local is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to promote and support local businesses. There are more than 16,000 registered businesses in Rockford that provide employment for residents, creating jobs for a large portion of our local population. And whereas, buying locally is an investment in our community. For every $1 spent at locally owned businesses, nearly half goes right back into our community.
 And whereas shopping locally is a conscious choice that moves Rockford towards self-sustainability and helps reduce our carbon footprint by reducing the packaging and fuel required to ship products from afar. And whereas local business owners and employees take special pride in their products, businesses or special care in their products, businesses are key partners in helping our community
 remain viable and regularly support local charities and other organizations. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of August 2019 to be Winnebago by Local Month. Would you like to share a few words? Oh, this way?
 um first of all thank you so much for having us here tonight and for giving us this proclamation um when we first started winnebago by local well actually when a lot of people ask me you know how did this get started how did winnebago by local come to be and being that this is our ninth year next year will be a very special year for us but um being that it's our ninth year i think they asked me one because um starting an organization like this is not a traditional hobby for a 22 year old
 And secondly, I think they ask because they see how many businesses are just inspired and connected by it. And how did this kind of very grassroots organization come to be? And I truly, truly believe from the bottom of my heart that local businesses and this community started it. Everything good, everything great that happens, happens because people come together when they see a need. And we saw a need in Winnebago County to have...
 Local businesses focus on collaboration over competition. So the local businesses are part of that. The local government is part of that, as you guys see, that it's important to support local businesses and to support businesses from all over Winnebago County. There's people here from all over the county here tonight. And then the members are a big part of that team. Our members of Winnebago by Local are over 300 now.
 And then we also have our board members, which if any of our board members are here, can you just raise your hand so we can recognize all the hard work and volunteering that you put into this group. We just want to thank you all for making this Winnebago by local month and for supporting your local businesses all year round, not just in August and not just during the holidays. Thank you so much. And thank you, Mayor.
 Okay, and then I just want to recognize the businesses that showed up tonight. I put out a call to the businesses, sent out an email and said, would you like to come while we receive this proclamation? And look how many people came. I think this is our new record for us. So Dana from Laney Bugs Bows, John from Screw City Food Co-op, Heather from Katie's Cup, Steve from Circle of Change,
 Robert from PC Tech to you, Ryan from Vivos Pizza, Zena from Zamudos, Tyler and Julie from Calvary Bookkeeping, Mel from Frameshop, getting a little tongue-tied, John and Jody, I just met Jody, from Maurer Real Estate, Kate from Lucette, Skyler from Culture Shock, Kim from Lally Gag, right, uh,
 Eric from Emergency Muscle Therapy, Courtney and Jake from Rockford Buzz, Kevin from Rocktown Adventures, Emily from Emily Henderson Photography. Thank you all so much for coming here tonight, and me, Lauren Davis. I think you deserve a prize just for knowing everyone's name. So thank you for all the work that you do, and thank you to all of you for making our community so vibrant. Thank you.
 Vance was a nice one. I have a house that's as big as his kid. He was too little to be troubling. We would have got him anyway. You should see him now. Our next proclamation this evening is for National Night Out, and we have Assistant Deputy Chief, I believe, Mike Dulke here, as well as Officer Watson.
 Whereas the 36th annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford, Illinois, to join forces with thousands of other communities across the country in promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts. And whereas the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Park District Police Department are hosting the local National Night Out 2019 at the City Market Pavilion.
 The citizens of Rockford play a vital role in assisting the Rockford Police Department through joint crime, drug, and violence prevention efforts in Rockford. And whereas it is essential that all citizens be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and the impact that their participation can have on reducing crime, drugs, and violence in our own community.
 And whereas police community partnerships, neighborhood safety, awareness, and cooperation are important themes of National Night Out. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, August 6, 2019, to be National Night Out. I know Officer Watson would love to share a few words.
 First of all, thank you for doing this and having us here tonight. We look forward to National Night Out tomorrow night. It is a citywide free event that will be held downtown at the City Market Pavilion from 6 to 9 p.m. Of course, it'll be free food, free activities, fun for the entire family.
 I will say we can't do any of what we do for National Light Out without our community members and the businesses and entities in Rockford that support us and donate things for the event. We absolutely wouldn't be able to do it without those people.
 those donations. We will be doing a backpack giveaway so thanks to Target and some other entities in the community we're able to give away a hundred backpacks tomorrow that will be filled with supplies for kids in the community that need it. We have other businesses that stepped up Nothing Bunt Cakes donated 21 dozen of their little mini bunt cakes for us to give away.
 There are so many other places that I can say thanks to that have really supported us in this. And we look forward to having a great event downtown at the City Market and hopefully get a bigger crowd than we normally even expect down there. So thank you very much, and I hope to see all of your faces tomorrow night, 6 o'clock, at City Market Pavilion. 6 to 9 o'clock. Yep, we'll be down there. Thank you.
 Moving right along we will move to petitions and communications and planning and development committee alderman timber One item committee recommends approval of the development agreement for 134 North Main Street with Joseph James partners LLC The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you That's uh, that's a new committee report. It's not a petition So I don't believe there's any petitions of communications for planning. Sorry, okay
 Sorry about that. I'm always the last person to know sorry, it's not your fault. That one's my fault So my apologies next up we have code and regulation committee alderman Shirely. Thank you your honor I have six items this evening. The first is a memorandum of LaFakiria Vaughn the assistant city attorney Regarding the proposed amendments to chapter 5 article 3 division 10 section 5 through 5 36 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances adult entertainment establishments and
 Number two is our memorandum from Martin bloom the project manager for permits and special events Regarding upcoming special events which includes screw City Beer Festival Greek fest tamale fest for and 2019 fall for Rockford a
 Number three is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, traffic engineer regarding an honorary street name change on the South Madison Street from East State Street to Walnut Street to Mafioli Avenue in honor of Louie Mafioli, fourth generation of the first Italian family in Rockford, president and CEO of Wilson Electric Company.
 Number four is the traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on August 14th 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations committee meeting on August 26 2019 the fifth is a memorandum from Kelly notes injuring engineering operations manager regarding a right-of-way vacation request for 717 John and 706 Salem and number six is
 a proposed intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Public School District 205 for police services and video monitoring and Integration that those will all be referred your honor to the codes and regulations committee. Thank you alderman. Thank you Next up we do have one item under finance and personnel committee and alderman frost will be reading that and
 Thank you, and I just received the packet and I just opened the bid here for the property located at 4XX Short Horseman Street from, it appears to be from Kathy Ulrich, if I'm not mistaken. And the amount of the purchase is $580, so there's a check tender here to the city of Rockford in a personal money order for 10% down for $58.
 So I will give that back to you as the custodian of the money. Thank you very much. I always wish there was more excitement for those bid openings, like drum rolls and like someone in the crowd being like, ah.
 But there wasn't. So we'll keep moving on. Next up, we have public comment. We have three public speakers this evening. And I just remind all three public speakers that you are provided three minutes to speak. And there's microphones in the back left and back right of the council chambers. And our first public speaker this evening is Prof. Yusuf.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 28th chapter, the fifth verse, it says, Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand it fully. What I want to speak about tonight, while the mass shooting is in America,
 Are mass shootings becoming more common? Without a doubt, although their prevalence depends on how mass shootings are defined. A recent Harvard University study that combined FBI data with other statistics concluded that since 2011 the frequency of mass attacks has tripped. USA Today counted 346 mass shootings over a 17-year period, with 1,697 victims, about 20 a year, in the first 239 days of 2016.
 there were 249 mass shootings. It's a bigger problem today than it was 10 years ago, and it will be a bigger problem in the future. Why all the mass shootings? There are many factors, but the most obvious one is the United States' unique gun culture. United States easily has the most guns per capita,
 of any country in the world with an estimated 310,940,125 guns in circulation, roughly one for every American, and weak gun laws in many states. It's not hard for delusional, vengeful people to obtain a semi-automatic handgun or rifle. What drives the shooters? Revenge over real and imagined slights, the desire for attention and fame, the delusion of mental illness all can play a role.
 Almost all mass shooters are male and about 64% are white, 16% black and 9% Asian according to a Mother Jones study. Only 23% have been treated for mental ill. After studying dozens of mass shootings, I concluded that the American dream itself may contribute to the frequencies of these killers. Americans are told that with hard work anyone can be wealthy and successful. When success fails to materialize and men find themselves at the bottom of society, they feel cheated.
 lie to emasculate it in hopeless, and they are real pain. And they are eager to blame that pain on the people around them. Why do they turn to violence? Killing former colleagues, mates, schoolmates, or groups of strangers in a final suicidal spree serves not only as an act of revenge, but as a way of forcing the world to be aware of the killer's inner torment. These very public attacks also give the killer the fame that eluded him in his failed life.
 They fantasize about going out in a blaze of glory. And the United States' fame is revered as an end to itself, even when the notoriety is nigh. Can anything be done? Yes. And I got the solution. Reducing availability of guns in high capacity magazines and identifying criminals and treating mentally ill people who are prone to violence who need help by opening up all
 the mental hospital in the United States. This will help reduce the mass because people will be getting help for their mental illness. Police should watch Facebook. These mentally disturbed people put on Facebook what they're going to do before they even do it. And I also want to say congratulations to my good friend, Mr. Markman, for his retirement. I won't be able to say happy birthday to you next year, but I'm going to say it now. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy
 Happy birthday, Mr. Markman. Happy birthday to you. And God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Unbelievable that you got all that in under three minutes. And happy birthday next year, Mark. Next up, we have Miami Roby.
 Good afternoon. I am Miami Roby from the Rockford area City Art Council's Art Place. And we have been working all summer towards our performances that we have this Thursday and Friday. All of the students in the group have done choreography and dances throughout all of it. And I would like to thank the city of Rockford for supporting it. And we would love to see you guys there at our performances Thursday and Friday. Thank you.
 Would really mean a lot to us all of the profits from there go to all the students who have works all summer and I Have a question for you. Would it be okay if we hand out flyers and stuff to all of the aldermen and women? Absolutely, okay, we can if you hand them up we can grab them and pass them around for you. Okay. Thank you so much Thank you. Thank you Next up we have mr. John tack Brantley. I
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I want to say Proverbs 28, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb can be restated positive. Those who open their eyes to the poor, people will be blessed. If we have others when they are in trouble, when we have others that are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor.
 Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? I want to say one thing that James Comey said. The president has explored the power of racism. The nation's ability to contain it is faulty. America has long had a radical, active, racist suit in the center of our nation's national life. Donald Trump thinks he is stirring it for political benefits.
 he's actually doing more danger. That's the negative thing. What I want to talk about is the positive thing. This past three weeks, we filled out a contract with Six Flags, and Six Flags have blessed us to be able to bring 100,
 people to Magic Wireless. Their regular ticket is $30. Their company tickets are $17. We were able to bring, their charge is only $10. Their beef hot dogs is $5. They blessing us with beef hot dogs, chips and a drink for $5. Well, we're not going to let them go.
 Speaking at City Hall, one of my biggest complaints was always how I need a bus. I need a bus. I need a bus. Well, guess what?
 We have been blessed. The only other organization that ever been Rockford Mass Transit ever gave a bus to was the police department. We are the first renewal turning point program to be able to take 185 people to Magic Waters this Thursday on Rockford Mass Transit bus. Not only do we have Rockford Mass Transit bus, we have the YMCA bus, we have Lutheran High School bus,
 We have both Rockford Housing Authority vans, and we also have my van, and we have our personal van. What we have done was, in order to cover the other 80 people, because the power district covers 60 people, we have donations from all over the community.
 Thanks to speaking here at City Hall. Why you come down here and speak? To talk about what we're doing here in the community. We always talk about the negative. Guess what? Not only are we taking fairgrounds, because that is my stronghold. We got Black Hawk. We got Orton Keyes. We got...
 uh concord we got uh north main i mean auburn manors and the surrounding area we have hispanics we have uh uh uh people from the middle east and we also have of course minorities that is going to be going to magic water then we only charge the parents 10
 The parents have to pay $10. We cover the kids. And this is unprecedented because we need to be showing this, talking about more positive things instead of the negative. My three minutes went that fast? All right. But once again, we want to thank the people that supported us.
 Just briefly, I'm going to circle back to the Arts Place events just so that everyone is aware of the dates and times. So the Visual Arts and Creative Writing Exhibit and Sale is Wednesday, August 7th, 6 to 9 p.m. at the Riverfront Museum Park. And they note that artwork is also for sale at that time. And then the Dance and Theater Show is on Thursday, August 8th,
 at 3 p.m. and one is on Friday, August 9th at 7 p.m. Both of those are held at Nordloff Center and it's $10 for adults, $8 for students. This is where we are going to adjust our agenda quite a bit. I'm gonna ask council with your permission to move through to item Roman numeral eight, four.
 And if you're following along, that is the appointment of Tony Gasparini as alderman of the second ward. Alderman, or Mr. Gasparini, if appointed, would replace Alderman Logeman as the second ward alderman, but also replace Alderman Logeman, who was serving on a number of committees and boards, one being...
 our finance and personnel committee. Uh, so I would first ask, is there any, uh, discussion on the appointment of Tony Gasparini as alderman of the second ward? Seeing no discussion, uh, clerk, could you please call the roll? Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Irvins. Hoffman. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Eight ayes. Excellent. So, uh, now, uh,
 mr gasparini has been appointed he needs to be sworn in so from there i'm going to ask with your permission that we move to roman numeral 12 the swearing in uh where we have our illustrious legal director nicholas myers you know what give me one second i'm gonna get you a microphone
 Okay, Mr. Gasparini, I have the privilege of administering your oath of office to you, so please repeat after me. I, Tony J. Gasparini, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Second Ward Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois, according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Namely, . That's OK. All those are . Not for us to describe. OK, so now that Alderman Gasparini is entirely comfortable in his position, knows exactly where maybe the restrooms are this evening.
 I'm going to ask that we take a brief recess and go back to Finance and Personnel Committee where Alderman Frost will chair that committee. Do I need to take a vote to go into that recess? Is there a motion and a second? We have a motion and a second, and that's it. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? All right. Alderman Frost. I would like to call to order a Finance and Personnel special meeting. Present with us is myself.
 Alderman Hervey and Alderman Gasparini welcome you're gonna get the vote in just a short amount of time after being sworn in So that there's a committee report in front of us is for the approval of the fine reduction request For three five one five East State Street. Is there a motion to approve? Second are there any questions from anyone on the committee? Yes all the hurry with regard to the conditions
 for the fine reduction. First question, is this pre or post the new policy? Did this fine accrue prior to the modified fine reduction policy? So, this is actually coming, the fine itself isn't really subject to the fine reduction policy.
 If we were going to follow the fine reduction policy, we only would have been, I believe, to go down to do about $2,500. The request from the applicant is to go below that down to zero. So staff would have had the authority to reduce it on our discretion. But in order to go to zero, that needs council approval pursuant to the new policy. Okay. And I guess my...
 The question still goes back to the ownership. This was a default. In other words, somebody didn't show. Is that the same owner as now or did that occur previously? It's the same owner as now. The fine was for I think a non-conforming sign. My understanding is that with the sale of the property to the new owner, that will be resolved, the sign will be taken down as well as the whole building.
 the only thing i wanted to request is that we put the same conditions on i didn't see any conditions my report just said that staff recommended approval we typically will say yes it's approved but in this case we're expecting a demolition and a new rebuild
 Coming up. So we're basically saying yeah, we'll take it down to zero for that kind of investment. I agree, but I Would like to see that as a condition that that be done within a certain usually give people six months twelve months That that has to to occur. So I
 We can make that. That's fine. We have already contingent on the sale, but we could also, if you'd like to make a motion to modify that to make it also conditioned upon compliance within six months. Well, typically, well, not for the whole thing if they're going to rebuild, but at least the demolition within six months and that the sale actually.
 be affected. Sure. And that the money be held in escrow until that occurs. Because when there's a transfer like that, typically, if we don't do it, we don't have any authority to, well, we would have to go back and chase it again. Okay. I mean, that's just what we've done previously, and I think it makes a lot of sense. We can certainly, I mean...
 this is of course subject to council approval so if you'd like to see conditions additional conditions made on the fine reduction all it would take is a motion a second and a voting with a committee or council i would move to amend the committee report to require that at a minimum barring some kind of real hardship like
 i don't know something with title that the fine reduction request have two conditions number one that the demolition and removal of the sign with it occur within six months from the date of closing on the sale and um that the ten thousand whatever it was that the fine be held in escrow until that is completed what was it
 I mean look I think am I looking at am I reading this the fine amount is $10,000 staff would without coming to council staff would have had authority to reduce that fine to $2,500 okay so typically that that's what we would have asked for $2,500 okay so the two $2,500 be held in escrow until that is effective this wasn't there's a motion on the floor to make the amendment I'll second the amendment
 Alderman Shirley. So is the amendment for this demolition of the sign and the building both or just the demolition of the sign within six months? I have both. Both. What does six months put us into? Pardon? Into the middle of early March. Is that good? I just wanted to understand if it was both or just the one. And the escrow term. Yeah. Yes, that would be the same escrow term.
 I had a second question related to that property. We should vote on the motion. Vote on the motion, okay. Well, I guess I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, we do have a representative from the cellar here. Maybe you can speak as to the timing, if you'd allow it. Hello. Okay, hi. The situation was the- Sir, can you just identify yourself? I'm Gene Mira, and my sister Joanne and I own the building.
 It was my father's building before that and went into a trust. And they had a little foyer area at that building where the mailbox had been. But since we did not own the business, when that was locked, it stayed that way. And we never received notification until we had the opportunity to have a potential sale.
 My brother-in-law is Jeff Echinger, and he was checking and found out that this lien existed. And the main sign had been taken down right at the time of the closing of the business, which was a freestanding sign. The signs in question here are painted on the windows and an awning that has the name of the preexisting business on it.
 and so we were unaware of it until just recently and that's that's why we're here tonight so i guess if i could ask a question um the uh the request from the alderman to uh complete the demolition within six months yeah that's uh the the closing is uh if everything goes as planned is set for the first of september and uh
 the the new owners are anxious they're there on a good time schedule so I don't think that would be a problem at all thank you thank you thank you so on the pending motion all those in favor indicate by aye aye aye any opposed motion passes Alderman Hervey another question my other question was
 Did the former entertainment business that was there, adult entertainment, did that require, if that's the building I'm thinking of, it's the same one, did that require a special use permit? And if so, is that special use permit still valid? Could someone rebuild another adult entertainment establishment on that site, or would that use die with the demolition of the building?
 So I believe, I'll add to this, but maybe Mr. Franzen can jump in. I don't believe the property's been used for a few years now. So typically after so many months of a non-use of a special use permit that would be vacated. The property is also governed by our liquor license and that would have expired as well. Okay, thank you. Mr. Lurek, could someone identify the name of the business that was there?
 State Street Station, okay. Is that a roller skating rink? Yeah, there's probably some of that. Are there any other questions? And we can vote on the proposal with the amendment. All those indicate by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed? So the matter passes with the amendment procured by Alderman Hervey. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. All those in favor indicate by aye. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you. This meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Okay, we are moving back into open session, and my apologies again to all the aldermen for a little mix-up in the order that we're in this evening. But now that we're back into open session, clerk, could you please call the new roll? Gasparini. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Herbie. Here. Irvins. Present. Hoffman. Here. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Nine present.
 And you did your first vote correctly that you were here. So things are off to a great start. Um, We will move on to new committee reports and planning and development committee And now is the time I should call in alderman. Toomer. Here we are That going out of order threw me off. Uh, we have one item mayor
 The committee recommends approval of the development agreement for 134 north main street with joseph james partners llc The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Excellent. So we have one item before you Is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll gasp reney? tomburg frost hervey irvins hoffman quinones mcneely shirely
 Eight ayes, four no. Excellent, that item passes. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Several items this evening. The first is the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation of no action on the following items. To establish a parking restriction of no parking anytime on the east side of 20th Street from 13th Avenue, thus repealing the existing passenger loading zone restriction from 13th Avenue.
 To 60 feet south of 13th Avenue. B is to establish an all way stop at the intersection of Crosby Street and Highland Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of Crosby Street and Highland Avenue.
 C is to establish an all-way at the intersection of Crosby Street and London Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of Crosby Street and London Avenue. D is to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Crosby Street and Rome Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of Crosby Street and Rome Avenue.
 E is to establish a yield or two-way stop at the intersection of Marvin Street and Green Street. Would you like me to repeat those, Your Honor? If you could. Thank you.
 Number two is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a yield or stop sign at the intersection of Yonge Street and Tacoma Avenue. Number three, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish angle parking on the north side of Willis Avenue from 9th Street to 160 feet west of 9th Street.
 Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to remove the through street designation on Crosby Street from Longwood Street to Calvin Park Boulevard. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 425 South Winnebago Avenue. Or South Winnebago Street, subject to conditions.
 Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the modification of an existing liquor license to allow a full liquor license for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 3135 North Rockton Avenue, subject to conditions.
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink and the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with a bakery cafe at 116 North Madison Street, Suite 118.
 Subject to conditions. Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a religious assembly, funeral home, food pantry, and charitable and non-profit office at 1110 Arthur Avenue. Subject to conditions.
 Number nine, Your Honor, it was requested by the applicant and confirmed by Alderman Durkee that this item be held out until his return. So the chair is holding out item number nine. Number 10, committee recommends approval plat number four of Rockford Landing subdivision.
 Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to section 117 through 5 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, posting handbills and other advertising to allow the advertising on RMTD bus shelters. The legal director should prepare the appropriate ordinances. Number 12, the committee recommends approval of the right-of-way vacation request for the alley north of 107 Springfield Avenue.
 Number 13 the committee recommends approval of the proposed intergovernmental agreement between the Rockford Park District and the city of Rockford for the expansion of police services The legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances on these items your honor and I place them up for passage. I
 Thank you. So there was 13 items before you. Now there's 12 since item nine has been held out. Before I open up for any discussion, I just Alderman Rose reached out to me today as he knew he wasn't going to be here this evening and wanted to voice his support of item number six. I believe.
 Alderman Rose and the owner have been working together to beautify the business and the landscaping and whatnot, and he is in strong support of item number six as it is in his ward. So with those 12 items before you, is there any discussion? Alderman Herbie, and then I'll move to Alderman McMillan. Yes, Your Honor. With regard to item number five.
 I'm sorry, that's just tobacco products. That was a sale of I got it Conflated with the other one. Sorry alderman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor Item 1e the for the two-way stop sign. I'm asking that we lay this over We have a motion to lay over item B 1e. Is there a second second? we have a motion a second so it's automatically laid over and
 Is there any other discussion on the items before you? Seeing no more discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Yes, Brainy. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. That was six, seven, eight. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. No, on seven and 13. Chiarelli. Mayor McNamara. Which items are we looking at? Sorry, it was seven.
 Would be 1 through 13 minus 9. Oh, I'm high for all. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 ayes. Item 6, 8 ayes, 1 no. Item 7, 7 ayes, 2 noes. Item 8, 8 ayes, 1 no. Item 9 was held out. Item 10, 11, and 12, 9 ayes. Item number 13, 8 ayes, 1 no.
 I'm sorry, that would, yeah, eight ayes, one no, right? Just help me out and go over the count for item number seven, please, and six, six and seven. Can you repeat that? What's a vote count for six and seven, please? Six and seven, it would have been nine ayes, one no for six, eight ayes, two nos for number seven. Number eight is nine ayes, one no. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay, next up, we have Finance and Personnel Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,560,225.55 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on July 22nd, 2019. And number two is for the approval of the fine reduction request with the amendments modified by Alderman Hervey for 3515 East State Street for a property formerly known as the State Street Station.
 Place was both up for vote. Okay, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Saying no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Gasparini? Toomberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Hoffman? Quinones? McNeely? Chiarelli? Nine ayes. Excellent. Those move forward. Next up we have officers reports.
 Alderman Hoffman, I just wanted to make sure everyone knows that after some questions About RHA I did send out clarification I sent out an email to everybody and one of the issues was The point system when people
 they actually get a point for being a rockford resident and then it goes on into are they working here are they veterans and they can build up the points and they are chosen by that point system uh there was also some question about how people got here before
 and they had vouchers out of chicago and were able to use those vouchers in rockford it was not rockford going to them and giving them vouchers they had their vouchers from chicago and if the landlord accepts it
 Then they get to use that voucher here just as for Brewington Oaks We are giving people vouchers and they are moving to other communities Vouchers are good anywhere in the country that someone determined that they want to go Which brings up the point we only have one person left in Brewington Oaks and we think we found a place for that person The next one was on our concerning
 has a crime record. And I put that information in here that there are certain ones that really have to be reviewed. It will, if a person do not,
 However, they have the right to a hearing if they requested five days after receiving their notice that they were denied housing. The only ones that absolutely will not be turned over is if somebody's arrest record conviction, I'm sorry, is for the manufacturing of meth. There is no forgiveness for that one. Or sexual offenses. There is no forgiveness for that one.
 But for any of the other things that are listed on there, they can request a hearing. And depending on the information they bring in, let's say it was a drug issue, if they show that they've gone through all the things that the court has requested of them,
 they may get their denial overturned the reason for this is we are trying to reunite families if at all possible but it is a complex situation and they have to show that they are doing whatever the courts ask them to do and that they are in compliance so i hope that clears up any of the information concerning who can get in who can't and how thank you thank you alderman frost thank you
 I just wanted to congratulate and wish Mark Stockman a well deserved retirement. Mark's worked for the city of Rockford for a number of years in various capacities and we've all gotten to him a little bit closer as he's spent the last few years as the public works director. And I like to think of Mark as the velvet hammer because every time I email Mark with a request,
 It got done quietly, but it was always done. And I always receive calls from constituents to say, I don't know what you did.
 But they were out there within minutes, hours a day. And whatever problem they had, whether it was snow, road, water erosion, whatever it may be, Mark and his team did an outstanding job of getting things done quietly. And that's refreshing, especially for me, because I'm not known as that. So Mark, I want to wish you well, and I thank you for all you've done for the city in various capacities. And enjoy your well-deserved retirement, sir.
 Certainly. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Thank you. I, too, wish to echo the congratulations to Mr. Stockman, Mark.
 um who is a proud fifth ward resident and i've always um enjoyed that he had that designation i do want to settle one argument and that is i did not get any special treatment because he was a fifth ward resident and history waited as long as everybody else's to get plowed
 But I do wish you well in your retirement, and I hope we see you around. Kyle, I know you're going to do a fantastic job, as you did in water, and I'm looking forward to bringing in the new. And Mark, we hope you stick around and stay in touch. Thank you, sir.
 thank you also i want to thank everyone in the city administration my fellow aldermen for your condolences and offers of support with the the passing of my brother last week so thank you thank you uh alderman tunberg thank you thank you mayor i would like to apologize to the city council and the city of rockford
 for driving Director Stockman into retirement. The number of calls, based on the number of calls I've placed to him on behalf of third-board residents, I'm sure had something to do with that. So he was relentless in his pursuit to take action on those, so I commend him for that, but I do apologize to the city for probably directing him into retirement. Thanks, Mark, for all you did, and we really appreciate it.
 Alderman McNeely Thank You Mr. Mayor I'm so glad Alderman Tunberg confessed because after Director Stockman leaves I know who to tell my constituents to call Director Stockman you have as far as I'm concerned gone above and beyond as the director of Public Works I agree with Alderman Frost whenever I call things were done nearly immediately
 uh my constituents were happy therefore i was very happy i'm certainly going to miss you i'm leaving the public works department but i wish you the very very best and thank you alderman irvins oh thank you uh mr murk i wish you well on your retirement brother it's a good it's a pleasure to meet you and uh hopefully see you around some more and uh good job around the city
 I also want to share some light on a ministry opportunity that I was able to engage with with SOAR Assembly where we had about 30, 35 people both from 13 and up.
 All Men is the Men Cave Ministry where we were able to ask some hard questions and come to some real hard realities about our young men in the community. And I had the opportunity to watch the older gentlemen coach the younger
 and life's affairs. And I just, I think that's, you know, just tremendous. I think that's awesome of me. I really believe that there's a bridge that needs to be built between generations and just to see it take place in my time here, it's a blessing. So I just wanna shout out to Soros Emily and say, keep up the good work.
 Thank you alderman Shirely. Yeah, thank you Kyle. You have some big shoes to fill over there So don't sweat it you do a great job mark congratulations and appreciate all your service to our city and and
 again to the 14th warden to everybody in this table here i also want to extend my condolences to one of our local long-standing or long-serving firemen jimmy krine's father passed away a day or two ago and mr jim crying he was a dear friend of my family's and i want to wish jimmy crying and his family and the rockford police department family my condolences thank you
 Alderman Quinones. I want to wish Mark Starkman a happy retirement and citizens of the 11th Ward want me to let you know that you did a good job while I was an alderman here at the 11th Ward. Thank you. Other officers' reports? Well, Mark, I would just add to some of the comments I made this morning to you is...
 When I got the opportunity to be in the position, unfortunate enough to have you as public works director, has really been really amazing for me. So I have this opportunity that I meet with different staff members of different departments, and we do it every two weeks for lunch. And at each one of those, it doesn't matter what position they hold in public works,
 But just to look at the esteem that they hold you in is really remarkable. And they do that because you are someone of immense integrity. You're incredibly hardworking. And you just have an unbelievable character. And we're all better off. And as I mentioned this morning, the impact that you've had on us as an organization over 30 years, which I mentioned to him this morning, I did the math, it was about almost 16 million minutes he's worked at the city of Rockford. Right.
 The impact you've had is truly remarkable and will be felt for years and years to come. So a sincere thank you and a most sincere congratulations. And I really hope that you get out on that golf course and get to find some time to just enjoy yourself. So thank you so much for all that you've done. Appreciate it. Okay.
 Alderman Hoffman he's still gonna answer our calls. Yeah, you tried that number We'll move right along to appointments laid over there's three appointments that are up reappointment of Val Olson to the historic preservation commission reappointment of Jeff de Benedetto to the Rockford Housing Authority Board reappointment of Makhtar Mohammed to the building board of appeals and
 Those three are up. We have the fifth one that does not come up and that is Tara Williams to Community Action Board and that does not come up until after September 4th of 2019. So those three first appointments that I mentioned are before you Alderman. Is there any discussion on those three? Seeing no discussion, Clerk will you please call the roll? Yes Brainy. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Dorsey.
 Shirely. Item number one, nine ayes. Item number two, eight ayes, one no. Excellent. We'll move on to motions and resolutions. Encode and Regulation Committee Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. First is a review of City Council closed session minutes. Number two is the Tough Mudder Chicago. The event is scheduled for Saturday, August 24th and Sunday, August 25th.
 Number three is cycle on second and I dot resolution. The event is scheduled Sunday, September 8th. Number four is Greenwich Village Art Fair and I dot resolution. The event is scheduled for Saturday, September 14th and Sunday, September 15th. Number five is the drop shop fest. This is scheduled for Sunday, October 5th. Place those five items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. So there's five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gasparini, Toonberg, Frost, Hervey, Irvins, Hoffman, Quinones, McNeely, Shirelli. Nine ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have finance and personnel with alderman Kevin Frost. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The first time is award a bid for the public works materials to William Charles Construction of Rockville, Illinois Rock Road Companies of Jamesville, Wisconsin and N-Track Group of Loves Park, Illinois. For an estimated annual value of $250,000 based on unit pricing, the contract creation is one year. And the funding source is the departmental operating budgets.
 Number two is an award of bid for the 2019 Church Street and Court Street water main replacement to Northern Illinois service of Rockville, Illinois in the amount of $268,827. The funding source is a water replacement improvement account. Number three, we're going to rescind the award of bid for the 2018 demolition group number four. Staff recommends rescinding the award to Rodman Services of Rockville, Illinois and awarding it to N-Track Group of Loves Park, Illinois in the amount of $33,982.
 for the demolition of 3110 15th street 620 trenton street and 412 north third street the contract duration is 45 days the funding source is the community development block grant cdbg and the abandonment property program round three number four is an award of joint purchasing contract for the direct linked crisis response throw phone systems
 to Enforcement Technology Group of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the amount of $26,614. The funding sources, the police operating budget.
 Number five is an award of RFP for SCADA Consulting and Support Services to Enhance Networks Inc. of Mundelein, Illinois and Concentric Integration of Crystal Lake, Illinois for an estimated annual contract value of 125,000 based on unit pricing as listed on the fee schedules. The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions.
 The funding source is the waterfront. Number six is a contract amendment for the administration of the on-site clinic with Marathon Health of Winooski, Vermont for an annual service fee of $882,830 with no annual increases for the duration of the contract. The duration of the contract is three years beginning July 1, 2019 through September 30, 2021.
 including the option for renewal of two additional one-year terms, and the funding source is the health fund. I place those in front of you. Thank you. So we have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gasparini. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Irvins. Hoffman. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Nine ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. Next up, we go to new business under planning and development committee alderman timber. Thank you mayor one item Item number one an ordinance approving the development agreement for 134 North Main Street with Joseph James partners LLC. Thank you Thank you. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item saying no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? Yes, Franny to burp frost Kirby Irvin's Hoffman
 Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. Eight ayes, one no. Thank you. Next up under new business we have Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli. Thank your honor. I have an ordinance approving the establishment of a yield or stop sign at the intersection of Yonge Street and Tacoma Avenue
 Number two is an ordinance approving the establishment of angle parking on the north side of Willis Avenue from 9th Street to 160 feet west of 9th Street Number three is an ordinance approving the removal of through street designation on Crosby Street from Longwood Street to Calvin Park Boulevard And number four is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store at 425 South Winnebago Street
 Number five is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to allow full liquor license for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 3135 North Rockton Avenue Number six is an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the bakery cafe at 116 North Madison Street 118
 Number seven is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the bakery cafe at 116 North Madison Street, Suite 118. Number eight is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a religious assembly, funeral home, food pantry, and charitable and non-profit office at 1110 Arthur Avenue.
 Number nine was held out, your honors. We'll skip over that. Number ten is an ordinance approving the amendments to section 117 through five of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances. Posting hand bills, other advertising to allow advertising on RMTD bus shelters. Number 11 is an ordinance approving the right of way vacation request for the alley north of 107 Springfield Avenue.
 And number 12 is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the Rockford Park District and the City of Rockford for the expansion of police services. I place these ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So you have 12 items before you, but one of those have been held out. So there's just 11 items, 1 through 8, and then 10 through 12. Is there any discussion on those items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Perini. Thunberg. Aye. Aye.
 Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Quinones. McNeely. Ciavelli. Mayor McNamara. Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 10 ayes. Items 5, 6, 7, 8 ayes, 2 noes. Item 8, 9 ayes, 1 no. Items 10 and 11, 10 ayes. Item 12, 9 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Just also want to say thank you to Rockford Mass Transit District just
 that's a big move for them to continue to find efficiencies and with the advertising sales i really appreciate i think that was a discussion at one point during the citizen finance task force and just want to say a sincere thank you for continuing to move that forward so thank you
 uh next up this is really exciting alderman shirely thank you in honor of our new alderman i know he's waiting to go into closed session so i moved to convene into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters we have a motion in a second uh all those in favor say aye or no don't do that we're gonna wanna roll call and so clerk could you please call the roll yes bring me
 Toomer frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman, you know, Ness McNeely Shirely nine ice. Thank you. We'll be in closed session Gasparini Toomer frost Herbie Irvin's Kenanis McNeely Shirely Hoffman Hoffman
 9 ayes. Okay, we're going to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you. I present an ordinance approving the AFS CME local 1058 slash 1058 B collective bargaining agreement, which includes a 2% wage increase in 2019 2020 and 2021.
 changes to Article 15.2, insurance coverage and contributions, and a $300 stipend for bargaining unit members. The collective bargaining agreement will expire on December 31, 2021. Your Honor, I ask that we suspend Rule 15. Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend Rule 15. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Rule suspended. Items before us. Is there any discussion on the item that's before us?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Greeny. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Furby. Aye. Burbins. Hoffman. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Secondly, or right before we adjourn, I would like to say...
 Thank you and congratulations to Alderman Gasparini for being thrown into the midst of everything. Just really appreciate all the work that you've done to get to this point and be prepared for it. So thank you so much. We're all looking forward to serving with you. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Anyone want to discuss that at all? No? Good. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night.