Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, August 1st, 2022. We are fortunate to have Pastor Bowie of the Third Presbyterian with us to provide us with an invocation. Thank you. I'm pleased to be here today as pastor at Third Presbyterian Church on the west side. The west side is the best side, we like to say. You can hear us on WTPBLP 99.3, the hippest radio station in Rockford. I'm here as a member of Northwest Neighbors, as part of the Rockford Ministers Fellowship, and also as an advocate for the full implementation of the Pretrial Fairness Act. And I'm pleased to lead us in a moment of reflection. Would you join me in an attitude of prayerful reflection? Thank you. We call upon the name of the one, the spirit, the force, the God of creation, to be present at this time in this space with these who have been called to serve. We call upon your spirit to be present among these women and men and in their deliberations. Grant them wisdom to govern in the midst of the conflicting interests and issues of our time. Grant them a sense of the welfare and true needs of our people. Grant them a thirst for justice and righteousness. Grant them confidence in what is good and fitting. Grant them the ability to work together in harmony, even when there is honest disagreement. Grant them personal peace in their lives and joy in their task. Help them discern all that is reasonable and possible in the agenda which is set before them this day. And when it's all incomplete for this day, send them home safely to a time of rest and recovery. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the States of America and to the Republic for which it stands. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logerman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Alderman Wilkins. Alderman Quinones. Alderman Quinones. Alderman Meeks. Bonney. Alderman Prunty. Here. Alderman Hoffman. Here. Eleven present. Thank you. This evening we have two proclamations. We have first proclamation that we have this evening is National Minority Donor Awareness Month. And accepting this is Luis Ortega, Community Outreach Specialist with Gift of Hope Organ and Tissue Network. And I believe maybe some others. So you can come on forward. There's a door right there for you. Whereas every nine minutes, another person is added to the national transplant waiting list for a life-saving organ. Of the 106,000 currently waiting, nearly 60% represent ethnic and racial minorities. And whereas African Americans and Hispanics are disproportionately represented on the waiting list due to high rates of kidney and heart disease, high blood pressure, and diabetes, all of which could lead to an organ transplant. And whereas, there is a real need to increase the availability of viable life-saving organs from ethnically diverse donors, since donor and recipient compatibility is more likely to be found among members of the same ethnicity. And whereas, August is a National Minority Donor Awareness Month, a collaborative initiative to save and improve the quality of life of diverse communities by creating a positive culture for organ, eye, and tissue donation. And whereas the city of Rockford joins with the Gift of Hope Organ and Tissue Network, state and national organizations committed to bringing heightened awareness of transplantation, organ, eye, and tissue donation, and donor registration. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Mackler, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of August 2022 to be National Minority Donor Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words with us? As the Mayor said, there is a tremendous need for donations everywhere for everyone, but especially with the minority groups, African Americans, Latinx community, Asian Pacific and multicultural communities. So we are here today thanking you for this wonderful proclamation as part of our mission to bring our message of hope and life to communities everywhere. Thank you. MR. Anyone else want to share any words? Thank you. Our second proclamation is National Night Out, and we have Assistant Deputy Chief Dahlke with us. How are you? Whereas the 38th annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford, Illinois to join forces with thousands of other communities across the country and promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts. And whereas the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Park District Police Department are hosting the local National Night Out 2022 in downtown Rockford in the City Market area. The citizens of Rockford play a vital role in assisting the Rockford Police Department through joint crime, drug, and violence prevention efforts in Rockford. And whereas, it is essential that all citizens be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and the impact that their participation can have on reducing crime, drugs, and violence in our community. And whereas police community partnerships, neighborhood safety, awareness and cooperation are important themes of National Night Out. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, August 2nd, 2022 to be National Night Out. Chief, would you like to share a few words with us? Sure, sure. Thanks again for the opportunity to talk and accept the proclamation. As many of you know, the Rockford Police Department is consistently out there working within the community. And again, we strongly believe in community policing and community engagement. And we feel that by creating these relationships and creating this camaraderie between the police department and the citizens is only going to help reduce crime. It's going to gather trust within the community and ultimately protect. Establish lifelong relationships with people. So please come out tomorrow. It's down in City Market. We'll have a huge People coming down so come down. Thanks. Thank you next we will move to Petitions and communications and we'll first go to planning and development committee and Alderwoman meets. Thank you, Your Honor. I Under item number one We have the memorandum from Todd Cagnone City Administrator regarding the Davis Park master plan and phase one redevelopment This is referred to Planning and Development Committee and then item number two is the memorandum from Todd Cagnone City Administrator regarding the proposed development agreement with Swift for the rehabilitation and redevelopment of 1111 Avon Street in cooperation with the Petro Family Community Center and and mixed uses supporting the Auburn Street corridor. Both refer to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Under the Code and Regulation Committee, item number one, memorandum from Brandon Cruz, construction services coordinator regarding elevator regulation and inspection, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming upcoming special events Which includes screw City beer fest and cycle on second referred to code a regulation committee item number three a memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding an ordinance for the annexation of 7xx wavelength Avenue referred to code and regulation committee And item number four amendment a memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding an ordinance for the annexation agreement a 7xx Waveland Avenue referred to corner regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you next We'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you. All these management will be referred to the finance and personnel committee and Number one is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Director of Public Works, regarding an intergovernmental between the City and the FRSA agreement for the Charles Street reconstruction. Number two is a memorandum from John Wuch, the City Assistant City Attorney, regarding a fine reduction request for 1407 Post Avenue. Third is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an award of ComEd electrical service work agreement for City Yards. And lastly, it says, Your Honor, we have a bid opening for the sale of 115 6th Avenue. Yes, sir. That's been removed. Yes.
 Okay.
 So I place the first three items. Yes. I'll refer to finance personnel. Thank you. Thank you all the men for us next up We'll move to public speakers want to remind the public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right in the back left of council Chambers you have three minutes to address the City Council At that time you'll hear an obnoxious cell phone ring and would ask say you just close your comments our first public speaker this evening Is Reverend Earl Dotson the Bible I? Brethren, I do not consider that I have made it, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on towards the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. You see, no one can exhaust the possibilities of creation. and the power of God that destroys human obstinacy, pride, greed, and arrogance, enabling divine recreation. This requires some severe shocks, destroying notions that attempt to rationalize a status quo, making men open to the gift of more and more life. America is being challenged to wake up and face the dangerous threat of communist China that threatens America's economy, even its very existence. America's military, intelligence community, especially the FBI, say that this menace cannot be overlooked. I again say gladly, as a co-chairperson for Ministers of Manufacturing of Chicago, that legislation we have touted for years is about to become law, emphasizing advanced manufacturing, This legislation, the America Competes Act, involves $280 billion, with $54 billion earmarked for manufacturing innovation, technology for the semiconductor industry, supply chain resilience, climate change, research and development related issues. My organization, Progressive West Rockford, affiliated with Ministers for Manufacturing, will press hard for some of those billions. as well as re-opening church schools for advanced manufacturing, simultaneously unleashing what research is at Massachusetts Institute of Technology called Lost Einsteins. Our black Lost Einsteins will upset the status quo. positively benefiting the common weaned, especially America's national security, with innovation and a strengthened West Side Rocks economy. Such activities will demonstrate the truth of the inexhaustible possibilities of God in the Bible. Get ready, Rockford, for some severe shocks. I conclude with these words from the Black National Anthem. God of our weary years, God of our silent tears, Thou who has brought us thus far on the way, thou who is by thy might led us into the light, keep us forever in the path we pray. Lest our weary feet stray from the place, our God, where we met thee. Lest our hearts drunk with the wine of the world, we forget thee. Shadowed beneath thy hand, may we forever stand true to our God, true to our native land. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, written by a wise man named Solomon, the first chapter, the seventh verse, it says, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. It says, Get wisdom, but all thou gettent get understanding. What I want to speak about tonight, the twelve reasons why people commit suicide, and I have the solution to solve that problem. The first cause is hopelessness. The second cause is despair. Hopelessness and despair is the mother of suicide. The third cause is relationship problems. The fourth cause is drug addiction. The fifth cause is alcohol addiction. The sixth cause is mental illness. The seventh cause is unemployment. The eighth cause is financial problems. The ninth cause is homelessness. The tenth cause is health problems. The eleventh cause is poverty. The twelfth cause is legal trouble. If you eliminate these twelve things, things that I just said. I guarantee you, by the help of God, you can reduce suicide in the United States. I also been wanting to tell Alderman Beach White this for a long time. and Miss Rosie Thompson this for a long time, and I'm gonna get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it, and happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday to my good friends, happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tack Brantley. I do not see John, so we can come back to him when we're done. Our next public speaker is Connie Koontz. Thank you. The Rockford Fringe Festival was last month, and I've had a few weeks to review the data and reflect on it. And I wanted to share with you that the city of Rockford made this free event possible. It featured original performances in theater, music, dance, poetry, and parkour. Our talent came from as far as Minneapolis, Chicago, and the Quad Cities, but was mostly local. When it came time for marketing, I targeted a smart audience, and that is who showed up. More than 100 people came, many of whom stayed the whole six hours. The talent left feeling respected, uplifted, intelligent, joyful, and I witnessed many memorable moments in the audience. There was a couple there who had been married more than 60 years, enjoying themselves. A couple introduced themselves to me. He was from Michigan, she was from Minnesota. They said they met online and decided to come to the fringe to meet in person. I saw a young woman breastfeeding her infant daughter while stretching, dancing, and listening to poetry. I was moved many times, but the real moment came for me when a mysterious man pulled up on a very large motorcycle. He traipsed across the park. He shook hands with a lot of people. I did not know who this was. He came up to me and said, Hi, Connie. I didn't know who it was. He said, It's Chad. Alderman Thunberg. I didn't recognize him. but I was so happy to see him in this new light. I all but begged him to speak on the open stage to the audience of 100 people, and he proceeded to deliver spontaneous, uniting remarks that were what the Fringe Festival was all about. I am grateful to the city of Rockford for everything you do every day to keep our city safe, and I'm grateful for this initiative Thank you so much And I'm especially grateful to our alderman Chad to burn for showing up and delivering such fine remarks. Thank you all. Thank you Assuming you weren't you didn't have a time restriction. You just you just went off they didn't freeze at all. Okay Next we have Annette Louise Walker Good evening everybody I just wanted to mention that when I lived out in Colorado, that they were able to have all their garbage cans on one side of the street and everybody put theirs in the center of the block. So that way the garbage trucks only had to make one stop in front of my apartment, which is just, my block has just two buildings, four plexus in each one, My garbage men make at least six stops because everyone staggers their garbage piles. And I think it's important in this time to save on gas and I wanted to mention that. And also I wanted to point out that maybe this might be a good idea and work with our city buses. The fact that federal acts only predominantly tries to schedule the routes to make right turns only. And I'm thinking if our city school buses were able to do that, and maybe our post office buses maybe to do that when possible. I know there's always a method to the madness, and sometimes what works in one area may not work in another area. But I just thought I should share the food for thought. Thank you. Thank you. I'll just make one more call. Is Mr. John Tate Brantley with us? I don't see him, so we'll move on. Thank you. Thank you to all the public speakers. Next, we'll move to new committee reports. And I don't have any items under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, we have 16 items. Thank you. At number one, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval to establish a passenger loading zone from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday on the south side of East State Street from 20 feet to 45 feet east of Madison Street, thus repealing the existing restriction of one-hour parking on the south side of East State Street from 20 feet to 45 feet east of Madison Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Items to the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval To establish two-hour parking on the east side of Madison Street from 40 feet to 60 feet south of East State Street thus appealing the existing restriction of Passenger loading zone on the east side of Madison Street from 40 feet to 6 feet south of East State Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item number three the committee recommends the standing the traffic commission's approval of To establish no parking any time on the south side of Mound Avenue from North Main Street to 45 feet east of North Main Street, thus repealing the existing restriction of two-hour parking on the south side of Mound Avenue from North Main Street to 45 feet east of North Main Street, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number four, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval to establish no parking anytime on the north side of Mound Avenue from North Main Street to Indian Terrace, thus repealing the existing restriction of no parking anytime on the north side of Indian Terrace from Main Street to Indian Terrace, north and south. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number five, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval to establish no parking anytime on the west side of Indian Terrace from Mountain Avenue to Dickerman Drive, thus repealing the existing no parking anytime restriction on the west side of Indian Terrace from Indian Terrace East West to Dickerman Drive. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Item 6 committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval to establish that traffic on Shepherd Trail north and south Be required to stop prior to entering the intersection from Shepherd Trail east-west The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 7 committee recommends approval for the amendments to the city of Rockford ordinances chapter 29 article 5 towing services the legal director shopper for the appropriate ordinance and item number eight committee recommends approval for the amendments to the city of robert code of ordinances chapter 17 article 2 noise article 3 nuisance vehicles and devices article 4 impoundment of nuisance vehicles and devices and section 19-3 offensive use of property the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 9 the committee recommends approval for final plat number one of four rivers bluff subdivision Item 10 committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for a plan unit development for a single-family residence a guest playhouse and to allow all existing buildings to remain on site in our one single-family residential zoning district at 3828 Spring Creek Road Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 11 committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a OF A VARIATION TO REDUCE THE REQUIRED SETBACK OF A FREE STANDING SIGN FROM FIVE FEET TO ONE FOOT IN AN I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT AND I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 2233 KISHWAQUEE STREET AND 22XX STAR STREET. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM 12, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS SUSTAINING THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS DENIAL FROM A VARIATION TO INCREASE THE MAXIMUM PERMITTED SQUARE FOOTAGE FROM 236 SQUARE FEET TO 288 SQUARE FEET FOR ALL SIGNAGE BASED ON STREET FRONTAGE IN THE C2 LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 6820 EAST STATE STREET. ITEM 13, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS SUSTAINING THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS APPROVAL FOR A MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT 141-99 TO ADD EIGHT DUPLEXES IN AN R2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 6265-6493 NEWBERG ROAD. 1620, 1722, and 1819, metal circle. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 14, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a grocery and tobacco store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 5801 Columbia Parkway, suite 125. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 15. Committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval for the sale of tobacco products in Conjunction with a gas station in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 360 College Avenue subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and lastly the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a smoke shop and a c3 general commercial zoning district at 44 77 and 44 XX Linden Road Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and place these 16 items before you for review Thank you. So we have 16 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 16 items alderman to Merck? I'd like to make a motion to lay over item number eight motion to lay over eight. Is there a second? We have a second. So item eight is Laid over so now there's 15 items. Is there any discussion on those 15 items? I Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Governor. The committee recommends approval of the voucher in the amount of $5,049,367.12 as approved with the Finance and Personnel Committee held on July 25, 2020. The place is carried for you. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Kenyans week big mealy Bonnie 13 eyes. Thank you next I will have officers reports. Is there any alderman Kenyans? Yes Thank you, your honor. I'd like to the residents of Valhalla can Coleman Plaza want to thank the fire chief Michelle Pam Cole for putting on a good presentation at their monthly meeting They learned a lot about the fire department also the Laotian community center would like to thank the mayor and for attending their yearly picnic. They were very happy to see you there. That's it. Thank you. That was really a remarkable event. If anyone gets the opportunity next year, I know Alderman Quinones was there. It was really pretty awesome. Alderwoman Trina, do you have your hand raised? No, Alderman Rose and then Alderwoman Prenti. I just wanted to recognize the Rockford Park District and Nicholas Conservatory on the news that the Conservatory was listed as Illinois's most romantic place in the state of Illinois and I I think those kind of things need to be celebrated and but also It would be awesome to see some kind of signage or something, you know noting that that is actually considered one of the most romantic places in the state of Illinois, so Kind of interesting. I came across it on the radio on my drive to work and What a cool thing to be recognized for for the state. Absolutely. Thank you all the wrong in front Thank you. I'm just wanted to recognize some of the work that are one and Region One Planning Council put together. I had a chance to participate in the Drive Electric Week. I was just outdone, it was just phenomenal. Just the information, the future is here. and I'm so excited that Rockford is participating and prepared for what is just around the corner. So it's just great to know that we're a part of that and that we'll be ready when the, well really the future is here, it's happening now. wanted to recognize them and thank them for the work that they did and then thank the city and as well as the mayor and the other municipalities to come together to to prepare this region prepare this community for this endeavor or this way of living. I also wanted to thank folks at Public Works, Thank Kyle. And I'm so sorry I do not know his name, but I had an opportunity to visit Well 45. And it's just phenomenal, the information. So awesome. So glad to know that the city is thinking ahead and prepared. I have family who lives in that city, that other city that we discussed, and the impact on them and their lifestyle was great. And I'm glad to know that we are protected and that our water is safe. And to let Mr. Saunders know, I've been drinking tap water since our last meeting. So thank you. That's great. Thank you. Any other reports? Alderman Toonberg. Thank you. We had, as most of you know, we had an incident in Sinissippi Park. I realize that it's under Park District control on that. And they are, to my knowledge, leading the investigation on it. Thank you, Mayor, in attending with myself, too, with the Rockford Park District officials, Rockford Park District Police, City Police, the Chief. Thank you. And these pop-up, late-night pop-up parties have to stop. I think we are doing things to address those. And the Park District is is very very aware of now spilling into the Park District from our parking lots public and private parking lots so It is an ongoing issue all around the city They have happened a couple times in the third Ward So I've been dealing with that on another note the mission of mercy was a success to my understanding Thank you to all those who? I got people out there and to go to it. I had the opportunity to stop by and talk to a few People there working there volunteering there. It was a symphony of Individuals doing what they do and if you had a chance to stop by you'll know what I mean but it was fairly gory talking to a few oral surgeons that were there in town and Describing some of the work they were doing with some individuals and but those individuals were in dire need of Of work and I'm very thankful to all those who volunteered Thank you. Thank you any other reports alderman Bonnie then alderwoman McNeely Thank You mayor I just wanted to quickly thank you for We could go Sunday attending the news conference that Lee knows to promote our four Fridays in the 14th Ward forward for fun initiative which did kick off this Friday with a Miles Nielsen and his wife Kelly Stewart performing and a outdoor showing of A League of Their Own and with proceeds benefiting the International Women's Baseball Center The second of four Fridays in the 14th Ward is a week from this Friday. It's every other Friday. And the nonprofit beneficiary will be Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful. The movie is Finding Nemo. And the music is Silver Lining Rockford. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you. Other woman, McNeely? Thank you, Mayor. And I want to thank everyone that sent cards and called. concerned about me and I think that Alderman fronty is Deserved to be recognized for She received the honors of being holding a position with the Democratic Party recently I'm sorry. I don't know the position the name of the position, but I certainly want to congratulate you I wish you the best in that position. Thank you. Thank you, and it's great to see you back. I Any other reports? Okay. Next appointments, they continue to be laid over until August 10th. Next, we'll go to motions and resolutions. There's nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Tarino. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one the committee recommends our approval of the ward 11 parade and festival This event is scheduled for Saturday, August 13th from 11 a.m. To 8 p.m The parade route will begin at Buckbee Avenue and Seminary Street to kishwaukee Avenue to Broadway to 11th Street ending at Key Malkwist Park and I'm number two the committee recommends approval of the national night out event this event is scheduled for Tuesday August 2nd 2022 from 5 to 8 p.m. World closures will begin at 3 p.m. And the event location will be 202 Market Street at Water Street City Market pavilion Thank you. We have two items before you is there any discussion on those two items all those in favor say aye those opposed Okay passes next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you I'm the one that committee recommends approval of the award a bit for the guardrail installation and repair services to northern contracting and husky contractors for an estimated annual contract value of $40,000 the contract duration is through April 30 2023 with four possible one-year extensions and Annual price adjustments for CPI concerted contract renewal only the funding sources a street division operating budget number two the committee recommends approval of the word a bid for the seminary Street resurfacing from north of Catherine to south of Bremer to Rock Road companies in the amount of eight hundred and forty four thousand eight hundred and four hours and seventy five cents and The project is estimated to be completed by October 14th, 2022. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the citywide street repairs group number five, parking lots to N-TRAC in the amount of $1,447,553.77. The project is estimated to be completed by October 28th, 2022. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the citywide street repairs group number five, the funding sources the arpa revenue replacement fire department and the arpa revenue replacement street department and the parking fund bond proceeds number four the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the bridge repairs 2022 to martin and company of oregon in the amount of one hundred and forty eight thousand six hundred and twenty dollars the project is estimated to be completed by october 28 2022 the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax Number five the committee recommends approval of the award of contract for the public works materials to northern Illinois service of Rockville, Illinois William Charles construction of Luz Park Rock Road companies of Janesville and n track group of Luz Park for an estimated annual contract value of $200,000 based on your pricing the funding sources various departmental operating budgets. I place those five minutes before you are Thank you. So there's five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? I Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Abstain on number four. Tarina. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Fahney. Items one through three, 13 ayes. Item number four, 12 ayes, one abstain. Item five, 13 ayes. Thank you next we'll move to new business There's nothing on there under planning and development. So we'll go to code and regulation committee all the woman Thank You Your Honor item number one an ordinance approving a passenger loading zone 8 a.m It's a 5 p.m money through Friday on the south side of East State Street from 20 feet to 45 feet east of Madison Street and BE RESTRICTED, THUS REPEALING THE EXISTING RESTRICTION OF ONE HOUR PARKING ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF EAST STATE STREET FROM 20 FEET TO 45 FEET EAST OF MADISON STREET. ITEM 2, AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A TWO-HOUR PARKING ON THE EAST SIDE OF MADISON STREET FROM 40 FEET TO 6 FEET SOUTH OF EAST STATE STREET, THUS REPEALING THE EXISTING RESTRICTION OF PASSENGER LOADING ZONE ON THE EAST SIDE OF MADISON STREET FROM 40 FEET TO 60 FEET SOUTH OF EAST STATE STREET. Item number three an ordinance approving the establishment of a no parking anytime restriction on the south side of Mound Avenue from North Main Street to 45 Feet east of North Main Street Thus repealing the existing restriction on two-hour parking on the south side of Mountain Avenue from North Main Street to 45 feet east of North Main Street item 4 in ordinance approving the establishment of a no parking anytime restriction on the north side of Mountain Avenue from North Main Street to Indian Terrace thus repealing the existing restriction of no parking anytime on the north side of Indian Terrace from Main Street to Indian Terrace north-south item 5 in ordinance approving the establishment of no parking anytime restriction on the west side of Indian Terrace from Mountain Avenue to Dickerman Drive on Thus repealing the existing no parking anytime restriction on the west side of Indian Terrace from Indian Terrace east-west to Dickerman Drive. Item 6 and ordinance approving the traffic on Shepherd Trail north-south be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with Shepherd Trail east-west Item 7 and ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinance chapter 29 article 5 towing services item 8 was laid over item 9 an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed height of a fence in the front yard from 4 feet to 6 feet and Along Camlin Avenue and an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 1839 Melrose Street Nicole Lynch item 10 an ordinance approving a special use permit for a plan unit development for a single-family residence a Guest playhouse and to allow all existing buildings to remain on the site in our one single-family residential zoning district at 3828 Spring Creek Road item 11 an ordinance approving a variant variation to reduce the required setback of a freestanding sign from five feet to one foot in an i1 light industrial zoning district and i2 general industrial zoning district at 2233 kishwaukee street and 22 xx star street item 12 an ordinance approving a modification of special use permit 14-99 to add eight duplexes in an r2 two family residential zoning district at 62 65 64 93 newberg road 16 20 17 22 and 18 19 metal circle item 13 an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery and tobacco store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 5801 columbia parkway suite 125 Item 14, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 360 College Avenue. Item 15, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a smoke shop in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 4477 and 44XX Linden Road Suite C. Place those items before you. Thank you. So we have 14 items before you again item 8 is laid over Is there any discussion on those 14 items clerk? Could you please call the roll jerky? logan Toomer frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Quinones Nix McNeely Bonnie 13 eyes. I Thank you. Before I ask for a motion to adjourn, Alderman, just want to make you aware you received an email on July 26 from me regarding our guests from Brovery who will be coming here, who are here, I'm sorry. And just want to remind you again if you haven't take a look at that email There's an event tomorrow as well as next Tuesday the 9th that you were invited to and it has the time Locations on there, so if you're able please do stop by I'm sure they'd love to see you With that is there a motion to adjourn we have a motion we have a second any discussion No discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed have good night