Papopoulos from Emanuel Lutheran Church. Let us pray. God of justice and mercy, we thank you for the gift of life and the opportunity to serve the people of Rockford. We thank you for the progress that this City Council and those preceding it have made to maintain and improve the quality of life in Rockford, even as we acknowledge our need to go further.
 Help all of us to act with character and conviction. Help us, citizen and elected official alike, to speak with understanding and goodwill.
 Help each person to speak with charity and restraint. Give everyone here a spirit of service that goes beyond our self-interest to the best interest of our total community. Remind us that we are only stewards of your authority. Guide our council to be the leaders your people in Rockford need.
 Help us to see the humanity and dignity of those who disagree with us and to treat all persons with the reverence your creation deserves. We pray your blessing upon all the departments of our city. We pray for the important work of each person on the city's payroll.
 Bless and keep safe our first responders in the fire and police departments. And finally, loving creator, renew within us the strength of your presence and the joy of helping to build a community that is fair, equal, and just for all Rockfordians.
 Help us to continue to transform Rockford into a city that is a model for other cities. We ask this as your sons and daughters, confident in your goodness, mercy, and love. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Getschis? Here. Thank you, Mayor. Here. Ross? Here. Kirby? Here. Connell? Here. Thompson-Kelly? Here. Odo? Here. Newberg? Here. Elliott? Here. Chiarelli? Here. Eleven present. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum.
 Is there a motion to accept the journal? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to accept the journal. This would be for the meeting on July 18th, 2016. Are there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. We have several speakers sign up for public participation this evening. I just want to remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments.
 You should hear a buzzer when the time's up. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. And again, they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our first speaker this evening is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, our aldermen and alderwomen, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois.
 Proverbs 29, verses 25 say, Fear people can hamper everything you try to do in a sling form that can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear God, respect and revenge, trust and liberate. Why fear people who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word.
 At least 19 people across Chicago were shot over a 22 hour period from Friday morning into Saturday morning, including a 17 year old boy shot dead in Charleston. A woman killed during a fight in Austin and a man wounded in Northside Lakefront Park.
 up to July, shooting and killing 60, shot and wounded 352, total shots 412, total homicides 64. Milwaukee, Wisconsin has 77 total homicides so far this year.
 cause of death 79 shot, 75% black, 79% male. So where am I going with this? This weekend, a 15 year old favorably shot at a house party. Two other minors were wounded. Saturday morning, also a 12 year old shooting victim just got out the hospital that was shot on 7th street by two cars that were shooting at each other. This was, this we have 12 homicides in Rockford and the fifth that involved victims under the age of 18. There was 19 homicides
 last year, King Authority presented Peace in the Streets. They had food, performance, electric fishes and more. Most of all, most of the people that was on stage were from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. That was all good, but at the end of the day, we still got shooting and other crimes that's going on in the city.
 Until we start engaging the ones that are committing the crime, we have not solved nothing. The shooting and other crimes are still going to be happening. Our up-and-coming young people that want to help to make a change, like the new pastor from Jerusalem Baptist Church that stated he was going to help
 and promised to give me two bands and going from point A to point B. Also the young deacon from Mount Zion Church is trying to make a name for himself. We have to work together in order to transform Rockford. We need your ideas, but at the same time you have to find out what's already out there. Who is trying to do what? Come to the meetings that are talking and trying to make a change, not just having an event one day of the year and you do not hear from you anymore.
 This was a very busy Saturday. We started picking up youth and young adults for three events that day. Our first stop was Washington Park Center, back-to-school rally. Lots of other things was going on at this event. Next, we went to Liberty Baptist Church, had a rock block community.
 Black Party. And last, we stopped at Kingman Authority Church, and they have food and performance. We would like to thank our sponsors, Rockford Public School bus driver and RHA van driver, Kingman Authority Church van, the personal van drivers, and cars that follow up from one event to the next. There was over $148.
 people in trouble from point A to point B. There was a high demand for Rockwood Housing Authority t-shirts and we're looking at housing authority to get more t-shirts. Thank you for letting me speak and I'll finish it off next week. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yousuf.
 In the book of Acts, the first chapter, eighth verse, it says, you shall receive power when the Holy Ghost come upon you. What I want to speak about tonight, real heroes in life. Those who serve the public are the real heroes in life. They faithfully carry out their everyday duties and regularly prepare to do heroic deeds when needed. They look out for those of us who are doing right and protect us from those who are doing wrong.
 Every once in a while they get the honor they deserve. An article in the September 11, 2002 edition of Time magazine tells the story of a father and his eight-year-old son leaving a New York Mets baseball game at Shea Stadium. They approach an intersection where a New York City police officer was directing traffic. He stopped the cars and motioned to the father and son to cross. When they were right in front of the office, the little boy stopped and held out his baseball glove and asked, would you sign this for me, sir?
 The policeman was stunned. He bent down and out of love with the little boy and asked him, don't you want the autograph of a ball player or a coach? Why would you want a police signature? The little boy looked up at the officer with deep admiration and said, because it was you who saved my sister and my life when our house was on fire. And I didn't get a chance to thank you, but I'm going to thank you now.
 September 11, 2001 should challenge all of us to be courageous, even courageous enough to be that kind of hero when it's need. God called all of us to be heroes in their own worlds. While that may not mean saving lives and protecting the public, it does mean making a difference in the lives of people around us. Lord of courage, build in me fearless faith so that I can accomplish your will today. I've been wanting to tell Miss Rosie Blake and your mother, Mayor Marcy.
 and the chief of the fire department. This for a long time and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you and you can't do nothing about it and happy birthday my good friends and God bless you and your family. Also thank God for apostle Melvin Brown for having the peace of the streets rally, sat there as a church to help reduce crime, violence and killing. I want to thank all the people who came to the rally. I want to thank the three police officers who came who were nice to the people. That's true community police. I want to
 thank Police Officer Sergeant D. Obliger and the African American Lady Police. I want to thank Officer A. Drager, who danced like James Brown. Chief O'Shea, I would like for you to give these three officers a community award and a dance award to Officer A. Drager. I want more pastors in Rockford to get involved to help solve this crime problem like Apostle Brown. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. And our next speaker is Toby Holden.
 National night out tomorrow. Kim Alquist Park, be there. Just a few comments from the speakers at the DNC last week. Elizabeth Warren says that Hillary will root out corruption. I say Hillary is the root of corruption. Mrs. Obama says she wants a leader worthy of truth. She claims that truth holder is Hillary. No comment.
 From listening to the DNC speakers last week, many of them said that they want open borders. To them, I say, when you go to sleep tonight, leave your doors and windows wide open. I'm sure everyone will respect the boundaries of your threshold. They will leave you in peace and take nothing. And in case you hadn't noticed, there is a big difference between Donald and Hillary.
 When Donald talks, he sometimes makes comments that hurt people's feelings. Get over it. I'm sure we've all heard from our mothers, sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will never hurt me. Donald's actions have only hurt people's feelings. Hillary's actions have actually gotten people killed. Which is easier to overcome? Hurt feelings or death?
 Obama thinks he has passed the torch to Hillary, one thing he does not understand. The torch is not his to pass, it is ours. And this just in, according to Julian Assange, who runs WikiLeaks, he made a statement recently that the next bunch of documents he will release will get Hillary arrested. Please. Back to Rockford. Stop the violence and the silence.
 On a TV interview, Chief Dan O'Shea said there is always somewhat of a disconnect between the police and the community. I wholeheartedly agree, and I will add that the biggest disconnect came during city and police contract negotiations when the city allowed these employees to move out of the city limits. Big mistake. Big mistake. Thank you.
 After the police moved out of the city and into Rockton, Roscoe, and Winnebago and the surrounding communities, crime spiked in Rockford, and we have been the leaders of the worst place to live and the highest crime per capita ever since. Chief O'Shea is correct and right on track when he wants to put officers living in homes in high crime areas, but that does not go far enough. Starting in 2018...
 All new hires of the police department must and will live in the boundaries of the city of Rockford for their first five to seven years of service. After that, they may move wherever they want to in the county. They may just find that they enjoy living in Rockford. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you, Arnett. The speaker is Nancy Godowski. Good evening. Good evening.
 Tonight, this council will vote on the Spring Creek Road bike path to be done in conjunction with the water reclamation sewer project. On the surface, this would appear to be a no-brainer by coordinating these two projects at the same time. However, the planning stage of the sewer project started three years ago, and the bike path plan was an afterthought only about a month ago. This is a perfect storm ready to explode. Water reclamation is ready to go, but now we have to suddenly take on a bike path.
 This means removal of very large mature trees, relocating utility poles, and possibly eminent domain. Many of these homes are on top of high, steep hills. Retainer walls would have to be relocated, and the driveways would have to be redesigned. Due to all of the above-mentioned issues, wouldn't this necessitate an environmental impact study? Spring Creek Road is maintained by the city, but most of the property owners are in the county.
 So was the county consulted? Are they going to pay anything? Last week, the council committee voted to allocate $60,000 for a bypass survey, hoping for today's council approval. But without council approval, $20,000 of that $60,000 was given to a survey company as a retainer so they could start immediately.
 I thought anything over 10,000 had to have prior council approval or was this an executive order? Just like the time council approved $200,000 to outsource street sweeping and the following year without council's knowledge or approval an executive order was given to increase that amount to $400,000. The bike path is not the issue here. What is at play is Rockford is facing a budget crisis.
 We took away streetlights from tax-paying residents of Rockford because city officials said they were too expensive and there were more important things that needed the money, like the fancy streetlights along many of the personal and preferred streets while our residential areas are in darkness.
 Are we using the infrastructure sales tax revenue for the bike path like we did for the bridge to nowhere, the $300,000 Main Street district signs, and the Mayor's 36% pay raise? I didn't know a human being was an infrastructure. The residents of this city pay the bills, but they are the ones making the sacrifices due to the city's financial crisis.
 Residents want true infrastructure repairs such as paving streets and or filling the potholes and bringing back crack ceiling all over the city. Instead of bridges to nowhere, we would like the Alpine Dam to be repaired. That has been on the agenda for years, but somehow we never have the money. The residents of Rockford do not have many trees growing in their backyards to splurge on bike paths, a bridge to nowhere, fancy street lights, and now a bike path.
 Thank you very much. Can I just finish up, ma'am? If you could briefly, please. Yeah. Some of these things are wonderful, but we just can't afford them, like you told us about our streetlights that we have left us in the dark. Like we tell our children and grandchildren, you cannot have everything you want.
 We have to meet their needs first, not their wants. Same thing for government. You must meet constituents' basic needs first. And if there is a surplus, then you can address some of the wants. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Mark Beeman. Hi. How is everyone? I don't have anything wrote down. I spoke to you a year ago. I'd like to dedicate this to my wife who passed a couple days ago, Leah Sturter. Right now,
 I don't have Rosecrans help. I don't have Social Security. I don't have a home. And it's sad to say that people treat pets better than humans. I get called names, nigger, bum, hobo, lowlife, and I hate that I served for the majority of these people that are in this room. There are a few people that care, but how could you care when you eat steaks and live in a nice house about the person that has nothing?
 Today I'm 55. It's a year ago and I'm on the streets. I can't pump gas. I can't go in a garbage can. I can't even ask anyone for some place to stay to help me or something to eat because the police will harass me, grab me, call me names, nigger, this. That you people don't seem to care. It's funny. I tell you, my life right now has no meaning. I'm sober and I hate drugs.
 I'm a new Christian, but many people in here are Christians, and I know they don't care. How could a Christian watch somebody in need and never care to help them when they could? I'll leave you with this. I need help. I need a place to stay tonight. I need something to eat. Who will help you? No one. They'll pray, but prayer is only good with action. I'll say, God bless y'all, and I'm not upset.
 Because whatever you have, you earned it, and it's yours. But I have to turn my back on the city and the city council and the people in this audience, because none of y'all care. Have a good day. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications.
 Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under petitions and communications, B1, the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held August 10th and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on August 22nd. I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events which include Alignment Rockford, 815 Lunch Live, Stumpy Fest, and Greek Fest. I also have
 for referral and approval of the purchase of real estate by the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford from Winnebago County for the purpose of a temporary library facility at 214 and 230 North Church Street.
 And I also have the approval of an option to purchase real estate by the board of trustees, library trustees of the city of Rockford from 3 Land Development LTD for the purpose of construction easement and potential future library facility at 227 North Wyman Street. I refer all those to the codes and regs committee, your honor. Thank you, madam. Be referred for the petitions and communications. Yes, your honor.
 I have a memorandum from Matt Vittner, Interim Director and City Engineer regarding city-state agreement for state participation in design engineering. And I also have a memorandum from Matt Vittner, Interim Director of City Engineer regarding city-state agreement for state participation in construction observation. These two items will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Madam Chair, for further petitions and communications. Proclamations.
 We have three proclamations this evening. I'll invite our recipients to come forward, and any guests that might be with them, please feel free to come up. Our first proclamation is regarding Farmers Market Week. I invite Kathy McDermott from the Rock River Development Partnership and the City Market and the North Main Market to please come forward with any other folks that are here to accept the proclamation.
 Whereas farmers markets are important outlets for agricultural producers nationwide, providing them with increased opportunities to personally meet consumers and sell a variety of fresh, affordable, convenient and healthful products. Whereas farmers markets play a key role developing local and regional food systems, supporting sustainability of family farms, revitalizing communities and providing opportunities for farmers and consumers to interact.
 Whereas the Rock River Development Partnership manages both the Rockford City Market on Fridays and the North End City Market on Saturdays, and both markets are supported by a group of quality-committed farmers and vendors.
 Whereas the Rock River Development Partnership is working to expand and increase awareness of their markets and increase produce sales at farmer booths. Whereas the City of Rockford recognizes the myriad of benefits of farmers markets for our community and is fully committed to supporting farmers markets in their continued success. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim August 7th through the 13th, 2016 to be Farmers Market Week.
 and we encourage our citizens to support the efforts of our local farmers' markets. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you to the City Council for your support of the Rock River Development Partnership and of both markets. With me tonight are Sandy Andreessen, Bill Gerling, and Dave Kostka. They're all from the North End market. Thank you.
 At the core of markets, of course, is the farmers and we're fortunate to have a quality group of farmers at both the north end and the downtown markets. We're always working to increase awareness of the benefits of locally grown produce and we're pleased to announce that last week we received a $3,000 double value coupon program grant from LinkUp Illinois. This grant will be used for matching the dollars spent by Link customers for the purchases of fruits and vegetables.
 So this will drive traffic to the farmers' booths while promoting the consumption of fresh produce in our community. Look for more details soon on that. We're going to roll it out either this weekend or the following as soon as we get all the details in place. And then also for some special activities planned for August 12th and 13th in celebration of Farmers' Market Week. And I just want to introduce Dave Kostka briefly to say a couple words. Dave. Thank you. Thank you.
 First, I want to thank you because my sons grew up here. This was a good place for my family to grow and develop. Though we're not here now, we enjoyed the opportunity to grow for a safe and hospitable place for our family. But I want to thank you on behalf of our market, too, and on behalf of the vendors who are here for supporting us through the Rockford River Development Corporation.
 That's helped us in a number of ways. We've enjoyed the music that has been provided through Kathy's efforts, and we've appreciated the food that is now available there. And I guess without being a little embarrassing, we've appreciated the port-a-potty that we have there now because we used to have to go across the street or
 find out a place that would take us if we needed to relieve ourselves during the market. So thanks for the port-a-potty and all the other things that you've helped provide for us through the Rock River Development Corporation. One of the marks of all that going on has been that this year there's an incredible spirit of cooperation amongst the people who are vendors in our market. Thank you.
 Cindy and I used to be the last ones to pack up, and there wouldn't be anybody around when we finally got everything in the truck and took off. Now you can't hardly get started putting stuff back in your truck, but that there are some of these people coming to help you fold your tables and get ready. It's a really warm spirit of cooperation that we've enjoyed at the market. So thanks for all you've helped provide for us, and come see us some Saturday morning. We enjoy seeing any and all of you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you again. Our next proclamation is regarding National Night Out. I'd invite Assistant Deputy Chief Doug Pan, Lieutenant Walter Felton, and Toby Haldeman, please come forward to accept the proclamation. Any other guests that they may have with them as well? Thank you.
 Whereas the 32nd annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford, Illinois, to join forces with thousands of other communities across the country, promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts. Whereas the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Park District Police Department are hosting the local National Night Out 2016 at K. Mulquist Park. Citizens of the 11th Ward play a vital role in assisting the Rockford Police Department through joint crime, drug, and violence prevention efforts in Rockford.
 And whereas it is essential that all citizens be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and the impact that their participation can have reducing crime, drugs, and violence in our community. And whereas police, community partnerships, neighborhood safety, awareness, and cooperation are important themes of this year's National Night Out. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, August 2, 2016, to be National Night Out. And we call upon our citizens to join us in supporting this important event.
 Thank you. Thank you for the proclamation, and we're happy to be hosting National Light Out in District 2 this year. It's actually just down the street from Turner School, which will be the first, well, it may be the first district police station. It depends on which one gets done first, Newtown or that one, but...
 We're really excited to host it. Lieutenant Felton and the community services team have put a lot of work into it, and the event is from five to eight, and the entire community is invited, and we hope that you'll come out. I can't expound much. We have cotton candy this year. And knocker ball. And knocker ball. Knocker ball. I hope John Brantley doesn't know that I get to speak twice tonight.
 Mayor Morrisey, on behalf of the Take It Back Neighborhood Watch Group and all of the other watch groups throughout our city, I'm honored to partake in the acceptance of the proclamation for National Night Out. And I'd like to add that darkness is all around us and all we can do is to shine a light upon it, pushing it back, pushing it away, knowing that when we turn out the light, the darkness will come rushing back. I am asking all of you,
 to become a light in your community, to help push back the darkness that is encroaching upon us all. If everyone were to become that light, darkness will have no place to hide. I hope to see you all tomorrow at P. Malquis Park. And on a final note, I'm not one to be calling people out, but I'd like to ask the mayor if he is or is not going to be in the dunk tank tomorrow night.
 So Tuesday nights, my wife has a class. So it will be the dunk tank or the doghouse. I'm not sure, depending on what I decide to make of my evening tomorrow night. But I appreciate the invitation to be in the dunk tank, and we'll see how things proceed. Ackerball may be a little safer for me. I'm not a very strong swimmer, as they say. Thanks, guys. Thank you very much. Thank you. Applause
 Our final proclamation is for Winnebago Buy Local Month, and I invite all of our friends from Winnebago Buy Local to please come forward, including Lauren Davis and any other members of the organization. You guys can form another row if you need to. We'll try to get you all in the camera there. Come on in. Yeah. Great. I hand this to you. We'll get them to form another row. One more row? All right. Come on in. Okay.
 Thank you everyone for attending this evening. Whereas Winnebago Buy Local is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to promote and support local businesses, there are approximately 16,250 registered businesses in Rockford providing employment for residents, creating jobs for a large portion of our local population.
 Whereas buying locally is an investment in our community. And for every $100 spent at a locally owned business, nearly half goes back into our community.
 Whereas buying locally grown food, locally produced products and services from locally owned businesses can help ensure that there will be farms and ranches in our community for future generations. Whereas shopping locally is a conscious choice, moving Rockford towards self-sustainability, helping us to reduce our carbon footprint, reducing packaging and fuel required to ship products from afar.
 Whereas local business owners and employees take special pride in their products, businesses are key partners in helping our community remain viable and regularly supporting local charities and other organizations.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence Jim Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of August 2016 to be Winnebago Buy Local Month, and we urge our citizens to recognize the economic, environmental, and social benefits of supporting our community by buying locally. Congratulations. Would you like to share a little bit more?
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Morrissey and the City Council, for proclaiming August Winnebago by Local Month. Winnebago by Local is in its sixth year. We have close to 250 local businesses as members. We're a nonprofit grassroots organization for locally owned businesses that provides networking and educational opportunities, such as our bimonthly networking meetings.
 Our newest inaugural social media conference that happened this March called Social Rock, and annual public events for the community, such as a local holiday market, which is a local holiday shopping event where the community can shop local for the holidays in the same room on the same day. And then the Totally Local Ice Cream Social, where we serve local ice cream in dozens of toppings scooped out by local business owners in our community. We do that as an effort to have the youth get more in touch with their local business owners.
 We do all of these things in effort to draw people closer to the businesses who serve them and who care about them so much and care about the place where we live.
 In this age of instant gratification and convenience, our mission is simple. It's to teach the people of Winnebago County of all ages the drastic benefit in buying local and create an extraordinary awareness of how supporting local businesses can provide opportunity, help create jobs, improve neighborhoods and safety, bring revenue to our county, and improve the local economy from the building blocks of where we live.
 In addition, August is the second biggest grossing shopping season during the year, the first one being the holiday season. Buying local is essential to revitalizing our cities and towns, and its importance doesn't get addressed enough. We're grateful for the support of our local government because in giving us this proclamation today, you're acknowledging how important locally owned grassroots businesses are to our overall well-being.
 Buying local is not only a feel-good thing to do, but it's an investment into the community. It creates a prosperous area to live, work, and visit. It creates a hot spot for tourism, enriches the environment for more entrepreneurs, which attracts more business, economic development, and more people. Buying local is a recipe for success in America's top communities.
 By proclaiming August as Buy Local Month, we hope to spread the word and encourage people to shop locally in the public, helping to build our local and regional economy and continue to make this an even better place to live. As a 100% volunteer organization who depends on the word of mouth heavily, we encourage everyone in the room to help us spread the word about buying local and create a life where buying local becomes less of an afterthought and more of a priority and a solution.
 And I'd also like to recognize all the businesses that showed up today. This is pretty awesome. So I wrote everyone's name down as they walked in. We have Jake from Rockford Buzz, Diana from Tasty Tidbits, Robert from PC Tech 2U, Melody from Petals and Pickens, Kim from Lallygag Boutique, Alicia from Ground Floor Skateboards,
 We have Skylar from Culture Shock, John from Poplinka, Keith and Amy from Bygone Brand, Sue from Sue Michelson Tai Chi and Therapy, Sarah from Scavenged Parts Vintage, Marion from Marion Momily CPA, Lucretia from the Rockford Roasting Company, Stu and Kate from Kate's Pie Shop, Diane and Barry from Great Hangups and Spotlight Entertainment, Joel from Computer Repair IT Services and Learning, and I'm going to go ahead and start the presentation.
 Teresa and Rob from Kegels Bicycle Company. And then also I'd like to acknowledge that Karen from Englewood is here and Kevin from CJBF Law. That always screws me up. And then myself from Lauren Davis Creative. We just all really thank you, and thank you for this proclamation. Great job and wonderful turnout tonight. Thank you.
 Next on our agenda, we have a presentation from the law firm of Hinshaw and Culbertson to update the council on work performed as outside council for the city of Rockford involving our housing, affordable housing issues. Gina, would you like to do the honors, get us started? They're both available. Just one. Thank you.
 Hi, everybody. We thought we'd give an update today given the recent activity that's taken place with the Certificate of Consistency with the RHA and the letter agreement that you're all aware of that we entered into. So in giving this update, I thought we'd kind of repeat the update we gave the Fair Housing Working Committee on June 7th
 for those of you that weren't there, and then take it forward from basically that period to include what happened in June and July, and then take it forward to include future steps on work that we anticipate needing to be done go forward. So for those of you that already sat through that, we've shortened this a little bit and changed it to bring it into context with what's happened, and I hope to run through it pretty quickly.
 What we're going to cover today is the HUD compliance review. In large part, Michael Espero from our firm is taking lead on that and he'll be going over that in executive session to provide you an update on that. So it will be real brief what I say during this presentation on that matter. We'll walk through the city's role in housing policy, how it works to establish policy and how the RHA actually has a duty to be consistent with our policies and how that works.
 We're going to recap what's been performed to date and also go forward steps and timing.
 The status with regard to the HUD compliance review was that, if you remember, HUD had sent a letter requesting information. We provided approximately 6,000 pages of material. We reviewed, indexed, and sent that on to HUD. At that time, we expected a response within six weeks. Again, HUD began reviewing that material almost immediately. I think a lot of what they do when we're waiting to see what happened with Newtown. But I'm going to let Michael speak on that a little bit later today in tonight's meeting. Thank you.
 Providing an update on policy, when we were first engaged, there were a lot of issues out there floating around. There was issues regarding number of housing starts, you know, what's the housing demand in our community currently for all types of housing, market housing and what have you. There was access to transportation, mobility issues, foreclosures, concentration of poverty.
 And all these issues were out there, but there really wasn't cohesion on how they were addressed, how they related to one another. And, therefore, when decisions were being made, they weren't being made in context of one another and how it worked. So when we came in, one thing we tried to do is align those issues with council, with the Fair Housing Working Committee that got put together to identify, you know, how do those issues play off each other and how should we be looking at this on the go-forward steps.
 and what we should do next. So we actually, as part of this process, we asked RHA Ron to provide us a list of documents that he felt we needed to review to be up to speed with regard to things that were driving policy and things that were driving their decisions and what they were making. And he provided us at that time a list of 60-some-odd documents, for example, that he felt we needed to review and look at. And we'll go through those a little bit later. But part of
 Stepping back a little bit, part of adding to this was really not only identifying what the issues are and aligning those issues and trying to bring them together, but also making sure we had a communication plan to identify how we're going to be dealing with, from internally to externally, how we're dealing with HUD, how we're dealing with the RHA, so that we don't have a confusion with a divergence of questions or issues or positions. Okay.
 which is really, in my mind, why the council had set up the Fair Housing Working Committee. The Fair Housing Working Committee is to address those types of housing issues as they arise and will be responding to those. The Fair Housing Working Committee communicates directly with our firm and obviously with staff. From our firm, taking lead on that is working together, actually, is myself, Paul Nicolosi, and Michael. Michael taking lead on compliance. Paul and I taking lead on the planning side of the process.
 We work with staff. We've been working very well with Todd Cagnoni, Angela from legal, and Vicki, and Todd's staff also. And what we're doing now is as we're planning forward, we're looking at what can be done internally with staff to try to maximize their resources there and then to have our firm fill in on stuff that isn't able to be handled internally with the time consideration needed.
 That moving forward, having identified the alignment and kind of the communication plan, we were asked early on what the city could do. I mean, early on when we got engaged first in December and January, the questions were really what's the city's role? What's our position? How can we affect policy? How can we change things? And what we determined was there's really three cornerstones to that.
 One is that the city can develop a unified housing policy, a vision. Cities have the right to do so. This is for all housing. It's not just housing for low-income, affordable housing. It's for all policy. So the right to establish their own housing policies. And they're typically memorialized by ordinance.
 And so part of what we need to do is work on setting that policy and working towards an ordinance for the city. But to do that, obviously we want to align that ordinance and our vision and policies should align up with the consolidated plan that we have. So the three cornerstones are really set our policy and vision,
 Our consolidated plan should be consistent with that policy and vision. And then the RHA with their housing plan, their annual housing plan that they developed needs to be consistent with our consolidated plan. Our consolidated plan.
 talks about and identifies basically where we use resources for community block grant money, different type of federal grants made available to us. And the reason that HUD likes to see that to be consistent with
 The housing authority's plan is because it talks about allocation of resources. When the federal government is giving you dollars that's consistent with your consolidated plan, federal dollars for CDBG or whatever, they'd like to know that when the housing authority is establishing its plan and its roles, that it's allocating their resources they're getting from the federal government to,
 consistent with your plan. And that's why annually you have the Certificate of Consistency that you approve because HUD wants the ability to take a look at that and make sure that the RHA's plan is consistent with your consolidated plan. So that's something they like to look at. Now, it doesn't mean they have to be consistent. I mean, even if they're not consistent, but it has a lot of weight to ensure that their plan is consistent with your plan.
 The RHA's mission is it partners with community and responsible residents to transform houses into homes while guiding families to self-sufficiency.
 Again, early on you were asking what can we do and before we identified the three cornerstones of adopting a policy, making sure a consolidated plan is written in such a way that guides the PHA and what the city's plan is going to be, part of that was you also appoint the board members and there are board members on that board that you appoint annually. I think there are five of them with rotating terms so there are terms that come up and
 by having your policy out there and having your policy known to those board members since they are appointed typically they'll hear those policies that you lay out there. One important thing with that is as we lay out that policy with the RHA, we all should have common goals.
 And setting those goals is a very important process, which is why communication, the communication plan that we're under currently with RHA is a letter agreement, as you may recall. And we passed a certification, as we had until October 15th, to really align policies and set strategies
 that we're working towards. So we have reached out to Mr. Kluwer. We do have a meeting set, I believe, this Thursday to start that process to identify those issues and align policies. And we're hoping to be able to make some real headway there. But kind of backtracking a little bit, one of the issues were when you're looking at your consolidated plan, for example, there were questions about
 you know, is the consolidated plan consistent with the PHA? And what we found during that process were, well, there are terms utilized in both the PHA and the consolidated plan, but the belief on those definitions of what they meant were different. There was a disconnect, which is why not only are we reviewing the 68 documents, but we've identified terms
 on both documents, approximately 60 of the terms, where there's a disconnect on what they actually mean and what the interpretation was believed to have been by some council members versus maybe RHA. So when they look at scattered site, for example, scattered site by RHA,
 some of the council members and some people on the committee was sites that are scattered throughout the city, sites that are maybe less dense, one or two units per site. When you speak to RHA about it, they had a different definition. They had greater density, which created some of the confusion and angst during one of the last votes we took on Newtown.
 So, kind of the work summary through May 30th, we talked about HUD compliance. Newtown was obviously part of that as you might remember. We came in, we reviewed the approval process. Part of that approval process given what was happening with HUD required that we look at past practice and the consistency review, identify how we've treated past plats, why this plat was different because it was utilizing the townhome ordinance.
 We identified opportunities with regard to where there could be changes with regard to the site plan, did it comply with their current code or not. We worked with staff on that. And we helped staff walk through that initial response to the developer.
 We also reviewed and made recommendations on that plan. If you remember there was some parking issues, whether there was enough parking stalls or not. It's still not, I understand everybody feels there's likely not enough parking still today, but based on your current code we made sure it matched up to what code required at a minimum. There was requests that we walk through the Choice Grant application at that same time. And we also created the Fair Housing Committee around end of March, I believe it was, to set the policies, goals, and processes for them.
 Part of what we did through that process was identify best practices, the identification of the creation of a basically a housing policy ordinance, how the consolidated plan works and how that can really dictate and set the parameters for which the PHA must follow.
 Currently, we had ongoing planning with the RHA, and the RHA, around the end of April, really identified for us the need to have a certificate of consistency from us, the annual certificate of consistency. So we took that opportunity to look at it and said, all right, what can we do here? What does our PHA say?
 Is that or is that not consistent with our consolidated plan? And let's have a discussion on that. And as you were all informed, I think we're keeping you up to date with emails frequently as to how that was going. During that process, we went through and identified for, we went through and identified really some items in their PHA that we thought were of concern. We worked with staff and identified those.
 And during that process, we went back and forth with the RHA and came up with, in essence, some language that they added into their PHA, and we came up with the letter agreement. And the letter agreement gives us time to address those issues that we felt weren't consistent with our consolidated plan while still being able to provide them with the certificate of consistency they needed in a timely fashion so they could submit their plans to HUD.
 We obviously, throughout that process, we've attended meetings at the RHA, attended meetings here at the Fair Housing Committee. We created a glossary of terms for that clarification. We've asked for some information. We'll continue to ask for some information regarding the capital stack, how they're putting these projects together. I think that's very important because all along RHA is concerned that the tools they have available, the funding resources are limited, and they believe that what they are providing
 What they are doing with regard to housing is they have limited options and what they are doing is pretty much all they can do. So for us to kind of dig into that with the Fair Housing Committee, we need to understand their financial and capital stack. We've asked for that. That hasn't yet been provided but that will be something we'll continue to ask for. Kind of go forward next phases.
 We are working on continuation of policy alignment strategy to achieve policy with RHA. That is what this next set of meetings will be with the RHA. We are going to be when we say we are meeting with them, not just our team but also with your team with the city staff.
 And we're going to try to identify the documents in the index where there's some, maybe some questions or open issues with regard to definitions to make sure we have alignment on what they actually mean. So when we say something, we all know what we mean. And secondly then, to start working through globally what we want to see, what we want to see from housing and changes we'd like to see done and try to come up with some solutions for those.
 As you remember, some of those discussions earlier on were with regard to Orton Keys and Burlington Oaks and the reinvestment needed there and the level of concentration of poverty that would continue to exist for generations to come. And that's one of the things that I think we've all heard from the council and the committee in saying we want to try to avoid those, the continuation of poverty in those areas. Thank you.
 Phase two would be basically finalizing the policy alignment and developing a strategy to move forward. We are going to have to memorialize that into a housing ordinance. We are going to have to refine the consolidated plan, refine and augment it. We are going to have to coordinate with the RHA and their PHA for future go forward.
 We're going to look at alternative project initiatives, look at capital stack options, and to the extent necessary, draft any intergovernmental agreements with the RHA on reaching agreement on how to move forward to the extent we have the ability to help them with some tools or some ordinances that we pass to provide them and provide them with ways in which they could further their plans in ways that we find more acceptable.
 Again, as I've indicated earlier, we're working with staff. We've met with Todd. I know Paul's met with Todd and staff separately without me on a number of occasions. And what they've indicated was staff's identified approximately 60 hours a month between Angela, Todd, and
 and Vicki that they can devote to the project. Over a five-month period, that will be about 300 hours. So what we're doing currently is we're working out the work packets on what needs to be done. We've been reviewing that with staff. I know Todd's been gone for the last week, and he'll be back I think next week or later this week. He'll be catching up on that again and reviewing it, and then we'll be running it through the Fair Housing Committee at that time.
 In summary, this is just kind of a summary of work completed to date. Identify the team I just went through. Again as I indicated, Michael is taking lead on compliance. Paul and I are taking lead on policy and planning. We're working with staff to fill in as much as possible in order to make this an efficient project for you guys.
 committee had passed the communication plan at the last meeting. I don't think there's any action that needs to be taken with regard to the communication plan. It's kind of a rule that they set themselves. If council believes it needs to do so, then they can obviously present that resolution for adoption of that communication plan when they desire, either later on this agenda. I think there's a spot on this agenda with regard to rules and go forward if you'd like to. But, again, I don't think it's necessary, and I think committee's passing it's adequate. Okay.
 The next steps really are what was presented up above. And again, I tried to keep this brief. I hope it was helpful. If you have any questions, I'm glad to answer them now or as we, I think, adjourn into executive session. Thank you. Questions? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Governor. Just where is Winnebago County Housing Authority in all this? Okay.
 That will be part of the policy alignment strategy. So what we've been doing so far is working with RHA to kind of get to the point where we're at now that we can start working on aligning policy. I fully envision that the next steps will include discussion on regionalism, because we've talked about that already with Ron. Ron has some regional plans on what he wants to do. And part of that will include Winnebago Housing Authority as to what
 as to what his plans are. My understanding is he is regularly communicating with them on his plans. And just sort of a follow up, is there a way that city council can get a list of where the addresses of the Section 8 vouchers are? Is there a way that we can develop a scatter plot to look at where these units lie? I'm not sure they can give you the exact addresses, but I think they identify them by zip code already.
 development department. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. The community development department has those scatter plots, and I think they have them where they can actually overlay the different types of subsidized public housing, senior housing, all the different types of housing within each. I don't know if it's by census tract or ward or something.
 If I can provide a point of information, I don't know if staff has any more detail than I do, but from my recollection, one of the issues Ron Flewer has discussed is an updated data sharing agreement so that we can ensure that we've got...
 appropriate legal documentation to support the sharing of information. There were some issues that I, I know at one point we've had that information, we've plotted it. I don't know how recent it is, but we've looked at density maps and I just don't know if we currently have a data sharing agreement that, I don't know how granular it allows us to get in terms of the specific addresses. That was an issue that I know I've personally discussed with Ron and I think he seemed to indicate it was in
 needed to get refined and ultimately approved. I don't know if anybody on staff has got any additional information on that, but that's something we'd certainly follow up and ensure that it's moving forward. We'll ask for that. I think that's a good point. I envision there's going to be basically an under-governmental agreement, at least predominantly dealing with confidentiality information, which the Mayor is alluding to when he says data sharing. So we'll  because there's going to be other information that we'll be asking for with regard to financial that he's not going to want generally out there in the public,
 We're going to want to be able to take it in and say we'll share it, and to the extent it's not foiable, it wouldn't be foiable from him nor us then because he's a municipal entity like we are. So to the extent it's not foiable, we won't share it. Alderman Deer. Just a last point. It gets to what we're trying to accomplish with federal housing because immediately you almost see the consistency between the planning of the Orton Keys project and what's done with the fairgrounds.
 And even organizations such as the Urban Institute and other housing study think tanks, we are so way out of compliance of what good best practices are, at least based upon what I'm reading. And I think scatter plots, data analysis, you know, and impact statement, impact studies are extremely important because, as I've said before, I think
 We are way beyond the tipping point with public housing in Rockford such that our burden in supplying the needs of some of these people exceeds our capacity to give it. I mean, compare us to Naperville. It's insane. So as we move forward with this, I think, you know, including Winnebago County and data and information,
 involving not just what RHA says or anybody else, but even what HUD is documenting, an urban institute. Pulling that information together, I think, is extremely important because I think public housing here is done wrong. I've said it before, I think a lot of, some aldermen may agree, some may not, but it has to be reinvented. So as we proceed,
 I'm not interested in status quo stuff. I mean, we have to reinvent the whole thing. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Yeah, just one of the things that continues to bother me, we don't have a housing policy.
 I mean, we really don't. We have a lot of scattered things. We have mandatory reports that we have to put together. We have very broad plans like the consolidated plan that are very, very amorphous, even in the way that they're written. Anything can fit within those plans. But as a city council, as a city.
 I don't see an ordinance, I don't see a housing policy, not just affordable housing, not just with RHA, but housing overall. It's one of the things that disturbs me, that really bothers me. We've got areas now, beautiful areas of the community that are going to be destroyed with rental housing very, very quickly. I look at the Highland Square area and some others that have beautiful historic homes.
 as they become the objects of, very often, out-of-town speculators and investors.
 I've got three in my neighborhood now that are being torn down that are some of the most beautiful homes in the world. They become rental properties with some of these out of town landlords. They suck as much money as they can. They buy these things for $15,000 or less at tax sales. And when they get enough out of them, they just let them go to hell in a handbasket. And we end up tearing them down, some of them within a 15 or 20 year period.
 It's got to stop at some point. I think it's contributing to crime, not the people in the houses. Mayor Morrissey, when I think it was your first election, you talked about broken windows and the broken windows theory of community engagement and community involvement. And we've got so many broken windows everywhere.
 especially emanating from our housing policy, that if we don't plug those holes and start doing it now, we're going to lose our city, and I think we already are.
 I'm still anxious and getting a little antsy that we aren't moving forward more quickly on putting together our own policy. I'm worried that you're meeting with RHA about aligning some of these things, and I understand there's terminology. We're talking two differentwe're saying the same words, deconcentration, dedensification, but we're at polar opposites as to what those things mean and how to get there.
 So I understand that, but I feel like I need my own policy to know where I'm going or for you to know where we're going, and I'm really anxious that we get started on that soon. Thank you.
 are there comments questions all done frost and i would agree with both alderman durkee and alderman hervey and um except that i think we actually have been moving quicker than i would have anticipated when i got involved with this committee i thought i was getting inundated with the amount of data and documents that we received it's something that i don't think is an alderman it's that easy to keep up with and i do think that the
 We have made some strides with respect to the resolution that was brought forward and worked on by both the staff, including Mr. Hayes and his staff and the consultants we brought in to actually make some headway. I think we do have to understand we do still have to work with all of the players in the sandbox here, but at the same time, I do think it would be nice to work on setting a framework
 the housing ordinance and having a policy moving forward that we think that isn't the status quo. We've all been caught in the last year really talking more about housing than I think we ever have before. So it's important to keep it on the front burner and put the attention and time both between the staff and our consultants and the committee members. And I would encourage anyone else that wants to come to the committee meetings to
 to come and participate. Thank you. Other comments, questions?
 I just had two quick points I'd like to ask. One is, I saw it in some of the written materials that had been prepared, but if I don't, I don't think I caught it tonight. If you just comment on the technical assistance application and how you see that moving forward, as well as I assumed in some of the latter comments that you made as you were looking at the allocation of time, ultimately be coming back with a prospective budget.
 for the council and I'm just curious on your thoughts on those two issues. So we have spoken with Todd both about the budget and technical assistance. So part of the budget is working on the allocated staff resources. Obviously the more time they have to put in, the less time we need to put in and therefore the budget comes in less. So we're waiting for Todd to return. Once he does, we'll be able to go through the tasks identified as to what needs to happen and then finalize that budget. We hope to have that.
 by the next Fair Housing Working Committee, we hope, but it depends on Todd's availability. I know he's coming back from a two-week vacation, and sometimes it's not even worth going on vacation when you come back and have to work three times as hard to catch up.
 So we'll see. That's our goal, at least internally. We feel like we've advanced that ball as far as we can until we wait for him. As for technical assistance, what we've learned, at least from city staff, is technical assistance is usually pretty limited in time. You know, usually limited to about 16 hours on a project, is I think what Vicki had indicated to Todd. So we're going to let Todd take lead as to how much technical assistance he thinks will be offered. But my understanding is that HUD's technical assistance will be very limited in nature.
 Thank you. Any additional comments? Thank you for the presentation. I know we're scheduled to have some additional discussion in closed session later. We'll move on to committee reports. Mr. Hayes? I'm sorry. Alderman Shrelle, you wanted to make a motion. Go ahead, Alderman. Your Honor, I appreciate the council allowing me to step out of order tonight on the agenda and move to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters.
 There's been a motion and second. Again, this would be somewhat out of order from what the agenda was originally prepared. But if there's no objection, there's been a motion and second to go into closed session to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. We have a motion approved. We will go into closed session.
 We are on new committee reports. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Governor. I have two items under Roman numeral 6A. Number one, Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of the proposed Rockford I-90 Enterprise Zone Boundary Amendment. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the request for approval of the 2017 Community Action Plan,
 For community services block grant funding as required by Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'd like to suspend rules first. In a motion, second to suspend rules, Roman numeral 6A, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'd like to place those two up for passage. Matters are for passage is their discussion.
 With regard to item 6A1, will the extension, the boundary change amendment for the Enterprise Zone, does that result in the deletion of any areas that are currently under the Enterprise Zone? And the second part is, do we have a cap as to the number of,
 square miles or blocks or whatever can be within an enterprise zone within the city of Rockford for this phase? And if so, how much is left? Mr. Williams, can you take that? Yes, I may. I'll try to get to the last question first about the square miles.
 There's no limitation to the number of zones that the city could have. We also have the Rockford Enterprise Zone No. 1. There's a maximum amount of square miles, which is 12, a minimum of a half a square mile. So each zone could have up to 12 square miles. We're at our near capacity on Enterprise Zone No. 1 in Rockford, which is the larger one that encompasses most of our industrial areas and around Rockford.
 And I-90 was one that we put in as a competitive enterprise zone along the I-90 corridor because all the other communities in our region have enterprise zones along the I-90 corridor. And it is the smallest. It came in just under a square mile, so this takes us to about 1.5 square miles. Thank you. Further discussion on the items? Further discussion on the items.
 Hearing none of the passage again a Roman numeral six a one and two. I'm sorry I did have a question too. I
 with regard to the Community Action Plan for the Community Services Block Grant. Did we make any changes with regard to the education component? I reviewed it, and then I couldn't be here last week for the committee meetings, and I apologize, but I know at one time we had talked about the fact that we had no provisions for getting people into the MRO training.
 Those are $35,000 to $50,000 a year jobs. My understanding for people who are enrolled out there is that there aren't a lot of Rockford people enrolled at all. They talked about people being from a lot of these outlying communities. This is in the Rock Valley program.
 We're just disturbed. We paid a lot of money. We put a lot of investment into that MRO center. And here we go again, no Rockford residents. It just seems that all these jobs programs that everybody's talking about have a presumption that Rockford residents aren't qualified. And I disagree, and I want to see us do something to start putting Rockford residents into those programs.
 And it seemed to me that we had $10,000, but they were $1,000 grants to 10 people. And we had asked at one point, can we talk about putting more money into that program to target getting people into some of these well-paying jobs in the long term? I'd rather have five people in a program that's going to produce a real, meaningful income
 solid employment stability for those people. We can have 10 people get $1,000 to take three courses. And I really, I don't know if we had that provision or if that can be amended. Mr. Davis? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey, we recently actually received some clarification from DCO that we could, in fact, utilize even beyond our scholarship fund, which is the fund that you're speaking of,
 other portion of our economic development dollars, a larger part of our economic development dollars, which is about over $90,000 a year, toward the very type of project that you're referring to. In other words, if we know of an individual that could be supported in a qualifying program that could lead to a well-paying job, that's low income, we can actually use our economic development dollars in that way.
 So we are currently looking at potentially even with this year's funds, the ability to start doing that. Okay. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on number one. Aye on number two. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beck. Aye.
 McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? 10 ayes, 2 noes. On number 1 and on number 2, 12 ayes. Matters both passed, thank you. Alderman Chiarelli? Thank you, Your Honor. Under new committee reports, B1 through 10, Your Honor, I'd like to lay over number 8 first. Second. The matter will automatically lay over. Yep, so I'll lay over number 8. And I'd like to suspend all the rules on the remaining items, Your Honor.
 I have a motion and a second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 6B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, and 10. I have a motion and a second to suspend the rules on those items. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Roll to suspend it on those items. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those items up for passage. The matter is up for passage. Is there a discussion? I'll let Elliot do it.
 I just have a question about number nine, the request for additional street lighting on 9th Street between 15th Avenue and 16th Avenue. Reading through the minutes from Traffic Commission, it states that no action request was taken because one of our staff, Jeremy Carter, said that we would just go ahead and put the light in. And so I'm curious when that would happen.
 Mr. Vittner, can you take that? I would have to follow up, honestly. I'm not sure what the schedule is going to be on that. I have concerns about that because that same thing happened when I asked for a light in front of W&S Liquor Store on Broadway over a year ago, and we've yet to have a light installed there. Do you want to have the matter laid over? No. Mr. Mayor. I don't know if it needs to be laid over. I guess I just have to stay on top of it and keep asking when we'll get those lights in.
 Mr. Ritter? You know, I would commit to you that we'll follow up with folks that are responsible for doing that. We've had a lot of lag time and a lot of personnel changes when it comes to the street lighting and the people that are installing them. So I'll write this down, and I'll try to get back to you tomorrow. Thank you, Alderman. McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would like to know.
 I thought we had policy regarding that. I thought that's the reason why it went before Traffic Commission. If we merely can ask requests for street lights and not go through Traffic Commission, please inform me. Mr. Fittner. You're correct. It does go through Traffic Commission. We're not installing lights based on requests, or we're not having ComEd put up additional lights based on requests, only if Traffic Commission authorizes it.
 So how does this, did this, so this request for additional street lighting across from the alley, did it? I'll clarify one thing, though. If it fits our policy, then we will, if it's at a corner or an intersection that needs a light, it doesn't need to go to Traffic Commission because it's already per the policy. But it's when it deviates from that policy that Traffic Commission looks the case over. Further discussion? Alderman Newberg. Yes, on number seven, the...
 No parking on certain hours would that also be? Certain only on the school days or is that for that? That's in my ward and that was to be during school School school days who's got the information that mr. Britton? You know I'm at a little bit of a disadvantage because I don't attend traffic commission so I could certainly research the answers to these but I Take it that Jeremy has vetted these things out with the Commission and that's why we're very
 we're here but I don't know the intimate nuances to the details I'd like that held over their second second and seven layover automatically oh if I could Mr Hayes sorry I was a little short with the time to get through this stuff I'll read the committee report
 for the matter on Huffman, the ordinance would restrict parking to no parking 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. on regular school days on the west side of Huffman Boulevard from Adolphson Road to Brown Avenue, thus repealing the no parking 4 p.m. to 9 p.m.
 Can I take back my... You can withdraw your motion. I withdraw my withdrawal. The matter is then back on with the motion and the second withdrawal. Alderman Elliott. I have a lighting issue again. Certainly. So here's what I don't understand. If this lighting request meets our policy for having a light installed, I don't understand why it would have gone to Traffic Commission in the first place, which is...
 just created a six-week delay in this process of getting the light. And the person who heard it to the traffic commission also at the traffic commission then states that it doesn't need to be a traffic commission because it meets our criteria currently to have a light installed. So I don't understand why there's all this rigmarole with the lights. And I'm really concerned that, like the...
 request that I had for the light in front of the liquor store on Broadway, this too will fall through the cracks, being that it's coming out of this with a no action. So I would just recommend if you want to be certain that it's covered, then you can ask for it to be amended to make sure that it
 is an approval. I would at this time like to move to amend this report to state that we are going to take action on this streetlight. So the item 9, Roman numeral, I'm sorry, just to make clear, it's Roman numeral 6B9 sub number 2. You'd like it to be a recommended approval? Is there a second? It's been moved and seconded. Is there a discussion? I'm sorry, Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Ms. Mayer. I just have concern. I'm not sure where the street light is at. If it is in a position that we would normally put a street light, if we're going to move forward with putting a light where we would not normally put a light.
 then I think it puts a whole new perspective on, certainly for me, to request lighting. I think Mr. Bittner indicated that for this particular request, and I'm sorry, Mr. Carter was relayed that it wouldn't need to be action taken because it already meets the policy. But just to be safe and clear, I don't think it hurts if it already meets the policy and that's what was communicated to then make it an approval.
 That's my take on it. Our policy, because there is an alley that tees there, there's data, there's data with accidents. Is that consistent, Mr. Vittner? Without knowing. Thank you, Your Honor. Like I said, without knowing all the details based on everything that I'm hearing, it sounds like it does probably meet the policy. So we would be putting it in because somebody had discovered that, you know,
 other discussion with all of them. I I just spoke with the. Area there and she said that there was a like every force always taken down so now we're going to. Pay to put another light up there I'm I'm not sure that I'm following so if I could get back to play I understand Mister mayor that.
 there was previous lights, so we're not changing our policy. But I'm seeing that obviously there's a problem if we took down something that should have been there. So if my memory serves me correctly, when we took down the lights, we did not have a written policy. Later on, I think it was January of 2013, we passed an official policy. It could be a little bit off in the dates. It was sometime after the actual
 actually after we went through and then taken out the lights and what we said was there's been certain instances that we've put lights back upon review under the new policy. So it's, this could certainly happen where a light got taken out and then it was reviewed again under the new policy once it was approved by council and it would go back up.
 Alderman McNeely, then Alderman Tuckett. Mr. Mayor, the lights should have never been taken out. If it was needed there, then my point is that it should have never been taken out. So then how many other locations do we need to look at where it's similar to the situation where we need to put more lights in? That's the only point I was thinking of. This is exactly why we created the policy, and if anybody has a question on one, why it gets referred to Traffic Commission,
 We were in front of the council on this circumstance. We didn't have a policy. We took it down because it was the best solution we could come up with at the time, not having a policy and being in the position of trying to save costs and going through all of the meetings with council members and staff and ultimately on the policy that ultimately was approved by council.
 So, again, this isn't the first time this has happened where a request gets reviewed again under the policy that was established. All my time to Kelly. You're absolutely right, Your Honor. And when we first took down the lights, what Public Works did was they took down a number. They did not necessarily do it in a rational way. Once they got to that number, they stopped taking them down.
 and then the policy was adopted. And it's my understanding that Public Works was also, was going to continue to look at what lights were taken down that should be back up that was going to be an ongoing thing. That was my understanding. If I remember correctly, we picked this topic up when we were in the budget process. I can't remember now if it was this budget year or the prior budget year, but that was ultimately then taken off the table
 as a budget solution. When it was taken off, you're actually right, I believe that we were planning on doing that, but when it was taken back off the table because we didn't have the authorization from council to start doing that, that's why I don't think it went forward. We could certainly, you know, hey, we could always take it up again and as a component, and we may have to, I guess, look at it again as a future way to look at our budget.
 issues but I think that that's at least my recollection of what ended up happening. Other comments on this particular item? So again, we are, what's pending is a, we could just take a voice vote on this. This is the motion to amend Roman numeral 6-9 sub number 2 to an approval. Any other comments on that before I ask for a voice vote? All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no.
 I have it that will be amended to show approval. So the amended items, that amended item as well as the others that are for passage are up for passage under Roman numeral 6B. Is there any other discussion on those items? So we're taking all those then under 6B except for number 8. 8. 8 was- Laid over. Laid over. Any other comments on any of those other ones? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll.
 Durkee Aye Goetjes No No action on the stop sign Aye McNamara No on 9 Frost No on 9 Herbie Aye Thompson-Kelley Aye Odo Newberg Elliott Beck McNeely Aye Chiarelli Aye
 I am 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12 eyes. I am number 91. There's eight eyes for nose item number nine to 12 lives. Matters all pass. Thank you. I'm back. Thank you. I'm going to remember six. See items one through four. I asked for suspension rules.
 Room numeral 6C, items 1 through 4. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have the rules be suspended. I place them up for passage. Matters that are up for passage. All amend. Gets us. Yes, Your Honor. I'd like to amend Charlie 2, the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Park District for the
 I'm sorry. I'm stealing Alderman Frost's thunder. Sorry. I move to amend the committee report from take no action to approve the intergovernmental agreement with the Park District, West 8th Street, Windier Park on construction and definition of ownership and maintenance responsibilities and funding sources sales tax.
 There's been a motion and second to amend committee report from take no action to approve the intergovernmental agreement with park district, west state, street linear park construction and definition of ownership and maintenance responsibilities funding source sales tax. That's been moved and seconded. Is there discussion? I'll let Herbie. Yeah, I mean, I support the linear park certainly.
 I did have some questions about some of the internal components and I know what happens when too many cooks start getting in the soup. But without holding it up, I'm hoping that there might still be some time to confer with the Park District about the placement maybe of some of the amenities.
 I just have some concerns about some of the items and safety. Not what they're going to look like now, but what's going to happen 10, 15, 20 years from now. And I know we're working to improve the city and improve West State Street, but a public gathering place can very easily become a negative public gathering place in our neighborhoods. And I know people don't like to hear that, but it's true. And I don't want to see us get into an area where
 I hate the gentleman spoke here tonight, but I'm going to speak tonight about vagrants and the danger that they're posing. And I don't want to see it become a hangout in some cases for games and some of the negative activity. I know the Park District has some awareness of those things, but I'm hoping we can continue to talk as a community about the feasibility of some of the amenities that they have planned. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Vittner, any comment on that?
 Thank you, Mayor. This does not obligate us to any of the contracts yet, as you recognized. What we will do as we stage in the implementation under this agreement is I'll send out what it is exactly the phases are going to include for everyone to see and review. I have already spoken with Alderman McNeely about meeting to discuss some of the amenities as well.
 making sure that everybody understands What these there's going to probably be three different contracts and we'll start with something like the irrigation which we we know there'll be basically hose hookups and things like that for the park district to use so I'll send that around so that everybody understands it before we actually put it out for bid so that You know we're comfortable with it. Thank you for the discussion I
 Hearing none clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Detchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Kirby. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Elliott. Aye.
 Newberg? You want more? I'm sorry, we're only, I should have clarified this. Right now we're only voting on the amendment to shift from take no action to approve on that number two under C, 6C2. Thank you. Beck? Abstain. McNeely? Ciarelli? Levin, Ayes, 1 abstain. So the motion to amend the report from take no action to approve passes?
 The item I'm assuming as well as the others are for passage? Yes. These items that number two has amended are all up for passage. Is there discussion on any of the others? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Otto? Newberg? This is the part I said. Okay. No, I'm for. Aye. And the rest? Thank you. Ellier? Beck?
 I on one three and four I'm staying on two McNeely Aye Chiarelli Item number one twelve ayes Item number two eleven ayes one abstain Number three is twelve ayes Number four is eleven ayes one no Thank you matters all pass thank you Alderman McEvoy Thank you Mayor Under the Fair Housing Working Committee Committee recommends approval of the determination For rules of procedure For the Fair Housing Working Committee
 Thank you. Is there a motion to suspend? We've got a motion and a second to suspend the rules under Roman Rule 6D1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Rules will be suspended. Matters done. Up for passage. Is there a discussion? All in the time of Kelly. I apologize. My question is, is this the rules that the housing committee determined?
 Alderman McNamara, do you want to take that? I'll allow Alderman Frost to, as I was not in attendance at that session. Alderman Frost, sir. I didn't hear your question. Are these the rules that the Fair Housing Committee determined how they were going to operate by? Yes. Thank you. All right. All righty. Any further discussion? These rules. Thank you.
 Any further discussion on the item? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getses. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Sovaks. Thank you, Madam. Our pass is. We already had our closed session, so we will move on to officers' reports.
 I am just going to do my officer's report from my desk this evening. A few items that I wanted to comment on this evening. For starters, we had another tragic weekend with the death of a 15-year-old Rockford Public School student, a very promising young athlete, and by the accounts that I've heard, a very nice young man who was tragically victimized as a result of gun violence over the weekend.
 Our thoughts and prayers extend certainly to the family and friends of this young person, but also to the thoughts and prayers for our entire community as we continue to grapple with the challenges of, very complex challenges of gun violence in our community. Also wanted to thank our Chief O'Shea and the rest of the Rockford
 Police Command staff for putting together, I think, a very successful community forum. I believe it was last week at Ellis Arts Academy with a number of members of the community participating. As was discussed, that is the first of a series of forums that are going to take place. I also wanted to note that, and I mentioned this that evening, that we will be reviewing, and I believe it will be prepared, I think it's going to be ready for this August, Rockstat.
 But we have a, I like to look at our use of force data twice a year. This would be our mid-year review. Assuming it's ready, we'll be reviewing it the second week of the month, second Thursday of the month at our monthly ROCSTAT meeting. That includes our overall data regarding use of force.
 as well as complaints against the department, if any, of excessive force and some of the categories of issues that we look at when we're looking at all those issues. I just think it's really important to note that with the new state law that passed last year, we are doing a very good job staying in compliance because, frankly, we were already doing the majority of the items that were called for under the new use force rules in the state of Illinois. This would include some of the mandates on things like,
 bias-free policing and Department of Transportation records that have to be
 created with regard to stop and frisk as well as other vehicle stops that we had already been doing for many years prior. So in addition to all the direct community outreach, having the data and the backbone for our review of use force I think is very helpful and something that we committed to doing several years ago. And as I said last week, the forum will continue to look at it. I want to thank and congratulate all the...
 fire personnel for the successful graduation of legal with seven recruits that graduated today and received their badges and were sworn in by Chief Berkson. Congratulations to all them, a really outstanding class and a lot of support from the community that was there. And then finally I just want to mention
 There's been a handout of materials. August 15th is going to be the inaugural 815 day, Rockford Day, and there's a whole host of promotions and different activities and events that are going to be happening throughout the area on that day. If there's questions about it, feel free to follow up with Kimberly or Nick and our Mayor's Office staff. He's our summer intern.
 Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alderman Thompson-Kelvin. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to, I know they received a proclamation today, but to remind everyone of National Night Out tomorrow night. And the other thing is I want it on record that I'm very much concerned about the intersection of Auburn and Pierpont Avenue.
 school is getting ready to start again and we've had traffic accidents there. Last year the student council met with myself, met Bittner and Jeannie and we did a study on it and that's been several months ago and I haven't heard anything in regards to it.
 That's a very dangerous intersection, and it's quite a few accidents that happen at that intersection. And I would hope that public work would put that as the top priority for the children and the parents' safety. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I have to say that last Friday I attended the police promotion and commendation, and it was a beautiful ceremony there.
 I could not get over how many retired officers came back to support the active officers. That's always nice to see. And the accommodations that were given to officers on the street that you see every day, that they were in there doing life-saving things. And I think we forget that every day the officers and the fire personnel go out. It's not like,
 I'm an alderman, I come down here, I sit for meetings, sometimes they're two hours, sometimes they're longer. That's part of my job as an elected official. But the life and death type thing that our firemen and police officers face every day they go to work, that's a terrifying thought to a lot of us. And I want everyone to remember that when they see an officer and just say, be safe.
 Have a good day. The other thing is, August 9th is a Tuesday night. The Northwest United Neighbors, we have our meeting the second Tuesday of the month. And we're going to have stuff from our garden that we planted a neighborhood garden at Rockford Memorial Hospital with their help and assistance with a lot of water this summer.
 And we're going to have some produce there for the people that come as our guests to sample. And please come August 9th. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, then Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I join with you in offering the family of the young man my may God be with them and keep them.
 This Friday, here at City Hall and Council Chambers, I'm having a meeting regarding the electric aggregation at 5.30. And so this is not just for my ward, so anyone in the city is certainly welcome to join us on Friday here in the chambers.
 On Saturday, there were two quite successful events within my ward. One with Pastor Holman at Liberty Baptist Church. There were over 400 individuals that came through there. There are a number of events there for the kids. I certainly want to thank the police and fire for coming out and participating in that event.
 And then also on Saturday, Pastor Brown, what Kingdom Authority had an event. Again, probably, I think he said there were over 300 individuals there at that event on Saturday. Excellent event. It was hot, but it was an excellent event. And I just want to thank...
 both of them for having the event, giving the individuals within the 13th Ward something to go to, especially the kids right before school starts. And finally...
 I've put together for voter registration, so I would like to invite anyone that's interested, especially churches, to contact me. So I'm working with the Board of the Election to have register our class, and we're looking at the 16th. So any organization, church, whatever, would like to participate, please give me a call. Thanks.
 Thank you, Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to invite all aldermen to attend tomorrow's, I guess, ribbon-cutting for the
 Upgraded Rock Valley College downtown campus. They are doubling their footprint in downtown and the president, Mike Mastroianni, I thought wrote a nice op-ed this weekend. And a big takeaway I took was that they have served more than 2,000 students at their downtown campus with 82% of them being first generation college attendees.
 So I think the impact that they're having is real down there, and I think expanding the footprint by double will only bolster those numbers. So it's at 10 a.m. at the Register Star Towers, the news towers. All in the news. Herbert. Thank you, Your Honor. School's going to be coming up in the next, in Rockford at least, it starts on the 17th.
 So a couple, two and a half weeks. I want to ask that we mount an effort with the police department, public works, human services to combat concentrations of vagrants in and around schools. I called the non-emergency number this morning. I'm headed to my first physical therapy appointment. It's not even 9 o'clock.
 I looked over at the intersection of South Main and Morgan. Fifteen vagrant men hanging in a parking lot. I might as well say one was urinating outside in plain view of cars coming down the intersection. Several were drinking, and they just congregate there. King School is one block away. This is the one that I have complained about continuously.
 It's got to stop. I'm going to start, when I'm able, I'm going to start getting out of my car with a baseball bat if I have to. I'm not going to have these guys hanging around that school. The kids are terrified of them. They talk about it with their parents. Their parents call me. I'm tired of it. I've gotten out of my car several times, and they argue that they're not the bad ones. There are several that tell me they're the good ones. They just want to sit there and have a good time, and they would never scare a child.
 Some of these men are predators. I already know that two of them are predators. They shouldn't even be there. And why they can just come back over and over and over again. South Main Food and Liquor, I believe, is compliant because that's part of their parking lot.
 And they have a no loitering requirement. So why aren't they running them out? I can't remember the name of it, but the little service station is there. Did you mean say complicit or compliant? Complicit, I'm sorry. Well, they're compliant, too. No, they're not compliant, thank you. But at any rate, we've got to take some strong action. It's just continuing. And...
 I don't want to see the gentleman hurt. That's why I want human services involved. I felt for the gentleman that came here today that said nobody cared. I was happy to see our chaplain go right outside after him. I do care, but I care about the kids in the neighborhood more, and I care about the residents who live there who are saying they are terrified. So we will, and I'll ask Assistant Deputy Chief Pan to follow up both with Chief O'Shea
 and Chief Red, Deputy Assistant Deputy Chief, Carla Red, who's, I believe that's her area. And we will follow up, especially given the history at that particular location. I also asked legal department to follow up. I know we were doing a review in terms of any liquor licensing issues that we could utilize at that location. So Mr. Hayes, if you could follow up again with Ms. Hammer and the rest of the staff on that. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just wanting to comment regarding Rock Valley College. I know that they're having their ribbon cutting for the downtown location at the newspaper building. I won't be attending that. I think it's horrible that Rock Valley College will not put forth the funding to put a full facility there
 west of the river so that the individuals that live west of the river can comfortably attend higher education to try and get at least a two-year degree or even to work toward that two-year and then move forward for a four-year degree. Since I've been here, Rock Valley College have made a number of improvements on its location.
 I know that I have talked to the president of Rock Valley College in the past, wanting to encourage them to build or come up with a facility west of the river. They were at the old D.J. Stewart building on the top floor. They moved from that building. Again, that was not accommodating the number of individuals that were attending. They moved from that building to
 the building just north of there, and I went to see what the classrooms looked like. The classrooms were considerably smaller than this room, considerably smaller than any of our meeting rooms,
 And that's where they were having the classes for individuals west of the river to be able to attend to get there. The Rockermass Transit District has set up buses to go to Rock Valley College, however, the time schedule that they have has not accommodated the individuals that need to get there.
 If the individuals do not have cars to get to Rock Valley College, it's not easy to get to. It takes at least 20 minutes in a car from the west side of Rockford to Rock Valley College. So I don't see a need to participate in a ribbon cutting for something that I believe Rock Valley College needs to step up and build a facility so that all of Rockford, especially the...
 the area that needs the education the most to get better jobs, they need to step up and address that need. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Appointments laid over. Alderman Beck. Just one moment, please. Certainly. My iPad decided to shut off. All right, item one is reappointment of Mark Buckner to the Mechanical Board for a term ending June 2021.
 And then the other is a reappointment of James Zwick to the Mechanical Board for a term ending June 2021. I place these both up for vote. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman numeral 9, appointments 1 and 2. Is there discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Aye, 7. Thank you. Motions and resolutions, Roman numeral 10.
 All in Charlie, thank you your honor under motions and resolutions 10 B 1 & 2 number one is a rock for our art museum Greenwich village fair and to his I dot Lane closure for Greenwich village art fair place those items up for passage Your honor thank you for passage under Roman numeral 10 B items 1 & 2 Those events is their discussion hearing none all those in favor. Please say aye aye those no
 I just have it. Thank you. Thank you. All in back. Thank you, Your Honor. Room number 10C, items 1 through 8. I place that for passage. Room number 10C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. All up for passage as they have discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Getschis. Aye. McInerney. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Aye.
 Newberg? Newberg, aye. Elie? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Chiarelli? Item number one, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items two, three, four, five, seven, eight, 12 ayes. Item number six, there's nine ayes, three nos. Matters I'll pass, thank you. Alderman McEmer.
 Thank you, Mayor. Under Fair Housing Working Committee, a review of HUD's proposed changes to calculating fair market rents and housing choice voucher program. I will ask for a suspension of rules. I have to suspend a motion, second to suspend the rules. Do we need a suspension, Mr. Hayes? Not a resolution. We actually don't need a suspension. This is a resolution, and therefore does not need a suspension of rules. Your Honor, if I could. Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor.
 But the city staff became aware of this proposed rule change and made a decision.
 a referral to the housing committee that was right on the deadline of referrals to the housing committee and getting it on the agenda for last week's housing committee agenda. This is a complex environment that HUD seems ambitious to change the rule in. There's a limited period of time to make comments. The date for comments to be submitted is August 15th. That's the next city council date. So we wouldn't have time to take action and make a record of our comments.
 For that reason, and in consultation with our outside counsel from the Housing Committee, staff has developed a resolution which is on all your desks. The operative request is that the City Council would resolve that it hereby directs staff to develop comments in collaboration with Housing Committee members and outside counsel
 to provide comment on the proposed rule on small area fair market rents and further direct city staff to collaborate with Rockford Housing Authority to explore whether use of small area fair market rents in the Rockford area choice voucher program would aid in affirmatively furthering fair housing in our community. The idea is that the basic rule now is that throughout the nation, rents are set at 50% of the market rental.
 That's going to be reduced to 40 percent of the market rental. And areas of the nation, different communities have already been identified for these small area fair market rents that would have an increased amount to reflect the increased cost of living in those areas. There's three communities in the Chicago area that have already been selected, but Rockford's not one of them.
 We feel that this has been an area that is part of our, we've identified this already in our comprehensive plan as set forth in the resolution as an area where we need to work on. We want to develop some comments on the impacts. It's a complex environment. We'll work in collaboration with the rest of the housing committee and the outside council that we've been working with to make some intelligent comments on the rule.
 so that we can take an opportunity to determine whether we're going to support it or not, and if so, what comments we make about the rule and its implementation. We're asking for liberty from the city council to do that by way of a written resolution so that we can take action and make the comment in a timely way.
 We have a number of other options to pursue this by way of referring it back to the committee for more work or other things, but this is really a staff and consultant function, and we hope that council will support that. And I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. Thank you. Discussion? Alderman Durkee. The Section 8 voucher still remains the same, right? Yeah.
 the tenant pays 30% of their income and the voucher pays the rest based on the market. So the market rent is the subsidy is based on this market rent analysis. So that's the starting point. But you're right that there's an income contribution requirement in Section 8. It's a different set of math though. Alderman, I'm sorry, go ahead.
 Just out of curiosity, this motion, what we're voting on, is to explore how we're going to develop the small markets based on zip code? So that will come after. HUD has circulated a proposed rule for comment. We haven't developed mature comments yet, but the deadline for submitting comments to HUD is the 15th.
 We're asking council for the liberty to develop those comments on behalf of the city and submit those in a timely fashion. We simply don't have another city council meeting between now and then. Alderman Purvey. We don't have, correct, we don't have a city council meeting. I would ask that whatever staff puts together, that it definitely gets to the,
 all members of the Housing Committee and the entire City Council in a minimum for comment back to the Housing Committee Chair
 It's a complex issue. I like it and I hate it. It's good, bad, and ugly. It's going to hit different cities differently. I think it could have some very positive benefit for Rockford because of our lower cost housing market. I don't think it would hurt.
 the 50 percent impact, I think it would help the other 50 percent to be able to move into opportunity areas, not opportunity areas, but move into areas where they can't possibly afford to move now with their vouchers. And I think it would take some of that pressure off Section 8 vouchers being concentrated
 in already saturated poor and minority areas. So I think it would actually be a good thing for Rockford, but I'm not sure because there are technicalities that I'm not even aware of. So, again, just to be clear, just to echo what Mr. Hayes said, we could decide to take no action, or if you wanted to just capture essentially what you just said as part of the comment,
 Then we would draft that, work on it. I'm sorry, staff would draft that, work on it with outside counsel. We then submit it to, we will have a meeting next week. I'm sorry, do we have a meeting next week, the housing committee? Alderman McNamara. Yeah, I was just going to mention we have a meeting scheduled, I believe, for the 9th. If we could have the comments by that, then at least...
 five aldermen will then have their eyes and everyone's welcome to attend that obviously and have input. That may be a good time to hope to have that. Yeah, I think that again if there's, if that seems like a workable option now, I don't know if we need a, I don't know that we need a friendly amendment. We'll just commit to bringing that before the housing committee on the 9th based on this draft. Your Honor, the,
 The reason that the resolution is written the way it is and it does state right in it in collaboration with housing committee members is that it doesn't require formal action by the committee and to come back to city council for approval in order for us to get the comments delivered on time.
 drafting this clause I had in mind that we'd utilize either a meeting of or consultation with all the housing members and outside council. I'll be certain to direct them to make certain that their comments responsive to the rule are available for your review at the next meeting. Thank you. Any further discussion? Alderman McNamara. I apologize. Just so I'm clear, Dr. Hayes, you'll have a draft or comments. Will there also be...
 potential analysis of how it affects our community or how you How in the brief amount of time that you have had this that you see it affecting our community so that the committee will have a basis of which to guide their their thoughts and comments I
 So I just want to make clear that I won't be doing the work directly. I have a staff attorney that staffs this housing material that's been working on this since we received it. Ms. Hammer will be helping with that effort. Mr. Cagnoni is focused on this as well. We've solicited comments from Hinshaw's retained subject matter expert in this arena, and we'll try to amalgam all those and put them together.
 And I'll make certain that both staff and outside counsel work together to submit those comments and analysis to the committee next week. There is a fair amount of comments and somewhat limited material already posted to the city's website on the issue as well. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on the item? So is matters up for passage then? Is there any additional discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, seven. Thank you.
 New business, Pullman Durkee. Thank you, Mr. President. For Roman numeral 11A1 and 2, number one is the proposed Rockford I-90 Enterprise Zone Boundary Amendment. Number two is the request for approval of the 2017 Community Action Plan for Community Services Block Grant Funding, as required by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. I'd like to first suspend rules on those two items.
 I'll spend a motion and second to spend the rules on Roman and World 11a, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would place those two items up for passage. Matters out for passage is their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. No on A1. Aye on A2. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Otoe.
 Newberg, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 11 ayes, 1 no on number 1 and number 2, 12 ayes. Matters passed, thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. 11b-8 is, just to remind everybody, has been laid over.
 move to suspend the rules on 11b, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Norman and Merle 11b, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9. All those in favor please sit. I just wanted to do information. Go ahead.
 Your Honor, I'd suggest that we include in the motion to suspend the rules an item number 10, which is a request for additional street lighting across from the alley between 15th Avenue and 16th Avenue and the 1600 block 9th Street, as that was amended by the council from a no action to an approval. Thank you, Your Honor. Sounds good. Was that your catch, Mr. Carle? Let me get this. Thank you.
 So what will be included as a tenth item under new business will be the request for additional street lighting across from the alley between 15th Avenue and 16th Avenue and the 1600 block of 9th Street as approved. So there's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on all of those items.
 All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those items up for passage tonight. That is up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Dutches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herving. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Orto. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 T. R. L. E. Aye. So by, Your Honor. The matter is passed, thank you. Uh, Alderman Beck. Thank Your Honor. Uh, Roman numeral 11C, items 1 through 3, I ask for suspension of rules. Second. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 11C, 1, 2, and 3. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. I place them up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Durkee. Dutches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Abstain on one, aye on two and three. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 There further business before the council? Move to adjourn. There's been a motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The meeting is adjourned. Thank you.