Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, August 7th, 2023. This evening, we are fortunate to have Pastor Corey Whitford with us this evening from Stateline Youth for Christ to provide us with an indication. Would you bow your heads and pray with me? Dear Lord and Father, thank you for the promise that you give us where two or three are gathered, you are present. Father, we're thankful for the abundant amount of blessings. And we pray tonight, God, that you would open our ears so that we can hear. God, that you'd open our minds so that we can receive your wisdom. And that you'd open our spirits so that we can be guided in those directions that you lead us. Father, be with each and every person here. Protect us, guide us, and love on us as well as you do. And lastly, God, Open our hearts so that we can receive your overflowing and overwhelming love. We pray all this in the name of, of all names, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Jerky. Frost. Tarina. Hoffman. Beach. Alderman Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Meeks. Bailey? Yes. Bonnie? Here. Nine present. Excellent. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on July 24, 2023? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next up, we have proclamations. We have one proclamation this evening. Take a photo if you want. Whereas, every nine minutes, another person is added to the national transplant waiting list for a life-saving organ. Of the 103,000 currently waiting, nearly 60% represent ethnic and racial minorities. Whereat African Americans and Hispanics are disproportionately represented on the waiting list due to high rates of kidney and heart disease, high blood pressure, and diabetes, all of which could lead to an organ transplant. And whereas, there is a real need to increase availability of viable, life-saving organs from ethnically diverse donors, since donor-recipient compatibility is more likely to be found among members of the same ethnicity. And whereas, August is National Minority Donor Awareness Month, a collaborative initiative to save and improve the quality of life of diverse communities by creating a positive culture for organ, eye, and tissue donation. And whereas the city of Rockford joins with the Gift of Hope Organ and Tissue Network, state and national organizations committed to bringing heightened awareness of transplantation, organ, eye, and tissue donation and donor registration. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of August 2023 to be National Minority Donor Awareness Month. Elise, would you like to share a few words? Yeah, absolutely. Thanks. Thank you so much to you and to the city for doing this for the second year in a row. As the proclamation says, the need in this community is very high. A lot of people waiting for an organ and the donation, the registration. rate is not as high as we would like it to be. So every step, including this proclamation today, it's a tremendous help. And there'll be more events and things happening here for the month of August to highlight the need in the underserved minority communities throughout Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Next is what probably everyone has been waiting for. And that is, I wish we had like a drum roll button up here. That is a 2023 pension actuarial presentation. This evening, we're really fortunate to have Jen Turk, Wade Walder, as well as our own Carrie Haggerty. I would just remind you, you've got to really speak into the microphones. No one wants to miss a word. So, thanks for having us. I'm Jen Turk. I've been at Nihart for about three years now. Before this, I was at Gallagher for 15 years, the entire time focused on police and fire pensions. And I have with me Wade, my analyst on the plan. Yes, my name is Wade Walder. I've been with Nihart two years, straight out of college. I'm actually from Lockport, Illinois. So when the opportunity came up to work on some of these Illinois police and fire plants, I volunteered. In the two years I've been at Neihardt, I've worked on a lot of different Illinois police and fire plants. Yeah, excited to be here. Great. There you go. So this is just kind of the highlights that we're seeing this year. Highlights should maybe be lowlights a little bit. The biggest story that we're seeing is asset returns during calendar year 2022 were not great. So that's impacted the contributions and the funding percentage for both the pension plans We also saw besides the asset losses, we did see higher than expected salary increases. We assume about 4.5% increase per year right now and they were north of 7% and Wade will touch on a few reasons for that. And those kind of those two things were the main driver behind the higher contributions that we're seeing for this year. So we'll look over some kind of forward-looking results as well, projections going forward, what that will look like. And then I have a couple slides where we looked at some alternative payroll growth, bringing that four and a half down a little bit. And then we have one very exciting actuarial standard of practice update that we want to touch on so we're not taken by surprise next year. But I'll turn it over to Wade for the next few slides here. Yeah, so taking a look at demographic information a little more closely, counts stayed pretty level for both police and fire. Level in total counts overall and also within each of the statuses, the number of actives, the number of retirees, and so on. So not too much change there. Down below, you'll see a quick summary for fire and police split up. of in-pay participants. Monthly benefits went up from last year. So for fire, we saw an average monthly benefit of $5,500 last year. That number has gone up to just over $5,700. Police saw something very similar. This is mostly just driven by the cost of living adjustments participants receive, along with a couple newer retirees having higher benefit amounts than the average retiree. ACTIVES SAW SOMETHING VERY SIMILAR WITH SALARIES. SALARIES ROSE A LITTLE MORE THAN WE EXPECTED. THIS WAS PART OF THE MAIN DRIVING FACTOR IN THE LIABILITY LOSS WE SAW. FIRE AVERAGE SALARY WENT FROM $85,900 TO $92,000. AND THE POLICE SALARY WENT FROM $84,000 TO JUST OVER $89,000. LOOKING CLOSER TO DATA, SEEMED LIKE THERE WAS A LOT OF RANK CHANGES, PROMOTIONS, KIND OF DRIVING A LOT OF THIS. JUST TO ADD THERE, WE HAD CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS CONCLUDE IN 2022. SO WE HAD A SIGNIFICANT PAYOUT BOTH OF RETRO PAY IN ONE INSTANCE BUT THEN CONTRACTUAL INCREASES IN SALARIES THAT DROVE THAT INCREASE BEYOND WHAT WAS ORIGINALLY EXPECTED. And we've been seeing that across our plans. I think in the past few years, especially during COVID, salaries stayed a little flatter for the last few years. So some of it's seeming to catch up for lost time almost on those. So that's kind of, does anyone have any questions? Yeah. So the next couple are. I just wanted to point out on that as well. If you look at both on police and fire, we have, you know, in that, in that second column there, 2023, you can see we have 266 active participants, but 614 total. And on the, Police side 270 active and 652 total We only have 270 people paying into everybody else and that total is being paid out or will be paid out at some point In the future so we have a significantly higher retired population than we have active Population which leads to some of the funding challenges that we see I just wanted to call that to everyone's attention And that's the case obviously with both plans Thanks YES, THESE NEXT TWO SLIDES DIVE A LITTLE DEEPER INTO THE ASSETS. WITHOUT GOING TOO MUCH INTO DETAIL, THE MAIN POINT OF THESE TWO SLIDES ARE GOING TO BE THAT THE ASSETS MOVING WE USE TO COME UP WITH THE REQUIRED CONTRIBUTION IS WORKING. SO YOU'LL SEE ON THIS SLIDE THE AVERAGE RETURNS OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS FOR FIRE AND POLICE. THREE REALLY GOOD YEARS. AND THIS YEAR HAS DROPPED. If you move to the next slide, you'll kind of see how our actuarial value of assets in the black that we use to come up with our minimum required contribution. has stayed much more steady over the past five years compared to that market value of assets, the true value. And this is exactly what it's supposed to do. What we don't want to do is have our minimum required contribution jump up and down with the volatile market. We want it to be a little more level, something more expected. So we're not making – I GUESS CRAZY DEMANDS OR FLUXUATING THAT CONTRIBUTION YEAR TO YEAR. SO YOU'LL SEE THIS PAST YEAR IN 2023 THAT ACTUAL VALUE OF ASSETS FOR BOTH POLICE AND FIRE IS NOW ACTUALLY HIGHER THAN THE MARKET VALUE. And mainly it's because we're still recognizing some of those gains from the past few years, and we haven't yet recognized all of these losses that we experienced over the past year. So the smoothing method is doing what it's supposed to do. It's keeping contributions a little more steady. And that actual value of assets, that is what we use to calculate our minimum assets. Funding contribution. Yeah, and you can see last year. We probably thought you know why are we smoothing like why don't we use market value? That'd be the better. You know that would be the better deal last year, but now this year We're seeing yeah, it was a good plan to stick with the smoothing of the assets So we do kind of like these graphs kind of showing it does what we want it to do The difference on the rate of return between police and fires is it are there two different fund managers or Yep, yeah, so the consolidated funds the police and the fire each have a consolidated fund manager And is this part of that new state program where they're where they're funded? Yes. Yeah, so now we have consolidated funds So all of all of the assets of each of the funds are sent to a statewide Board that is responsible for investing in managing those funds so locally we have no say over where that money says except for the cash that we hold to pay bills and those boards make their own independent investment decisions based on the consensus of those boards. So, you know, I would say 2022 is a pretty significant transition year for those consolidation boards. We would expect that, you know, that on top of a really horrible year of market performance anyway, created sort of a perfect storm for a really bad year. The the fire board was a little bit farther along in the transition than the police board was So I'm not surprised that there's a difference in in that but you know as they transition They're still getting managers set up and and choosing You know sort of they have a transition investment policy and then a permanent investment policy So they're in that transition phase, which is a little bit lower risk. Um less actively managed than the Final investment policy that they that they operate under so You have to follow the same guidelines as what the state is now mandating for the ESG Requirements that these funds have to These monies have to follow that as well. Yeah, I I Don't I haven't looked myself at what and how those consolidated funds have incorporated ESG factors into their Investment decisions or in their investment policy, but I would assume that yes as a state created fund They would be subject to those same and knowing other states are not requiring that now and because we are things like the energy sector last year was up big and And that would have offset some of these losses, but due to that, in a false statement, I would say on the state website that says ESG investing is proven to outpace returns of not. If I were to post something like that on my website, like I said in council, I'd probably have the regulatory authorities after me, the Securities Exchange Commission and financial institution regulatory authority coming to reprimand me. Yeah. Yet our state can put that on there. Yeah, and it's a false statement Alderman Beach. Thank you So these funds are secure and you can the cabinets can the state borrow from those funds? So I wouldn't call the funds secure they're in but they're invested and there's risk I change that word Yeah, but whatever the balance is I Can the state get to those? No, they're segregated. Or anyone? No, they're held specifically. The state cannot borrow from that to pay for operations. They're segregated and restricted from the legislature being able to access that or the administration for cash flow purposes. So have we gone back several years and looked at what our own people have done in terms of return and compare them now, what's going forward to what the state's doing? Yeah, I mean that's a difficult comparison to make, right, because the market changes. Before you know, we would have we would have likely had even if we were holding the cash and investing it based on our our advisors Recommendations we likely would have seen losses for the year, too I don't know what those would have been. I will say though alderman that the fire board Manager is the same manager that both police and fire used when we had local control and SO THE ASSUMPTION IS THAT THEY WOULD HAVE MADE SIMILAR RECOMMENDATIONS. THERE ARE ACTUALLY FEWER CONSTRAINTS ON HOW THE CONSOLIDATED BOARDS CAN INVEST THAN THERE WERE FOR US LOCALLY. Again, I just do want to point out that 2022 was a transition year So, you know, they're still pulling in cash and getting you know Administrative procedures established and getting their I guess kind of their sea legs under them in the in that new role so a very difficult year to base An assessment of their performance on because of the transition that was happening at the time. Okay Do we have an overhead cost there are overhead costs? Yes, we know what they are we do and actually We believe that It's one of the things we actually just discussed at the fire board reviewing annual Investment costs, but we believe that our actual the cost of investing the amount we pay managers And things of that nature will decline. Thank you. Yes any other questions thus far alderman Durkee Thank You Just a quick question. We have our own pension board run by the city that Should be designed to look out after our interests now that we are being basically these funds are being run by the state. What is their fiduciary role? Can they get to the state? So express displeasure? Oh, certainly. And, you know, there are some elected members of the pension, the consolidated boards. There's a mix of representatives from both active retiree and management, so to speak, on the municipal side. So there's, you know, they're an appointed board, elected board, just like us. the police pension board locally is. So we have, we can certainly comment, share concerns, talk to legislators about concerns that we have about what they're doing. I don't, you know, I think there are, We can attend they have public meetings that we can attend and comment that and and things of that nature They have their they have a fiduciary Responsibility just like our local funds would have in investing those funds So, you know, they have a fiduciary responsibility to the funds our local boards still have a the ability to request funds from the city to meet our actuarially required contribution and you'll see a levy request just like we do every year from the local board but the local boards are left effectively administering day-to-day pension actually Preparing payroll a pension payroll and making benefit decisions. Well, yeah, the only reason I raised that is it's a state of Illinois So always when it comes to money antenna go way up They do not they didn't enjoy a track record with investment funds, but what were those five twenty sevens? 529 with Oppenheimer and the politics that got involved in that so they I They do have a history. They do. But I will say, I will point out that IMRF, which is the statewide retirement system for non-sworn staff. is held up as really a model across the country for how to do it right, and they took a lot of IMRF administrative principles and applied those here. So, you know, the hope is we have IMRF as a positive example of how it should function, and IMRF funds cannot be touched by the state. There are funds just held by the IMRF, held by IMRF, managed by IMRF, So, you know, the hope is that that relationship is the same and maintained, and eventually we get to a point, you know, IMRF is over 90% funded. So, you know, the hope is that we get to that point with fire and police pensions as well. We're only halfway through this exciting presentation. Are there other questions at this time? No? Okay. We'll go a little quicker for these ones. Good. Take your time. So this is, we met with the fire board earlier this week, and this is the results we've reviewed. So right now, both the plans are using a 4.5% payroll growth. So that was used for the 2022 valuation, and now for the 2023 valuation, the red highlight was what we stuck with. So the new consolidated fund had done an experience study and kind of set what they think would be their best estimate for some of these assumptions. And on the FIRE side, they actually brought the payroll growth down to that 2.75%. So we know we want to continue to look at this and try to get it more in line with consolidated fund. for now raising that four and a half percent um so you can see the kind of the results for this year compared last year um the funded percentage there in the middle did go down a couple points um and then the contribution obviously is the bigger story is gone up a little over 15 percent from 2022 to 2023 um and again that was the the asset losses and the salary increases that we're seeing um and if we change that payroll growth It doesn't change the actual liability. It's only used as part of the contribution calculation And we'll see what it will see the projections show kind of what a change would do to that So we have a couple slides with projections that show the alternatives there as well and similar story on the police pension side a couple point reduction in the funded status and And about just over 15% again up increase on the Contribution for this year and if we did if we had made those payroll growth changes that would have driven up the contribution In the near term it would have been higher. So we'll see what that looks like any questions on before we look at so for a EVALUATION IS JUST A POINT IN TIME. SO THAT WAS ALL DONE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2023. BUT WE KNOW THAT OBVIOUSLY THE MARKET, IF YOU LOOK AT IT A WEEK BEFORE OR A WEEK AFTER THAT, IT COULD BE A BIGGER DIFFERENCE, YOU KNOW? SO WE LIKE TO LOOK AT KIND OF FORWARD LOOKING WHAT WE'RE THINKING CONTRIBUTIONS ARE GOING TO LOOK LIKE. SO ON THE FIRE SIDE, YOU CAN SEE THAT So the blue line is what we're using for this year. And you can see that the red line is if we brought that payroll growth assumption down. And it's kind of, it flattens the line out a little bit. So initially that red line is higher than what we're using right now. So we'd go from about 17 million up to that 18.7 million in the near term. But you can see in the long term, the it's going to flip flop after at a certain point in time, about 10 years out, it's going to flip flop so that the, the, line we're on right now is actually going to be higher than a flatter payroll growth assumption would be. And so that's part of the driving force behind your contribution increases is basically we have baked in that 4 and 1 half percent increase in a contribution. Whereas if we level that out a little bit, we wouldn't see as steep of a hill to get up for the contribution. So that's kind of how it impacts it in the long run. It's pay now or pay later. So you get to the same place in the end. It's not like you're really going to save money either way. It's just like timing what we want to do. So you can see you get to 90% as the funding target by 1-1-2041. end of fiscal year 2040, I think is the official description. And the only other thing I'll point out, it's a negligible impact, but you can see the next four years, it's kind of level, and then it And that's those asset losses for the next four years. We just recognize a portion of the big asset losses we had. So over the next four years, those asset losses are going to work their way through. So that's kind of why there's a little kink in all the lines there, is waiting for those asset returns to make their way through. SIMILAR STORY ON THE POLICE SIDE AS WELL. THAT PAYROLL GROWTH FOR THEM, THEY ACTUALLY WENT FROM FOUR AND A HALF DOWN TO THREE. SO NOT QUITE AS LOW AS THE FIRE PLAN IS, BUT STILL SIMILAR KIND OF PICTURE WHERE IT WOULD BE A HIGHER CONTRIBUTION NOW IF WE MADE THAT CHANGE, BUT IN THE LONG RUN, IT WOULD BE LEVEL A LITTLE MORE. SO ANY QUESTIONS ON THE PROJECTIONS OR THE RESULTS SO FAR? I just want to point out that we've made some, for several years on reducing our rate of return assumption from 7.5 down to the 7.1 we're at today. Last year we paused on that and moved that payroll growth assumption down. So our ultimate goal is to align our actuarial assumptions with what the consolidated boards have adopted as their own. So, you know, we'll continue. You know, it's not a good year. Generally turning those dials means more money today, right? Not a good year to do that when we have double-digit losses. So we put that movement on pause for 2023. But, you know, assuming we have a positive year of returns this year, we'll resume that trajectory of moving to align, within reason, moving to align our actuarial assumptions with the consolidated boards. Thank you. And I would mention that all of the other assumptions that the consolidated funds are using, we're using for your plan. So the biggest one was mortality when they came out with the new study. Everyone's living like three, you know, two or three years longer than they were based on, you know, older studies. So we have already kind of recognized that impact as well. So that was a bump in the last couple years to bring that in. So yeah, it's just the payroll and the interest rate that we're still tweaking. Any other questions? All I want to say is that I hope that as we prepare our budgets going out We compare it with these kind of numbers in mind because we've had some kind of conversations and we'll do it do more later But I just want to make that comment And one last thing I wanted to touch on just so if anyone is reading these actuarial reports next year Which I'm sure everyone obviously does and go back and front back obviously There'll be a couple extra disclosures that the actual powers that be Have decided we need one of them is right now. We show the liabilities based on that seven point one percent valuation assumption they now are They're making us put in, I feel like it's kind of a worst case scenario liability. If you guys were ever going to get rid of the pension plan and go out and buy annuities for everyone or pay them out lump sums, the interest rates are much lower. And so now the actuary reports have to disclose that higher liability that uses that lower interest rate. So you'll see we have a bunch of careful wording. We've already drafted what the page is going to look like. But we have a lot of careful wording saying, you know, you don't have to fund this high liability. This is just for disclosure purposes. And then the other thing that we touched on with the fire board was there. So we have to assess the reasonableness of the recommended contribution that we make, the actual contribution that we come up with. So as part of our reasonableness assessment, they look at how long until the plan is fully funded. And since you guys are targeting 90% by 2040, it's never projected to get to 100% funding. So we'll have to disclose an alternative contribution is all next year. So and we've we kicked around a few ideas to maybe hopefully avoid that because a lot of people don't want to be like, oh, here's 17 million, that's my contribution. And then, oh, by the way, it could be 18 and a half million, or you know, so we've kicked around a couple ideas for maybe some changes to avoid that extra disclosure there. You talk about the reasonableness to the state about how their pensions have to be 90% funded by Just I just want to point out with that too, you know, obviously with a privately Private companies pension plan, the private company can go bankrupt. And then you have an outstanding liability to the people who are promised pensions that you want to make sure you can meet. So in that situation, 100% funding is really important. Because if you close your doors, you have enough cash to make sure these people are taken care of. The city of Rockford cannot file for bankruptcy. We can't go under even if we get to 90% funded. We will always have sufficient cash to make this year's pension payments. The pensioners will always get a paycheck. So it. THE IDEA OF TARGETING 100% FUNDING, WHILE IT WOULD BE GREAT AND IF WE HAD EXTRA CASH LAYING AROUND, LET'S DO IT BECAUSE THEN YOU CAN MAKE THAT MONEY WORK FOR YOU, EARNING INTEREST, BUT FROM A REALISTIC ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO THE PENSIONERS, ACHIEVING 100% FUNDING IS NOT A SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY FOR THEM. because the city will continue to exist. We will continue to have a police department, a fire department, active members who are contributing, and a city that can make those monthly pension payments to the pensioners. So I just want to make sure that no one is alarmed at the idea that we're targeting 90% funded. Like I said, it would be, you know, if... It's like, you know, paying your house off or, you know, then you have money you can make work in other places. It would be great if you could do it, but it's not unreasonable to carry that debt, so to speak. BECAUSE WE HAVE OTHER PRIORITIES IN THE COMMUNITY. SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE IF ANYONE HAS CONCERNS ABOUT THAT OR THE APPROACH WE'RE TAKING, IT IS IN COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW. THAT'S THE MINIMUM 90% BY 2040 IS THE MINIMUM CURRENTLY UNDER STATE STATUTE THAT WE HAVE TO FUND TOO. AND I'D BE HAPPY TO DISCUSS IT FURTHER IF ANYONE HAS QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THAT AS WELL. NEW SPEAKER ANY OTHER LAST QUESTIONS FOR JEN WADE OR DIRECTOR HAGERTY? I knew that. Tess, I knew that. They certify that we did a good job. So I just want to reiterate that these reports become the basis for the 2023 levy that we will present for approval at the end of the year, which we will fund in the 2024 budget based on collected property taxes. All right. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next, we're going to move to pensioners. I know. Not pensions. We're going to move to petitions and communications, and we're going to go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Durkee, we do not have the chair with us this evening. Would you be willing to read the petitions and communications items for us? Yes, sir. Thank you. Four, petitions and communications. Yes. A, number one, memorandum from Carl Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an agreement between the City of Rockford and Key Solutions LLC for Think Big workforce development project. This is referred to Planning and Development Committee. Memorandum from Jeremy Carter, the Traffic Engineer, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Region 1 Planning Council for participation in Safe Street for All. which is an SS4A grant. This is referred to planning and development. Memorandum from Carl Franson, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a proposed redevelopment agreement with K&K Associates, LLC. This is also referred to planning and development. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have six items. Item number one, a memorandum from Sarah Brinkman, Housing and Program Manager, regarding revisions to the Intergovernmental Agreement for Environmental Services with Rockford Housing Authority, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 15, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on August 28, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Number three the liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on August 15th 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on August 28th 2023 referred to Code and Regulation Committee number four a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming special events which include Tough Mudder Chicago and labor day parade in greenwich village art fair referred to code and regulation committee number five traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on august 9 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the code and regulation committee meeting on august 28 2023 referred to code regulation committee and lastly a memorandum from scott capovilla regarding plat number five of sandy hollow industrial subdivision referred to code and regulation committee thank you Thank you, Alderman. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. All these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a city-county intergovernmental agreement for repairs at Riverside Boulevard and Central Avenue intersection. Number two is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a city-county intergovernmental agreement for jurisdictional transfer of Linden Road east of Alpine in the city limits. Number three is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, city attorney regarding the extension of the intergovernmental agreement between the Rockford Housing Authority and the City of Rockford for police services. Number four is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, city administrator, regarding a proposed intergovernmental agreement for a three-year property tax rebate program for newly built residential construction for single-family, townhome, two-family, three-family, and multifamily structures located in the City of Rockford and School District 205. Number five is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni regarding a proposed intergovernmental agreement between the RMTD and the City of Rockford for the RMTD downtown facility expansion. Number six is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni regarding a proposed First Amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement for certain cooperation on public improvements for Lot 3 between the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford and the City of Rockford. And number seven is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni regarding a proposed resolution to waive building plan review, building permit, building inspection, and water connections service fees for new residential construction, structure, Structures on vacant land and lots throughout the city of Rockford. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost Next up we're gonna move to our public speakers a portion of our meeting this evening Want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back left as well as the back right of council chambers You have three minutes to address the City Council You'll hear an alarm ring and asset you close your comments at that time our first public speaker this evening is mr. Ken Dickens. I First public speaker is Mr. Ken Dickens. Okay. Next, our second public speaker this evening is Pinky Langdon. Good evening, everybody. I've had some time to calm down, but I'm still upset. I've brought this up several times, and perhaps if we had the Citizen Review Board, you wouldn't have to see me tonight. But for some reason, Rockford Police seems to have a problem with Pinky Langdon and her five vehicles. There's two Jaguars. One's a vintage, one is a SUV, my MKS, my Buick Enclave, and my Chevy Blazer. Everything I own is paid in full. My insurance is paid in full. There are no tents that are past anything. Rockford Police seems to want to just keep bothering me. So now my husband is gone, the chains are going to come off. If you're going to keep bothering me, I'm going to sue you just like I'm suing the NAACP. I'm not a person that you want to make angry. That's not a threat. That's a promise. If it keeps happening, I'm going to take all these names of people that have complained to me under my nonprofit, and I will file a class action lawsuit. So get it together. Thank you. Michelle, you're doing a wonderful job with the fire department. I just wish that the police department could follow along with you. That's it. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Tell me your cards. We've been to one of our attorney's offices, and they all got a card from my attorney's office. This year, we're going to the Sabra Museum. This has been 10 years since we've been to the Sabra Museum. We've got two school buses. I'm blown away at how many adults. and kids have never heard of DuSable Museum or heard of DuSable. I'm also blown away how many of our youth and adults do not know who Doris Lemon is. So we're going to DuSable Museum Wednesday. We leave DuSable Museum, we're going to Rainbow Beach. I haven't been to Rainbow Beach since my senior year of high school. And that was back in 1974. So this is going to be great. We're going to meet my frat brothers and sisters there, where they're going to have gifts for the kids and have gifts for the adults. This Friday, we're going to the Magic Waters. We're going to have a school bus taking our youth to Magic Waters. I want to thank our sponsors for sponsoring us. I also want to point out the fact of the audience that's been sponsoring us, Rory, Mr. Bailey over here, Alderman April, Alderman Frank Beach, Bill Ross, Karen Hoffman, and my other brother from another mother, Chad Hoffman, and my man. And Mr. Jonathan, he's not here to go to Auburn High School. We want to thank him. What we have been doing, we've been unprecedented. We had a meeting at Macedonian Church where the chief of police had been attended at that meeting. We have several ministers that have been meeting at that meeting. We have a blessing. You hear me talking while I'm talking, little boy? And we have, we even have the, we even have the Nation of Islam been at this meeting. We had the NAACP at this here meeting. We even have Eliminating Racism at this meeting. What we're doing at this here meeting, we've been meeting with Dr. Reed, we're addressing the suspension, the bullying in school, the social promotion. We're also addressing going back to school. A lot of our kids, we need haircuts, we need their hair braided. We're having our young people in order to braid and cut hair. We're also looking at implementing washing machines in the school system. A lot of our kids go to school with dirty clothes, need to have a comb, need to have braided. That takes away from them participating in the school. We also looking at taking them to school, picking them up from school, having an active school program and dealing with each church was to take 20 of our youth and we looking at we looking at back in the 80s My time just ran out. We're looking at the mayor being able to attend, someone from the mayor's office being able to attend our next meeting to address our youth. And lastly, before I leave, I need a building and I need a bus. Because I got the rain, but I don't have a building and I don't have a bus. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Jerry Lumpkins. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, City Council. I'm Jerry Lumpkins. I'm the Broadford Housing Development Corporation Board President. I'm also the Senior Vice President of Valley National Bank. I run the Commercial Real Estate Group of Chicago for the Midwest. I'm here tonight to speak on support of the South Avon Affordable Housing Development. I know there's been tons of conversation about it, and this is my first time speaking to this body, and so I just wanted to express my position in support for the development. As many as you know, I am a native of Rockford, Auburn High School graduate and a Rockford University graduate. I'm a Marine Corps veteran and a seasoned commercial real estate banker. I've been in banking for nearly 30 years and have financed nearly about $100 million of apartment deals in this neighborhood. I've also served on a number of community development boards that has financed similar type projects throughout the country. So my team and I, we have a significant amount of experience with projects like the one that hopefully we get support in the near, near future for. And so, again, the experience that we bring to the table is pretty immense. This project's personal for me. My grandparents, my great-grandparents built a home half a block away from this development facility. They built a house on 723 25 Cedar Street, which is nearly a half a block away I grew up around there my my great-grandparents my grandparents and now my father Still controls and owns the property as you all know It's a 14 acre vacant lot acreage and our hope and plan is that it becomes a vibrant community a vibrant community that continues to contribute or will contribute to the overall over well-being well-being of the city and Again, my board has had very, very similar types of developments throughout the country. We know how to finance this. We know how to put the capital stack together. We know how to assemble the expertise to deliver this successful project. Like I said, this is personal. I've financed nearly $5 billion of real estate developments throughout the country, and I'm hopeful that we have your support to develop this here in my hometown, in our hometown. A property, again, that has remained vacant for decades. This property is clean. I know there's been some discussion about its environmental condition. It is a clean property. We have a no further remediation letter from the state of Illinois, the EPA. And as a banker, we would not be able to get financing for this project if it were, in fact, contaminated. Again, my family lives a half block away from this development. I would not be looking to support something if in fact it had issues in terms of environmental concerns. So again, I'm hopeful that tonight or whenever the vote does come up that we do have your support, thank you. Thank you, I'm gonna go back because I believe one of our speakers just walked in or momentarily, Mr. Ken Dickens. Just a reminder. I know you've done this before but you were out when I said it previous So you have three minutes to address the council you'll hear the alarm. Thank you I I do intend on using my full time tonight and I do appreciate you backtracking and allow me the chance to speak Speaking is important to me when I have the opportunity. I It's a small world because the gentleman that just spoke I do know him personally I haven't seen him in a few years so I do want to catch up with him after because of some of the the investment Initiatives that I'm looking to do. I definitely need to speak with him because I came to Rockford I'm not a Rockford native, but I intend on doing something positive for the African American and Latino community here and My biggest concern since I've been here in 10 years was not my ability to do something here, because the day I set foot here, I had the ability to garner millions of dollars in support, revenue, and investment capital. So I sat back and I had to gauge the temperature of the room and I felt so much disrespect as a black man in this town. that it made me stay. I've been here 10 years. I didn't stay because I felt welcome. I didn't stay because I felt warm and invited. I felt completely disrespected. It's like being in a restaurant and someone walking up to you and before they even ask you what you want, they just yell at you and say, what do you want? I'm busy. Or they come back and as they're walking back with your food, they spit in it as they hand it to you. That's how I feel here. I don't feel that the black or Latino community in any sense of the phrase gets any respect or any acknowledgement on any large scale in this town. And it's disgusting to me. And that's why I'm speaking tonight. When the federal government during the covid pandemic pandemic. gave Rockford millions of dollars, there was nearly a $5 to $9 million surplus that did not go towards the black or Latino community. I pushed as hard as I could to see some type of money go to people of color and none of it None of it hit their hands. Well, I'm not talking about taxpayer money. I'm talking about federal money that ended up having a small surplus I didn't hear any public outcry I didn't hear anything about this money and I know if you drive down Broadway, it still looks like a bomb went off there I know there are patches in the city with black and Latinos as John just spoke He's talking about washing machines in a school when the kids should be there to get an education But this education is so few and far between it's almost like they stepped off a plantation yesterday. I And all this is normal here. Again, I'm here to speak about my initiative, which was for the food pantries in Rockford, as well as an initiative for vending machines for fruits and vegetables. There are three major food deserts in Rockford that are not being addressed. Mayor, if you have an initiative, I would like a sit-down meeting with you and your staff. I attempted, based on your suggestion as the mayor, to approach the city for property to do gardens, and it was turned down. I did exactly what we discussed on the phone, and it was shot down. I don't understand what's going on here. I've attempted to speak for months, and I know it's never happened before in the history of speakers, but I've been pushed back. I started this in April, and I still have yet to sit down with anyone to do anything significant in this town, and I don't know what's going on. But I'm urging you to sit down with you and do something to feed the people of this city. Thank you, Mr. Dickinson. i want to say thank you to all of our public speakers this evening next we will go to unfinished business and we'll go to code and regulation committee and older woman terena thank you your honor i have one item the committee recommends sustaining the zoning ward of appeals approval for a special use permit for plan unit development consisting of a mixed use building with an early learning center 64 apartments 10 courtyard duplexes a mixed use commercial building consisting of vertical indoor agriculture and culinary education Six family building an 8 to 10 family duplex two side-by-side duplexes with rear accessory dwelling units six family residences with rear accessory dwelling units and And I won light industrial and our one single-family residential zoning districts at 310 South Avon Street 1104 Chestnut Street and 13 X expression Street For housing development corporation is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion alderman Bonnie? Thank you mayor. Um, I At the developer's request, due to the number of aldermen who are absent tonight, I would move that we lay this item over for two weeks. We have a motion. Is there a second for a layover for two weeks? Alderwoman Meeks makes a second. Is there any discussion on the layover? All those in favor of a two-week layover for this item, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed to the layover? Aye. Okay. Items laid over for two weeks. Next we'll go to – I'm going to move officers' reports, if you don't mind, just to the end. Next we'll go to appointments laid over. We have several up before us. Appointment of Nastasia Brown to the Rockford Area Venues and Entertainment Board for a term expiring June 2025. This appointment fills a vacancy created by the resignation of Martesha Brown. We have a reappointment of Eric Brown to the Community Relations Commission, term expiring in 2026. Reappointment of Henrietta Dotson-Williams to the Library Board. We have the reappointment of Brad Long to the Library Board. Both of those terms, I'm sorry, expire June 2026. We have reappointment of Greg Harley to the Mechanical Board for a term expiring July of 2028. We have reappointment of John Phelps to the Rockford area venues and entertainment board term expiring July 2028 and the last appointment is not up yet tonight But that would be Kathleen Klein to the as a realtor to the historic preservation commission Replacing longtime member Olga camp Meyer, but that item item 7 is not up this evening So alderman we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items alderman tumor? Thank you mayor. I Yeah number seven I was gonna speak on that But number one is the rate board and I appreciate Allman beaches conversations and and mayor I appreciate our conversation that we had as well Rave is an extremely important board and just I'll keep it short, but The just looking at the resume I just after further consideration I just don't I I'm going to vote no on this I just died I didn't feel comfortable on that for the rave board and the experience Coming into that so I appreciate our conversation. Thank you any other discussion? Oh Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I would echo Alderman Tunberg on number one. And as you know, no offense to Mr. Eric Brown, but I've never been a fan of the Community Relations Committee. I've only opposed his appointment for that reason. Thanks. Any other discussion? I would just urge folks, especially those voting against members, please take the opportunity to meet with them and call them. get to know them is no further discussion clerk will you please call the roll turkey tumor frost Serena run T Hoffman Beach REOs makes Bailey item number one five eyes six nose item two ten eyes one no item three eleven eyes item four ten eyes one no items five and six eleven eyes excellent thank you uh next uh we have item seven was is not up yet it comes up august 23rd or the monday after that we have new business items which have been laid over someone please make a motion to adjourn is there a second all those in favor Those opposed, have a good night.