Let us pray. O God, as our city's leaders gather tonight, give us grace to set a good example to all among whom we live, to be just and true in all our dealings, to be strict and conscientious in the discharge of every duty, pure and temperate in all enjoyment, gracious and generous and courteous toward all, so that your love may be known in this city, and that we may all live in heavenly peace. In your name we pray. Amen.
 To the Republic for which it stands, one nation, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, we have a call to roll. Here. Here. Thank you. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to first approve the journal of proceedings of the city of Rockford meeting held on July 16th, 2018? All those in favor? Opposed?
 Matter passes. On number two, the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on July 23rd, 2018. Is there a motion to approve that? No, second. All those in favor? Opposed? Matter passes. Number three, the journal proceedings for the strategic planning session held on July 30th, 2018. Is there a motion to approve? All those in favor? And matter passes. Roman numeral two, proclamations, there are two tonight.
 First is Winnebago Buy Local Month. Is there any folks that want to step up and join us? I've got to read this first.
 Thanks. Whereas the Winnebago Buy Local is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to promote and support local businesses, there are more than 16,000 registered businesses in Rockford that provide employment for residents, creating jobs for a large portion of our local population. And whereas buying locally is an investment in our community,
 For every $100 spent at a locally owned business, nearly half goes back to our community. And whereas shopping locally is a conscious choice that moves Rockford forward,
 moves Rockford towards self-sustainability and helps reduce our carbon footprint by reducing the packaging and fuel required to ship products from afar. And whereas local business owners and employees take special pride in their products, businesses are key partners in helping our community remain stable and regularly support local charities and other organizations.
 Now, therefore, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, does hereby proclaim the month of August 2018 be Winnebago by local month. Thank you so much.
 well we'd like to say thank you to the city of rockford and to all the aldermen here for proclaiming august winnebago by local month our organization winnebago by local has been around for eight years now and it has around 260 local businesses as members we're a non-profit grassroots organization for small locally owned businesses in winnebago county and our mission is to teach the great people of winnebago county about why supporting local business is key and also to help local businesses collaborate with each other and network with each other
 When I, along with a few other local businesses, started this in 2010, I was 23 years old and I had no idea what I was doing. And I also had no idea the amount of growth that this organization would have and how many local businesses it would affect. There's not a week that goes by that I don't hear from a local business owner that they feel that the environment is welcoming to them in Winnebago County because of Winnebago by Local and because of local business owners working together collectively.
 That being said, the recognition we're receiving tonight does so much to push us in the right direction and we're grateful for the recognition and support of our local government. And for that, the businesses here would like to give you guys a round of applause too.
 By proclaiming August as Winnebago by Local Month, we hope it will help to spread the word and encourage the public to shop locally even more, helping to build our local and regional economy and make this a great place to live for all. And instead of running through more stats and stuff tonight, I decided to just print them out and put them right in front of you so you can take a look at those if you'd like. And then I'd also just like to thank the local businesses that showed up here tonight. So Robert and Kyle from PC Tech to you, Tina from Alpine Body Shop, Kate from Lucette,
 Marion Momley from Marion Momley CPA, Kay and Lane from Bark on Mulford, Eric Nyman from Emergency Muscle Therapy, Phillip and Sharon from Rain's Honey Farm, Kristen and Bob McNames from Grace Funeral and Cremation Services, Mel from the Frame Shop and Gallery, and John from Poplinka and Rockford Food Co-op, Screw City's Food Co-op. So thank you all for having us here tonight and thank you for the proclamation.
 Next we have a proclamation for National Night Out. Accepting will be Assistant Deputy Chief Andre Brass and Officer Brian Squires. Whereas the 34th annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford, Illinois, to join forces with thousands of other communities across the country in promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts and whereas
 The Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Park District Police Department are hosting the local National Night Out 2018 at Levings Park. The citizens of the Fifth Ward play a vital role in assisting the Rockford Police Department through joint crime, drug, and violence prevention efforts in Rockford and
 Whereas it is essential that all citizens be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and the impact that their participation can have on reducing crime, drugs, and violence in the community. And whereas police community partnerships, neighborhood safety,
 Awareness and cooperation are important themes of the National Night Out. Now, therefore, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, does hereby proclaim Tuesday, August 6, 2018, to be National Night Out in the city of Rockford and calls upon all citizens to join us in supporting this event.
 I just want to say thank you to the aldermen and for the city for supporting us in this thing. It's an honor to host this event. The Rockford Police Department takes great pride in putting this event on. We have great partners, the fire department, the park district police, the park district.
 Meyer grocery store. It's a joint effort between everybody in the police department and community partners we have. I've been a police officer for a long time, and I've yet to solve a crime on my own. It always takes someone in the community to give us information or help us out, and we appreciate that, and we want to give back to the community today for that trust in us to help them in their time of need. So I just want to say, come on out tomorrow night. There'll be hot dogs at Levee's Lake. They have a wakeboard service
 device that spins around on the water. It looks like it's fun. I'm not going to do it. I don't want to get injured, but there's all kinds of different apparatuses from the police department, the fire department, plenty to eat, and lots of good times to be had. So please come out tomorrow night. It's an honor for us to host this event. Thank you very much. Next on Roman numeral three, we have a presentation on an audit from Jamie Wilkie of Lauterbach and Amen. No? Yes.
 we have none thank you good evening we are here this evening to present the city's comprehensive annual financial report or the annual audit i saw many of the large documents sitting in front of you so if you have a chance to pull that out it is the document with the city's logo on the front give everybody a minute to unbury that
 I do want to point out this evening we are issuing the annual financial report on time. All of the required statutory filings have been completed for the city. So I certainly wanted to thank Carrie and the rest of her team for their efforts in preparing for the audit. This is a six-month process from start to finish.
 We hold planning meetings, we go through a testing phase, and then ultimately through a draft phase with Carrie and her staff. So I certainly wanted to thank them for all of their efforts in ensuring that everything was filed in a timely fashion in accordance with state statute this year. So thank you.
 i do also want to point out the three tabs within that large document and i will briefly cover some key items within each section at the end of my presentation i would be happy to address any specific questions as well that the council might have
 So starting with the introductory section, you'll find a few key items within this section of the document. The one in particular I'd like to point out is the very last item, I believe, which is a copy of the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting.
 This is a third-party independent review of the annual audit. It is really the highest-level reporting that we can have for a government entity. So, again, my congratulations to the city staff and council for submitting to the program. That is a copy of last year's award, so we have already submitted this December 31, 2017 audit to the program, obviously anticipating receipt of that award again this year. Okay?
 Moving on to our second tab, which is our financial section a couple of key items here as well one You will find our independent auditors opinion the independent audit is a twofold process One we are coming in and testing balances to ensure that the financial statements as presented are in fact materially correct, so that is goal number one of the audit and
 we are happy to report that that is in fact the case the city was issued what we call an unmodified opinion that is the highest level opinion that we are able to issue again stating that the financial statements are free of any material misstatement
 The second goal of the financial statement audit relates to the internal control environment. So we as the auditors are required to assess the internal control environment, including detailed tests of transactions, looking at policies and procedures that are in place, ensuring that city staff is in fact following those procedures. I'm happy to also report this evening that we had no findings related to internal controls.
 Any new findings would warrant what we call a management letter comment or recommendation. And I am happy to report that we have no new management letter comments for this year's audit as well. So a very clean audit process from start to finish. The financial section also has what we call management's discussion and analysis. You're going to find 16 pages provided within that section of the report.
 I always encourage councils and boards to read those pages in detail. It is prepared internally by management and is really intended to be the executive summary to the audit. I know it is a very large document. There are a lot of numbers and disclosures. If you are looking for a high-level overview of those financial statements, I would encourage you to read those 16 pages.
 And again, those are pages MD&A 1 through 16 at the bottom within that financial section tab. The last tab I want to point out is what we call our statistical section. I apologize. I apologize.
 That is where you will find all kinds of 10-year trend information for the city. The first several schedules will focus on financial trends for the last 10 years. The next set of schedules will focus on revenue trends as well as long-term debt activity.
 and moving into what we call demographic or economic type statistics. I always encourage, again, our councils and boards to review in detail those last pages within the report. You'll really get a nice historical context as you're reviewing the annual financial statement.
 REALLY, I HAVE NO OTHER REQUIRED COMMUNICATIONS THIS EVENING TO THE COUNCIL. AGAIN, I'D LIKE TO THANK THE STAFF FOR ALL OF THEIR EFFORTS AND A VERY CLEAN AUDIT PROCESS AND CERTAINLY HAPPY TO ADDRESS ANY SPECIFIC QUESTIONS THAT THE COUNCIL MIGHT HAVE THIS EVENING. ALDERMAN HERVEY. THANK YOU. WERE THERE ANY QUESTIONS?
 I know you didn't have any qualifications to the audit or anything that was a major commentary. Sure. Were there any procedural or internal operational aspects that you believe the city of Rockford could improve?
 either with its reporting or its monitoring of its budget and fiscal responsibility. Sure. What I can say is actually Carrie and I probably have many conversations throughout the year on those types of topics.
 In fact, we had what we call an exit conference to discuss some of those very specific items. So certainly there are items that we talk about with management that don't necessarily warrant communication to the council level in the form of a formal report. So some of those are efficiencies as it relates to the audit process, who's involved, what level of detail. So we've talked about some procedural changes.
 We've tweaked this past year the calendar for the audit, which was very successful in making sure that everything was filed on time. We've talked about fund structure and maybe some future recommendations with regards to funds and what we're actually reporting within the comprehensive annual financial report.
 And I know Carrie and I are in the process of reviewing one of the management letter recommendations, which is the fund balance policy. So those to me are always ongoing conversations we have throughout the year with Carrie and her team. Thank you. Yes. Yes. Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to that last topic, the fund balance. Sure. Is there a question?
 Can you point to me somewhere where I would find more information here? Absolutely. With regard to that $17.5 million decrease in the fund balance? Sure, absolutely. So if we go to the financial tab, you're going to be on pages 11 and 12. I would say it's about 25 pages in or so from that tab. Okay, thank you very much. And again, that will provide the detail for the governmental funds. That far right column on page 12 provides that $17.5 million decrease that you'll see in fund balance.
 any other questions from the council seeing none thank you very much we appreciate it thank you thank you and thanks to the city staff for doing a good job um roman numeral four petitions and communications planning and development thank you mayor pro tem uh i have a memo memorandum from lafacuria vaughn assistant city attorney regarding rockford area economic development council 2018 second quarter report referred to planning and development committee
 memorandum from left curia vaughn assistant city attorney regarding rockford convention and visitors bureau quarterly report fiscal year 18 quarter 4 april june 2018 referred to planning and development committee that's all thank you thank you those matters will be referred alderman shirely codes and regulation
 I have four communications this evening. The first is a memorandum from La Ficaria Bond, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding second quarter report from April through June 2018 on liquor license establishments with video gaming.
 Subject to the 50% requirement. The second is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding the upcoming special events, which include Fall for Rockford Festival, Cycle on Second, and Holy Family Fall Festival. The third is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan again regarding the annexation of 2109-2111 Angela Avenue.
 And the fourth is a traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on August 8, 2018 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee on August 27, 2018.
 Thank you, Alderman Shirely. Those matters will be referred. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a petition. It is a petition for a grocery store in northwest Rockford with 1,284 signatures on it. I'd like to refer that to your office, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. The matter will be referred. I'm sorry. Finance and personnel, Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding offer acceptance for 4550 Harrison Avenue. And this item will be referred to financing personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, that matter will be referred.
 Next, public speakers. I'll remind the public speakers that they will step up to one of the mics in the council chamber. You have three minutes to make your remarks. You'll hear an alarm. Following that, we ask that you would wrap up your remarks. The first speaker will be Brandy Gardner.
 Hi, my name is Brandy Gardner. I'm a transformational coach. I speak motivational messages all around Rockford. I am a woman before I'm anything, CEO of Brandy's Candies, 113 North Rockton. I and my children had the opportunity to be on SOAR radio yesterday.
 And we talked a little bit about our businesses. My children own their own business too as well. And we also talked about the work that we do in the community as well as the topic in the interview. At this time, I would like to introduce to you guys one of my most famous messages. And the name of it is called Don't Allow Familiar Spirits to Kill You While Not Allowing Unfamiliar Spirits to Heal You.
 The message explains the Cinderella story in a very interesting and unique way. The message starts off explaining her history, then teaches us not to forget our history in a very encouraging way. The message goes on to explain how she started with one problem but ended up with ten because of that one. It then began to teach us how if not dealt with properly, one problem can turn into a lot more in a way we can all relate to. The message talks about how her high class destiny was for her and for her only.
 and how she was the best one for her destiny, which teaches us what is meant for you is for you. The message helps dealing with jealousy and or out to get you type of people. Also how marriage blessed both of them in a light, respectful manner. As you can see, this message is perfect in many ways and even better when delivered. This message had been spoken at the Rockford Rescue Mission when I fed 180 people.
 Also, True Vine Baptist Church, Kingdom Authority, New Birth, Pentecostal, and DCFS, the Department of Children and Family Services. So I am in the process of starting my parents' group. I am currently taking names and phone numbers, and I'm going to end off with a poem. One day we will be free.
 God already loves me for me, so don't judge me by the color of my skin, but judge me for who I am within. It's a whole lot of us. You may need a fan. Do you understand what I'm saying? Jehovah God is the man. Dr. King took a stand. Rosa Parks showed we all can. Yes.
 slavery was wrong but look at how it made us strong now all blacks can roam so what's the point of black history it's no discovery it's no mystery see chasing that gold made them cold they didn't care what Jesus told now they want to discuss wondering why it's a fuss they didn't have to it wasn't a must to have so much lust thinking that we were crushed and turned into slush they abused us tearing us until we were tore some didn't know what for keeping us poor not caring if our backs were sore working us until we could not take no more
 We dipped and we died together like bees in a beehive. Thank God we survived into the year 1865 and also today. Thank you for this opportunity. Next is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 29th chapter, the 18th verse written by a wise man named Solomon. It says, where there is no vision, the people perish. What I want to speak about tonight, the 12 reasons why people are leaving Rockwood.
 The first reason, people don't have a visionary leader here. The second reason, people don't have no hope to live here. The third reason, there are no jobs with good wage with benefits. The fourth reason, no transportation. The bus don't run 24 hours a day, seven a week, so people can get to jobs and back home. The fifth reason, women don't have free daycare service, so they can't get to jobs to go to school.
 No affordable homes or rental apartments. The seventh reason, bad public schools. I call them dropout factories. The eighth reason, high crime. The ninth reason, high property tax. That's killing the people here in Rockford. The tenth reason, no diversity in entertainment. The different races of people who live here in Rockford. The eleventh reason, companies and businesses in Rockford do not believe in giving people a job that offers good wages and benefits if they have a felony. That's why the crime rate is so high in Rockford.
 people here do not believe in giving people a second chance like God gave us with his grace and mercy the 12th reason people see they can't have anything by staying here in Rockford if you eliminate these 12 obstacles you could stop people from leaving like Rockford is a gold mine you don't know
 you don't know how to use your resources i can turn rockford around in one year six months twenty two days one hour ten minutes fifteen seconds and if you give me thirty minutes or women with walkie talkies i can reduce crime in rockford in ninety days if you use the power of visibility criminals seeing you walking beats that's how you reduce crime that's the best way of community policing by being in a patrol car you isolate yourself from the community this makes the people in the community don't trust the police i
 I also have been wanting to tell Mayor Marcy Motha and the head of the fire department, Mr. Bernstein, this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you.
 Happy birthday to my good friends, and I wish you many. And I got some job leads for people. We're going to have a job for August the 6th. I want everybody in Rockford that's looking for a job, I want you to come there. A man don't work, a man don't eat. That's why I'm retired. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Richard Bunch. Hey!
 Hi, I'm Richard Bunch and I'm here to talk a little bit about the Methadone Treatment Center. Originally I was going to talk about that exclusively, but I just wanted to say first that I have acute back pain, or sometimes it's acute, sometimes it's not. I have three fused vertebrae at the bottom of my spine.
 I have another relative that has endometriosis, and if you know anything about the pain from that, I wouldn't wish that upon anybody. And then I have another relative that, these are close relatives, that has mental health issues. My basic concern at first was going to be that this methadone, new methadone treatment center, if it was approved,
 uh would not be in any place where you could where people could even use it due to transportation issues i now find that the zoning committee has uh basically defeated uh putting it in uh
 location where this Old Circuit City was by a vote of 5 to nothing meaning there would be a super majority needed. While methadone is clearly still the lead treatment in many places for
 heroin addiction mainly because insurance covers that the the fact of the matter is that that there are many there are other drugs that are much more effective than that and will not get you
 essentially strung out because methadone is still addictive. Suboxone is being used quite a bit, and I know Rosecrans is planning on using that as a drug. But what I found in my research is the basic problem is that it's basically seems like it's a
 battle between insurance companies, doctors, and even city councils and zoning boards as to where they're going to put treatment centers, what they're going to do there, are they going to give the primary care physician enough responsibility to actually prescribe the drugs that are needed for people or send them on to a pain management clinic, force them to go through therapy first before they can even get treatment.
 an opiate. The fact of the matter is everybody in the world has opioid receptors in their brain. We all have that and there are numerous natural and synthetic drugs that can be taken that you can end up becoming addicted to. Okay? It doesn't matter what they are but the opiates that are synthetic drugs, that's where they're called opiates, are the most
 dangerous because they're usually targeted to reach the most receptors in the brain. So I was going to read from an article in the Washington Post, I'm not going to know if I'm going to have enough time to do that, but it basically deals with a doctor who's a cardiologist who is using Suboxone in his practice.
 for cardiac patients that have acute pain. And he's finding... Is that my three minutes? Yes, sir. You can finish up. Yeah, I just want to say that he was giving out prescriptions for suboxone over and over and over again to many, many patients because they needed it. And he's had the same problem that many doctors have had where they're being overruled by...
 higher-ups, politicians, etc., and even hospitals that are deciding that the worst thing in the world that we can do now is give people opiates. And I just hope that the decision about putting in a treatment center will look at this in an integrated and systematic way and not be biased by, you know, what...
 one group of people may think of who is taking opiates, because the fact is that everybody's probably going to end up on them at some point in their lifetime. Thank you very much. Our last speaker is John Tech Brantley.
 28 verses 27 say, God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part, the Proverbs could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. If we can help others when they are in trouble, if we can help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs?
 This past weekend in Chicago, at least 11 people were shot dead and about 70 wounded in a weekend burst of violence in Chicago. What are we doing here in Rockford opposite to violence? Sadly, we took youth to Renewal Turning Point. We took youth to the library downtown. We went to three other events. We had pizza and fairgrounds. We came out with 28 youth and 40s.
 four adults. We had RHA van, renewal turning point van, and personal van. Sunday morning event, we started with Journey Church, ministry, back to school, book bags, and picnics. From there, we stopped at Judge Patrick Yarbrough Sports Member Rattling at Ethnic
 harris museum our last shot was 11th and 8 talent show contest we want to thank all our sponsors for making this day happen where we knew a turning point youth once again we had more youth but not enough transportation that's a long way but by the long way we do need the bus we are going to nationalize out with the police on tuesday night on august the uh 7th tomorrow night that's going to be held at 11th lake once again i will be bringing more than 30 30
 20 to 30 youth. It's a time for the youth, the adults, and the community and the system to start working together. We can always complain, but it's one thing when we start working together. This will be our third year doing back-to-school cookout and book bag with the Renewal Turning Point Program. However, this will be our first at Kennedy Middle School this year. I'd like to know who's the ultimate in that area because this will be very important for the ultimate to show up.
 For once, for the past three years, we've been two groups doing the same thing on the same day. This is going to be a first where we're working together doing a back-to-school book bag on August 16th from 3 to 6 p.m. on a Thursday at Kennedy Middle School. We were looking at trying to raise some funds for Magic Water that we're going to this Thursday. We have 78 youth.
 and 15 adults to sign up to go. So far we have raised funds to cover 60 people. Unfortunately, this year the bank that we asked to sponsor us last month would not be able to support us at this time due to the fact we
 do not have a 501c3 for our activities to be accepted. We need funds to help us to go to Magic Waters and back to school cookout, book bags. Now's the time for that. We live in Rockford working in a system and a community coming together. I'm finna finish it off.
 and putting our difference to the side. Thus, together we can make Rockford great again. During the 60s and 70s, you can walk out of one job and go across the street and get into another job. Those were the days. Let's turn this time around in 2018 and bring back the 60s and 70s where we have jobs and we have opportunity for all the individuals. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to all our speakers. Reports from committees, planning and development.
 The committee recommends approving the development agreement between City of Rockford and Second Congregational Church of Rockford Foundation, Inc. for the demolition and redevelopment of the properties located at 511 West Jefferson Street and 306 North Court Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We call the roll. Any questions, Senator? No.
 alderman tunberg i would say uh in relation to this it's been a long time coming and as alderman uh i would uh highly encourage this to begin as soon as possible call the roll aye okay matter passes codes and regulations alderman shirely
 The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of 20th Street from Center Street to 60 feet. South of Center Street, the 2nd, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation for no action on the following items.
 A, request to establish no parking anytime parking restriction on one side of 18th Street from Broadway to 15th Avenue. B, request to establish no parking anytime parking restriction on one side of 19th Street from Broadway to 15th Avenue.
 And C, request to establish no parking anytime parking restriction on one side of 15th Avenue from 18th Street to 20th Street. And on D, Your Honor, I would request that this be held out if there's no opposition from the city council at this time. That was D.
 Number three the committee recommends approval of a traffic Commission's amendment to chapter 16 section 186 188 189 of the city of Rockford's code of ordinances regarding the American
 Disability acts parking requirements the fourth the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals Recommendation of a a denial of a modification of a special use permit for a plan unit development to add 15 duplexes 30 total units and be an approval of a modification of a special use permit and
 for a planned unit development to add 13 duplexes 26 total units in an r3 multi family residential zoning district at 626 shiloh road subject to conditions
 The fifth, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a funeral home, a crematory, and a special event center with indoor and outdoor events in a C1 zoning district at 4301 and 43XX North Main Street, subject to conditions. Number six, your honor, there was a request from the applicant to
 Lay this item over for this evening. I would like to see if there's a motion to do that on the council floor All those in favor aye opposed That's what It's an autumn. Oh, we I thought we I'm sorry. It's the problem in turn I thought we laid this over once before no, no, we did not. Okay, so then it's subject to the automatic layover rule
 Sorry, my misunderstanding. I thought it was laid over once and for all. Number six will be laid over to the next city council meeting. Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the fast food restaurant and video gaming facility in a commercial zoning district at 479 North Springfield Avenue.
 Subject to conditions number eight the committee recommends approval of an inter government Intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rock River water reclamation district for the expansion of our WRD's campus with the acquisition of city-owned properties along Brook Road Number nine the committee recommends approving the amendments to the city driveway and sidewalk policy for residential and commercial properties Place those items up for passage I
 okay up for passage under roman numeral b are numbers one two but holding out number two d items three four five six will be held out seven eight and nine is there any discussion alderman hervey um with regard to number five that's the one with um for a grace funeral home and cremation services um
 I noticed there's a special event center and I apologize. I've read these but my tablet is dead so I can't go back and look at the Individual notes are they requesting or planning to request for the special event center? A liquor license with or without gaming. I'm not sure. I can't remember if the special event center I thought it was going to be for just a total wide range of special events and
 At least that's what I remember reading. So I'm trying to see if there's going to be a special event or are they going to be asking for permission for liquor on the premises also. And if there's liquor on the premises, that carries with it the right for gaming. So, staff, then? Ms. Franzen? I can answer. Okay.
 I'm not aware of a request for liquor that would follow this special use permit, but I can't say that we've asked that question. If it is through the special event process, then it wouldn't trigger the gaming, but if they were to seek a permanent liquor license, you would be accurate in regards to that it could potentially open the door for gaming at the facility.
 So we can either proceed this evening with the information you have, or if you'd like us to follow up with the applicant, we can do so. It may not matter to anyone but me, and it's not just the gaming. I just can't remember if anybody –
 sometimes when people make the request they'll say and we do want liquor or we're not going to be having liquor at the special event i just i apologize i just can't remember your honor the the applicant is here this evening if there's no objection from the council she could answer your alderman i have no i if everybody else doesn't object if not we can and uh could you identify yourself i'm kristin mcnames i'm the president of grace funeral and cremation services
 We have no intention of ever offering gaming slots or whatever. I don't even know what that actually is. Potentially with events, we would initially use caterers who would have their own liquor license, but at this time currently, we have no intention of applying for a liquor license through the City of Rockford. Thank you. Any further questions? Alderman Frost? At the notes from the ZBA, and I just was kind of...
 Along those same lines, kind of just curious with respect to the special events part of the license. I understand there may be, there's some outdoor space and there may be some celebration of life type ceremonies there. But I just didn't know or thought it was a little bit unusual to bring liquor into a funeral home or cremation services business. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, did you have a question?
 Question. Couldn't it be an ad condition for gaming, no gaming, and no liquor license? Would there be a finding of facts for that? Mr. Cagnoni. Thank you, Your Honor. We wouldn't be...
 you know one the typically when we've had a condition related to no gaming it's been upon yeah with the with a liquor application and it's upon agreement uh with the applicant as part of their presented business plan so i don't think that would necessarily be applicable in this situation here
 they you know from the applicant's explanation which is generally my understanding that they would use the catering license or at least that's their intentions is to use a catering license for for liquor alderman beck i'd just like to ask the applicant if they could expand on what types of events they are envisioning holding where they might want to have a caterer bring alcohol
 There are families that don't want a religious service. They want more of a celebration of life. They want that to be a tribute to the deceased person. Outdoor events that we were thinking would be like butterfly releases where we partner with local hospice organizations or hospital systems.
 concept of outdoor events is not as I said in the first meeting like the wing ding or rock and roll concerts where people are kind of wandering around drunk peeing and shrubs so I mean we really we are a traditional funeral home and cremation provider and in addition to that in order to have different revenue streams coming into our business
 and into the city of Rockford, we're kind of wanting to branch out into other avenues. I know it's kind of out of the norm for traditional funerals here in the Rockford area, but it is quite common in funeral service establishments across the country to have funerals
 Funeral homes that provide different events so to have a facility that it can be marketed not only to a family That's experiencing a loss But also a family that wants to have a baby shower in a nice place And maybe their house isn't big enough and they can come for kind of a nominal fee into our facility and
 kind of just gives us different options as a business owner here yes all the room back and i just want to add my two cents they're in my ward still moose club so i think it's perfectly appropriate to have events there it's not going to be interrupting to residential areas and i'm fully in support of the application
 Alderman Hervey. My concern is not with, I'm very familiar with Grace, and I've been to funerals. I plan to have one that's going to be a blowout party, not, you know, long faces and tears. I can do that. I'll be there pre-planning. But at the same time, I'm going to go back to my concern that I have with the proliferation of liquor. You know, we've got another one on the agenda here tonight that, you know,
 leeches into fast food for a liquor license which opens the door to gaming I I still do not believe as a council as a city that we have thought these things out and that we're looking at the proliferation and expansiveness of both liquor and gaming into everywhere
 you know we've got convenience stores asking for pouring rates now that's only a step away from a fast food joint you know that one hasn't come up yet but it i just think it starts to push those envelopes we had a florist shop that wanted to have quote wine tasting we we disapproved that one but you know part of it was they were going to have a gaming center right next door um
 I trust that in this case they wouldn't want gaming, but I just think as a council we still have not developed the parameters for these types of establishments and where liquor is going to be allowed. I don't have a problem with a catered liquor event in some cases for a true special event.
 But if we're going to start expanding that into a liquor license for a special event center that's attached to funeral services. Alderman Quinones. I'm in support with Alderman Beck on this. In order to get a gaming license, they would have to have 50% food, and I don't think they're going to be in the food business selling food. So I don't think we have to worry about the gaming on this issue here.
 but i'm in favor of uh of uh with alderman beckland on passing this here alderman beck i just want to go back to the they're not asking for a liquor license they're not asking so we're debating an issue that's a non-issue i mean to say that we're concerned about them having events where the caterer who might bring alcohol i think is going to it's a very far leap to them assuming they're going to want a liquor license so i understand alderman hervey's concerns about proliferation of liquor but this is not that case
 Alderman Toomer. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I'm not going to elaborate on the liquor part of this or Alderman Hervey's keg party at her funeral. But I will say that I did, I can understand...
 Our guests point. I just read an article this week Ironically that down in New Orleans. They are having these kind of alternative style funerals and they are catching on one was a young gentleman who was killed they propped him up and and Had him playing video games Looked like he was playing his favorite video game wearing his football jersey. Another one was a prominent socialite and
 of New Orleans that they had at her home, but had her in the garden sitting in a chair with a cigarette and a cocktail in her hand, and it was a big party. Another one was a prominent author who they had standing up, propped up against a lamp post type of figure, and it was a party. So there are
 quote unquote alternative funerals starting to catch on and I and I would uh reiterate that what our guest had mentioned but uh I won't go into the liquor part of that at this moment thank you Alderman Frost I just hate to use New Orleans as a benchmark um their former mayor serving 10 years in federal penitentiary I don't know I don't want to get too close to all the tumors but when we're when we're using them as our icon and benchmark uh I'm a little concerned that's it
 is there any further discussions on the items alderman shirely yeah so within the application it states that this would be a special events center it's not asking for a special event permit now if the staff could expound on it the special event permits would regulate and that's not an open invitation for every weekend there's actual process you have to go through to get a special event permit this application is just saying that this would be a special event center
 so i think there's a little confusion on that so thank you if you want to expound on that i'm certain uh happy to verify what you stated is accurate you are correct there is a process for a special event permit this is a zoning request for a special use permit for an event center with the funeral home and crematory and that's what's up for consideration not a liquor license this evening thank you any further discussion
 Just as a reminder, we're under Roman numeral B, 4B, items number 1, 2. 2D is being held out. 3, 4, 5, 6 is being held out. 7, 8, 9 are all up for passage. Clerk, call the roll. All in favor? All in favor? No, 1, 7. All the matters pass.
 Roman numeral C, finance and personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's the recommendation for the approval of vouchers in the amount of $5,501,388.85. Is there any discussion on the vouchers? Hearing none, please call the roll. Aye. Matters passed. Officers, reports?
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to mention that this Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., Christian Union will have a back-to-school giveaway for children returning to school with children
 book bags. They will also be serving lunch at the intersection of Yonge and Kilburn Avenue. That's a back to school rally sponsored by Christian Union Church from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg, did you have? Thank you. Tomorrow night, 6 p.m., our Savior's Lutheran Church for the neighborhood in the vicinity of Brendanwood and Chelsea. We will be discussing
 new things that the city is trying to Slow down traffic make Chelsea the Chelsea area more bicycle friendly walking friendly so we're encouraging the neighbors in that area to come out and learn about some things that Myself is alderman of the ward and the city are are doing in that area. So thank you. Thank you all I'm in back. Oh
 Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Rose is not here, so I wanted to speak on the Fight the Blight project going on at 1920 North Main, which has been a project that started last Saturday. It's ongoing through Thursday. And basically it's addressing this abandoned nursing home, which has over the years become a tremendous nuisance and eyesore to the neighborhood community.
 the whole city really and so Thanks to Cindy Hall and a number of others Certainly Matt Flores our city attorney Organized this project to basically do a decorative board up on this on this building We the city is not able to tear it down It's still under another ownership and it would be tremendously expensive if we did and
 And we are still in legal proceedings with the owner to try to get something done about the building long term, but short term This is allowing us to get it really securely boarded up much more attractive looking clean up the property It's been a lot of volunteers out there working since Saturday and they can still use some more help So if anybody has any time to donate over the next three days I know they would greatly appreciate it and you can get a hold of Cindy Hall and
 at 779-348-7571, or her email address is Cindy, and Cindy is c-y-n-d-i-e.hall at rockfordil.gov. So appreciate their efforts, and no matter what happens, it's going to be a big improvement over what it was. And if you are so moved to go out and help them, I know they would really appreciate it. Thank you. Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I am very pleased to announce that Ponds Funeral Home, they're wrapping up their remodeling of the former Henrietta School. And they're going to have a grand opening this Sunday. And I believe it's from...
 2 to 4 at the facility, and they're inviting everyone to come out. So I hope that everyone can come out and see what the new facility looks like. 2 to 6. Thank you, Alderman Thompson. From 2 to 6 on Sunday. Also, August 11th, the Westside Church of God in Christ is
 at 228 South Hinkley Avenue. They're going to have a school supply giveaway in community health, and that event is from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Again, that's Westside Church of God in Christ at 228 South Hinkley Avenue on August the 11th. So two very important events in the area, but I'm very pleased and very happy for Pond's Funeral Homes.
 for the grand opening this coming Sunday. Thanks.
 Alderman Hervey. Thank you. I just wanted to remind people once again that National Night Out is tomorrow night, 5 to 8 p.m. It's going to be at Rockford's only lake, Leving's Lake. Absolutely beautiful. One of the most beautiful in Rockford, if I may say so myself. Just a real nice time. If you've ever been to National Night Out, everything from food, entertainment,
 Lots of information booths out, everything from face painting. I believe canine demonstration, canine demonstration, bomb squad. I don't think we're setting off a bomb this year, just some unfortunate events, but no. I think they have some of the demonstrations, the robot, the kids love it. So it's just a really nice,
 short evening and definitely you'll have a wonderful time at Leving's Lake so citywide this is a citywide invitation uh and it's country across the country uh that National Night Out is going on I think most of our municipalities around here uh loves Park mcchesney I think they they're going to be having their own nights out so everybody please do come out any further officers reports
 To draw attention to this, council, there are ten appointments that are up for passage after August 15th that are on the agenda. Motions and resolutions, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, your honor. I have one this evening. It's for the Rock River Food Truck Festival, scheduled for Saturday, August 25th from 6 PM to 10 PM. Place it up for passage.
 Upper passage under Roman numeral 9B1 is the Rock River Food Truck Festival. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed? Matter passes. Under motions and resolutions, finance and personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. All right. Item 1 is award a bid for garage door services to Rainer Door of Loves Park for an estimated annual value of $39,000.00.
 Contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions. Next is award a bid for grounds maintenance for water sites to Aneli Garcia Medrano of Rockford, Illinois, for an estimated amount of $42,975. Contract duration is one year with two possible annual extensions. Next is award a bid for 15th Avenue Bridge joint repairs to civil constructors
 of Freeport in the amount of $116,157.80. The next is awarded a bid for private lead service line replacement to Master Mart Plumbing of Rockford for an estimated annual contract value of $550,000. Contract duration is December 31, 2019 with an option to extend for an additional three years and one year increments.
 The next is the change order for the 2019-2020 weatherization program contract increase to total plumbing of Chesney Park, Illinois. Original contract amount was $783,302. Annually, the amended contract amount is $1,175,000.
 Next is a change order for Strathmore Drive extension to Chastain and Associates of Rockford for an additional $69,503. $403.71 for decorative arterial streetlights along Roxbury Road from East 8th Street to Strathmore Drive. The original agreement amounts were $376,560.82 of MFT and $143,492.82 of sales tax.
 the amended total amount including the information only change order in the amount of thirty nine thousand seven hundred nine dollars is six hundred and twenty nine thousand one hundred and sixty six dollars and thirty five cents funding sources four hundred eighty five thousand six hundred seventy three dollars and fifty three cents for motor fuel tax and one hundred and forty three thousand four hundred ninety two dollars and eighty two cents for sales tax
 And then number seven is rejecting a proposal received for citywide lighting maintenance 2018. Is that it? Yeah, that's it. Place it up for passage. Up for passage under Roman numeral 9C are items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 and 7. Is there any discussion?
 Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple of items. On number one, and I'm pretty sure I remembered this correctly even though I can't see it, with regard to the bid by Raynor-Doerr, they bid the same amount for journeymen and apprentices. Yes.
 And my understanding is they came back and said, well, we don't really have apprentices. And that's fine, but there is an apprenticeship amount, as far as I know, in every union.
 and it's not the same as the journeyman. So I really object to this where they bid the same thing for both. Because if they did bring in a trainee or an apprentice based on this contract and we're giving it to them for a five-year period, they'd be charging us the same amount for a first-year apprentice as they would a journeyman. And to me that's an unacceptable way to state a bid.
 um and then the second one is item number five for the weatherization program there are a number i think of flaws in extending this contract first of all that's a pretty significant increase it's a half again as much as the original contract amount and i believe this is another one where we're giving it to them for multiple years or it can be renewed on the basis of multiple years
 This mixes federal funds and private funds from ComEd and NICOR. There are far more restrictions in using federal funds. I mean, we just found this out when we were looking at the HUD money for the house on College Avenue. Some of the restrictions and reporting requirements and record keeping are so onerous that people don't bid. We only got one bid for this.
 And now that we're going to be bringing in the ComEd money, which, and NICOR, which has a lot more flexibility, I don't have an objection to giving this to Total Plumbing either for the rest of this year or for one year, but not to extend it over the four-year period. My understanding is we may not even get the increased money from HHS and the Department of Education for
 or DOE, Department of Energy, for that period of another five years. But I just think giving it to this one organization who was the sole bidder under those circumstances is not a wise way to handle that bid. Was there a question for staff that you wanted to address? No, I already got the answer to it. I just think it's.
 It should not, I believe there's four more years or three more years left to this contract that it could be extended. And since we're now getting an entirely new pot of money, I think it needs to be rebid based on that new pot of money.
 Mr. Cagnotti. So there was two questions or statements related to items number one, as well as item number five for the first item. And I'll ask Director Haggerty to clarify if needed, but our bid specs would require city approval before they use apprentice through the contract.
 item number five I'd ask director Davis to provide clarification and the overall timing as well as address some of the comments from Alderman Hervey thank you so I would just offer a couple of clarifications there is in fact potentially an opportunity to to rebid especially as it relates to the new ComEd
 and NICOR weatherization program. But even from the standpoint of the opportunity to look at the overall weatherization work, our experience has been the reason that we only have one bidder, as Alderman Hervey has indicated, is because of the stringency of the vendor requirements involved. And in the short term, it's probably not likely that we would be able to
 be able to make a major change in that situation for the current year. However, as we look at it, the additional funding that's being provided, about $300,000, is expected to sustain for about two years.
 so that provides us with an opportunity in probably early next year to to look at some opportunity to re-bid to see whether one we might get some additional interest in other vendors for the main weatherization program but more likely the opportunity for vendors locals vendors to bid for the additional uh
 opportunities through the weatherization program we're doing with NICOR and Con Ed.
 That also would allow us time to get the pilot of that new weatherization program established this year. But I believe by early next year, there should be an opportunity for us to go out for a bid in some combination that would open it up for other vendors. I think that the two years that would be remaining on the sustained funding would give us an opportunity to do that.
 But also the extension of the current contract allows us to finish out the remainder of the current year without having to re-bid if we could be allowed to go forward on that basis. Alderman Hervey. If we awarded this under the way this is worded, we could go ahead and complete this year, but we could still take it back out for bids or break out the federal money
 as opposed to the private money, the resource innovations money from CondEd and NICOR and bid that separately? I would be happy to work with, you know, Director Haggerty on figuring out how we can structure that, but that certainly, from my understanding, would be a possibility, yes. Okay. All right. Thank you. Any further discussion, questions? Up for passage under Roman numeral 9C, items 1 through 7. Clerk, can you call the roll? Okay.
 Aye. Banners pass. Under new business, planning and development, Alderman Toomer. Sorry, Chairman. He thinks he's in New Orleans still. New business, planning and development. An ordinance, number one, an ordinance approving the development agreement between the City of Rockford and the Second Congregational Church of Rockford Foundation Inc. for the demolition, excuse me, and redevelopment of the properties located at 511 West Jefferson Street and 306 North Court Street.
 Thank you. Upper passage Roman numeral 10 A1, is there a discussion? Seeing none, clerk can you call the roll? Aye. Aye. Thank you, the matter's passed. Under new business ordinances, Alderman Chiarelli, codes and regs. Your Honor, first is an ordinance establishing no parking anytime restriction on an east side of 20th Street from Center Street to 60 feet south of Center Street.
 Number two is an ordinance approving the amendment to chapter 16 section 186 188 and 189 of the city of Rockford Code of Ordinances regarding the American Disabilities Act parking requirements The number three is an ordinance approving a modification Of a special use permit for a plan unit development to add 13 duplexes 26 total units at 626 Shiloh Road
 Number four is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a funeral home, crematory, and special events center with indoor and outdoor events at 4301 and 43XX North Main Street. Number five. Number five. I would ask for that to be held out, please. Second. We have a request for number five to be held out until next week or two weeks, Your Honor. Hold on a second.
 We'll need to vote on that. We have a motion and a second. Delay that. For under Roman numeral B15, we have a motion to lay over to next council meeting and a second. All those in favor? Opposed? The matter will be laid over. Thank you. Number six, an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rock River Water Reclamation District.
 the expansion of our RWRD's campus with the acquisition of city owned properties along Brook Road. And number seven is an ordinance approving the amendments to the city driveway and sidewalk policy for residential and commercial properties. I place those ordinances up for passage, your honor. Up for passage under Roman numeral 10B, our items one through four.
 and six and seven is there any discussion on the items alderman hervey question on number seven this is the one where it's going to allow the black top to if people are using asphalt that's going to allow the asphalt to break and cover the sidewalk who's going to actually police that and make sure that you know i'm sorry i've seen them and if you think you're going to get people to grade this evenly with the concrete
 I mean, I've got news. We're going to end up with ADA complaints, trip and falls. Who's the liability going to fall on if this is not graded the way that it is supposed to be graded? Who's going to do the inspections and most importantly, the enforcement of it? Because it's not going to go well. Just for clarification, the asphalt will not be going over a concrete sidewalk. Mr. Stockman?
 The same public works staff that currently have to inspect all of the driveway permits under the old ordinance will be out there. They will actually have to put a percent level on the portion of the driveway that would be considered sidewalk. And if it misses the 2% or less slope, then the contractor would be required to take the necessary steps to improve it to meet that slope. So before they complete, they're going to have to get approved?
 this in the first place is that they don't get our approval and they do it and it's violated the policy. So I actually made a mistake and voted yes on the first part of it. I'm going to correct that now. But I just have to state that objection. I think this is a policy where we're going backwards, that because people did violate a rule,
 and certain developers don't want that rule to exist, we're changing a policy that goes from aesthetics to safety, and I think it's a huge mistake. I think part of the history of that is not so much that the contractors violated anything, we just didn't enforce it. So we have these legacy properties where it's not enforced. Interestingly, the reverse is okay in Rockford.
 So in other words, for instance, in my neighborhood, we have a lot of people now are putting in stamped concrete, concrete or pavers. And in my neighborhood, the sidewalk is asphalt. But it's okay to go from asphalt to concrete to asphalt.
 So we have sort of an interesting dilemma, but I think that as we've looked at it, the city public works department has figured out a means where this could all be accommodated to allow the driveways to be constructed to match the concrete. We also have areas in the city of Rockford where the sidewalks are like this.
 And and so the resident will have to construct a sidewalk that goes on an angle through their driveway So we have all this hodgepodge stuff that's going on in the city alderman Frost thank you. I just want to clear something staff because I have read this and it is a little difficult to kind of To follow but it's my understanding and just staff someone Mr. Stockman mr. Cagnone could just confirm or deny. So I thought basically I
 Going forward, it was going to allow people and residents that live primarily in neighborhoods where the homes were built in the late 80s, early 90s, mid 90s.
 that have, for instance, my driveway is all asphalt. There's a concrete sidewalk on both sides of my driveway, but my driveway is asphalt the entire way down. And in the past, I've had several people call me about it, residents have been confused by it, but if they were to follow the code, what they replace their driveway, they would have to have the asphalt driveway and then install a concrete sidewalk, which sometimes people don't wanna do.
 I thought with this amendment we were going to, if someone has a concrete sidewalk running through their driveway, they have to keep
 a concrete sidewalk running through their driveway and if they have a situation where they have a home built in that area or basically have an all asphalt driveway if they were to get a new driveway and they chose to keep it all asphalt they could obviously the city wouldn't mind if they put in a concrete sidewalk but that that was my understanding of what we were trying to do here i think that's correct mr stockman yes that's exactly correct and in extreme cases contractors are going to be very hesitant to
 try to reach two percent grade on a sidewalk or a drive drive approach and driveway that already has a six or seven percent grade and knowing that they're going to have to
 Rip it out do the work over again at a loss to their company. I think they'll police that on their own very well It's going to take some training on the part of public work staff too because we're actually going to have to bring up each property on Google Earth or Wengis verify that okay. It's a driveway already has a sidewalk the sidewalk has to come back If it the concrete sidewalk has to come back if they're going to be taking that out as well, but it's
 But if they and then verify if they have an all asphalt driveway including the sidewalk We would have to look at it The city engineer or the city plat officer would have to actually make the final approval as to whether it was going to be allowed anytime we have to arbitrarily
 Say you know yes or no on things like this We're gonna have to have a policy that we apply equally across the board. You can't pick and choose Why we didn't allow someone else to do this and we forced somebody else to do sidewalks So again, we're working through those those training issues with our staff assuming this passes Thank you alderman back man. My arm is warm out waving my hand over here No, um
 I'm actually one of the people who kind of questioned this. I'm not taking credit for it, but a couple years ago, I had asked for an estimate on my driveway, which is asphalt, very flat. I mean, there's not much drop from the top of the driveway to the street. And when I found out that I had to put a sidewalk in on top of the asphalt, I was, OK, that's fine. But now it's pretty much twice the cost to redo my driveway, which there is not a sidewalk there now.
 And so I called up and asked Mark, why do we have that requirement? And he said, well, it's because of ADA. Because if you have a steep driveway, and then when people have to cross over your driveway, now you don't have that 2% or less cross slope that you're required by ADA to have.
 And so in order to do that, we have to have them put in a sidewalk, which would not be able to be built at a slope. It'd have to be flat. They'd have to, you know, bring the asphalt portion down, then grade it such that they would flatten out the sidewalk, and then they would have the steep grade going down again to the street. So to me, it doesn't make any sense to require to put in a concrete sidewalk for ADA compliance if your driveway already meets ADA compliance by itself.
 So that's kind of why I thought that to me you're requiring homeowners to spend extra money just to put concrete in when the reason for it was ADA compliance. So that's why I questioned that and I certainly support the modification. That's my understanding too is that the two percent grade it does fit ADA requirements and it to me it doesn't matter if it's asphalt or concrete you're still ADA compliant.
 Any further discussion? Alderman Chiarelli. Yeah, thank you. I know Alderman Thunberg is pretty good with the yardstick and the level, so if anybody needs any help. But anyway, if this is codified this evening, when would it take effect, and is the residents going to be notified of it in a proper manner? Alderman Cagnone.
 Well, I mean, it would take effect immediately. Immediately? Yeah, this is a policy and so our staff is prepared to implement the policy and we'll review permits accordingly. Okay, thank you. Any further discussion? Does this require a change? It's a brand new ordinance. We're not rejecting anything, so we're not overriding anybody. So I would assume it's a majority. Correct. Okay, again, up for passage.
 are under roman numeral 10b are items one through four six and seven where can you call the roll all the matters pass is there any further business in front of the city council all those in favor aye opposed we are adjourned