we will call to order the city of rockford's special city council meeting for monday august 9th 2021. clerk could you please call the roll jerky logeman here tunberg frost terena prunty here hoffman beach quinones meeks mcneely bonnie 12 present
 excellent thank you uh we'll move to new committees we have nothing under planning and development so we'll go to code and regulation committee uh alderman terena the committee recommends stating the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a drive-through in conjunction with the fast food restaurant and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1680 north alpine road and 4420 high crest road
 And then number two, final plot of Highcrest Center subdivision and amendments to chapter three of the City of Rockford liquor ordinance to add a new liquor license classification. Thank you Alderman. So council we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye.
 Meeks McNeely Bonnie 12 ice. Thank you. Next we have officers reports. I just want to make note of meeting taking place on Wednesday from 10 a.m. To noon at district 1 It's a West gateway neighborhood meeting where residents from all over are welcome to come but it's a Wednesday from 10 a.m to noon at district 1
 also want to make you aware that the COVID-19 vaccination bus will be present. Also, I want to make everyone aware, and I know you've received a number of emails on this, but there is a meet and greets for both the fire and the police chiefs.
 candidates this Tuesday and Wednesday, which would be the 10th and the 11th from 5 to 7 p.m at the Riverfront Museum in the Kresge Hall. That's both Tuesday and Wednesday from 5 to 7 at the Rock, at the Riverfront Museum. Are there Council Members who have reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I have a resolution
 for RHA to address the City Council and that'll be in for next week. I refer that to Planning and Development. And also Mr. Mayor, I received mail on my desk today and a letter was opened up and I don't know why. I prefer that my mail not be open and another letter that wasn't open so I'm not sure.
 Can guess but I'm not sure what's going on, but I prefer that my mail not be open. Thank you I understood also could be a mistake, but I will make sure we get it addressed any other report. So alderman timber. Thanks mayor. I just wanted to Just comment to a lot of issues that we have going on in our city and
 I spent plenty of time in my adult life in another place in the city of Chicago, and something just really stuck out to me today. They're having some obviously serious issues in there. And an officer was just killed
 I believe it was Saturday night. Her name was Ella French 29 years old had a two-month baby at home and This was just pretty much from what I heard was kind of a routine traffic stop You know, maybe there was something more to that but to our officers I know that we have a speeding issue in our city and all of us aldermen hear about that and
 And we're trying to do what we can to combat that. I had actually talked to the police department, I think for all of you to know, and maybe even those millions at home that I say that watch us every night, that I kind of thought, well, why don't we get somebody like a Barney Fife out there, a team of Barney Fifes that just basically all they do is speed control.
 and it was brought to my attention, and this is a number of years ago when I first came on, that traffic stops are second only to domestic violence calls, I believe, in danger. And so it is extremely dangerous for just a routine traffic stop. And so my heart, and I'm sure I'm not alone in this, go out to the
 to uh the french family and just uh what a horrific situation and it uh so i i applaud our our men in blue men and women in blue and and appreciate what they do thank you certainly certainly a stark reminder of uh the perils of that position not just for that person who puts on the uniform but their entire family uh any other reports alderman canones
 Yes, your honor. I just want to bring it to everybody's attention. I got a lot of complaints on ATVs, motorbikes going through the neighborhoods in 11th Ward and throughout the city. Is there anything the city is doing to curtail this movement and what can be done to deter the movement?
 Yeah, I'll speak and I'm handing over to Chief Burke. I would say I've probably talked to Chief Burke an inordinate amount of times about ATVs. They drive me insane. I think they're going to get someone injured or killed very soon, but there is little that we can do that's been effective thus far. Chief? Yeah.
 Thank you, Mayor. I can second that, that I do get lots of texts and emails from the Mayor in reference to our ATVs and motorcycles, which is fine. We received those same complaints from lots of the constituents as well too. It's a difficult situation for the police. We are aware of it. We discuss it frequently at our staff, at our roll calls, and everything else like that.
 How they act on the streets when our officers are behind them in their squad cars generally they are Waving at us with one finger They are not the usual motors where they're just gonna pull over for us obviously we have our own rules and regulations that we have to follow when we do attempt to make those stops and
 So I would urge anybody and anybody gets hold of any of the older persons, we would appreciate any information such as where they may reside at. So we know that especially these particular neighborhoods, when they leave their residences, that neighbors see where they're coming from, where they're storing it, who they are.
 as well as some of their associates, so that way we can follow up with it on that end of it instead of just when they're out on the streets doing their reckless driving behavior. So anybody that has any information you can forward on to the police department, we'd be much appreciated in that. Alderman Logan. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, Chief, I can second that.
 One neighborhood in the second ward, we found some residents identified the location of an ATV driver, and we were pretty quick. There was another community services officer, and we stopped by and were able to address the situation. So I think it can be done. Okay.
 I'll bundle all my comments into one. As far as the beef roux, glad that this is getting across the finish line. I appreciate it. Jeremy Carter reached out to me and allowed me to reach out to the neighbors who are concerned about some of the traffic issues there. So, yes, this will be welcome in that area right there. And I might even buy Alderman Toonberg a birthday cake shake. I don't know. It's my favorite one.
 And then finally the yeah a lot of rain today But when I was driving through the neighborhoods of the second ward, I saw that Keith Creek you know it held strong and the another big one the Alpine or the Arden court retention pit was holding strong too. So a lot of unexpected rain But yeah, our infrastructure is doing its job. Thank you mayor. Thank you other reports alderman Bonnie. Thank you mayor. Um, I
 uh there are a lot of 815 day celebrations coming up uh over the weekend and i just wanted to promote my own i'm going to be at the pasco mercado at leno's it's their summer long outdoor italian market having a booth there for
 anyone in the 14th Ward or in the city who just wants to come by and talk about Issues and I will be joined for part of that time by our public works director Kyle Saunders and we're going to be disseminating some information on CIP projects in the ward, but also on
 speaking of flooding the gregory heights flood remediation project which is in progress now and unlike what alderman logeman referred to i'm getting you know the people who who have flooding who that has not yet been addressed because that is not yet operational but will be before the summer's over is my understanding and will be a big relief to a big area of the 14th ward that has had
 A lot of flooding for a long time. Thank you. Any other reports all the men printing and thank you I just wanted to acknowledge that one of our colleagues done announced last week That she has put together an exploratory committee To run for Congress. So I just wanted to congratulate alderman McNeely on her exploratory committee for running for Congress. Thanks any other reports I
 Great. And we'll move on. So next item is Roman numeral four, appointments laid over. Both of those appointments are laid over until after August 18th. So we'll move to new business. Under new business, we'll go back to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Torino. Where we at? Okay. So a few items under Code and Regulations. An ordinance approving a special use permit for a drive-through. Is that, am I reading the right thing? Yes. Yes. Yeah. Okay.
 yep sorry no you're it's repeat so i'm like did i read this already okay i'm sorry an ordinance approving a special use permit for a drive-through in conjunction with the fast food restaurant and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1680 north alpine road and 4420 high crest road also an ordinance approving the amendments to chapter 3 of the city of robert liquor ordinance to add a new liquor license classification
 and thank you place these items before you thank you thank you we have uh two items before us is there any discussion on those two items alderman frost thank you uh with respect to the uh high crest center in beefrew i just wanted to uh commend all city staff and all those involved including both within the organization and those outside the organization that work diligently to get this uh approved and you know adding a
 be for another beef relocation the city of rockford so i appreciate that and i i will i will buy alderman to work something there probably uh it'll probably be the the kids happy meal but we'll figure it out when we get there i'll just say i saw leah and chad last night i think leo would want him to have a salad um so uh any other comments uh on or questions on those two items
 Excellent all those in favor say aye aye those opposed. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you clerk. Could you please call the roll turkey? logan timber frost Torino fronty Hoffman Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 12 ice. Thank you. I'm sorry about that is their motion to adjourn We have a motion. We have a second all those in favor say aye those opposed. Have a good night. Thank
 Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website at www.webex.com.