I'm here. If not, we have got a volunteer from Council, Tim Durkin, from the First Moral Leaders in our congregation this evening. Thank you. Father, thank you for the opportunity to serve tonight. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for being involved in the daily affairs of our lives. Tonight we especially pray for...
 those who keep us out of harm's way and stand watch over us, our military, our police, firefighter, paramedics, and those emergency personnel in our local hospitals. Father, especially we pray for those in harm's way that you place a special hedge of protection over them, keep them safe. Father, we're grateful for their families, for those who would send their loved ones out to protect us. Father, I ask that you provide a special peace for them
 Give them confidence that you are watching over and you are overseeing. Father, as a city council and as city staff, we recognize that we are servants. We recognize that we are stewards. We ask that you grant us wisdom, understanding, the ability to make good decisions for the people that we serve, that we always have their best interests in mind. Father, tonight we also pray especially for Alderman Victory Bell,
 and his family for their loss. Father, may your presence be especially real to them during this difficult time. We ask these things in Jesus' name, amen. Father, please extend the flag of the United States of America to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Durkee? Here. Getchis? Here. McNamara? Here. Frost?
 her being panel Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg L. E. A. back McNeely surely 12 present runner thank you very much before we get into the body of our meeting tonight I did want to call a little bit dirty mention this indication of the loss that
 Former alderman Victor Bell has suffered with his son Victor Bell, age 55, who passed away over the last week. Services will be at this Wednesday at 11 a.m. with a visitation from 9 a.m. until the time of the service at Baptist Church, 1703 South Central Avenue in Rockford. I ask that we now stand for a brief moment of silence. Thank you, and I ask for a motion to accept adjournment.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to approve the journal proceedings. Is there any comments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. No public hearing scheduled for this evening. We do have several speakers signed up for public participation. Remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. They can use their microphones. In the back of the chamber, our first speaker this evening is Jim Buckingham. Good evening, folks.
 Update here. Approximately nine months ago, I joined the Mayor's Task Force on Homelessness, aka Continuum of Care, or COC. Last month was time to elect board members. Maybe 12 positions? The veteran's position came up and immediately a woman nominated another woman that wasn't even there. I asked if this person was a veteran. When the answer I was expecting was revealed, I also announced, it takes one to know one.
 And a few moments later, I was elected to represent the homeless veterans with their issues. The lesson is, if you are not somewhat challenged in representing people and have no idea what their needs are, you have no business making a power play. A week and a half ago, I spoke to the full Winnebago County Board to continue collecting support for Hough-Rockford area's homeless veterans with good success.
 And I can't forget all the support and requests from the union heads that we had a meeting with last fall. I am presently notifying all the local politicians that I have previously engaged to let them know that this bus is in gear. Last Monday I got a phone call from Channel 13 WREX because of my county board speech a couple of days prior. So I welcome the opportunity to spread the word.
 to gather more support in the form of an interview with Ruben Jones. This past Friday, I went back to college to visit with the Chicago Bears players and started fundraising. I only had minimal success due to the fact of all the security in place. So I went back home scratching my head and as I walked in the door, my CO from 35 years ago, who I had recently located and started talking with again, had messaged me.
 I told him what I was doing and the next thing I knew, he sent me the entire list of the Chicago Bears front office and contact info for fundraising. It's really nice to know that after 35 years, we were still working together and had the same motives. Thus explaining fully, it takes one to know one. Finally, I am presently putting together a rather large staff to facilitate operations that will ensure our success.
 and finding out that we do not have a shortage of volunteers in any way, shape, or form. Thank you. Thank you, our next speaker is Ron Freese. Our next speaker is Rob Eason. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Job, the fifth chapter, the 17th verse, it says, Blessed is the man whom God corrects, so do not despise the discipline of the Almighty.
 What I want to speak about tonight, the rewards of 24-hour, seven-days-a-week bus service. Late-night bus service could make Rockford a goldmine for people who live here that don't have a car. Do you want your city to become the next mecca for the young, talent, and tech savvy? By doing this, you could gain an edge with young professionals. It's true, the extra hours of running a bus and the extra days will add a certain positive outlook about Rockford.
 It would make Rockford a leader in the eyes of the United States, as young professionals, many of whom are car-free, seek out vibrant cities in which to live and work. This is seen as a way to attract them, especially those who work in the burgeoning tech industry, which is known for its unconventional work hours.
 Taking a bus is less expensive than a cab and more convenient than walking. Bus service at all times ensures that mobility is available to everyone. By using this idea alone, you can bring the rock to $29,750,815.12 a year. Enough money where you want
 have a deficit, enough money to keep the PIP program and LIHEAP program going for the poor, the money, the state are stopping. It's time for Rockwood to do for itself and stop depending on them so-called leaders in Washington and Springfield. Be like Mayor C. Henry Bloom, the mayor of Rockwood in the Great Depression.
 I've been wanting to tell your mother, Mayor Morrissey, and your wife, Alderman Deeks, and Brother Henry, just for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. You can't do anything about it. And happy birthday, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family.
 Mayor Marcy, when you go down to Springfield, I want you to do this for me. I want you to tell the people down there how to close the $4 billion gap. Only thing they have to do is take $4 billion from the $10 billion that Attorney General Lisa Madigan collected in revenue for the state, and it will be closed. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brandon. Oh, look, I can go behind him.
 Oh, good evening, Mary Marcia Alderman, Alderman. And Matthew, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God.
 Blessed are they which are prosecuted for righteousness' sake, for there is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when men shall revive you and prosecute you and shall say all matters of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so prosecute they the prophet which were before you.
 The White House Senator advised him finishing off from last week. Valerie Jordan opened up a forum on community policing and pointed out unfairness across the country. Everyone has a role to play in this effort to bridge the division between youth,
 community members law enforcement and it is within the power of every community leader to reach out to the police in their community before tragedies strike too often. So let's help collaborate and share approach to their mutual growth. I totally agree with her. I'm going to skip through this.
 and mention about this past weekend they had a stronger neighborhood. We brought over 30 kids there to the stronger neighborhood and we had Rock River Training Band, we had Mount Zion Band there at this event. I want to mention the fact that at the Salvation Army we're getting ready to have another open house where after that survey we done we had over 80 people there, 50 of the people filled out the survey. The top three things they picked was...
 tempuruz
 hayat bilgileri ve müzik. Bu çok önemli. Bu 4 yıl boyunca parkta çok fazla işimiz var. Bu yıl dans, şarkı ve rap yapmaya başladık. Yüzyılda daha fazla şey yapabiliriz kusursuzca dans, şarkı ve rap yapmak. Geçen hafta mahkemeye gittim. Yarın yine mahkemeye gidiyorum. Bir de çok genç gençlerimiz var. Çok genç gençlerimiz bana John, seni bir oda kutlamaya gidiyorlar ama nasıl bana yardım edebilirsin?
 Onlara yardım etmem. Onlarla birlikte çalışmalıyız. Teytey, geçen hafta öldürüldü. O bizim ailemden bir parçaydı. Kendi ailesinden birini aldı ve o da orada olduğunda.
 Benim oğlum, hepsi çok genç çocuklar. Onlar bizim çalışmamız gereken çocuklar. Onlarla çalışmak zorunda kalıyoruz. Ama Frank Beach'e de teşekkür ederim. Anne Thompson'a da teşekkür ederim. Başkanım ve diğer çocuklara da teşekkür ederim. Onlar bizim genç insanlara yardım ettikleri için çalıştılar. Biz bunu kendimiz yapamıyoruz.
 Ayrıca diğer insanların bize yaptığı şeylerden de çok sevindim. Ayrıca benim insanlardan başka birinin bizim sorunumuz için birbirine suçluyum. Sorunumuzu çözeceklerimizle beraber çalışmaya başlamaya başlamayız. Sadece dışarıda kimse sorunumuzu çözecek. Frank Beach bir örnek yaptı. Frank Beach'in söylediği şeyden sonuna kadar bu konuda sona erişeceğim.
 5 bin dolar ödüyor. Bu kişi gerçekten Salvation Army'e ne yapmak istediğini söyledi. Frank Biscay'tan konuştu. Salvation Army'i 10 bin dolarla ödüyorlardı. O yüzden para nereden gelecek diye beklemek zorundayız. Salvation Army programını başlıyoruz, para gelecek. Bir şey daha, burada ayrılmadan önce, bir banyo ihtiyacımız var. Yüzyıldan birini, yarın Nasyon Günü'ne götürebilirim. Transportasyon yok ama rengi alabilirim.
 Ve onlara yardım etmişim. Çok teşekkür ederim, Mr. Frayland. Şimdi de Roland Poska'nın son ve son konuşmasını diliyorum. Hiçbir şaşırma olma. Barbara Coleman'ın bir okul ve bir ticari okul olarak, bir başka bir şey olmaması. Geçen hafta, son sorum, Fişi Kırmızı'nın nereye geldiğini bilir misiniz? Eğer bilmiyorsanız, Citi Hali'ye gelin, her hafta,
 Yardımcıların, yüzyıldan 6'a, köpeklerin ve köpeğin ve yavru gölgelerin hakkında konuşmalarını dinlemek için. Ve ne yapıyorlar? Çok iyi bir insanı bulmak için, 63 yılda savaşı bitirebilmek için, para satışını, düşünceyi, ve acı tutmak için, ve... Amanın, benim sayım çok kötü. Ama önemli bir şey.
 and achieve respect for all and if you are great the fishy whale will find you and when you are found think about becoming a fishy whale thank you Mr. Costa thank you to each of our speakers this evening petitions and communications thank you your honor I have two items a memorandum from Wayne dust planning administrator regarding a public hearing and
 convening a joint review board amendment river district north redevelopment project area this will be referred to planning and development the second one is a memorandum from Todd Cagnone director of community and economic development this is regarding the Rockford area economic and development council 2015 to 2016 agreement for services this also be referred to planning and development thank you further petitions I have no information immediately thank you
 I certainly appreciate you recognizing former Alderman Victor Bell, the passing of his son, and I send my condolences to them. I received several calls regarding the proposed neighborhood community garden on West State and Foster. They moved the garden, however, they left several things there.
 It has not been removed and has not been cut. So I'd like to have the public, not public works, but community development department to address that. Thank you. Thank you. Further petitions and communications? Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.
 there are several items here have a memorandum from Kelly notes assistant operations manager regarding upcoming special events if he has to try us September 13 2015 the best seeing I 5 key run October 3 2015 in Saint Patrick's
 Hispanic heritage fast September 6 2015 that would will be referred to codes regulations committee have a memorandum from Marcy Leach engineering operations manager regarding the code of ordinance revision chapter 121 subdivision regulations that will also be referred to
 remember random from Scott Capavilla zoning and land use administrator regarding street name changes that will also be referred to codes and regs I have a traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held August 12 2015 that is referred to the traffic commission I have a memorandum from Seth summer building code official construction and development services regarding proposed language change the city of rock for code of ordinances and
 section 17 dash to refer that to the codes and rights committee in the memorandum from legal department regarding the annexation of 52 x x 35th Street that will also be referred to the codes and regulations committee on thank you thank you
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Lefah Curia Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an amendment to the 2015 Development Agreement with Roxham Corner Improvements. I have a memorandum from Matt Bittner, City Engineer, regarding Local Agency Agreement for Federal Participation for Sandy Hollow Road from 20th Street to Alpine Road.
 I have a memorandum from Wayne Doss, Planning Administrator, regarding proposed amendments to the U.S. EPA Revolving Loan Fund Program. I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding Head Start Collaborative Agreement with Rockford Day Nursery Early Learning Center. A memorandum from Matt Vintner, City Engineer, regarding City-State Memorandum of Understanding for North 3rd Street Bridge Closure. And I have a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding 2015-2014, the
 resource hospital agreement and I refer all of these to finance and personnel thank you thank you I have a memorandum from myself regarding the state budget impact on the city of Rockford I like to refer this to the legislative and lobbying committee
 Our first proclamation, I'd invite the participants that are here from Winnebago by local month to accept a proclamation. Lauren Davis and other members of the organization, please come forward. I'll get out of the way. I want you guys to get in front of me. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 Whereas Winnebago Buy Local is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote and support local businesses. There are nearly 16,239 registered businesses in Rockford that provide employment for residents, creating jobs for a large portion of our local population. Whereas Buying Locally is an investment in our community, and for every $100 spent at a locally owned business, nearly half of that goes back into our community.
 Whereas buying locally grown food, locally produced products and services from locally owned businesses can help ensure that there will be farms and ranches in our community for future generations. And whereas shopping locally is a conscious choice that moves Rockford towards self-sustainability, helping to reduce our carbon footprint, reducing the packaging and fuel required to ship products from afar.
 And whereas local business owners and employers and employees take special pride in their products, businesses are key partners in helping our community remain viable and regularly supporting those local charities and other organizations in our community. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford do hereby proclaim the month of August 2015 to be Winnebago Buy Local Month. And we urge our citizens to recognize the economic
 environmental and social benefits of supporting our local community businesses. I can say a couple of words here. We would like to thank Mayor Morrissey and the City Council of Rafford for proclaiming August Winnebago by Local Month. Winnebago by Local has been around for five years now and has over 200 businesses as members. We are a non-profit grassroots organization for small locally owned businesses that provides networking and educational opportunities to business owners.
 and annual public events such as a local holiday market and the totally local ice cream social, all in efforts to draw people closer to their local businesses. In an age of instant gratification and convenience, our simple mission is to teach the great people of Winnebago County the benefit and create an extraordinary awareness of how supporting local businesses can provide major opportunity, help keep jobs and revenue in our county, and improve the local economy from the building blocks and framework.
 In addition to August being the second biggest yearly shopping season, buying local is essential to revitalizing our cities and towns, and its importance doesn't get addressed enough. Winnebago Buy Local is grateful for the support of our local government because in giving us this proclamation today, you are acknowledging how important locally owned grassroots businesses are to our overall well-being.
 Buying local is not only a feel-good thing to do, but it's an investment into our community, creating a prosperous area to live, work, and visit. It creates a hotspot for tourism. It enriches the environment for more entrepreneurs, artists, creativities, and business to survive and thrive, and that's a recipe for success in America's top communities.
 By proclaiming August as Bi-Local Month, we hope to spread the word and encourage the public to shop locally, helping to build our local and regional economy and continue to make this an even better place to live. And then I also just wanted to thank and tell you guys about the businesses that are represented here today. I want to thank Skyla from Culture Shock.
 Robert from PC Tech 2, Tony and Jane from Canine Country, Kathy from Eero Beauty, Dana from Laney Bugs Rose, Lindsey from Peak Medical Home Care, Melody from Petals and Pickens, Kim from Lallygag Boutique. We've got, I didn't know you were here.
 Jake from Sumpy's. We've got Barry from Flipside, DJ Entertainment, and Great Hangups. Kevin from Rocktown Adventures, and John Weber from Paplinka. And I'm Lauren Davis. I own Lauren Davis Creative and co-owner of Culture Check. So I just wanted to thank everyone again tonight, and we hope you will think about buying local more this month and all year round. Thank you. Great job.
 Thank you very much and great job. We encourage you in your continued good work. Next, we have a proclamation regarding national night out. I invite Deputy Chiefs Dave Hopkins and Mike Dahlke, if they're here, and others that may be here from national night out to come forward to accept the proclamation.
 Whereas the 32nd annual National Night Out provides a unique opportunity for Rockford, Illinois to join forces with thousands of other communities across the country in promoting cooperative police community crime prevention efforts. Whereas the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Park District Police Department are hosting the local National Night Out 2015 at Fairgrounds Park, 910 Acorn Street, and
 play a vital role in assisting the Rockford Police Department through joint crime, drug violence prevention efforts in Rockford. Whereas it's essential that all citizens be aware of the importance of crime prevention programs and the impact that their participation can have on reducing crime, drugs, and violence in our community. Whereas police community partnerships, neighborhood safety awareness, and cooperation are important themes of the national light out.
 Now therefore I Lawrence J. Morrisey as mayor of the city of Rockford do hereby proclaim Tuesday August 4th 2015 to be National Night Out in Rockford and we call upon our citizens to join us in supporting this event. I'll speak first and then Mike can take the mic after me. Now I just want to invite everybody to the National Night Out. The department is very proud to be a part of the National Night Out. I've been at National Night Out
 these events in the past years. And it's a very good event for the community. And I look forward to being there tomorrow night.
 I really don't have much to add to that, just the way that it really, this complements a lot of the other things that we do as far as recently we've been doing these strong neighborhood house events throughout the community. Those have been very successful throughout the city and again, we're just happy to be there, happy to be out in the community and glad for everyone to be there and join us. Thanks. Thank you very much.
 Now we have a special presentation tonight. I'd invite the members that are here from Rockford Rotary, along with the local peace coalition, who are here to present a special declaration regarding international peace, and invite them to please come forward and make their presentation.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. We're very pleased to announce that Rockford has been designated a city of peace by the International Cities of Peace Organization. And I want to present to the mayor this very fancy certificate that we have, a copy of the certificate. So thank you. So you may recall that certainly it was the support of the mayor and the City Council
 that helps us to get that designation. Rockford Rotary Club joined forces last year with the Rock River Valley Peace Coalition to lead that effort to have Rockford designated a city of peace.
 The Rockford World Trade Club and Rock River Valley Peace Coalition are organizations dedicated to promoting peace by developing a community of leaders committed to providing opportunities through both networking and actions to make peace, goodwill, and understanding a consensus value in the Rockford region.
 We do really appreciate the support. It was a great coalition that came together. We recognize the challenges to peace in Rockford. We share a commitment with many organizations across this community to address this issue. We certainly heard about that with Night Out and other coalition, other groups that are working on that. It's a lot of work to be done and this is one step in that process that we feel is very
 Rockford Rotary shares this focus with four other Rotary organizations in this region. Our members unite at home and across the globe to put our experience and knowledge to work tackling our most pressing challenges. We focus all our efforts in six areas. Promoting peace, preventing diseases, providing access to clean water and sanitation, enhancing maternal and child health, improving basic education and literacy, and helping communities develop.
 Rock Free Rotary is heading into our 100th year celebration this coming year. So we remain an organization committed to strengthening our community. We look forward to continuing that work and working with many coalitions. And I'm going to hand this over to Jim Kuhling, who can talk more about the Rock River Valley Peace Coalition, their work that's been going on for so long, and the International Cities of Peace Organization. Thank you again for the support that helped make this happen.
 Thank you, Nancy. So it's always an honor to come here to the council once or twice a year and talk about
 usually the International Day of Peace, and then as it's grown to the Rock River Valley Peace Coalition through the Peace Month and now with its year-round activities. Our Peace Coalition is over 40 member organizations now, and we're very proud that the Rockford Downtown Rotary has taken this leadership role in pursuing this award.
 Some of you were on the council in the past when we talked about this and a number of
 The Rockford area economic development council thought that Rockford should get this recognition and did the research and found that we were not eligible because at the time the international cities of peace organization was seeking just those cities in the world that had a major trauma and overcome it like Sarajevo or San Francisco.
 or Belfast, those types of cities, or I had a major peace conference occur there like Geneva or Dayton, Ohio, and some others. So that was okay. We just went about our work. And then, to our surprise, about two years ago, we were contacted by the International Cities of Peace Organization, Fred Armont from Dayton, Ohio, saying, you know,
 We've thought a lot about Rockford and we've been watching what you're doing and we've actually changed the focus of our organization rather than being exclusive, we want to really be inclusive so that we can share the stories of what local communities are doing around the world with each other. And with that we came to the city council and asked for the required proclamation a little over a year ago, about a year ago for this process.
 So Fred Armont commented to us when the application was filed this spring, the package you sent outlining your journey and accomplishments is to date the most extensive record of peace building initiatives for any city of peace in the world. Wonderful to read of your efforts. And he added when he sent the recognition.
 that the United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has chosen the theme Partnerships for Peace, Dignity for All for this year's International Day of Peace, which we of course will celebrate on September 18th and hope that some of you will come and join us.
 Rockford is a shining example of the collaborative spirit inherent in this theme. The Secretary General chose this theme to emphasize the role civil society plays in moving society towards greater safety, prosperity, and quality of life, which are consensus values of community peace. So with Nancy, we recognize that we have a long way to go in Rockford, and we don't have rose-colored glasses on this.
 I think I've read to you the peace pledge that we've adopted. I'd like to read it again. It's short. I believe that we must and we can build the peace every day, every person, in every family, school, community, city, and country. I believe that my own thoughts, words, and actions make a difference. Therefore, from this day forward, I commit myself to the United Nations Culture of Peace Pledge, respect all life, reject violence,
 share with others, listen to understand, preserve the planet and rediscover solidarity. We must and we can build a beloved community. So as we've done in the past, we do have a lot of peace poles in our community now. We have over 200 peace poles that have been planted around the community. We'd love to have one in the city hall. I know we have a number of small ones in the city hall. Some of the aldermen have kept them on their desks.
 But we brought some tonight, if anyone would like, just raise your hand and we'll get you your own peace poll for your desk, and that would be for the staff as well. And we have a goal, we've planted over 200 in our community overall. We have our goal, just like they have a goal to have 1,000 international cities of peace.
 by 2025. We also have a goal of having a thousand peace poles in the Rock River Valley region so that we too can spread this word in every church and synagogue and mosque and temple. Yesterday three peace poles were planted at the three temples, the three Buddhist temples
 and public bodies and other places that we gather because the message is clear and we all share it, may peace prevail on earth. Thank you very much for your incredible work and your continued work in support of peace in our community.
 One final presentation tonight which is going to come as a surprise to the person receiving it about how much it's deserved. When I was elected in 2005, one of the employees that was hired around the same time as the individual I'm going to ask to come up in just a moment, she was promoted to the responsibilities of council clerk shortly after she started with the city.
 and has excelled at keeping the council minutes, supporting all of our good work and our hard work here at the council. Responsibilities, as we know, of the council clerk can be daunting, but our clerk has done a phenomenal job and always approached the tasks with a can-do, very positive attitude. She has a reputation as an employee that seeks solutions and always goes the extra mile and seems to have boundless energy and enthusiasm when we sometimes don't.
 The legal department will miss her key knowledge and ability to find anything at any time, her willingness to work with others on projects to assist at getting groups together, and the spirit of cooperation for any event or activity. She'll leave a lasting legacy on our organization and will be sorely missed. She's got 10 years in at the City of Rockford, and unfortunately for us, but good for Winnebago County. She is our...
 resigning her position to accept the position at Winnebago County and we wish her the very best of luck. Again, Diane, it's going to be very sad. I've got your 10-year service pin, one of my final and last official acts in support of your great work that you've been here. It's my honor to present that to you tonight.
 Thank you very much, Diane. Diane is, as you know, works very hard, but she's a person of few words. So I'm going to just say something on her behalf because I can't, as many people know, have a hard time keeping my mouth shut. Diane, it's been an honor to be able to work with you.
 over these 10 years, it's gone by very quickly when you think about it. I know that this community has been through a lot and you've personally been through a lot. So I thank you for your ongoing commitment to this community, to your family and to those all around you. And you've got a great future ahead of you and know that this will always be another home for you back here in the city. God bless you. Thank you. And we will move on to the rest of the agenda. Reports to committees.
 many reports a cold regulations committee the committee recommends approval of the proposed vacation of a portion of public alley adjacent to seven oh nine different ministry for a cost of two hundred dollars number two the committee recommends sustaining the liquor tobacco advisory boards approval of the sale of tobacco products the sale of packet liquor at seventeen twenty five kishwaukee street
 3. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of tobacco products at 2901 11th Street. 4. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of a modification of an existing tobacco license at 307 and 311 Mulberry Street.
 5. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation at 3442 Hickory Lane. 6. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit in several variations at 14XX Myatt Avenue and 1401 North Main Street. That's for a drive-through facility in conjunction with the neighborhood bank.
 7. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation at 2118 Oaklawn Avenue. 8. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a variation at 809, 810, 814, and 8XX Chestnut Street.
 9. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of tobacco products and the sale of liquor at 3299 South Alpine Road. 10. Your Honor, I would like to lay over. We are working out the new proposal with the applicant at this time. I'm just holding that out this time.
 11. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's recommendation to deny the sale of liquor by the drink and the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an outdoor seating area at 3835 Broadway. 12. 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, Your Honor, are all traffic-related committee reports.
 May I move to suspend the rules on all those items, Your Honor? Second. Thank you, there's been a motion to second the spend the rules. Move to 5A items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16. So all items except for 10 which the Chair has to hold out. In a motion to second the spend the rules on all those items. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. I just have the rules be suspended.
 Your Honor, I'm not sure if Alderman Goetz just wanted to comment on one of the items. Sure. Item 17, is your sponsor not going to apply for the second consent? So we will, I actually didn't reference that one the first time. That's why I told you to stay. All right, that's all right. So we'll take the motion right now. So there's been a motion, second consent, item 17, under the...
 5 8 I'm back to you many holes I'm just any discussion also favorably said I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
 Ms. Martha Myers, two years ago, wanted to put in a bar. I had talked with her and advised that the neighbors and the amount of concentration of liquor in a bar would be unacceptable. She
 I've spoken to her since regarding this. The neighbors still are against it, as I am. There's going to be gaming, outdoor seating, liquor. There's a lot of issues on Broadway, and there's high concentration of liquor and gaming, and I feel that this will be detrimental to what I and our district police are trying to do in order to clean it up. So I'm asking that my colleagues please go along with,
 denial of this. Thank you for the discussion on the items. Thank you. With regard to number 16, your Honor, I was just curious, the 130 feet east of First Street in East State, does that come to City Hall or is that in front of the bank? Mr. Kegnell, do you want to take that? Either one. What was the question? I was trying to figure out where the new parking would be. It's in front of the Chase Bank right next door. Thank you, Mayor.
 I would urge my colleagues to support item number six. It's a bank going into the Churchill's Grove or I should say the Auburn and Main area. For now about 18 months ago there was a survey done in several of the neighborhoods adjacent to this area and one of the top three things that residents wanted was some sort of banking facility and services. This certainly
 fills that void for many of those residents. And also on top of that, I think we're getting, in my meetings with Alpine Bank, I think we're getting a great corporate citizen and one that is incredibly eager to make a very good and positive impact, not just with their facility, but also with the number of the services that they're excited to roll out to the residents in and around that area. So I'd urge you to help me and support item number six.
 I echo Billings and I do appreciate the extra value gone to work with the bank in the area and it's going to be a great asset in the community so thank you for that support I but I have a concern with that with the dollars for the development on North Main is it going to cause a problem with them continuing their development the question is
 the bank would it be a problem for the development slowing down with him for their construction of the bank no it is the questions is the road construction
 I would assume the road construction certainly will have an impact, but in my most recent meeting with Alpine Bank representatives probably three weeks ago now, they're on target to get moving and move quickly. They've waited to this point to get all the drawings ready and everything. They're very eager to jump in full speed. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just a question regarding item number two. This is the Rockford food and liquor on Kishwaukee. Did that come out of committee to sustain or to deny? It came out of committee as an approval? Okay, thank you. Mr. Hayes, do you want to say something? I'm happy to say nothing. Any other hands up? I just want to discuss all of our big nailing. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Alderman McNamara, I truly would like to support you. I think that a bank is needed on item number six where Alpine Bank is proposing to go. However, I believe that's the same location that was a restaurant, and it was the only black African American restaurant in the city on North Main Street. And it truly concerns me that
 that restaurant was removed for the benefit of another business, be it bank or anything else. I wish that we would have been more accommodating and working with that particular business to keep it in that location or some other location of the city. So my vote is a protest vote against that. And secondly, Mr. Mayor, on item number one,
 the vacation of the alley with the cost of $200. I know this is in Alderman Hervey's ward, but my concern is I had proposed years ago for us to look at alleyways, to split them and give ownership to the property owners. It was determined not by this council, but a previous council not to
 maintain city alleys anymore. So if we're not going to maintain them and the property owners aren't going to own them, then they're not going to maintain them, the city's not going to maintain them, and then we have a real problem. And most people that are in the city know that there are all kind of different animals out there. And so when we add
 weeds and trees and shrubbery and whatever, that increases them, which means that they're coming into people's backyards. So I would suggest that we not charge those $200, but we actually give it to them because they're doing the city a benefit by taking over any part of any alley that hasn't been maintained. Thank you.
 Thank you for the discussion, Alderman McMillan. Thank you. I just wanted to respond. I certainly appreciate Alderman McNeely's concerns and thoughts in regards to the prior business. I would just ask that you consider voting in favor of the new business as if you vote no or you vote yes, it's not going to bring back a business that's now been gone for several years. I wasn't part of that decision, but I certainly understand.
 your thought process on it, but would ask for you to reconsider. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gettys? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? No on 2, aye on the remainder. Hervey? No on 2, aye on the remainder. I'm sorry, no on 2 and no on 10, aye on the remainder.
 I believe 10 is laid over. So 10 is laid over. I'm sorry, I was out of the room. That's okay. Okay, so just two and I am the remainder. Okay, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Roman numeral five, a one in six, 11 ayes, one no. Roman numeral five, a two, seven ayes, five no. The remainder, 12 ayes, zero no. Five ayes, or seven ayes, five no.
 Is there a committee report, Your Honor, if the vote remains consistent when it comes to ordinance, you may need to vote. All right. I think the matter is passed. Thank you. Further reports from committees? I'll look back. Just one moment, Your Honor. For the finance and personnel reports, if you reference, since we just passed them, if you'd like to reference the agenda from F&P, that might be the most practical thing. Thank you. Go ahead. Thank you.
 First item is we're referencing the committee agenda from the earlier meeting. So on that agenda under room number four, item 13 is the vouchers in the amount of $6,457,115.52. Item 14 is the interagency construction agreement with Illinois Railway for improvements to airport drive railroad crossing at an estimated cost of $548,658.
 and amendment to the 2014 development agreement with Rockford corridor improvement. I place or ask for suspension of rules on those three items. So motion and second to suspend the rules and follow up with refinancing personnel reports. The first is the vouchers, they amount to $6,457,115.52. Next is the interagency construction agreement with LR Railway for improvements to the improvement plan.
 across an estimated cost of $548,615, of which $242,725 is funded by the Illinois Commerce Commission's Great Cross-Strait Protection Fund.
 $12,775 for the highway and $293,158 is the city's portion. The funding source being motor fuel tax funds. And lastly is the amendment to the 2014 development agreement with the Proctor Corp. improvement, RCI Inc. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on those three, finance and personnel, committee reports. All those in favor suspend the rules. Please signify by saying aye. Aye.
 I say aye. Ms. Abbott, through. Please sign. I'm going to place them up for passage. The others are now up for passage. Is there discussion? If you're not a clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12-I, Serena.
 Just have a couple items to report on this evening. First of all, there's a referral memo for a referral to the Winnebago County Board of Health. This is a little bit different than we've done in the past. We've had council representation in the past to the Winnebago County Health Department Board.
 We're recommending a referral of one of our employees, Rob Wilhelmi, to the three-year term. It will lay over for 30 days. If there's questions or concerns about that, please feel free to contact my office, myself or Mr. Ryan, to discuss.
 Next, I wanted to just mention, and it was already referenced by Alderman Thompson-Kelley earlier in the meeting, in the reference to legislative and lobbying on impact to the state budget, and I would just add in, I'm happy to discuss it, that we have, IVAS staff,
 to do in working with Mr. Ryan to try to evaluate our cash flow over the next few months as we're dealing with any funds and revenues that are not coming into the city. Some of the funds that we deal with are pass-through funds. Those are of particular interest because they're federal funds that come through the state and wind up being part of our operations. An example of that is the Workforce Investment Board funds that get deployed through Rock River Training.
 as well as our community action funds. So Mr. Black in particular is going to be working with Mr. Ryan and our staff to try to come up with an analysis and be able to discuss that as it comes up to our council. But we're overall, and I think there will be some referrals to discuss operationally some of the opportunities we have to provide some short-term solutions to those cash flow challenges within certain operations within the organization.
 And finally, I would like to wish my beautiful bride Stacey happy anniversary. Today is our anniversary. Eight years, thank you for sticking with me. It's not always been easy, nor have I. God bless you. Further officers' reports. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Yes, just a question, Your Honor. Do you have any idea or staff know when the EMS bids are going to be going out?
 the EMS bids are you talking about the resource hospital that was just referred to the finance personnel to be discussed next week okay thank you thank you further officers reports yes I'd like to thank my district three lieutenants Givens and
 My community service officer, Andy Perino. I had an issue with a drug house in my ward, and within a matter of weeks, they were able to compile enough evidence, and just last week, they shut them down with the cooperation of our narcotics officers. So I just want to say thank you to our Rockford Police Department and my lieutenant and my community service officer. Thank you. Further officer reports on finished business.
 Thank you your honor. The committee recommends proposed sale of vacant lot at 308 South Central Avenue for a minimum bid of $11,000 including advertising and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place that up for passage your honor. Thank you for passage under code regulations committee the sale of vacant lot 308 South
 We have quite a bit of discussion about RCI. This is an RCI demolished property. The reason that the minimum bid on this is much more than we normally see is that this is in reference to an RCI demolished property and we cover the cost of demolition plus the cost of advertisement. That's what a competing offer would need to do to beat the city's responsibilities to RCI. So, we intend if there's not a bid in excess of that.
 to transfer the property to RCI according to our development agreement you'll see a number of these types of referrals come forward for seeing if there's a competitive bid and the reason for that is for us to of course satisfy the bill for the demolition by transferring the property to RCI and that's why the amount is so high it covers the cost of demolition. Thank you. Thank you.
 hearing the police call excuse me I'm sorry I'm sorry thank you thank you very much this is a vacant lot there's no property on it so they're not demoing anything
 Mr. Ray. If I could, Your Honor. Mr. Trace. It's a vacant lot with nothing on it because a few months ago RCI demolished the property demolished the structure that was on the lot. Okay, I'm sorry. Thank you. All right, thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Very none. Please don't roll. Durkee. Aye. Getzis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 back I think really high surely I thought I surrender this business thank you your honor unfinished business ordinances laid over and sale of various vacant lots for a minimum bit of one dollar the better must participate in the motor home program preventive preference to the adjoining property or your item your honor I placed it up the passage
 Matter of passage is the sale of areas making lots from minimum to a dollar with the bidder. It must be to participate in the preferences of the adjoining property owner. Matters of passage is there discussion? Hearing none, can we do a voice vote? I'm sorry, it's an ordinance. Roll call please. Durkee? Aye. Getches? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Connell?
 Thompson, Kelly? Odo? Newberg? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Next, Senator, I'm going to finish business. So I'm going to go back to the meeting.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have three appointments that have laid over. First is reappointment to the Traffic Commission of Mr. George Zawislak for a five-year term. Next is appointment to the Library Board of Mr. Brad Englund for a term of three years expiring June 2018. And the third is an appointment to the Library Board of Ms. Molly Bronze for a term of three years expiring June 2018. Place those three appointments up for passage.
 I'm rolling over line of funds laid over items one two three I observe for passage is there discussion hearing none clerk please call the roll Durkee aye Gatchas aye McNamara Frost Hervey Pannell Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beck Aye McNeely Okay Shirely
 Roman numeral nine, one and three, 10 ayes, two no. Roman numeral nine, item two, 11 ayes, one no. Thank you, matters all passed. Is there any further unfinished business in this? We'll move on to motions and resolutions. Chair Paterni. Yes, sir. We have one item, and that's the Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of the 2015 proposed residential properties for demolition, the list number five. Thank you, passed.
 room number 10A1 the 2015 proposed residential properties demolition property list number 5 is there discussion? Was this board number 1? May I just make one comment? Sure. And that is I wanted to recognize since we're coming close to the end of the list Todd Cagnone community development in particular said summer for the just stupendous job they had
 they have done on putting these demolitions forward. I want to thank the rest of city council, especially those of you who are not afflicted with this problem, as some of us in our neighborhoods are. The number one thanks that I get, and I take all the credit, is for the number of demolitions. People literally almost in tears that a house next door that has terrified them for years is coming down.
 it is a tough thing to live with when you feel like you have no control we had one house right adjacent to King school that on two occasions they found sex offenders two or more sex offenders holed up in the house so you have to wonder
 why they targeted school so it's made a huge difference and I just wanted to publicly acknowledge and say thank you to council member one for allocating the money to Todd Cagnone Seth summer and all the people in code enforcement and cd who had a part in making these happen and particularly with Seth when we used to pay I think the average was between
 probably 7 and no 10 and 12,000 and he was able through some real negotiation to get that down to about 7500 so we get to do more houses than what we even projected so thank you and kudos to them. Thank you very much for the comments if you're not all in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Aye.
 Next is the vote regulation. Thank you, Your Honor. We've got several items here. The committee recommends approval of the Saints Constantine and Helen Greek Orthodox Church Greek Festival 2015 scheduled for Friday, September 11th, Saturday, September 12th, and Sunday, September 13th, 2015 at 108 North 5th Street.
 The second item is a committee recommends approval of the Greenwich Village Art Fair scheduled for Saturday, September 19th and Sunday, September 20th, 2015 at the Riverfront Museum Park, 711 North Main Street. The third item is a committee recommends approval of the Screw City Beer Festival scheduled for Friday, September 11th and Saturday, September 12th, 2015 in the Downtown Festival Zone, Main Street between Elm Street and Mulberry Street.
 4. The committee recommends approval of the American Legion Post 1207 End of Summer Luau scheduled for Saturday, August 29, 2015 at 1011 South Alpine Road. 5. The committee recommends approval of the St. Peter's Summer Picnic scheduled for Saturday, August 22, 2015 at St. Peter's Cathedral parking lot, 1243 North Church Street.
 Number six, the committee recommends approval of the Lithuanian Club car show scheduled for Sunday, August 16th at the Lithuanian Club, 716 Indiana Avenue.
 and finally the committee recommends approval of the black family reunion scheduled for Saturday August 15 2015 that Alice arts at make it a media to to to South Central Avenue place those items up for passenger on thank you passage and a row and we're all 10 the that's one two three four five six and seven that
 I'm referring back to my committee regenerative right yes I think there's two items of that are all there the two items are laying over have to relate over I'm sorry there was a yeah there's a list of resolutions that were financed but then we have the other right okay first item is the award of bid for citywide street repairs group number six
 to Northwest Construction of South Beloit, Illinois for their bid of $513,679.98.
 Funding source is sales tax. Next is the award of bid for Fire Station No. 1 Training Tower Demolition to N-TRAC Group of Lowe's Park, Illinois, for their bid of $38,619.40. Funding source is fire department operating budget. Next is award of bid for 1303 Harrison Avenue Demolition 2015 to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford, Illinois, for their bid of $28,735. Funding source is the STU Funding.
 80% and sales tax 20%. Next is the award of bid for Jefferson Street beam and column repairs to Ara Valdivia Contractors, Inc. of Chicago, Illinois for their bid of $1,288,872.85, funding sources sales tax. Next is the award of bid for restoration of Municipal Park, that item
 Next, item 8 is the award of RFP to lease 211A Elm Street to Redman. That was laid over. You're right, that was laid over. So number 9 is rejection of proposals for insurance brokerage services.
 Number 10 is the engineering agreement for construction engineering for services for column and beam repairs for the east half of Jefferson Street Bridge to HR Green, Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois for a not to exceed amount of $98,118.94. Funding source is the sales tax. 11 is the change order.
 Number one for citywide street repairs, group number four, 2015 with TCI Construction. The extended and additional $210,000 for a new not-to-exceed total of $1,599,263.70. The funding source is sales tax. And 12 is a change order for the new fire station, and actually that was laid over as well. So we have items 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, I'm sorry, not 7, 6, 9, 10.
 10 and 11. I will read those in so we are sure we know what we're voting on. So the, I'm sorry you moved those, but those are resolutions we don't need to mention. So the items that are for the upper passage are the following. The first is the award of bid for the Citywide Street Repair to Route 6 to Norwest Construction, South Beloit for a bid of $513,679.98. Next is the bid for Fire Station and Bone Training Tower Demolition to N-Track.
 4 bid of $38,619.40. Next is the bid, award bid for 1303 Harrison Avenue, a demolition to Northern Illinois Service Company, for a bid of $20,705. Funding source being a split of STU funds, 8% sales tax, 20%. Next is the award bid for Jefferson Street Return Home. Thank you.
 to Urovel and Devia contractors for a bid of $192,817.85. And next is the rejection of proposals for insurance brokerage services. We did have that one as well. Yeah, that's right. And then the engineering agreement for construction engineering services for the column in B, repairs to the east half of Jefferson Street, HRC.
 for not to exceed an amount of $98,118.94. And then finally, change order number one for the Citywide Street Repairers Group for 2015 with TCI Construction to be extended an additional $210,000 for it not to exceed a total of $1,599,263.70. Plenty of source material sales next. And then a motion to second the rules on each of those resolutions from Finance and Personnel.
 We don't need a motion to spend the rules. I keep saying that. I apologize. Those items are all for passage in the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gatches? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Shirely? 12 ayes for aye. The result passed. Thank you. Further motions and resolutions?
 so the I there were two items that were on the agenda I believe they are almost out the HVAC items so new business Paul McCherlin thank you your honor under roman numeral 11 new business ordinances code regulations committee your honor the items 1 through 14 were just read in and voted on in the committee reports
 that okay if I just acknowledge the item one through fourteen place those up for passage unless a mystery and also item number ten that series being held out so much it's a reference the the agenda by another yes so all those
 I'd like to place all those items up for passage except for item number 10 which was held out thank you very much yes motion is that the rules are not a 14 that's correct I I I said that's a passage I think you place these items up for passage
 hearing yeah i could please call yeah mr hayes um sale sale of property requires you from the vote of 12 alderman i thought that there was a which one is that uh the vacation of the alley number one okay so we need is your study to find out if you need 12 of those right and there's 12 in the chamber no i just wanted everybody to be aware
 I'll hold that out, Your Honor. That's fine. Number one, it's held out. So we will take a vote on the others. Any discussion on any of those others? With regard to item number two, I just wanted to clarify. This came out as a recommendation from staff and as a recommendation from LTAB, but with the modifications
 that were made to the operating hours? I'm just clarifying that that was it. The applicant here is seeking to license on purchase of an existing business and to expand the hours.
 and both staff recommended that the hours not be expanded from its present operations and the committee agreed with staff and modified the item.
 to reduce the hours back to the existing hours rather than the expanded hours that the petitioner requested. This was based on the recommendation of the ZBA along those lines. Okay. In that case, I still would say with my no vote because I think the business has been a scourge on the neighborhood for a long time. But when someone is purchasing a business,
 purchase the business denied the liquor license and have somebody sitting with the building that can't use so to anyone that I voice an objection my vote is still no for the people who live in the neighborhood that I that I represent but I would not expect or ask others to deny someone's business opportunity on that basis so thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
 Aye. Chen. Your Honor. Call for a roll call of names and other items. Aye. Getschus. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. No on two, aye. Hervey. No on two, aye on the remainder. Cattle. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No on six, aye. Shorley. Aye.
 Roman numeral 11, A6, 11 ayes, 1 no. Roman numeral 11, A2, 10 ayes, 2 no. The remainder, 12 ayes, 1 no. The first pass, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further, I'm sorry, further motions.
 new yes I have to ask we were proved earlier committee business first is the interagency side of number 14 on the committee finance personal committee agenda first item 14 and a rate of state construction agreement with Illinois
 railway for improvements to the airport drive railroad crossing and that's made a cost of five hundred forty thousand six hundred fifty dollars and then I have fifteen is the amendment to twenty fourteen development agreement with rocket quarter improvement and move suspension rules on the trial second thank you motion second rules ordinances the first is the railway
 Travel crossing at an estimated cost of $542,650. A which $240,725 mission's grade crossing protection fund $12,770.93 for the six portion of ordinance $14. The motion seconds to move those two items. Those ordinances are moved and they are replaced by aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. We'll place them up for passage. Those ordinances are off the message to their discussion.
 Please come forward. Gerke. Aye. Getchis. Aye. Camara. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 12-by-0. That's passed. Thank you. Is there a motion for this?
 I would just like to say to Diane Rigg, departing us, that we will miss you greatly as members of City Council. You're one of the first people that I encountered when I didn't know what I was doing when I first got here. Your demeanor has always been welcoming to everyone here. And you work for Patrick Hayes, you're crying out loud. I mean, the woman maintained that for all that time.
 I couldn't help it for all that time. And I would also ask that one of our staff members, perhaps Mr. Hayes, assist me in putting together something. You handled a personal loss with unimaginable grace that was an example to everyone in the city, and especially to me. And I would like to ask that Morgan Street Bridge be lit up with purple each year for Domestic Violence Week.
 in memory of Amanda Reed. So I would ask someone to help me do that, and we will put that in place as soon as possible. Thank you. Don't want to miss you all. Thank you. Any further business? Move to adjourn. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second.