سلام علیکم، اللہ کی بردار اور پیسہ آپ کے ساتھ بھی ہوئے۔ مہرمہ شاہیت سے شکریہ کہ میں نے انوکیشن کے لئے مجھے مرحبت کی۔ میں قرآن سے کچھ آیت کروں گا۔
 بسم اللہ الرحمن الرحیم الحمد للہ رب العالمین الرحمن الرحیم مالک یوم الدین ایا کنا بدو ویا کنا ستین اہدنا صراط المستقیم صراط اللہ زینہ انعمت علیہم غیر المغدوب علیہم ولد دالین میں بناتا ہوں بسم اللہ الرحمن الرحیم
 اے مرسی کے نام ، مرسی کے لئے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی کے دیارے ، مرسی
 میں ایک چھوٹا سورہ سے ایک چھوٹا سورہ سے مطابق رسول اللہ علیہ وآلہ وآلہی کے بارے میں بھی قرآن کے دوسرے سورہ سے مطابق رسول اللہ علیہ وآلہ وآلہی کے بارے میں بھی قرآن کے دوسرے سورہ سے مطابق رسول اللہ علیہ وآلہ وآلہی کے بارے میں بھی قرآن کے دوسرے سورہ سے مطابق رسول اللہ علیہ وآلہ وآلہی کے بارے میں بھی قرآن کے دوسرے سورہ سے مطابق رسول اللہ علیہ وآلہی کے بارے میں بھی قر�
 ہم سب کو اپنے آنگلوں اور اس کے بکروں اور اس کے مسنجروں کے ساتھ مقابلہ کریں کہ یہ ہے کہ ہم اپنے مسنجروں کے ساتھ ایک فیتھ کرنے کے بارے میں نہیں دفع کرتے ہیں اور ہم نے سب سے سنایا اور اپنے ساتھ سنایا اپنے معافی کو دیکھو اور آپ کو ہماری رتن ہے آمین شکریہ کپٹن
 ایسی طرح سے ہماری ایمان کے ساتھ ایک ایمان کے ساتھ اور ایک ایمان کے ساتھ جس کے لئے یہ ایک نیشن ہے جو باقی و حقیقت اور حقیقت کے لئے دیکھا ہے کلرک آپ کو یہ رول پہلے کہو گمنٹ ٹومبرگ روس اربنز ٹامسن کیلی ہافمن روز کینونیس بیک مکنیلی شریلی ہربی
 12 پرزنٹ یونر ہم نے 3 دوسری جرنل ہیں تو ہم 3 دوسری بوٹیں ضروری ہیں تو میں نے ایک موشن کے لئے جرنل پرسیڈنگوں کے لئے امتحان کرنے کے لئے اسٹریٹیجک پلاننگ سیشن جولائی 19 میں ہوا ہے ہمیں یہاں سے امتحان کرنے کے لئے ہمیں یہاں سے امتحان کرنے کے لئے ہمیں یہاں سے امتحان کرنے کے لئے ہمیں یہاں سے امتحان کرنے کے لئے جرنل پرسیڈنگوں کے لئے ہم
 جنرل پاس ہے موشن کو اپرویو جنرل پرسیڈنگ سپیشل سٹی کانسل میڈنگ جلائی 31 سال 2017 جنرل پاس ہے جنرل پاس ہے پبلک سپیکرز ہمیں 3 پبلک سپیکرز یہ وقت ہے پبلک سپیکرز ہم 3 منٹے پروفٹ یوسف
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 41st chapter, the first verse, it says, blessed is the man who helps the poor. The Lord will help him in time of trouble. What I want to speak about tonight, inequality in education. I remember growing up in the 1940s and 50s and quizzing a young black boy, barred from the public library, the public pool, and other public facilities because of my race. I segregated an unequally founded school, and school library had hand-me-down out-of-date books.
 The external world put a lot of obstacles in my way and told me I wasn't as valuable as the white children. But I didn't believe that lie, because my parents and teachers said it wasn't so. My parents valued education and made sure we always had books in our house. At schools, our African American teachers
 that not allow us to fail. We had great African-American teachers who knew that their job was to prepare us for the future. And that was a strong belief in our community that education was a way out that could give us the means to change the world. But millions of black children who need the same hope
 and way out today are receiving it. Legal segregation is supposed to be over with, but inequality is alive and well. 14 million black children in rich America live in poverty. More than 20% of children under age five are poor, including more than 40% of black children and more than 33% of Hispanic. Justin Walsh's truth 63 years ago, the best hope these children have of lifting themselves out of poverty is equality education, with a good job at the end of the line. Education is the strongest weapon against social inequality and the best path to opportunity for men.
 Without a good education, millions of black children remain poor throughout their lives and many will become trapped in the cradle of the prison pipeline that leads to dropping out of school, arresting, incarceration. Instead of being the great equalizer, American education continues to perpetrate inequality with the result that poor black children stay poor, poorly educated and unskilled rather than providing a way out of poverty and discrimination. If a man don't treat you right, don't expect for him to teach you right, it's time for black
 people to stand up and speak up and say we're not going to put up with this garbage anymore. Because we pay taxes like you to keep these public schools away. I also want to tell the fire chief and Mayor Morrissey's mother and Miss Fannie and Miss Mary just for a long time and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, you can't do nothing about it and happy birthday my good friend and I wish you many more and God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak.
 Thank you, Prof. Next speaker is Michael Smith. Good evening, Councilmembers. My name is Michael Smith. I'm a Rockford resident, a graduate student in urban planning and policy, and an advocate of the traditional development pattern exhibited in Central City. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak this evening regarding the proposed 221 North 2nd Street development.
 My comments align with the stated position of the River District Association and many other downtown and residential commercial stakeholders and will focus primarily on the proposal's significant aberration from the urban design standards befitting the district.
 I would like to remind the Council of the stated purposes of the C4 Urban Mixed Use District, which include, maintain and promote a compact, pedestrian-oriented mixed use district. Second, encourage residential living environments that provide a broad range of housing types. And third, promote these districts as viable, vital residential areas by permitting residential uses.
 These purposes are intended to not only recognize the distinctive human-scale development pattern within and around downtown, but also to attract the type of development that is similar to the form and function of other developments throughout the district. These purposes are not exclusive to State Street. This is a mixed-use, profoundly urban district, one of two in the city.
 Using these purposes to frame my appeal, I'd like to direct the Council to page 32 in their Council packet. The exceptional nature of this proposal is highlighted by the fact that its sheer size at 2.16 acres qualifies the project as a planned unit development. However, despite staff stating, quote, the design standards must follow the urban street criteria, the last sentence on page 32 reads, quote, the proposed development will not follow this criteria entirely.
 So how should policymakers and decision makers square this proposal with the design standards under the district? Under what conditions should this proposal be subject to? According to page 33, quote, the only portion of the proposed development that will follow the urban design criteria is a future building set back along Market Street. So despite staff being concerned about the deviations to the code as quoted on page 33 of your packet,
 This proposal was recommended by staff, ZBA, and Code and Regs without a single requirement that the gas station, convenience store, or car wash conform to the urban design standards. Furthermore, the only condition put forth in this proposal that ostensibly would require conformity to the design standards is towards a, quote, future building that may or may not get built. I'm deeply concerned about the trajectory of downtown in general.
 and future proposals in particular, when outlier projects like this, that are decidedly non-city, come this far without a robust discussion on the design standards distinguishing this district from our suburban counterparts. My appeal tonight is the same as that of the River District, who sent you an email earlier this week. Hold firm on the development standards put in place by our zoning code. Pause this project until it adheres to the design standards set forth in the code. Thank you.
 Thank you, Michael. Next public speaker is Mr. John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our aldermen and aldermen and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. What does it profit, my brother, when someone says he has faith but does not have work? Can faith save him? Thus also faith by itself that does not have work is dead. But someone will say, you have faith and I have work. Show me your faith without your work.
 and I will show you my faith by my work. This has been a very busy year and we are hit to ground running starting off this summer Father's Day Cookout June 10th and the Fort Feudal Parade. This weekend Saturday was at the library then on Wednesday we used the YMCA van, RHA van, two personal vans, two car drivers to Magic Waters and the big thing go out to Lutheran High School
 too many van drivers that we used. We knew at 20 Point Youth we had over 65 people that went to Magic Waters. Out of the 600 people that was at Magic Waters, 99 percent of the African Americans was us. We could not eat on the inside so we had to have lunch on the outside. We want to give a great thanks to the Pied District for blessing all 65 of us that was able to go swimming and have fun. The only downside was that a few of our youth
 did not want to leave because this was their first time coming to Magic Waters. I had to spend 30 minutes trying to talk to them. It's time to go. On Thursday, down by the unemployment building, a group of nine youth was trying to get cars to stop and give them money, and a few of the youth were throwing rocks at the cars and cussing.
 I went outside down the program building and I engaged them. We talked to them. I took them into the Transform Rockford office and found out what some of their concerns were. They was hungry. So we took them and we fed them. On Friday they was with me. On Saturday we took them to the library. On Sunday I took them to church.
 And then that Sunday evening, we took them to Leavens Lake. But the biggest thing out of that was when I took them home to their parents and their parents saw me, they said they knew me ever since they was a child. And they was glad that I intervened as an interrupter and talked to their kids and grabbed their kids off the streets instead of the police being the one to grab their kids off the street. Just what you think would have happened if it hadn't been the police
 and not me. They said wish there was more Johns like myself but there's only one of me. We just need more positive role models and more people to engage our youth out here in these main streets. We was at the Magic Waters. We had over 50 people at Magic Waters. Our number grew to over 100 because we had three different groups that was put together
 performing in magic water. The only downside to this weekend, we did not have enough transportation to take all the people that we wanted to go with us this weekend. There is a will and a way the Lord will make this happen with a van or a minibus will come our way. We've been working on this for the past several years. Plus, I will back to school supply and cook our North Main Manor on August 17th at 3 o'clock. We'll be blocking off portions of Indiana's territory and I'll never get to my last three minutes.
 We'll see you next week. Thank you, and y'all have a nice day. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Next public speaker is Reverend Derek Shelby. St. John, Chapter 8, Verse 44. Ye are of your father, Jesus said. Ye are of your father, the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him.
 When he speaks a lie, he speaks of his own, for he is a liar and a father thereof. I got a paper to listen to this. Former Mayor John McNamara, First Midwest Group President Sunai Poirier, former Rock Valley Community College President Carl Jacobs, and Rockford Planning Administrator Wayne Dust gathered at the Midway Village Museum to discuss the impact of nearly 50 years of growth in 2015.
 Carl Jacobs pointed out minorities have been excluded from this growth. I think what we had in Rockford was a de facto containment policy. Economically, socially, politically of minorities, he said. Do y'all, you know what containment means? They had a containment policy against black people. Economically, socially, and politically for 50 plus years.
 Washington, Illinois is an evil, rotten, vicious, filthy, wicked city. Been raping and murdering black people for 50 to 75 years. Economic containment policy. You know what containment means? Keep them from growing, suppression, oppression. And you're going to tell me that ain't evil because of the color of your skin?
 The Lord Jesus don't care nothing about people's colors of their skin. He died and shed his blood for all of us. You raped and murdered our children for no damn reason. Other than the color of your skin and some stupid stuff in your heart. The Lord said it's like the devil contained the policy. You believe that? 50 plus years. The Lord needs to... This is a wicked city.
 A disgrace to God, to the U.S. Constitution, and the United States of America! Thank the Lord Jesus for his blood. Thank you, Reverend Shelby. Next public speaker is Mr. Gary Carlson. Thank you very much. My name is Gary Carlson. I have been a downtown Rockford advocate my entire adult life. My business is in the inner city, and I have always lived here too.
 I have restored several houses for my private residents, including my current home at 1010 North 2nd Street, which happens to be on the same street as the proposed giant gas station. I am proud to say that I am a historic preservationist, and I am again serving on Rockford's Historic Preservation Commission, which I have done off and on for 18 of the 30 years it has existed.
 The Commission locally enforces the U.S. Historic Preservation Act of 1966, which is a highly successful inner-city revitalization program.
 The act protects certain old structures called landmarks that have either architectural or historical significance and treats them as irreplaceable assets that cannot be duplicated in suburbia. They're just as important to downtown revitalization as the natural landmarks like our Rock River that are located there.
 Rockford passed its preservation ordinance in 1978. It has also crafted special regulations that discourage suburban-type developments happening on vacant land downtown. Best example, Walmart rarely locates in the inner city. They usually build giant structures, most times in cornfields surrounded by a sea of parking. The rare times that they have been allowed to build in an inner city, they have been forced to drastically reduce or even eliminate the sea of pavement.
 Sadly, for the first 20 or so years of the Preservation Act, local developers ignored the benefits of the Preservation Act and focused instead on urban sprawl. But city market changed everything. Today, all the historic storefronts on East State Street are renovated thanks to new development companies such as Urban Equity Partners.
 and occupied. And the most game-changing of all that we will soon have, a four-star downtown hotel and a revitalized historic building. All these positive urban developments happened because the Historic Preservation Act made them affordable.
 I have no objection at all to another gas station downtown, but like the Walmart example I gave, Kelly Williamson's proposal has way too much pavement to be urban. I understand their thinking because 80% of this block, because of careless demolition, is vacant land and why not make use of all of it?
 But the remaining 20 percent has two very historic and architecturally significant residences that have been beautifully renovated and are thriving. The little frame house at the corner of Market and our second street is not the oldest, it is the second oldest still standing in Rockford. The brownstone row house apartment building next door is a very common style in large cities but we give our only remaining example.
 A much larger unpaved buffer needs to be placed between these buildings and the gas station because the livability of them would be severely threatened by a giant gas station just feet from their back doors.
 Downtown has turned a very important corner. We no longer are desperate for any development that comes along. I hope that Kelly-Williamson and the city can reach a compromise. If not, a better, much more appropriate plan will come our way. Thank you, Mr. Carlson. To petitions and communications, we have Mr. Rose, Vice Chair of Planning and Development.
 A memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau. Quarterly report for fiscal year 2017. Quarter 4, April through June 2017, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have several items this evening. The first item is the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 15, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on August 28, 2017. Second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda agenda for the meeting to be held on August 15, 2017 and the minutes from those meeting
 for consideration of the Code and Regs Committee meeting on August 28, 2017. The third item is the Traffic Commission Agenda for the meeting to be held on August 9, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on August 28, 2017. The fourth item is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator regarding Platte No. 3 of Ashwin-Purry Subdivision.
 The fifth item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding an upcoming special events which include Choice Furniture Grant Opening and St. Constantine and Helen Annual Greek Fest.
 The sixth item is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, the city administrator regarding a resolution to create an advisory committee to evaluate best practices and regulations for doing business in Rockford. And the seventh item is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, assistant city attorney regarding second quarterly report on liquor license establishments with video gaming from April 2017 through June 2017. All those items will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Shirely and Alderman Beck for finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two. First is a memorandum from LaFecaria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding 2017 Development Agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement for residential demolitions. And the second is a memorandum from Wayne Dust, Planning Administrator, regarding proposed revolving loan project for Coleman Village cleanup components. Both these items will be referred to finance and personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman. And we have two proclamations today. If John Weber and Lauren Davis could please come up for the Winnebago by local month proclamation and any of your members or. Thanks for coming. Good to see you. Good to see you. How are you? Good to see you. Hi, we're there. Hi.
 I'm going to have to make my way that way in a second. So I've been on council for years. I think you are growing in number every year, so this is really exciting.
 So, whereas Winnebago Buy Local is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to promote and support local businesses, there are more than 16,000 registered businesses in Rockford that provide employment for residents, creating jobs for a large portion of our local population. And whereas buying locally is an investment in our community. For every $100 that is spent locally owned at a locally owned business, nearly half goes back into our community.
 And whereas shopping locally is a conscious choice that moves Rockford towards self-sustainability and helps reduce our carbon footprint by reducing the packaging and fuel required to ship products from afar. And whereas local business owners and employees take special pride in their products.
 Businesses are key partners in helping our community remain viable and regularly support local charities and other organizations. Therefore, it's my honor as Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, to proclaim the month of August 2017, Winnebago Bi-Local Month. Lauren, would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 Thank you so much to our mayor for proclaiming August Winnebago by local month. This is our seventh year. We have close to 260 business members, and we were lucky tonight to get a proclamation from not only the city of Rockford, but also the village of McChesney Park. So we kind of split up to divide and conquer tonight. And then we are also receiving one on Thursday from Winnebago County. So this is a very special year for us.
 We're a non-profit, grassroots organization for locally owned businesses. We provide networking, educational opportunities for business owners for free. We have our bi-monthly networking meetings, our new social media conference in March at a slight cost called Social Rock, as well as annual public free events for the community such as a local holiday market. And then we also have the Totally Local Ice Cream Social, which is local ice cream and dozens of wacky toppings all scooped out by local business owners.
 We do that event to help teach our youth about the importance of buying local and we do the holiday event to get a whole bunch of local businesses in one place on one day so if you want to buy local for the holidays you can do so. And in this age of instant gratification and convenience
 Our simple mission is just to teach the great people of Winnebago County of all ages the drastic benefit in buying local and create an extraordinary awareness of how supporting local businesses can provide major opportunity, help create jobs, improve neighborhoods and safety, and bring revenue to our county and improve the local economy right from the building blocks of where we live.
 In addition to August being the second biggest grossing shopping season because it's back to school time, buying local is essential to revitalizing where we live, and its importance does not get addressed enough through the noise of everything else. So Winnebago by Local is very grateful for the support of our local government. In giving us this proclamation today, you're acknowledging just how important locally owned grassroots businesses are to our overall well-being.
 In general, buying local is not just a feel-good thing to do. It's an investment into our community. It creates a prosperous area for us to live, work, and visit. It creates a hotspot for tourism. It enriches the environment for more entrepreneurs, artists, creativity, and businesses to survive and thrive and supporting local businesses attracts more business, economic development, and more people.
 By proclaiming August as Winnebago Buy Local Month, we hope to spread the word and encourage the public to shop locally, helping to build our local and regional economy, and continue to make this an even better place to live. As a 100% volunteer organization who depends on the word of mouth heavily, we encourage everyone in this room to help us spread the word about buying local and create a life where buying local becomes less of an afterthought and more of a priority and a solution.
 And then I'd just like to thank everyone who came today. These are all local business owners in Winnebago County. This is John Weber from Screw City's Food Co-op, Stephanie from Magpie, Molly from Yolo Sweets, Lauren from Yolo Sweets, Kate from Kate's Pie Shop and Record Store, Charlie from Lindstrom Travel, Jane from the Canine Crunchery, Brittany from Rockford Art Deli, Judy from Candlecrest,
 and Utah from Delicious Ink Tattoo and Piercing Parlor, Deb from Roxy Carmichael, Kim from Rallye Gad Boutique, Crystal from Wired Cafe, Diana from Tasty Tidbits. She just changed her business name. Culinary Services, LLC. And Dave from Downtown Barber Shave Club, Roni from the Underground Art Gallery, and Jay from Stumpy's Pub and Takeouts.
 Thank you. That's awesome. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next, we have another exciting proclamation for Rockford Day. And if Lynn Stainbrook and Ed McCullough and other guests, if you have them here, please come forward. How are you? Good to see you. Good to see you. Good to see you. How are you doing? Good to see you.
 All right. Whereas the city of Rockford was founded on the banks of the beautiful Rock River and was later chartered as a municipality in the year 1852, and whereas it is right and proper to celebrate with great admiration and pride the many great attributes of the city of Rockford and the Rockford region.
 such that on the eighth month and the 15th day, we recognize the celebration led by Rockford Community Partners to highlight the great history, great places, great businesses, great institutions, great activities, and great people throughout the city and region. And we do so through fun and interactive experiences.
 And whereas the City of Rockford invites businesses, civic institutions, public and private sector organizations and citizens and visitors alike to join in the celebration by offering Rockford themed promotions, events and activities across the city and surrounding communities.
 And we wish that anyone who partakes in these special events, activities, and offerings enjoys a day of incredible celebration and community pride. And whereas that among the great things we do, I'm sorry, whereas that among the great things that we can proudly celebrate today are the remarkable ways in which we find greatness throughout the community.
 that there is greatness for us to experience in what we have, and there is greatness in what we are willing to discover. Now, therefore, it's my honor as Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, to proclaim August 15th, Rockford Day. Ed, would you like to share a few words? Yes, thank you, Mayor. I have been designated by Kimberly Bruce to fill in for her. She got...
 She can't hear me tonight. She's throwing a party, actually, and she was in charge of the food. They wouldn't let her out of it. So this was initiated last year by Kimberly, and it was to be simply a celebration, and it was sponsored by Rafferty Community Partners, which members of the city council, especially the older ones,
 holdovers are familiar with. It costs very little for a tax-paid hours. It's virtually all done by volunteers, private businesses making contributions, that sort of thing. I'm going to turn it over right now to Lynn Steinbrook, who is going to talk about a special event at the library, and then to, oh, she got Tony here, and then Sharon Nesbitt.
 Thank you. Well, I'm really pleased that the Rockford Public Library is able to participate in 815 Day this year. And I want to thank the mayor, who is going to be at our East Branch at 9.15 on that morning. And he'll be reading the new coloring book that the library has produced.
 Tony Cortez is here with me. Tony wrote the text and did much of the drawings on the inside of the coloring book. I want to do a thank you to a local business, Meridian, who helped to print it, and to our Rockford Public Library Foundation who picked up the rest of the costs.
 for our coloring book, but that's one of the various activities. Throughout the day we'll have family read-ins at our other branches, encouraging people to do that. The Nordloff Center has a number of events planned for that evening, including chess games that are going on, some live mic events, and a number of other things throughout the community that will be happening. Thank you.
 And we'll get to those. Sharon, do you want to talk about the 815 story? Sure. I'm Sharon from the Arts Council, and we are actually going to be at the Nordlof at 8.15 to tell your Rockford stories. 8.15 p.m. Yes, because we're artists and we do things at night. Yes. And the thing about the arts is it's about stories. Yes.
 And when we share our stories and we get to understand who we are, who each other is, we discover the things that make us all laugh and cry together. And that's what these kind of story events are about. So we invite people to think about a story about Rockford. You have eight minutes and 15 seconds to tell it.
 We will draw eight people from a hat, eight people's stories from a hat, and you'll get up and have a chance to share that. I know that we all hear other things about Rockford, but what I hear from people are the stories about what brought them here.
 and what makes them stay here, or what makes them come back. And so that's what we want to hear. And I actually have one. I don't know if I'll be picked, but there's a reason that my husband and I came here. And I hope that someday I'll have a chance to tell you all that. Okay.
 Okay, then just real quick, Mayor, I'd like to just give you an overview. We also have a paint-a-calendar kickoff of the CVB at 8.15 in the morning with a calendar from a French artist. I will not even begin to attempt to do her name properly. At 9.15, and Alderman Frost, no jokes about the mayor reading a coloring book. Please, seriously. Okay.
 But it is, he demonstrated with the proclamation he can handle the coloring book. From 11.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m., we're going to have what's called 815 on the Bridge. We're fortunate to have Smith Amundsen, a local law firm, is the sponsor for that. It's being put together by the community partners in the element. We're going to have the Break to Change piece, Flashdance, at 8 minutes and 15 seconds after noon.
 We'll have the Civility Pledge for signing. We'll have food trucks by 15th and Crisp, Bamboo, Java Mania. Taco Buddies will be out in the alley right next to their place. And then we're going to have some music, a live remote from 100 FM, Greatest Hits. At 518, there'll be a dinner, or I'm sorry, an 815 party on the dock at the Prairie Street Brewing Company.
 Then at 5.30, the Rock River Chess Group will have a speed chess match tournament, 32 participants, and each match will be 8 minutes and 15 seconds. You notice a theme here maybe as we're going along.
 And then we'll be moving into the story time. And then if you haven't had enough, we're going to have an 815 open stage at Mary's Place, Rockford's oldest bar and music establishment down on Madison Street. So, Mary, we want to thank you for the proclamation. Thank you for the assistance. A special thanks to Kelly Noakes of Public Works for helping us put this together. And I want to compliment the number of members of the city council on their attire this evening. It looks great. Thank you very much. We look forward to seeing you on August 15th.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. Moving on to new committee report. Alderman Shirelli. I got several items this evening, so just bear with me here. First committee report is the
 Number one, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for the residential parking zone on the east side of Church Street from Jefferson Street to Mulberry Street. The second, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for the residential parking zone on both sides of Jefferson Street from 175 feet east of Church Street to Main Street, thus establishing a residential parking on both sides of Jefferson Street from Church Street to Main Street.
 The third is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for no parking any time on the east side of Pearl Street from 170 feet north of Charles Street to 200 feet north of Charles Street. The fourth is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for the no parking any time on both sides of Diane Drive from Newtown Drive to 230 feet west to Orchard Avenue.
 The fifth, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development to allow a gas station, convenience store, and a car wash at 221 North 2nd Street, 525 East Jefferson Street, and 2XX204208218, 222 North 3rd Street. Kelly, Williamson & Company, applicants.
 The sixth, this committee recommends reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals' denial of a variation to landscaping and urban design standards to permit development according to the submitted site plan and a C4 urban mixed use district at 221 North 2nd Street, 525 East Jefferson Street and 2XX, 204, 208, 218, 222 North 3rd Street.
 The seventh item is the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit for a religious assembly with parking. Variation to reduce the building setback from 30 feet to 20 feet along Harding Street and Holland Street. A variation to reduce the building setback from 30 feet to 10 feet along.
 Hopkins Court, an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 916 Harding Street, 1501-1505 Clifton Avenue, 930-934 Harding Street, and 919 Hopkins Court. Israel Godds is the applicant.
 The eighth item is the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the cell tower height from 82 to 92 feet in order to accommodate Verizon Wireless antenna center in the C3 general zoning district at 4242 Harrison Avenue.
 The ninth, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of the zoning map amendment from an R2 residential district to a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 501 15th Avenue, 517 15th Avenue and 610 Keefe Street. Ernie's Inc. is the applicant.
 Number 10 is committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar and grill and video gaming facility in the C2 zoning district at 501 15th Avenue, 517 15th Avenue and 1610 Keefe Street. Ernie's doing business as the flow as the applicant. The 11th, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board
 approval of sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the retail establishment in the C2 zoning district at 7151 Walton Street. Sam's Inc. is the applicant. Number 12, I am holding that out for another couple weeks, Your Honor. That was the 1900 ReFarm Road application. Number 13, the committee recommends approval of the proposed ordinance to authorize the sale and delivery of alcoholic liquors in buildings owned and operated by the Rockford Public Library.
 Pursuant to the Illinois Liquor Control Act. I believe that's all of them. John, I place those items up for passage. Thank you. I had your mic off. Can you repeat those? To approve items one through. Thank you. Thank you. Is there discussion on any of the items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Bogeman. Aye. Thunberg. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Quinones Beck McNeely Chiarelli Thank you Those items pass Alderman Beck
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Under Roman numeral 5C, items 1 through 5, the first is the approval of the vouchers, an amount of $6,015,073.70. Next is the approval of the sale of property for a portion of 800 Cedar Street to the sole bidder, Mackey Properties, which is an adjoining property owner, for their bid of $1,081.00.
 Item 3 is approving intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Public School District 205 for exchange of services to support Rockford 50 program. Next is approving the tax-exempt lease for four ambulances to U.S. Bank Corp. of Denver, Colorado for a lease rate of 1.882 percent, funding source of the fire department budget. And the last is the approval of the establishment of a private property
 Tree Removal Loan Program. And I place these five items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on any of the items before us? Alderman Hervey? Question for Mr. Stockman. After this was announced the other, last week, I got about eight or ten calls from people who have trees that are really dangerous. How long before this kicks in and how will we notify people that the application period is open?
 Thank you, Mr. Stackman.
 As for what I can, I think Director Eklund has a part in this as well in terms of how quickly the actual application and the loan process is going to come together. But from my end of it, in terms of putting out the request for qualifications for vendors, I suspect that we will be about a month down the road before we have a determination on what qualified vendors we have. I suspect sometime after Labor Day we would kick the program off.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. And will the public as well as the alderman know what process we need to follow in order to take part in this program? Various means of media and neighborhood meetings and things of that nature in order to get word out to people. There will be an application available online as well as the guidelines that surround this particular loan program. Thank you.
 Alderman Hervey, did you have a follow-up? Just a follow-up. Can we maybe use this for a pilot of our water bill? We talked about that the cost wouldn't be much more because the mailing costs would be the same or if people do it electronically to get it out through our water bills. That might be a good pilot program to see what the actual cost and logistics would be. Great suggestion, and I missed a hand. Alderman McNeely, thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. The vendors that would be a part of this program, if there are individuals that want to be a part of it, they should just contact. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Toonberg.
 Frost Herbie Irving's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Quinones McNeely Shirely 12 I turn thank you those items pass
 Under officers reports, I just have two reports I want to make everyone aware of. First is you have a memorandum on your desk this evening with about 30 plus appointments or reappointments to various boards and committees.
 We understand we still have more of these boards and committees to appoint to, but we want to make sure that we're moving forward with several of these. So please see that if you have any questions, all of these lay over for 30 days. Please reach out to me personally or Todd or Wester as well. And also I'd urge you with the resumes and contact information, reach out to the folks who are willing to volunteer their time and talk to them prior to voting on those.
 Secondly, you will be getting a memorandum probably in the next week or so. We are doing two different series of meetings. One for minorities and women doing business with the City of Rockford and another for minorities and women doing business in the City of Rockford.
 One, we want to make sure that we are cognizant in doing all that we can to do business with everyone in our community as a city and secondly, we want to make sure that we are
 good place to do business in the city. So we want to make sure that we're listening to these vendors and learning from them and also walking them through the processes of doing business with the community, with the City of Rockford and also how we can make their job of starting a business easier in our city. So that's all I have and Alderman Thompson Kelly.
 And thank you for the list and the appointments. I greatly do appreciate that. For years we've been putting in names and not got any appointments done, so I do appreciate that. I also want to give the thanks to the Rockford Police Department for the National Night Out. I thought it was a wonderful event. It was interesting.
 a variety of things for children in the community to do. I think it did. And that's just going in to say, let's bring it west. The other thing I want to thank Public Works. I had a couple of emergencies over the weekend.
 And I appreciate staff and taking the time to solve those issues with me and those problems. I also want to give a shout out to all of my community service officers. They're the best in town and District 1. Thank you.
 Thank you. Other officer alderman Shirely. Your Honor, tonight I want to recognize one of our local residents. His name is Jordan Calgaro. He was listed in a national magazine this month called Florist Review on his outstanding job as a florist in this community. He was named as under 35, 35 and under 35, the most
 meet the most brightest stars in the floral business. I personally know Jordan and his family. He's the son of Brenda and Bob Kilgarell. I'm very proud of him for his achievement. He's done floral design at the White House and Chicago and all over this country. He's sought after for floral design. He works currently for Event Floral and it's a local business, so it's good to have some shout outs to some local residents who are doing great things and recognized nationally. So I want to congratulate them. Great, thanks.
 Thank you, Alderman Trelley. And Alderman Irvins. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to say I had an opportunity to go out to the arts place and watch the students that came out perform. I want to just tell you guys, miss out if you didn't go. It was an awesome experience. And those kids, they have much life in them. And I'm just proud that I was able to attend. Thanks for attending. Thank you.
 Other, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, I want to thank Corrina Curry for her expose in the Sunday Register Star. I want to thank the editorial board for allowing Ms. Curry to be a true reporter. The title on the front page of the Sunday Register Star was Segregated Again.
 as Ms. Curry's title depicts a conclusion of most African American residents of the city, segregated again. The school district has been segregated for decades. Mr. Mayor, I thought about Mr. Derek Shelby as I read the article. Mr. Shelby may not have presented the issue in an eloquent tone,
 But he said what Ms. Curry wrote, segregated again. I didn't know that Mr. Shelby would be here tonight. I thought about the U.S. President, Donald Trump, speaking before a group of federal, state, and local law enforcement officers in Sulphur County, New York. He said...
 When you see thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon, you just see them thrown in rough. I said, please, don't be too nice. Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you're protecting their head, you know, the way you put your hand over it, like, don't hit their head. And they've just killed somebody. I said, you can take the hand away, okay? I also thought about U.S. Attorney General Sessions saying,
 seeking to curb affirmative action in universities. I would think that the U.S. Attorney Sessions might be more concerned about the inner city's death count in Rockford and other cities. Perhaps coming to Illinois and sitting down with Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan in an effort to curb the gun killing, not affirmative action in universities or voter fraud.
 I thought about the change from choice to zones. This reminds me of blockbusting, redlining, gerrymandering, testing to vote, and poll taxes. Mr. Mayor, that's the old way. The new millennial way is zones. Ms. Curry quoted Lisa Jackson, the sole African American on the school board, the night the vote was taken,
 to decide choice or zones. Separate but equal is a thing of the past. It's time to embrace diversity and equality, Ms. Jackson said. Here is the response of school superintendent, Aaron Jarrett, regarding choice and zones. Jarrett said he and the Rockford School Board are committed
 to zone schools, with some choice through special programs such as Montessori, Creative and Performing Arts, Dual Language, and Year-Round School. Mr. Jarrett, I heard that the Montessori program is a blatant discriminatory program nestled in one of the most academically challenged schools.
 I also heard that the gifted and Kappa students are secluded from the rest of the student population and that their area is air-conditioned. Mr. Mayor, I have been frustrated with the facts in this expose for several years. I have attended several meetings over the years regarding the resegregation of School District 205. I have reserved this, Mr. Mayor, I have reserved this chamber
 for a public discourse this Friday, August 11th at 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. I encourage all to come, especially people from my ward, to address the unacceptable, critical state of Rockford Public School District 205. Let us start before schools start so that we may organize and strategize. I want to thank you
 Harina Curry, again, for your expose. Thank you all very much. Thank you, Alderman McNeil. Alderman Hoffman. Well, I think I'm going to change the tone just a little bit, and that wasn't my purpose. But I'm the president of the American Association of University Women, and our international organization's purpose is equity and equality for women. And I just want to point out that over the last few weeks,
 I found out some things about our very own city for which I am very proud. First of all, we all know that our police department already has a woman who is the...
 Chief of District 1. What I didn't know was all the work that was going in to create equality for women at the fire department. I didn't learn that until I went and I really started looking at the buildings that needed to be remodeled. And one of the reasons is,
 Yes, we need better buildings for everybody, but it is also to promote women and encourage women in going into becoming firefighters. We are really a progressive city. We, in that regard, I'm not trying to put down what you said, but in that regard, I am most grateful to learn that at least our police and fire are trying to promote women and make them more equitable. So thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hoffman. Alderman McNeil.
 I certainly appreciate your comments, Alderman Hoffman. Certainly my comments were not to put a cast over the city of Rockford. However, we're putting a cast over the city of Rockford by what's happening in the school district. So this is not the time to beautify or color over what's happening in the school district because we have hundreds –
 thousands of kids, rather, coming out of that school district and not being able to survive, not being able to take care of themselves and their families. So this is the time to address this as a city so that we don't have another article in a national publication about how bad we really are. We really need to address this. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McKeown.
 Alderman Thunberg. Hi, I just wanted to mention we had yet again hosted people in from out of town last week. We've got a popular house. I might have to register it as a bed and breakfast or a hotel.
 But they were in, one had been in before, but we had two people in, one from Madison and one from Chicago, that had never been into Rockford. Two weeks earlier I had people that were in from Chicago and Dallas that were in that had never been here. But the feedback was they brought their kids to Magic Waters,
 We showed them a little around town and one of them said as they left, we will have to come back because this is a great place and there's so much more for us to see.
 So I want to commend the Park District for a great job at Magic Waters, for a great time for the kids and our guests. Also to the great work on the bike path. If anybody's noticed, that has been repaved. And so a great job on that. And I'm available for walk-in talks and such. So my friends
 Gary Anderson and Justin Fern later on tonight may want to make appointments with me for a walk and talk this next week. Thank you. Thank you. Are there other officers? Alderman Canones. Yes, I want to thank Mark Stockton, the Public Works Director in Public Works in the Rockford Fire Department for doing a good job on 7th Street and 2nd Avenue cleaning it up and got it done good and
 Solved it missing a flowerpot who moved to flowerpot, but I want to thank them for doing a good job Thank you other officers reports seeing none going to motions and resolutions Alderman Shirely, thank your honor. I have the Three items tonight. The first is the picnic in plain air scheduled for Saturday, September 16th at 8
 212 North Water Street from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. The second is the Tough Mudder competition scheduled for Saturday, August 26th from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. for the overnight competition Sunday, August 27th from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The third is a motion to reconsider the vacation of Wyman Street and Green Street in accordance with Platte No. 1 of the Ziox subdivision. Place these items.
 For passage, Your Honor. Thank you. And Alderman Hervey, do you want to amend item 3? Thank you, Your Honor. Excuse me. I move to reconsider the ordinance approving the vacation of Wyman Street and Green Street in accordance with Platte No. 1 of the Zioch subdivision. That's the Amarok Hotel and Convention Center. Thank you. Is there a second? Thank you. Any discussion on that amendment?
 Just so people, it was a technical correction to the plat, I believe it was. It's not adding any new streets or anything of that sort. Thank you. I don't know if Mr. Cagnoni, that's correct. Okay. All those in favor of the amendment say aye. Aye. Those opposed to the amendment say aye. Amendment passes. Now we'll take up all three items for the codes and regulations. Any discussion on those three items?
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. All three items passed. Thank you, Alderman Trilley and Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral C, items 1 through 4, the first is a contract extension for Head Start Transportation Services with an increase to first student of Naperville, Illinois, for the time period of,
 July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018 at a total cost of $378,572. This is an increase of $99,072 from last year's total of $279,500. The funding source is the Head Start grant. Number two is a change order for Geo-Policing Station District 1 parking grate to Stenstrom General Contractor for an additional $14,701.00.
 To add a manual double gate to the north entrance, the new total is $5,922,009.
 Funding sources bond proceeds. Number three is engineering agreement amendment for North Alpine Box Culvert to Hanson Professional Services for an additional $73,864 due to IDOT requirement for study and design of a temporary pedestrian detour route for a new total cost of $244,924. The funding source is motor fuel tax.
 And item four is a resolution of the city of Rockford declaring its intention to reimburse itself from the proceeds of a tax-exempt municipal lease for certain expenditures made in connection with the acquisition and equipping of certain capital equipment. I place these four items up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Beck. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Or, I'm sorry, Alderman McNeely. Thank you.
 Item number one, the resolution. Exec, do we have a list of those expenditures? Number four. Number four.
 Wait, let me just start over. Alderman McNeely, are you referencing item one or item four? Four. Thank you. That the ambulance purchases. We outlaid some funds for some of the equipment that goes on the ambulances that we had to spend in order to get the process moving.
 So they're all expenses that were included in the original memo to council explaining what we would be spending. We just had to pay for those up front before we got the lease in place, and we'll reimburse ourselves for that. We can provide you with that. I think there were two invoices total, about $40,000 or so.
 Mr. Mayor, I don't need a copy of it. I just needed that explanation. Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. Any other discussion items? Alderman Tunberg. I just wanted to mention on item three my concern last week for the additional $73,000. And it seems like whenever we get into IDOT, when they rear their head, Rockford gets whacked.
 for more money. I just wanted to clarify, I had some conversation with Mark Stockman and the Mayor, and thank you for being in contact with IDOT and trying to work those things out going forth. So I just want to let people know that hopefully we're getting that worked out with IDOT so we don't keep getting...
 these just slept upside the head on this going forth. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Toomberg. Other discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll or call the vote? Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye.
 12 by sure. Excellent. All items pass. Under new business, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is an ordinance established in a residential parking zone on the east side of Church Street from Jefferson Street to Mulberry Street. The second is an ordinance established in a residential parking zone on both sides of Jefferson Street from 175 feet east of Church Street and Main Street.
 thus establishing a residential parking on both sides of Jefferson Street from Church Street to Main Street. The third is an ordinance establishing no parking any time on the east side of Pearl Street from 170 feet north of Charles Street to 200 feet north of Charles Street. The fourth is an ordinance establishing no parking any time on both sides of Diane Drive from Newtown Drive to 230 feet west of Orchard Avenue.
 The fifth is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a planned unit of development to allow gas station convenience to store in a car wash and a variation to landscape and urban design standards to permit development according to the submitted site plan at 221 North 2nd Street, 525 East Jefferson Street and 2XX 204, 208, 218 and 222 North 3rd Street. The Kelly Williamson Company is the applicant.
 The sixth item is an ordinance approving the variation to the landscaping and urban design standards to permit development according to the submitted site plan in the C4 urban mixed use district at 221 North 2nd Street, 525 East Jefferson Street, and 2XX204208, 218, 222 North 3rd Street, Kelly Williamson Company.
 The seventh is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit for a religious assembly with parking, a variation to reduce the building setbacks along Harding Street and Holland Streets, a variation to reduce the building setbacks along Hopkins Court and R1 single-family residences.
 zoning district at 916 Harding Street, 1501-1505 Clifton Avenue, 930 and 934 Harding Street, and 919 Hopkins Court. Israel of God's Church is the applicant. The 8th is an ordinance approving a variation to increase the cell tower height in accordance to accommodate Verizon Wireless attendance center line in the C3 zoning district at 4242 Harrison Avenue.
 Ninth is an ordinance approving the zoning map of amendment from R2 residential zoning district to C2 limited commercial zoning district at 501 15th Avenue, 517 15th Avenue and 1610 Keefe Street. Ernie's Inc. doing business as the flow as the applicant. The tenth item is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar and grill and video gaming facility in a C2 commercial zoning district at 501 15th Avenue, 517th.
 517 15th Avenue and 1610 Keefe Street. Ernie's Doing Business is the flow as the applicant. The 11th is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products at a retail establishment in the C2 zoning district at 7151 Walton Street. Sam's Inc. is the applicant.
 The 12th, an ordinance approving the vacation of Wyman Street and Green Street in accordance with Plat No. 1 of the ZX subdivision. The 13th item is an ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic liquors in buildings owned and operated by the Rockford Public Library. The 14th is an ordinance approving the vacation in accordance with the final plat of the Sports Factory subdivision. Place those items up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. Is there discussion on any of those 14 items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. So do me. Okay. Alderman Tunberg, did you want to have discussion? Yeah. On number five, I would be remiss if we didn't discuss this. This has been very time-consuming the last couple weeks. Thank you.
 I think most of us have heard from constituents and others in the community. There are arguments to be had on both sides. I've spent much time with individuals on both sides as well. So I've been through kind of this before with neighborhood development, albeit in a different place. And one thing I can be positive on
 and I think we can all agree on is that not everyone's going to agree. I say a city of this size, 150,000 people, almost 150,000, we're never going to get everyone to agree. One thing is though is that what we can agree on is that we're all in this together and the ways to accomplish our objective are sometimes a little different. We may think a little bit differently, but ultimately we want the same goal and that's what's best for the city.
 I, it's a, for a company to come in not asking the city for anything, to come into a lots that have been vacant for nearly 20 years that have been commercial in the past, I think warrants serious consideration.
 Some want to speculate that these could be something else in two years, five years. I would love it. I would love if every vacant lot in Rockford that seems to create blight in our city, I would love if all that could become things like mixed use and all. The thing is, though, it's speculation on when that could be accomplished.
 And if we're going to speculate and give that as fact, there's other people that are saying and speculating that these properties will remain vacant for 20 years. Who's right? Who's wrong? It's speculation on both parts. For anyone to question my affinity for downtown, based on this vote, I would say they're sadly mistaken.
 I've taken a lot of heat from individuals who have looked me in the eye and said, do not spend one penny of my tax dollar on a stupid hotel downtown. If somebody would have wanted a hotel, if a hotel would have worked downtown, somebody would have built it already, and they wouldn't have needed public money to do it.
 So, after 15 minutes, or sometimes when I get talking, an hour, of trying to explain... You don't have the same time, 815, 9 o'clock, but... When I hear your phone start beeping there. But I try my darndest, because as much as from a finance standpoint...
 And some of you have heard me talk about this over the past couple weeks. You know, I'm a finance guy, a numbers guy by trade, I guess. But that deal, that Amrock deal, I could shoot holes through it all day long from a finance standpoint. But from a vision standpoint of where we need to go, from an economic standpoint of what it can bring, it's needed.
 and I'm willing to make an exception on my numbers thing. So, also some people that are here in chambers today, tonight,
 were at a meeting that I had called a couple years ago, shortly after coming to Rockford, where I felt the need, the importance of legislators to realize the importance of the tax credits that were due to expire at the end of 2017, or 2016.
 And frankly, nothing against some of our legislators or those who represented them, it was like looking at deer in headlights to a couple of them when our presenters presented on these tax credits and the importance of them and frankly what they meant. So to bring that to their attention, not only what they meant, but really what they meant to our city and specifically our downtown community.
 we made it a point to tell them if these expire our downtown development will come to a grinding halt here in rockford and it won't be good it won't be good for our unions our trades economic development our storefronts you name it so on this particular
 development, I've had to think long and hard. In fact, my family is still vacationing. I came back for this. I'm looking for sympathy, Alderman Frost. But there are things like Starbucks in my old neighborhood, when they came into my neighborhood back in in Chicago, it caused an uproar.
 People said, how can we allow a multinational company that makes billions of dollars come into our neighborhood? That's a travesty. And they're taking over a dry cleaners that has been there for decades and decades. And affluent people that we're trying to draw to this neighborhood need dry cleaners. They're going to need a place to take their shirts. They can make their coffee at home. I heard everything today.
 But nonetheless, hey, legitimate points. I mean, if that's what they thought they deserved to be heard. But if this wasn't a project that, if this was a project of a company that we didn't really have much of an idea of, if it was a mom and pop store coming in that really didn't have much of a track record,
 I think it would deserve to be scrutinized more than it already is. This is a company that has won numerous awards by Gas Buddy, I guess, who is kind of the rating industry of the gasoline stations, as literally the best in the Midwest. Clean, safe, I've talked with the owner. He said he has no problem with providing security 24-7,
 The issue of places nearby have been brought to my attention. And frankly, it pains me to say it because I think downtown is one of the safest places there is in the city. To people that aren't familiar, that may sound a little funny. But there are people that don't feel safe to go to the alternatives that are nearby. And frankly, I've been to the alternatives nearby, and it's not someplace I really look forward going to. So...
 This will be safe. They've done variations that the city has asked, not all, but many. It's, if anything, it would hopefully allow those other two places to step it up a little bit. Otherwise, they're going out of business. And so...
 With that, the Urban Equities investing over $50 million in downtown development. I do give serious weight to them with the amount of money that they've put into downtown. They claim that development would not work. I asked an urban planner outside of Rockford that has no skin in the game.
 doesn't care whether a station gets there or not, and he simply asked, is there a need for it? And I said yes. Out of all the negative oppositions I've gotten, I've probably gotten 50% more asking for it to take place, saying we need it, we want it, it fits a piece of the puzzle. But this urban planner asked,
 What is, is there anything comparable within, say, a mile to two miles? I don't know. Is there, Mr. Cagnoni, anything of that, of the magnitude that the Kelly-Williamson station going to be within a mile to two miles? Fresh produce, prepared food? Alderman Cagnoni, or soon to be. Thank you, yeah. I know that, and he doesn't want that job.
 mr kagnola when you look at the entire package that's being proposed no um all right thank you um so this individual said as that answer was hey i'm not an urban planner i don't i don't say i am i'm just going by what this one said i'm sure it could maybe be debunked but when i said i don't think so the answer would probably be no he said right off the bat it's a no-brainer
 It's a need with a growing city urban center. He reiterated it's a piece of the puzzle that would fit in. So on another note, there are gas stations. It's funny, one of my constituents just pointed this out to me. I read shortly before coming here that I had thought about.
 In the city of Chicago, in an urban center, you think of Chicago was rated last year as the number one biking friendly city in the country. There's a lot of problems with Chicago, don't get me wrong. Crime, budget issues, there's a lot of things that they are doing wrong. But on the scale of walking and bikeability, they do a lot of things right.
 Boy, I can tell you, gas stations, maybe not of this magnitude. Yes, that is right. But there are plenty of gas stations. Right across from DePaul was one I thought of and my constituent thought of also. But gas station, car wash, DePaul University, Lincoln Park, you can't get much more walkable than that. Right next to Portillo's. Okay.
 My fellow alderman, Frost, tends to hit that every time he's in Chicago, and there's a gas station right after the drive-thru at Portillo's. LaSalle, North Avenue, and Clark, right next to historic Moody Church. That is right next to Lincoln Park Zoo and Lincoln Park itself and right near North Avenue Beach. There's a gas station right behind the Board of Trade.
 which is now the Mercantile Exchange. But right near the Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange, there's a gas station. So it's... Don't demonize the gas stations. I mean, it's... I've heard it this whole time, gas station, gas station, gas station. Well, it's not just a gas station. It's a... It's a convenient mart that is almost like a mini grocery.
 It's serving a need. I've had multiple females say it's a safety issue to them that live downtown. Okay, so I'll stop raining, but I do want to put some things in perspective. Thursday when I woke up, now I'm not looking for this, but Thursday when I woke up, first thing that happened, you know, of course I'm thinking gas station. It's been drilled into my head. But my alarm radio went off and there were
 The first thing that was said on my little alarm clock was, two soldiers dead in Afghanistan, four injured. And I thought, man, not being at gas stations are the big, big thing to worry about. You know, there's a lot more things bigger in this world. The sun is still going to set in the, or rise in the east and set in the west, no matter what decision this gas station is.
 Then I get to the Y in the morning after shooting a lot of air balls and basketball, and I hear a guy in the locker bay near me, across from me, ask another guy, man, he seems like he's kind of bummed out. Yeah, my wife just got diagnosed with spinal cancer. I'm thinking, okay, that really puts some of these things in perspective for me. So, you know, I'm not asking, I just, but let's just keep things, we're all in this together. It's the big picture.
 Let's not make it personal. This is my first go-around as an alderman, and I've got a backbone and thick skin, but keep these things in mind when voting on this, please. Thank you, Mayor, for that short time. The only thing I'll say is Alderman Cross will never be the one to give you sympathy. Alderman Rose, and then I'll work my way back. Well, I want to...
 maybe congratulate is the wrong word, but I think what Chad just said goes to the thought process that he's put into this idea. And I want to applaud the work that you've put into it because you've taken the time to really think about it. I've done a little research on this and I've done it in the past.
 If you're ever into urban development, there's a book called The Death and Life of Great American Cities. It's by Jean Jacobs. It's sometimes referred to as the Bible of urban development. She talks about four generators of diversity in an urban development. Buildings of various ages and states, pedestrian permeability, mixed use, and density.
 This development meets all four of those, every single one of them. It's one of the newest buildings downtown, which we've only had, I believe, six or seven in the last 50 years. Pedestrian permeability is going to increase 100%. Mixed use, when we think of mixed use, I think of it in the perspective of grocery store, gas station, car wash, bank with ATM.
 That's a lot of use that people can go to for those kind of services that are desperate in the downtown area. And then you think of density, and one of the things they talk about with urban developments in density is economic density, the jobs that it's gonna produce.
 When I hear from Mr. Griffin that there's going to be 20 gas station attendants that will work there full or part-time, and also the construction that will take place, to me that's a seller there. When we say no to a project like this, we're saying no to jobs in Rockford. I'll just leave it with this. Gene Jacobs talks about how life in the city revolves around work.
 a healthy sidewalk, and I think that the way that they're planning this development leads to a healthy sidewalk in our downtown. Thank you. Thank you. And I saw Alderman Hervey.
 I'll just be brief. I just wanted to thank Alderman Thunberg for eclipsing any speech I have ever given on the council floor. And I wanted to bestow upon him the blowhard of the horseshoe award for the rest of this year. Alderman Frost.
 Thanks. On that last note, Alderman Hervey leaned over to me and she said, why aren't you hitting him like you hit me? And I said, because I like you more. No, in all seriousness, to summarize, I mean, I think in the story that we heard from Alderman Tuber, there is a lot of, or some facts and some truth and some feelings. But, you know, we have a site here in downtown Rockford that I remember going to as a kid, which was the Humphrey Cadillac in Oldsmobile dealership.
 that relocated out when the Milbury, became Milbury Cadillac and moved out to Perryville, I think in 1998 or 1999. And that building sat there vacant for a long time. And that corner sat, and then Fran Crawl closed down, so then to the east of this building you have another. So we really almost had a full square block. Granted, I understand there is a very old home there and a very unique apartment building. But they are quite a bit to the south.
 So, we have a large vacant space here that really has been undeveloped and not been utilized for any other purpose since the dealership left, you know, literally 20 years ago. So I mean, I understand it's a, you know, a quote unquote gas station, but as
 As Alderman Thunberg said, I mean, you can go to lots of communities and near their urban center, you will find a gas station. And does it serve a need? It does. I mean, there are times when folks come through downtown, whether they're residents or out of town, and right now sometimes it is difficult to find a gas station which is a service center which you need.
 On top of that, this facility will have a car wash that I don't believe we have since the Octopus Car Wash closed down on Kishwaukee Street. We haven't had a car wash downtown for a while. So I do think it does serve the needs of the community. Obviously if, you know, I believe Kelly Williamson used to operate a small gas station on Market Street and State Street right across from the News Tower. It maybe had a pump or something.
 If someone was to propose that they come into East State Street, which has had definitely a revitalization in my time on City Council and prior to that, and say that they wanted to put a gas station in the parking lot.
 to the east of CJ's, then I think our concern would be different. But I think based on the location, it does meet the criteria and will serve the entire community and the downtown community well. Thank you. Alderman Loganan.
 I think no matter how any of us vote tonight, it's for a certain amount of patriotism that we feel for Rockford. I will not be supporting this measure tonight, but it's not due to a lack of patriotism and fervor for Rockford at all. I've seen, you know, I've done studies in urban planning too during my time in school, and I see Rockford and I've seen a lot of the
 kind of a history of poor planning. I think that we have a strategic plan in place that a past council has approved. I think it's important as we go forward, you know, when we have these, I'm thinking of two-way streets downtown, different measures like these. I think it's important for right now that we stick to our plan. I see downtown growing.
 I think it's important that we grow responsibly. I am not at all opposed to a gas station. I am simply opposed to this specific measure at this specific time. I think it's a little too soon when we think of the Amrock deal and the potential even, you know, we've heard talks of a grocer coming in soon as well.
 At this time, I just simply feel uneasy voting in favor of this measure at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Irvins? It was said tonight that it was a no-brainer, and I agree. Something that I grew up hearing is that biggers can't be choosers, you know, and we as a city, we desire development, we desire jobs, and we desire growth and growth.
 this is an opportunity to provide more jobs, bring in tax revenue, and for it to be based upon a urban or suburban standard, to me that's black and white. And I ask that everybody stand in the gray area with me, 815 Rockford. We have plenty of momentum going forward and,
 there's much growth and I believe our downtown is flourishing and I was so disappointed, Alderman Rose, that you did not mention the roses that are going to be in front of this gas station. I was like, wow, I made a bet that you were gonna do it and you didn't. I mean that's flourishing right there, that's growth and he got me excited about the roses. I just want to see what the roses are gonna look like.
 That's something to really be excited for. You know, I think of it from a biblical standpoint and you know, the Bible talks about the anointing and how, you know, in order to receive it, or it compares the anointing to wine. And in order to receive fresh wine, you must have a fresh wine skin, otherwise the skin would burst and break and it wouldn't be able to contain it. As we continue to move forward,
 I believe that that fresh anointing is the changing of the way that we think as a people. And what we do as far as development is that wineskin. We need a new wineskin. We need to start to change the way that we think. There's been too many – I don't want to go into that. Anyway –
 I just want to encourage us all to continue to start thinking bigger. I mean the size of the gas station, it's bigger people. Why not think bigger? You know I've always been told to, God tells us to he could do above and beyond what we can ask, think or imagine. Don't put a limit on what God can do for Rockford and in this nation. You know that speaks hope, that speaks faith and
 So I just encourage everyone to continue to change the way that we think. There's so much promise here. And I believe seeing big gas stations like that or any type of large structure, it produces hope. And then it's new on top of that. Something else that was told to me growing up is if you always do what you've already done, you'll always have what you already got.
 I just encourage us to start to change the way that we think. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg, a follow-up? I'll keep this short. Thank you. I just... Okay. Uh... Quiet. Wrapping this up, I just want to say that we better get used to this kind of debate because downtown Rockford is on the comeback and there's going to be a lot more building going on over the next few years if it's up to me,
 the rest of the council, and the new administration. Thank you. Other further discussion on any of the 14 items in front of us? Okay, seeing no more discussion, clerk, will you please call the vote? Logeman. May, item 5 and 6, Iowa. Toomberg. Frost. No, item 5 and 6. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli.
 Items number one two three four twelve eyes item number five and number six eleven eyes would know item seven eight nine twelve eyes item number ten eleven eyes one No, I am number eleven and twelve twelve eyes. I remember thirteen eleven eyes one No, and I am number fourteen is twelve eyes All items fast finance and personnel all the way back. Oh
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's three items on the list. I'll read in the first two. The third I'm going to ask to hold out. The legal department has asked to hold it out to give them time to establish more guidelines in relation to the tree removal loan program.
 But it shouldn't hold up. It won't stop when it's introduced. If an alderman wants to explain, I'd be happy to. I can add to that. So we're moving it forward. We've still got to go out for the RFI for the...
 for the vendors. During that time, actually, I think yourself, Alderman Irving, and Alderman Thompson-Kelly actually asked the exact questions why we're holding out so that when you approve it, you'll have that information. So it'll be approved, and when it's approved, it'll be all ready to go instead of council approving it and then us waiting for all that documentation to be created.
 So, I'll read in item number one as an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Public School District 205 for exchange of services to support Rockford 50 program. And item two is an ordinance approving a tax exempt lease for four ambulances to U.S. Bank Corp for a lease rate of 1.882 percent funding sources of fire department budget. And I place those two items up for passage. Is there discussion on those two items? Alderman McNeely.
 Forgive me, but I don't recall what the Rockford 5.0 program is. Chief O'Shea, could you please explain the 5.0 program? Detective Joe Danforth has a 501c3 program that he runs that has 100-plus kids in it, a basketball program. Him and some other coaches and friends have been running the program very successfully. They take a lot of kids who otherwise probably wouldn't have opportunities here,
 And we get tremendous results from the program, from the police end of it, building community involvement, establishing great relationships with the kids and their parents. And Joe does all this on his own time as a detective with Rockford PD. So it's something very much to be admired. He's an awesome guy. So we really want the program to exist and keep going. Thank you. Thank you. Any other further discussion?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the vote? Logevin. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Abstain out of one. Yes. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. I'm sorry. Alderman McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Item number one, 11 ayes, one abstain. Item number two, 12 ayes. All items pass. Is there a motion to all those in favor say aye? Aye.
 So I suppose, have a good evening.