Father, we come before you tonight with a heavy heart, learning that Deputy Chief Pan's wife passed this afternoon. So we bring him to you, first of all, before we bring our business to you. Thank you for his dedication and service to this community and his love for his family. And we thank you for the opportunity we have to serve this way. Be with us as we discuss city business, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen.
 of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I declare a please call roll. I'll be calling votes on those. Mr. Hayes. Durkee. Here. Getschis. Here. McNamara. Frost. Here. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Otto. Newberg. Beach. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Fourteenth, present union.
 Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Before we go into the rest of our agenda this evening, I did want to also echo our sentiments for Deputy Chief Doug Pan from District 2, our District 2 commander, and his family, as Alderman Beach mentioned in his invocation this evening. After a battle with cancer, Patty Pan, who was a former Rockford police officer, passed away far too young with two children.
 Both that will, as well as Doug, deeply miss their mother. And I would ask that we give a moment of silence and ask that we stand in recognition. Is there a motion to accept the journal? Motion. Second. Second. Journal, are there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal is presented. Please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Aye, seven. Thank you. The poll carries.
 We have several speakers signed up for public participation. I'd remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Greg Schwanke. Hi, I'm Greg Schwanke with the group Friends of Byers Stadium. This year marks the 150th anniversary of the Forest City Nine, which was the first baseball team in Rockford.
 of that baseball team in 1871 they became one of the founding members of what we all now know as the National League. In 1872 the most prominent players went into Chicago and played with the Chicago White Stockings and we all know that Chicago White Stockings changed their name to the Chicago Cubs. So on August 29th this year at Byers Stadium we will be holding the grand opening of the park
 We will be celebrating the 150 years of the Four City Nine with a monument that was donated from a gentleman out of Wisconsin. And we also have purchased a monument to donate to the Rockford Peaches and the All-American Girls Baseball League. This park not only was famous for the peaches, but it was the mainstay for all the events that happened in Rockford, including the Centennial,
 including for you Bear fans, they played the Camp Grant football team there. The Industrial League Baseball, track and field, high school football was prominent at Byers Stadium with over 40 games a year being played on that one field. And I received an email from a gentleman in Florida that informed me that at one time all the piano stores in Rockford hauled out 100 pianos and they had a 100-piano concert there.
 and he remembered one of the songs. So not only was this field made famous by the peaches, but it also was made famous by all the events that were depicted there and through the history of Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Exodus, the 14th chapter, the 13th verse, Moses answered the people, Do not be afraid. Stand firm, and you will see the deliverance the Lord will bring you today. The Egyptian you see today, you will never see again. The Lord will fight for you. You need only to be still. What I want to speak about tonight, ending mass incarceration in the black community, by calling on black pastors to speak up,
 The crisis of incarceration this nation now faces demands people of faith act with swift and fierce moral authority to transform, not just reform, a broken system. It demands that all of us, clergy, seminaries, teachers, and people in schools, mosques, and temples provoke a revolution of values that strikes at the heart of mass incarceration.
 without exception. We believers are required to realize a just world. This is our call and we are falling short when it comes to how we treat those in jails, prison and detention centers.
 powerful community organizing and mobilization. Many more people are cognizant of what mass incarceration must end. 2.3 million human beings lock up, as many as 9 million in some form of correctional control, including parole, probation, or waiting their day in court, and almost 500,000 people passing through civil immigration detention annually. Growing numbers of us, particularly if we are poor, black,
 brown female immigrant or have mental health conditions are facing incarceration who have loved ones who are, we know that the United States incarcerate more people per capita than any other nation on earth, approximately 700 persons per 100, every 100 miles. And we know that the racially biased war on drugs has in the past 40 years incarcerated hundreds of millions of people for largely nonviolent drug offenses, tearing families apart in the process despite public perception.
 people of color are not more likely to use or sell drugs than their white counterparts. So what explains this proportion of ways we are locked up? To begin with, we are seeing the devastating results of the tough on crime rhetoric of the past 40 years. Public policy stopped and frisked, broken windows put more over police and the minor offenses.
 which are the gateway to incarceration. The historical and pervasive criminalization of communities of color in the United States is a key building block of the current system of mass incarceration. Mass incarceration is largely about continuing to ensure that the nation has a permanent slave and disenfranchised underclass whose varied bodies and movement
 cage and control. It's time for black ministers and black people to speak up against companies making money locking blacks and brown people up. In 2014, two companies were reaping record profits at the expense of these chronically dehumanized and marginalized communities. They made $470,500,159.12 last year. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Uh, what is most shocking to me
 is that many people with money don't want people without money to get money. They say it would cause inflation. I have searched and studied the money supply for years, and I have found that there is absolutely no valid reason for people not to get interest-free loans.
 repayable at death. A course in estate planning, of course, is necessary. And high school graduation, of course, is necessary. We cannot be stopped. I, Fishy Wales. I think our next speaker is Toby Hallman. According to City Hall and the Rockford Police Department, we are currently under geo-policing guidelines. What does that mean? No, really, what does that mean?
 The only real changes in my neighborhood, in my opinion, have been on paper. Where are the bike cops? Where are the foot patrols? Where are the police? I've told you before, so I'll tell you again. If I have to live it, you're going to hear about it. Prostitutes own Broadway. Yes, prostitutes own Broadway.
 And they have for almost 30 years. Broadway and Parmalee, Broadway and 9th, Broadway and 7th, 7th and 12th Avenue, 12th Avenue, 8th Street. Just a few of the prime spots in my neighborhood to pick up a fine classy lady. Day or night, it does not matter. If you can't find one, just drive around the block and you can pick her up as she's getting out of her last customer's car.
 Open liquor, all you have to do is open your eyes. In fact, they are so brazen, they don't even try to hide it in a brown bag or a black plastic bag anymore, many of which can be seen blowing down the street or hanging in the trees.
 Public urination. All you have to do is walk down Broadway, if you dare, in this heat and you know exactly what and where they did it. Pan handlers, they are all over the city. I'm tired of getting out of my car and being approached by people asking me for money. Who here is tired of being attacked by these people?
 There has been, no, there is a truck on city-owned property that hasn't moved in over a year. Every month for over a year, we bring it up at our neighborhood watch meeting and nothing gets done. Oh, the police found the truck at least once to put a bright orange sticker on it, which has now turned white and is illegible. Who owns the blue truck? Who cares? Remove it.
 If it were on my property, I'd be charged $750 a day until it was moved. Over a year? Come on. This truck is located, your attention please, this truck is located directly in back of 1420 15th Avenue. It does not move. It will not move. It's loaded with wood. Do our group a favor and get the truck out of there.
 Shout out to my boy Dennis on Broadway. And finally, never give the devil a ride. He always ends up in the driver's seat. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you, too. Sorry, one more speaker. John Bright. I always say the best for last. I'm going to open it.
 I'm going to preach that a little bit today because I'm asking for the Mayor, my, uh, Ossman, Ann Thompson, and Linda McNally.
 I've been banned and I've been, uh, uh, uh, I'm going to talk about the good first and I'm going to talk about the negative, what RHA Derek Hays was trying to prevent me from doing. First I'm going to talk about the positive. The positive is, first of all, Matthew said, blessed is the peacemaker for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are prosecuted for righteousness sake for they are the kingdom of heaven.
 Blessed are you when men shall reveal you and prosecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely. For my sake, now to rejoice and be exceedingly glad. For great is your reward in heaven, for you shall prosecute day to prophet which are before you. I want to speak of a fact this past couple of weeks. I want to thank the power district. We took 90 youth and adults.
 to Magic Waters. This past weekend, the YMCA helped us out. We was able to take more than 60 youth with the YMCA van, personal vans, cars to the Black Family Reunion and also to Brooker Washington Center where they was giving back to school packs away. What I want to talk about and what have you, I know when the aldermen say we shouldn't get personal, but I have to get personal here when the YMCA is here.
 I am told that they want to limit me to what I can say or what I cannot say because I live in housing. And if I do say and speak some of the people's minds, the people in the housing, the residents say, we got John to go to. John is there for us. Well, now,
 Mr. Derek Hayes, and I'm keeping it real, wants me to make up a document. For the past eight years, I've been running a program for Rockford Housing Authority, neighborhood networking, doing programs every month, having meetings, bringing in special speakers to talk about the things that we're doing, but also talk about some of the negative things that housing is doing behind the scenes. My thing is, is that
 I say the Salvation Army is the perfect place for us to have a computing program, to have
 parenting skills. They don't like the use of the word parenting skills, so life skills and music. We need to clean our own house up before we talk about moving out to Newtown and what have you. Because I speak on that, because we driving towards that and we want to thank the ultimate Frank Beach because we almost on the verge of start running programs at the Salvation Army. But to try to ban me, I would like to see
 Chief Epperson, his officers would look at Derek Hagenham crazily when I'm in Fairgrounds helping people to say, well, we finna arrest John Brantley for being in Fairgrounds for helping people. You know, why should I be banned for helping people to do what I do? It takes all of us. In order to transform Rockford, we have to work together to transform
 They will not speak of Woody Lynch and what have you. They take one of us against one of us in order to bring us down. It's not the white man that brings us down. It's our own people that bring us down. I need to, for you, we need to have an emergency meeting. It's wrong for them to say that I can't have a meeting Thursday because they want me to make up a document as to what,
 neighborhood network is doing and whether it's self explanatory thank you you're out of time if you need to follow my office if you want to wait till after the meeting I can talk to you afterwards okay thank you to all of our speakers this evening petitions
 Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to announce that Westgatewick Coalition will be having their evening neighborhood meeting from 6.30 to 8 p.m. at Henrietta School, 200 North Johnston. And the keynote speaker will be our chairman, Scott Christensen, and also all the other
 all you get ready because this only happens once a year the west gateway coalition will have their fundraiser fish fry and that will be september the 18th from 11 a.m to 4 p.m at 200 north johnston the ten dollars include freshly fried fried cash fish spaghetti spaghetti coleslaw and dessert
 I know much of you, many of you bought tickets last year and we're looking for your support again. This is the one fundraiser that the nonprofit organization have on a yearly basis. Also, I have about four or five different locations where the grants needs to be cut as well as they board up. I'll refer that to Community Development. Your Honor. Thank you for the petitions of Communications, Home and Dirt. Do you have any? All the men. Shirley. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to ask the Board of Trustees to present their petitions.
 Number one, I have the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda as well as the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 18, 2015 and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on August
 2015 referring those to the codes and regulations committee I have a memorandum from Scott Capovilla for final plat number two of Brookside Hill subdivision also referring that to codes and regs before is the traffic commission and the minutes from August 12 2015 meeting
 referring that to codes and regs have a memorandum from Mark Rose land acquisition officer regarding transfer of part of sixty two hundred Baxter Road to the county of Winnebago
 And I have a memorandum from Kelly notes regarding upcoming special events. I have 815 Jive in Your Ear Music Festival, September 4th, 2015. Stumpy Fest, September 5th, 2015. Sausage Fest, September 20th, 2015. Rocktober Fest, October 3rd, 2015. And Beth Seda Alley Walk, September 12th, 2015. All those items will be referred, your honor.
 Thank you, your honor. I have a bit of for sale of property at 200 North Johnston and open up the envelope here. Okay, it's it's from an Adam McFadden for $1,100. And I will refer this to finance. I'm sorry to legal department and the purchasing department that we have one more for sale of property at 1015 First Avenue.
 And it's from Mark Donbaugh. Let's see, can you open it all the way up? For, it looks like, yeah, for $500, and they haven't closed the check. And I will refer this as well to purchasing and the legal department. And then the third item is a memo from Ann Wilkerson with a resolution authorizing Central Services to make sure to execute a contract for electric supply for all city accounts, except for street lighting and electricity, and refer this to finance and personnel. That's it. The matter is to be referred to.
 the positions and communications or thumbs killing question on the matter to be referred the big thing came in for 200 North Johnson Street how many bits to receive the streets or was planned on which which bids one bed was received from Adam McFadden I spoke with staff and I was told to get it for the state staff to which department legal department
 all been talking Kelly this is the only one that I'm aware of but we'll check with staff to make sure that that's correct thank you I for the positions and communications I think the medical companies in your honor I have five items the first is the planning development committee recommends approval of the request for approval of the 2016 community services block grant program
 the work plan as required by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Second item is the committee recommends approval of the application to request section 108 loan guarantees from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to create an economic and community development loan fund in the amount of $6,500,000 and a substantial amendment to the HUD 2015 annual plan.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The committee also recommends approval for the request for substantial amendment to the HUD 2015 annual plan. Number four, committee recommends approval of the review and consideration of the Rockford Area Economic Development Council 2015-2016 agreement for services.
 And the last item, the committee recommends approval of the second amendment to the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Gorman and Company, Incorporated. I would ask that we suspend rules. Second. All right, motion to suspend the rules. The item is under enrollment rule four, the committee reports A1234 and 5, as matters are for passage. I'm sorry, as matters are, are our motions to suspend the rules? All those in favor suspend the rules. Please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I think we have enough but the clerk was still rolling the motion to suspend and we need to attend. On the moment numeral 4A items 1 through 5 on the motion to and second to suspend rules. Alderman Durkee? Aye. Alderman Getschis? Aye. Alderman McNamara? Aye. Alderman Frost? No. Irby? No. McConnell? Thompson-Kelley? No. Otto? No. Alderman Otto? I couldn't hear. Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elliott? No. McNeely? No. Chiarelli? No.
 tonight or no your better passes so it was a credit is there a discussion thank you your honor I would like to request that items number two and three be laid over until we can um
 have further discussion and counsel with regard to the letter that we received from HUD regarding whether or not we are meeting our obligations to affirmatively further fair housing due to our objections as city council to the new town development and
 I don't believe it's appropriate or advisable to continue to accept this funding when those questions are outstanding. And I noticed that we just received immediate advisory that Mr. Antonio Riley will be here on Thursday at 1.30. This is the first I've gotten notice of it, for those of us who work. To meet with local officials and housing leaders to discuss the recent letter.
 as it and the implications as it relates to title six of the civil rights act and the rule with regard to affirmatively furthering fair housing so I would like to request that we label two items over I would give it a two week period I second that subject to the automatic layover commission that's the items two and three your honor
 discussion items one four five please call the roll on the items on enrollment numeral 4A item 1 4 and 5 Alderman Durkee 2 and 3 relate over item 4 item 4A item 1 and 4 no on 1 Getschus McNamara aye Frost aye Hervey no on 1 and 4 aye on 5 Connell aye Thompson-Kelley Newberg
 Elliot, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Your Honor, Roman numeral IV, item A-1, six I's, eight no's. Roman numeral I, item IV, ten I's, four no's. Roman numeral IV, item A-5, twelve I's, two no's. So, item number IV-A-1 fails, and items IV-A-4-5 both pass.
 the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinance to chapter 121 section 121 dash one through section 121 dash 20 subdivision regulations the legal director should prepare the appropriate ordinance
 number two the committee recommends overturning the traffic commission no action for the following six traffic items I will not read those your honor there one through half they're all traffic related items in there and number three of the committee recommends approval for the request from Rockford school district to annex contiguous land by Jefferson High School at fifty two X X thirty fifth Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 your honor I move to suspend the rules on all those items second I your honor I place those items of the passage this is a question with regard to item two I had to leave early but I did hear some of the discussion and I want to make sure I did understand it is the primary purpose of establishing four-way stops a traffic
 speed reduction or is there an accident history? I heard some discussion but I was also on a conference call so I missed parts of it. Yes, I thank you. I made the request on these. The purpose of the stop signs is for each of these streets they are marked with a number
 There are long streets that are in between two, between parallel collector level streets. The clearest example here is Crosby, which is between rural and State Street. There's a lot of people who cut through Crosby trying to avoid the traffic control on those two other streets. What the idea of the stop signs is, is to cut down on the volume of traffic. Fewer cars means fewer cars who are speeding.
 So in general, I know we say that, hey, a stop sign isn't a good tool to slow down traffic, but if you have less traffic, then you'll have less traffic that's, in fact, speeding. Additionally, those stop signs were recommended by our community services officer who looked into the complaints of the residents from that area.
 I absolutely respect within words but my concern is that I've got three of those and in in Southwest record in particular my area we have very few major streets South Main is pretty much it so all of my through streets have some of that same problem people they are through streets and people use them as modified Byron Speedway
 well and I get requests all the time for speed bumps for stop signs everything flashing lights I'm concerned that we're going to establish a precedent here for I just have a real question about using stop controls
 not so much a yield but a stock control as a speed or a traffic control device for something other than traffic warrants and I would just ask to reconsider because I think it's going
 that's a lot of them that was just one I don't know that it would be so much of a problem but this is a lot and I think that's going to stand with your president that will cause trouble so with absolute respect to the ultimate I have the question the the efficacy of overturning the traffic Commission on this one thank you thank you discussion on the side of all of her so thank you to remind her the microphone right I appreciate the element Elliot I'm
 Being that we're overturning the Traffic Commission, how many votes would it take to do that? And would a no vote be not overturning the Traffic Commission? Ms. Hayes. Alderman Elliott, it requires 10 votes to reverse the Traffic Commission to impose a traffic control.
 And so a yes vote would be a vote to impose the traffic control and a vote no vote would be a vote to not impose the traffic control. So you need ten votes? Yes, Your Honor. For the discussion.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak again. Then just to echo Alderman Hervey's, or to respond to Alderman Hervey's comments, I actually do support taking a look at citywide, coming up with some sort of policy or ordinance. That's something I'll be taking on here. It'll probably take me a little while to do it, to address this specifically, so there can be some consistency. I talked to the city traffic engineer, so I asked him, what does the stop sign do?
 the rightful purpose is to control the flow of traffic. And I think we see this, you know, we all see this problem in our wards. You know, the correct tool for the speeding problem is enforcement and police. And I've, you know,
 Every time I've contacted the police on traffic matter, they've responded really well, but there's also, they also respond really well to gunshots and theft and a lot of other things that are more important, frankly more important than some of these issues. So, it's something I think that until we can get our police numbers up to where they need to be so we can effectively enforce some of it, you know, maybe we should start taking a look at a way of, you know,
 doing traffic control for problems like this, because for all the complaints that we get, the citizens aren't necessarily wrong. There is a problem here. This may not be the perfect solution, but I think that it is a solution that can happen short term. Then if we do get an ordinance together, I'd be completely open to redoing the traffic control of my ward to comply with that.
 thank you for the discussion will just go around the horn open beaches next it's not like to look at current with all of them got just remarks if you remember all maybe it was a year or two ago we're looking at some other alternatives
 Matter of fact, up in the city of Madison, Wisconsin, in some of the neighborhood areas, they have put some diamond effects in the neighborhood. People have to kind of go around them, and that seemed to control the traffic well with the neighborhoods. That never got up legs here to work on, but we've all been thinking about what other alternatives that we have. You don't want speed bumps. You don't want speed humps, and they say that the state says the warrants don't warrant
 stop signs for traffic control. There's got to be some other solution, so I was going to do support you wanted to take that project on. I'd be glad to help you with it. Okay, so normally when the Traffic Commission does recommend establishing four-way stops,
 it's based on accident data at the intersection. I was not at this traffic commission and unfortunately Jeremy Carter was not able to speak for some reason at committee last week, but I'm sure he would have provided the accident data at that point. Does anyone here know what the accident data was? I imagine that there are.
 Obviously, it was not enough accident data for the traffic commission to support establishing these four-way stops.
 Do you want me to ask staff on the first question? Sure. Mr. Hanson, do you have any background? Yeah, Your Honor. There was an email that went out by Jeremy Carter on Friday evening in regards to these four intersections. There's two accidents that have occurred over the last five years in all four of these intersections. One of them was an accident that a car was losing control as it approached an existing stop sign.
 But those are the only two that you've had. We've done the Diamond intersection in one of the intersections last year, which was at Highland in Crosby. The neighbors took it down. They didn't want it there. That was a pilot project? That was a pilot project. They didn't want it at that intersection. We did a similar one over in Haight Village where the residents over there did like that. But staff strongly recommends that we do that.
 we don't go forward with these stop signs here because of the traffic flow. You have the number of traffic volume that goes through there, and it's not that much. Further, there was other comments. I want to finish up over on this side, and then I'll come back around to Alderman McNamara. Alderman Beck, I think you were next. Thank you.
 I agree with and welcome the opportunity to take a look at how we can address speeding in the neighborhoods because obviously we all have that problem. But I have been consistently supportive of the traffic commission when if there's not enough to answer Alderman Elliott's question to it, it's not just the accidents but it's also the number of cars that are going through those intersections. I've dealt with this over my 14 years numerous times.
 But when I submit a request to traffic, you know, I try to be respectful of their decision because they are basing it on what the state standards are. So I won't be able to support these overturning of the traffic commission, but I really do want to –
 join with Alderman Getches and other aldermen to see if we can come up with some other methods or maybe we decide as a city we're going to relax some of our standards in regards to where we are going to put stop signs and where we're not but I don't want to start a
 snowball effect here because if we do these five and you know other ultimate I've got probably Dozens of similar intersections went to them their ward the next thing you know We're going to be just like the fourth ward which everybody remembers a previous out. I mean who was very Successful at getting stop signs on pretty much every intersection in his ward so yeah Prolific thank you all the melee. I'm sorry you done. You did it did you have another part of your question? There's so next was all the Mac America. Thank you. Thank you mayor. I
 What is the state statute on the number of accidents in a certain year period? I believe it was like five accidents in three years. In terms of the warrants? Yeah. I'm not sure if we have that, if Mr. Hanson? Yeah, I don't know what the standard is. If you're looking at accidents, you have to look what type of accident is over what period of time. And this one here didn't feel that it was warranted by the traffic engineer, two accidents in the last five years.
 Hold that clear. Thank you, Mayor, for letting me speak again. I'd recollect that it's something that struck me as outrageous. It was something like five accidents in three years or three accidents in five years. It seemed like a great deal of accidents had to happen for a stop time to be warranted. I certainly do appreciate and actually went to this traffic commission and spoke in favor of these actions
 stop sign requests as one of them is in my ward and Alderman Goetzes and I share an area over here in this neighborhood. These were brought up by the community service officer. I certainly appreciate those who serve on the traffic commission.
 I don't necessarily want to model ourselves after state requirements or what the state is doing, otherwise we'll be cutting some pretty important services. We won't be voting on anything tonight if they don't, and we'll have mountains of debt. So I would urge aldermen to take a look at this as if they were stop signs that you had requested in your own ward. I don't see the harm in this. I think if you do travel that distance, which I did yesterday.
 there's no stop, there's nothing for blocks and blocks and blocks. And if you are on one of those high streets and you just sit there and wait for the vehicles, they're flying by. And I agree with Alderman Goetsches, we don't have the enforcement for the traffic issues and if that was increased, then maybe I would not want as many stop signs. But it's really difficult. Director Hanson mentioned Haight Village and I'm really fortunate to be able to serve that neighborhood.
 they have stepped up to, they're gonna be doing all the plannings for that traffic circle. I had to pay for it out of the ward fund to get it. And so that stops us from doing other very needed projects in those wards all to help reduce stop when,
 to reduce speed, which if I could have put a stop sign there, that was my first option. I would have simply done that as it costs about $120 as opposed to the $7,000 I had to pay for the traffic calming circle. So I appreciate your support in supporting Alderman Gatches. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, we'll take all three of those items. Then again, Roman, it will be items 1, 2, and 3. As the legal director, call the roll. Durkee, Gatches, McNamara. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? No, I'm 10. Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Otto? Newberg? Alderman Newberg. I couldn't hear what one you voted no to. I voted no to. Thank you. Beach? Elliott? McNeely? Chiarelli? You're in Roman numeral B, or Roman numeral IV B1 and 3, 14I. Roman numeral IV B2, 14B2.
 8, aye. 6, no. And that matter fails or required 10 votes. So item 2 fails. Items 1 and 3 pass. I'll look back.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have the first item. The committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $7,172,536.18. Next is the approval for the memorandum of understanding with the State of Illinois regarding the temporary placement of a barrier wall along Illinois 251.
 Next is approval of the Head Start Collaborative Agreement with the Rockford Day Nursery Early Learning Center. Next is the approval of the proposed amendments to the revolving loan fund for the Ingersoll project. And then last is the approval of the amendment to the 2015 Development Agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement. I place these five, I mean, I have to answer suspension rules on these five items. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on enrollment in row four.
 C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have the rules be suspended. May I place them up for passage? That is up for passage. Is there discussion on those items? Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just lost it on my screen. With respect to the item affecting the revolving loan funds involving the Ingersoll project, I thought last week there were some amendments made.
 to that item. Yeah, I think actually because of the layover on the prior P&D items, this is going to need a layover as well. Or would that be consistent or is this a different item, Mr. Pagnone?
 then you're yes there was a conversation at committee last week and the committee report was amended to reflect the action of the committee so the amendments that are before the council tonight are identified as the amendments to the us epa rlf funding related to pankersville project
 Last week there was conversation related to the Rockford Watch Factory project amendments to that which have not been included in the proposal this evening. That was the portion that was laid out. So the only portion that is funny tonight if I have that correct, Mr. Cagnone, are the ones that it's in the form that it represented after it was amended. The original proposal was changed at committee. So what you have before you excludes a couple items that I know got, I believe, removed at committee. Alderman Hervey?
 I just want to ask when we have those amendments to these because there's a week in between if we could get on this sheet on our agendas that we're looking at tonight the updated amendment because that one was confusing because within Ingersoll there was the watch factory and then there was a second component that was an amendment
 So I just want to make sure the only thing we're voting on tonight is the funding for the Ingersoll building itself and the lower tier but not the upper tier. I have two components. One is in the future presenting these so we can show what was originally presented and what got edited out at the committee discussion which makes sense. Mr. Cagnone could you answer the substantive question on what Herbie asked. She just wants to make sure that we know exactly what we're voting on.
 Yeah, so what's up tonight for consideration is the Angersaw amendments to the US EPA RLF funding does not include the launch factory portion, which I believe you're referring to as the upper. Thank you, sir, for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Roll the numeral. Yeah, these are, I'm sorry, Mr. Hayes, please call the roll. These are all the items. Excuse me, Mayor. Thank you. Roll the numeral IV-C, one through five. Durkee, Getschus?
 McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Huber, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli, Roman numeral 5C, 1, 4, and 5, 14I, Roman numeral 4C, item 2 and 3, 13I, 1 no. Matters passed. Thank you. Other reports of committees? Officers, reports? Just have a few items I'd like to report on this evening.
 First of all, there's a memorandum from Jim Ryan that has been distributed regarding our police district facilities and the schedules, working with the architects on that based on the presentations that were made by the architect and police staffing at our last discussion when these were brought up at committee. If there's any discussion or questions on that, please feel free to follow up.
 Also, there's a fire pension board reappointment recommendation that will lay over for 30 days for Chris Black to a three-year term expiring May 2018 and pursuant to council rule that will lay over. We have a presentation that we'll do at the very end of our meeting tonight from Commonwealth Edison regarding their Smart Meters program.
 Tom Prytulski, George Gullop that are here tonight from Com-Ed will give a brief presentation. They just want to show the meters and give a heads up because we're actually getting a rollout of the program about two years ahead of schedule and that will be very brief. I also wanted to mention a memo that just went out this evening
 And there'll be some additional details coming out on it later this week. Jim Ryan and myself, Jim sent the email out. We've both worked on it regarding our parking situation, trying to get an agreement with the county on the concourse parking deck. Again, you should expect some additional detail coming out on that this week. But feel free to follow up, and there'll be some questions, I'm sure, on that.
 Also wanted to thank the council members I had a chance to talk to on the presentation that was made last week with regard to the announcement about Mercy Rockford. There's a memo that Mr. Ryan also put together which includes the presentation materials that we received and the letter that I sent in conjunction with the project. This will also have a lot of additional work in the coming months.
 Unusual in that a lot of the detail we normally would have with an announcement like this, we'd have liked to have gotten negotiated in advance of the announcement when you're dealing with a long history in pre-annexation work that we've done.
 But please feel free to follow up on those items. I can tell you that before the project's able to move forward, not only does it need a spiff kind of need from the state, but we will have to work on a development agreement and an annexation agreement amendment as a council. So feel free to contact or discuss with staff or myself in the meantime. Also wanted to make mention to the memorandum that was sent out, a copy of a news release
 We had discussions for the first time today with regard to this specific press conference that will be held on Thursday, August 20th, 1.30 p.m. The Regional Center for Planning and Design, Antonio Riley, the HUD Midwest Regional Administrator, will be there as well as some of his staff. And that's a discussion, again, that we're happy to, and I'm happy personally, to get involved with any questions that council have us on it. That's all I have right now. Thank you. Further officers' reports?
 Thank you. First of all, I would like to say thank you to my residents in the eighth ward. They are staying very vigilant and actually crime is coming down. But the biggest thank you I'd like to say is to Lieutenant Joel Givens and my district three officers. In April, we had a lot of traffic on one of my streets pertaining to drug dealing.
 And within a matter of five months, Lieutenant Givens, my community officer, Andy Perino, and the rest of the officers did an amazing job. I see an increased number of patrols in my ward since the district policing came into effect. My residents are constantly calling me, telling me that they're seeing the patrols.
 within the seven minute range instead of the 10 to 20 minutes that it used to be. Non-emergency is getting a little bit better, but I've also noticed officers are more friendly at the door. They're getting to know all the residents within that area because they're in that area. So I would like to say thank you to Joel Givens, fantastic lieutenant.
 Last week I asked for a report and Alderman Beck asked staff to get it to me. And it was regarding who stopped or did not want us to continue our integrated health, mobile integrated health, which ended in July. Why we're not expanding that. We need this here in Rockford. We have an overabundance of frequent flyers with our ambulance and it's something that's very important.
 Whatever staff member has to get it figured out, I'd like an answer when I leave council tonight. Not tomorrow. It's been a week, and there's no excuse for it. So if I could get it by the end of council tonight, that'll be great. And I'm happy to. I know Chief Berkson has been heavily involved in that process. There's several members of our fire staff in the back, so we'll work to hang around a little bit after council. I'm sure we'll try to get a satisfactory answer. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you, Mayor. Two items. One is regarding the memo we got notifying us of the HUD meeting. I understand a number of schedules come into play when you're scheduling such an event, but I'd ask that we communicate with Mr. Riley as I'm going to do everything I can to be there, but giving us three ideas.
 two and a half business days to attend that. It's just unrealistic and it's good information I'm sure that he's going to be presenting that I'm assuming the vast majority, if not everyone here wants to see. And in the memo it says he wants local officials to be there. Well, give us some notice so that we can make appropriate plans with our day jobs, family schedules, whatever all of us have going on. It just puts an...
 unjust burden on us to try to attend this meeting at a finite time and date that happens to be 72 hours away or less. The second thing regarding time there is I didn't think there was an appropriate time to bring you up at last committee meeting, but just to ever,
 my long time concern of the timing of the information. Can you tell me if there's something that, the information that we receive, if there's something we can do as aldermen or staff can do so that we're receiving information earlier on items that we're gonna vote on. I understand that there's some that just pop up but
 We're still getting the information at 2, 3, last week at 9.30 at night on Friday for votes that were taken on Monday. It limits our time to review the information, to get citizen feedback on the information, to go out and talk to experts that happen to be in Rockford to get their opinions on some of this. And we're doing, and to your credit, a tremendous amount of good stuff in the community. But for all of us who are voting on it and will be held to certain standards,
 come time for elections or at neighborhood meetings, whenever that is, I'd certainly appreciate anything we can do to get that information Thursday morning, Wednesday night, sometime so that we have a day or two of business days to actually communicate with folks and get feedback. I think one nice thing that we may all like out of it is maybe we won't have five and a half hour
 committee meeting nights, maybe we will. But if there's something that you could tell us that can be done either on both ends, but maybe better communication, something that can be done so that in the future we can begin to get that information in just about 24, 48 hours earlier.
 Thank you. I'll just speak for a moment and try to answer your question. You know, I know staff works very diligently, as do I, to try to get information out as quickly as we can. The particular item that came out late on Friday, I know it well because it was an updated
 email from Mr. Hayes because a prior item that got posted to the website was an earlier version of a document when he sent out the correct version later on that evening. That was one in particular I know when it came up I knew it was late and I apologize in advance of it being late and said if it needed to be laid over for that.
 So I would say the vast majority of our work, not always, but the vast majority, we try to make sure if it comes out late like that, then there's always an encouragement if we need to take more time late over. It's easy to do at the committee level. Typically the chair doesn't even, as long as there's no objection, he can hold it out and just say, hey, I'm going to hold it. I know this came in late.
 So that's one of the informal opportunities we have when it's for the first time in front of a committee. If the committee needs more time just to move it forward. Other than that, I'm happy to look at our workflow and any suggestions from the council or from staff. But we do have a
 an incredible amount of work that's being moved right now. I don't know if it's inordinate compared to the prior 10 years of my experience here, but I know we have a ton of projects that we're moving right now, and I apologize for the delay when those have gotten out late. And I'm happy to follow up on that too with other ideas. Alderman Hervey? Thank you, Your Honor.
 First, I would just like to acknowledge the loss this weekend of a major figure in the Civil Rights Movement, and that would be Julianne Botten.
 former president of the NAACP. He was one of the founders of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. I'm definitely aging myself. That's one of the things I'm proud to do. In his honor, one of the people who advanced the causes of civil rights in a nonviolent but very persuasive manner. I believe
 In modern times, he was the first African American nominated on the ticket at the Democratic National Convention to be the President of the United States and had declined. I believe he was only 33, 32 or 33 years old. It was one of the humorous moments, but he was too young to accept the nomination.
 just a major figure, an amazing person. He did so many, I can't even remember all of the not-for-profit groups, his support for education throughout the United States. And even though he dealt with civil rights, one of the lessons I learned from him is that
 an American requirement irrespective of race. So yes, he dealt with a lot of issues related to deprivation of civil rights for African Americans, but when it came to education, when it came to voting rights, when it came to poverty, he represented all people. And I would ask that we acknowledge his passing.
 Second, I would like to thank the legions of groups who have supported children going back to school. I spent the weekend hopping between probably most of the wards in the city and I saw this morning that WREX was doing a stuff the bus for school supplies and just got a huge number, not just in Rockford but also in Boone County and in other cities.
 I was stalking the fire department this weekend because they were at least three of them. They literally left one, packed up at noon, went to the other, stayed there to three, and then they went back out the next day. And it was hot as the blazes. And by the way, that misting thing is just amazing. We stand in front of it. It's just wonderful.
 At any rate, I do want to acknowledge them because I know that means they're not with their families and they just did a tremendous job. The kids go berserk when they see the fire trucks. They were just bombarded with people and that's a great thing. I want to ask also that people, school starts a week from today.
 and they lose their minds at the end of school and at the beginning of school. So they're gonna be darting across the street. Please watch out for the buses. Remember that you cannot pass a stopped school bus regardless of whether
 Well, this is me. I don't care whether the lights are flashing. Unless they motion, you just don't pass it. It's just dangerous. But I know sometimes they do have to stop. But you can't pass a stop school bus if the lights are passing. You slow down to 20 miles an hour in the school zone.
 It's just the right thing to do. I would also like to ask if our police department could exercise a little additional vigilance in some of our neighborhoods where we have a problem with vagrants.
 and people who are around schools. I have a problem with King School because of the number of vagrants that congregate on South Main Street, near South Main Food and Liquors and in that parking lot, which is only a block away from King School. So I would ask if we could have some additional patrols at the beginning and end of school just to make sure the guys get the message, stay away from our schools, and I'll be out patrolling also. So thank you and welcome back to school.
 Thank you for the officers reports and chief of know we can follow up on some of the school related patrol covered issues all in the field. If you were sitting here following up with Otterman Hervey I believe you did ask for a moment of silence for Julian Bob. Certainly be happy to accommodate that.
 We will recognize a moment of silence and recognition of Mr. Bonham's commitment and his gifts to civil rights in our country. Thank you very much. This weekend on Saturday, the Black Family Reunion was held in the 13th Ward at Ellis School, at Ellis School grounds, and it was quite successful, pretty hot, there are no
 anywhere around there where any of the tents were or the stand was. Steppers were there. I actually got out and did a little stepping. They taught us a dance and that certainly got the attendees involved. Some great talent, some,
 some individuals that I had met when they were probably in the 10th grade that were there performing. I was very pleased to see them. They're in college and doing well. One young lady, she's in law school at John Marshall in Chicago. So I was very pleased to see the young people that had attended and also have participated with helping that.
 I look forward to having them get there again next year. I went last week to the Salvation Army, thanks to Alderman Beach. He's been very successful with working with the Salvation Army.
 getting some programs started, which John had mentioned earlier in the audience, had mentioned earlier about some programs for the kids getting started at the Salvation Army on Kilburn. So I look forward to continual participation with that and helping Alderman Beach and the Salvation Army bring that for the kids.
 I also at the Black Family Reunion on Saturday, we see notice that
 that the Million Man March, they're working to go to the Million Man March in October, on October the 10th, and they're trying to gather several buses of individuals from the City of Rockford to go and participate. So I would just like to let individuals that would like to get involved, I'd like to give you this telephone number.
 7, 815-742-6758.
 That's 815-742-6758 if you would like to get information about the Million Man March to be held in October. Also, they're located at, you can also contact the Booker Washington Center as well if you need information regarding that. Hopefully we can send a few buses. I would love to go, but can't. But I hope people do participate. And I think, you know, we
 thank you very much thank you for their officers reports on Shirely and then Mr Hayes thank you your honor I don't want to just be a little this again bring it up again but this meteor release from heart is really disturbing to me about the time
 I've got personal business to attend to on Thursday afternoon and I know others here do also and it's just I'm not sure if Mr Riley is going to be meeting one on one with any of the alderman or the officials of RHA or is this going to be something that he's going to come into town and talk about the letter from HUD.
 do we have a chance to have questions with him privately or publicly or do we know anything about this or excuse me or is the city going to post this for an open meeting so we're not in violation of any problems if there's a quorum attending that answer i do have some answers to give to you uh first of all my first answer is um in the past uh mr reilly has been
 open and accommodating to requests from council members for meetings. If you do not know in this particular situation if his schedule would allow that, I've not had a discussion with him or his staff, but I would, on behalf of my office, be happy to support that discussion. If there's council members who would like to meet, see if he could do that, or I would say if you want to try to contact his office directly, you certainly could, but if my office can help with that type of meeting together, I'm happy to try to help.
 with regard to the Open Meetings Act because there, I would ask, defer to Mr. Hayes, but because I'm not anticipating it to be a discussion or debate or deliberation by council, but it's the press conference that he has asked to set. I don't know if we need to post it, but I would, normally we err on the side of posting something like that just in case there's any concern at all, but I would defer to Mr. Hayes to answer that question, Mr. Hayes.
 your honor it is a been described to me as a precedent typically we would not post a precedent as an open meeting but if alderman intend to hand in numbers will put places on a data call and that way if we can preserve any issues staff can attend and make sure we take minutes just in case the alderman engaged a level where it's comes into fact over appreciate
 thank you all the time well then I'm misunderstanding this media advisory it's that he would travel to Rockville Illinois to meet with local officials and housing and their leaders in this community
 I could tell you I don't know what his schedule would allow or what he's providing for right now. This is what I have and relate on to council. Again, I'm happy to follow up with our staff when we just were on this communication today. So I'm happy to get back to council. And if there's individual members who would like to meet with him one-on-one, support that, as well as, as I said, there's a...
 I don't want to tell you that you have to go through my office. If it's helpful, I'm happy to do that. Okay. Alderman Irving. Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to, well, first the letter that we received and now this follow-up as an immediate advisory, I would of course defer to our legal counsel, but the letter was not even a thinly veiled threat. The letter was an outright threat to us as city council members. I found it
 horribly insulting to suggest that race somehow plays a part in the objections that we as a council have to the siting of the development at Newtown. I've worked in civil rights in this town for a long time. I worked on the People Who Care case. I know racism when I see it. And this issue, rather than divide a city, has actually brought some people together
 to say when are we going to stop creating segregated ghettos and islands of poverty regardless of where they're sited. I turned 60 the last of this month. For 45 years I watched the African American community, including my father, for many years object to the housing projects that were developed and concentrated in southwest, near southeast Rockford.
 All of our objections fell on deaf ears. We warned them about the effects of concentrated poverty. This city council and many of the people who have objected to the Newtown site are telling HUD and Rockford Housing Authority some of the same things. You're still concentrating poverty. Just because it's less concentrated than fairgrounds does not mean that it's not concentrated. The area where they are siting Newtown happens to have, I believe,
 one of the highest concentrations of African Americans east of Alpine, and one of the highest concentrations of poverty, and one of the highest growing crime areas, violent crime.
 not retail theft, but violent crime anywhere east of Alpine. So those of us, rather than saying that we are somehow opposed to housing because it's primarily African Americans, what we are opposed to is creating yet another ghetto anywhere in Rockford that isolates poor women and families on the basis of race and poverty, regardless of whether it's on the east side or the west side.
 I'm proud of this council for opposing that. And I think we're going to stand up to the threat. I would love to be at this meeting, and I can't. And that's what I really resent about it. If Mr. Riley truly wanted to have a conversation and start a dialogue about affordable housing in Rockford and about what it means to affirmatively further fair housing in the city of Rockford, this is not the way to go about it.
 This is orchestrated almost to assure that many people won't be able to attend the meeting. And I think the purpose is basically to come in and spread fear throughout the community, as he told many of us when we had individual meetings, that they can eliminate not just our HUD funding, but all of our federal funding, right?
 I was told personally that they can take away our money for roads, bridges, every bit of federal funding that we receive. I want to be here the day that it happens. Rockford is the only, the major city in this county that supports homelessness, that has a program to eliminate homelessness among our veterans, that provides emergency shelter and housing to people who are in critical need. We bear almost the entire burden for the entire county.
 So for HUD to say that the City of Rockford or this City Council is not furthering the goals and the aims of fair housing is insulting, it's ludicrous, and I hope we stand up to it through legal means and through practical means. But I can't attend this meeting and I would ask that Mr. Riley reschedule it at a time that we can give notice
 an opportunity for all of our city council members to attend thank you thank you for the discussion I guess and just that Mr. Mayor I understand your comments from earlier so Mr. Riley hasn't set up any meeting times with you either right correct okay so with that being said and just to echo I agree with everything that's been said here I just want to boil this down as I know that there's some media in the room will be reporting we got a memo that said Mr. Riley is coming to meet with local officials
 By any standard, there are 15 local officials in this room and not one of us has gotten a text, an email, an appointment request to request a meeting. And hey, I get it. I work at a PowerPoint. Alright? My schedule's tough. But I expect you to at least talk to my mayor. Okay, the mayor is a local official. If you haven't reached out to the mayor and you're coming in as a federal official, shame on you.
 Okay, this is pure and simple, pure and simple unprofessional. If someone can't say a date or a time that this person has asked to come in and have a meeting, you can't say you're coming into the city to meet with local officials. And they wonder why there's distrust. They wonder why I don't, I will not vote to give these people a nickel until there's a change in the tenor of how they treat the local officials and work with us.
 I'm as mad as everybody else in this room and this is objectively, Mr. Wiley has not done what he said in this moment. He is not coming to me with local officials because he hasn't talked to any of us. Let me just be clear. I just want to make sure it's very clear. My office did have discussions with him prior to this time being set. I'm going to be there. I'm not meeting with him privately.
 I'm planning on being at the press conference. I'm assuming that he was, his office is reaching out to the county board chairman
 the Rockford Housing Authority, the County Housing Authority, and potentially others. I'm not involved with that. There's a staff person, but I am planning on being at that 1-30 press conference. I don't know if that was the time that was just given to us and my staff for changing the schedule or my schedule or whatnot, but I will be at the press conference. Alderman MacMaker. I appreciate you allowing me to speak again. I certainly agree with a lot of the sentiments tonight.
 Those folks that you mentioned, Mayor, and Mr. Riley certainly should reach out to them. But I think the piece that they have continued to fail to realize, and I'm not as familiar with the county rules, but I don't believe any of you vote on it. I don't believe any of you have to, being yourself, sir, as Mayor, the Chairman, Mr. Kluwer,
 or the Winnebago County Housing, I don't believe any of you will be standing up and having to make a vote on this topic unless there's ties and whatnot. But the idea that he hasn't reached out to anyone to see if we could be there, I would take this opportunity as a great opportunity and I'm sure that's what he was thinking originally, is that this would be a great opportunity to educate some of us.
 I certainly would love the education from him, but it really is difficult with all of our schedules to make something like this. And I would echo Alderman Hervey's sentiment to ask him to reschedule it so that there is a more notice. He's not going to get everyone. We realize that at budget meetings and stuff. It's hard to get all of us in a room outside of Monday evenings.
 But reschedule it so that a majority of us have an opportunity to at least even say yes to something like this, because I think it could be really beneficial to help us move forward. Aldo Noto. I agree with everybody. We have a fifth Monday coming up. Why don't you ask him to come on Monday night and stand right here. We can see what...
 everybody has failed to realize and Mr. Clure himself including our staff who has done it from the beginning community meetings at 1 in the afternoon 2 in the afternoon it's unfair to the community people who work along with alderman so why don't we start planning these things in the evening and ask this gentleman to come on our fifth Monday to speak to every
 Commissioner Holden-McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I certainly appreciate you pointing out that the, what is this title, Mr. Riley, the administrator, did contact your office. When I read the letter in the paper, my impression was that what was printed in his response was in response to
 Mr. Clear, Rockford Housing Authority, and the developer meeting today.
 and what was said or done at that point directing to him and directing to the community that if you don't do this, then these are the possibilities. And then his letter came afterwards. So I'm not sure what's going on here. I'm not sure if I should be pointing the finger at him or someone else or something.
 So I certainly would like to hear what he has to say. I'm not willing to tag along with everyone here tonight and jump on wagon with everyone to go against him. I truly would like to hear what he has to say. And the other thing, Mr. Mayor, I would like to know if
 This meeting is open up to the public because this discussion here tonight probably will bring people out to participate in this and I'm not sure if it's going to be open to the public. I certainly intend to give Mr. Riley a call and see what we can do. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach then Alderman Newberg. Thanks, Your Honor. I just want to mention this.
 I invited Alderman Chiarelli to join me at a Miracle Mile meeting about three or four weeks ago, and the director of the Corps was there to give a presentation that actually was talking about this letter that we got. And I need to tell you the shock on those businessmen and women when we were told that our funding sources for the airport, for other major projects such as sports corps, for the Gorman,
 The fact that we as Alderman could be removed from our jobs if we didn't do what they tell us to do prompted Alderman Trill and myself to make an appointment with our legal director to go and find out what in the world the facts are, to even see if we should look for it.
 another outside legal counsel that was more familiar with this kind of thing. And when we left that conversation, I think we left the conversation that simply said, HUD is okay if we're moving forward. And Rockford's moving forward, as Alderman Vanita Irvi had said just a moment ago. So it's very confusing to me. And I'll tell you the truth, I've never in all the years I've been down here been threatened like that.
 That's very alarming to the system of government that we have in the United States of America, to be threatened when we're doing our job. Believe me, I'm very upset about it. Thank you, Alderman Newberg. Thank you for allowing me to speak, sir. Thank you. I'm sort of new at this, along with the six or seven other aldermen, and I always thought a press conference
 I can decide to have a press conference and I tell the public when it's going to be and maybe a little bit of what it's about. But in the first sentence,
 Mr. Riley's talking about he wants to meet with local officials, which we've all talked about, and housing leaders to discuss something. That's not a press conference. A press conference is when you as an individual are trying to get something out to the public. So I think he's got to decide first what he's going to have. Does he want to meet with us officials that are doing the voting, or is he doing a press conference to say what HUD is doing
 is threatening to do. And to me, we've all sort of pussyfooted around this little thing. And to me, there's a name for what HUD is saying is a possibility, and I don't think they're threatening. It's called blackmail. Yep. Pure and simple. You do this, or I'm going to do that. And I have, I'm new to politics, but my way of thinking, I would never ever
 And some of the department heads know I don't do this. I want something done. I will work with you to see a way to get it done. And if you need something done, call me, let's discuss it. But don't ever, ever threaten me with you do this or this is gonna happen. Because I don't take threats lightly. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
 hearing all of it. One of the things I want to make sure that we do as a city is start with our own proof or evidence if you will. I don't want to rely on the Rockford Housing Authority to put our stats together. I'd like to pull our percentage of public housing in the city of Rockford compared with our population.
 I would like to look at our percentage of affordable housing in the city of Rockford compared with our population. And I would like to look at the amount of subsidized housing that is cited within the public, I'm sorry, within the corporate boundaries of the city of Rockford as opposed to Winnebago County. Last time I looked, 85% of Winnebago County's Section 8 vouchers were housed within the city of Rockford.
 So I want to make sure that our staff is starting to pull together our documentation in the event of a fight because I don't want to take this lying down. Rockford, as I said, not only has an abundance of affordable, subsidized and public housing, but I think we have done more than any other community in this county to further the obligations to fair and equitable housing.
 So I want us to have our evidence and our data ready. If we do have this press conference, I don't expect our staff to sit there with their tails between their legs and just take it. I'm to the point if HUD wants a fight, they're going to get one. And I mean that in the most respectful possible way. But blackmail, extortion, and threats is not the way to treat a community that's done as much as Rockford has. Thank you.
 Thank you, I promise myself I wasn't going to speak this week but after hearing everybody else speak I just had a couple of suggestions. One is I would ask that either the Mayor's office or our communications manager reaches out to Mr. Riley's HUD regional 5 office tomorrow to see if it is actually possible. It may not be, I understand the schedules may have been set. I would just like someone to reach out and confirm with us what the response was to that. The second thing is I just spoke to Mr. Hayes last week about this.
 It really comes down to, it seems there's a lot of people that are upset about it. I don't know if it's placed or misplaced right now since I've never spoken to Mr. Riley or the other gentleman who wrote the letter that I'm somewhat shocked by that he put it in writing, Maurice McGough. So hopefully he looks like he's also going to be here as well, so I would really like a chance to speak to him.
 But it really boils down to just communication. And I'm willing to work with Ms. Bruce, Mr. Hayes, any other alderman about really the dissemination of information. Mr. Alderman Mackerman mentioned earlier, it's a constant struggle. I understand that things
 This is a fluid form of government that things have been moving quickly lately, maybe quicker than in the past. But one thing I would like to see, I know we have the day to call, I would like to see, and that's why I'm willing to work with the staff on it because we do it at our office sometimes,
 is a way that once a week we get a new date of call or some sort of list from one person, an email from Ms. Bruce or somebody that lists each and every event that's going on for the, that pertain to Alderman for the week. Because receiving an email like this from one person when it's two and a half days, three days notice,
 and then I get another email from somebody else and I have to go back and search for them all the time in emails. I know that it's easy for the city to kick everything out and then carbon copy all of the old ones and say, well, you've been invited to these meetings. I don't think that's good enough. I think we need to work, going forward, we need to work harder to make sure that we as Alderman are all included in events, the ones we can make, ones obviously we can't all be at all of them. But I think it's an easy fix. I think it's an easy way for at least
 the alderman to know what events are going on. I understand this one's a little bit different because it's from an outside entity, but there should be a way we can pull all that together so we get a document and one specific, one document that lists all the events for either the next seven days, the next 14 days, something like that that's better than the way we're getting them. Thank you.
 Thank you. Any further discussion? Alderman Durkee. Just a quick comment. I wanted to follow Alderman Hervey and maybe summarize some of her comments this way. There's a great irony here, and that is the three organizations that created the problem, HUD, RHA, and WHA, are holding us accountable for their problems. I don't understand the nature of the letter that we received at all.
 We are trying to do as I actually want to say amen to what Alderman Hervey has said. So there's a great irony here. No one around this horseshoe created this problem. It's institutional with the feds and with our local RHA and WHA. And they need to actually stand up in the well and look us in the eye and explain, you
 what they're going to do drastically differently creating fairgrounds light in newtown is no solution for the discussion i just conclude by letting everyone know my office will follow up with mr riley's office also want to reiterate the fact that in my experience he when he's come to our community has been very willing to have meetings with
 our elected officials and I don't think that will change and getting to all the maneuvers points and I agree that it may be a little bit mixed message between the representations within the document but I believe he's planning on doing a press conference and that's the primary purpose of the 130
 My guess, because I don't know for sure, is that if there are opportunities for other one-on-one meetings, he's going to be making himself available for that in other parts of that day. Whether it's before or after, I'm not sure, but that's one of the things my office will find out and we'll communicate whatever we learn back to council members. I didn't mean to start a whole bunch of new questions, but I apparently did.
 Thank you for letting me speak. This isn't a question, well yes it is, it's a request. I feel at this point we do not meet, I don't really want to meet on a one-to-one with the gentlemen.
 He deserves, or we as a council deserve him to speak to us, make it available at time and a place available that's convenient and that we can converse with him like we, I think he was here for a meeting a few months ago. Very nice to talk to him, but I think we're past the stage of talking one-to-one. I want to hear what he has to say.
 You're doing a good job, but I don't want the mayor to come to us and tell me what was said by Mr. Riley. I want to hear it from Mr. Riley, and I think we all deserve that. Thank you. Are there any other handouts? See, I'm in agreement with Alderman Frost regarding giving the information to us. Thank you. Mr. Hayes, did you have a point you want to raise?
 I just need to go back to petitions and communications, Your Honor. Petitions and communications, Mr. Hayes. Your Honor, reading in, received August 6th the second quarter franchise payment from Comcast in the amount of $466,455.67. And I believe that Alderman Beck would also like to go back to petitions and communications. Thank you, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. And as it turns out, Alderman Thompson-Caldale was correct. There was a second...
 I'm good for the property of 200 North Johnston and that was by the pounds family properties other bid is for a thousand dollars and they have enclosed the check for $100 which is for a deposit so I will also submit this to the purchasing and to legal department thank you for the officers reports on finished business business motions and resolutions on their
 I'm like you're on it under Roman numeral five a number one that are playing development committee recommends approval the draft resolution calling a public hearing and joint review boarding for the proposed amendments in the river district north redevelopment project sorry for passage under Roman number five motions and resolutions a one the calling for the public hearing the joint review board
 the river district north redevelopment project area and adds up for passages their discussion hearing none mr hayes can we do a voice quote on that and doing roll call please call the roll durkee hi getches hi matt camara frost hervey connell thompson kelly newberg beach elliott mcneely surelli 12-i-2 no your honor
 Thank you. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, under Rule No. 5B1, Committee recommends approval of the resolution authorizing the zoning officer to apply for a text amendment to
 section 10 7 C of the zoning ordinance to expand prohibition of the restricted use covenants legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number two of the committee recommends approval for the special event permit for SCI 5 K runs scheduled for Saturday October 3rd 2015 at Davis Park
 from 4 30 to 6 30 p.m. number three the committee recommends approval for a special event permanent and an S permit for Fiesta but Trey is scheduled for Sunday September 13 2015 at 8 or three South Central Avenue from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.
 number for the committee recommends approval of the special event permit and ask permanent for the St Patrick's Hispanic Heritage Fest scheduled for Sunday September 6 2015 from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. at St Patrick's Church twenty five oh five school street
 Number five, the committee recommends the approval of the special event permit and S liquor license for Byers Stadium's 150th anniversary celebration scheduled for Sunday, August 29th. There's a time change here. It's 1 to 5 at 311 15th Avenue.
 6. Committee recommends approval for the Special Event Permit and SP Liquor License Rockford Star Fires Peach Orchard Classic scheduled for Saturday, September 5, 2015 from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. and Sunday, September 6, 2015 from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. at 311 15th Avenue. Your Honor, I place all these committee recommendations up for passage.
 Thank you. The committee recommendations are for passage. What did you say was the correct time on that item 5? I was told the correct time is from 1 to 5 p.m., Your Honor. So, for passage, you're on 1 to 5 with B items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. Under item 5, the time should actually read 1 to 5 p.m. Is there discussion? Alderman Newberg, did you have a comment? No.
 Okay, the original paper we got I thought said 9 to 9 for St. Pat's. I think that's what it still says. Okay. Isn't it? I'm sorry, I'm looking at the wrong, okay. That's good. Thank you. Yeah. Any further discussion on these items? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. For which one? Durkee. Which one? Getches. I've seen that paper. McNamara. Frost. Purdy. McConnell. Thompson-Kelley. Otto. Newberg.
 Beech, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, 14-IR. That is passed. Thank you. Alderman Guttman. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is the approval of the award of bid for a City Warehouse Storage Facility Roof Replacement to McDermott Roofing for their bid of $104,205.
 Next is the approval for the no-bid award of 2016 resource hospital agreement with OSF Health System. Next is approval for the award of sole source contract for the Hitch City Hall security system to PERMAR security services in the amount of $56,807.51.
 Next is the award of RFP for the lease of 211 Elm Street to Red Lamp Inc. for a monthly rent of $1,525. Next is the approval of the city-state agreement for Sandy Hollow Highway Safety Improvement Program. For improvements to Sandy Hollow Road between 20th Street and Alpine Road, the city will pay $139,475 as its portion of construction costs.
 and any remaining balance over what the state pays for its portion of the construction cost. And item six is the committee recommends approval for the change order for the new fire station three fencing to Larson and Larson Builders in the amount of $28,663.
 original contract amount was $3,997,920 and the amended contract total is $4,026,583 and I placed these items up for well let's see I have additional items and I don't have that
 committee okay that's right okay yeah so that's it one through six thank you so for passage under motions and resolutions from number five see finance personnel committee numbers one two three four five and six that's our passages their discussion thank you number three on the per mar security services last week when we talked about in committee there
 Are we getting glass on the to the floors in the entrance and I think Mr Hansen said
 different types of class the traffic yeah that's correct right now what we just have up this getting the card readers for the stairwells and the doors the the glass we're still getting those estimates we also are looking into cameras as well for each floor so we don't have the numbers yet for the class but so we separate would be coming back to council for those
 And there was one more on number six. On the new fire station number three fencing, it was brought up to, has it been decreased the amount of fencing that they wanted? Yeah, that's the Alderman Frost new budget item, I think, for the fourth ward. Yeah. Yeah.
 was whispering an amendment he wanted to make to the CIP. So that's why we have the new price, correct? Yeah, the price is actually... That's the only thing that was changed. That's right. Thank you. It's a little bit higher but not as high and the design was amended. Aldon Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. On number three, and I was gone last week, is our total plan for security laid out?
 And it is what we're voting on that total plan. So the, I'm gonna just tell you what I know that it does and I'll add a couple items that it doesn't. So this is a plan to add hard readers and locks, new locks throughout the building. All of the stops and stairwell, it'll limit some of it. There's a plan, a detailed plan that Mr. Hanson and staff went through. It doesn't include, as was the discussion,
 the glass on all of the entryways in each one of the floors, nor does it include some of the amended elements of video cameras that staff's also looking at.
 So this would be the initial investment. What it would enable is all of the systems that we currently have in all of our city buildings that use card readers, for example, the side door is a card reader, your same ID would be able to work for all of those access doors so that we'd be, and that's the reason for the sole source on it, but continue to use the same system so that we don't have dual systems that could potentially be in conflict and require that you carry two different IDs. So one ID will work with all the systems.
 I miss anything or Mr Charles I I I did write a note back to to this transit I tell him
 From what I understood from the note that I received or read, is that this was really probably the least costly of any of the options. And I said that I really was disappointed that we were going to put a security in place just based on cost, especially when we've had what we've had here. And I just want to say again that I just think it ought to start down where the entry point is before people get on the elevator or something, because we don't have a second chance to do
 And this is a different world that we live in. I hate to say that, our backs are to the wall, literally. And I just think that we need to find the money to do it. I'd be happy to support this if I saw a whole plan, that this is part of the whole plan, and here's what we're going to implement it. But I'm not sure I can support if this is going to just be it, because it still really doesn't protect this chamber on any given night we're here.
 comments all the time I don't quite remember in detail when we we have sitting home I can remember us discussing security not only on the council chambers but as well as each floor it's where that extra glass with that thick glass putting in for security but I I do remember
 the swipe card and the keys and plastic keys you know maybe there's something that in archives
 I mean you can use it is have to definitely updated but I know there was some information about security when we have this building so I just wanted to and I'll call on her in a moment you know we did have this conversation and finance I'm happy to suggest that we want to add some more elements to it but if this is
 I don't want to delay if we have support for this basic system. We always add to it, but at a very basic level, I think the restrictions on use on the individual floors is going to be very helpful. It also will keep track of who's coming in and out.
 on each one of the floors of all the systems. The card readers can be audited so you know who's coming in and out of individual doors. That's a value. I don't disagree necessarily with the sentiment that we may want to look at other elements that could be added in up to and including the magnetron
 access to the council if we wanted to do that. The big cost that we looked at in the past when you start going at those items is some of the staffing to support it if you're going to do it on an everyday basis. It's less costly depending on some of the different ways it can be managed in terms of the time of the day and the days of the week that you would want to do that.
 But if the council wants to hold it, to look at the whole, we certainly can do it. Otherwise, my tendency is to say, based on what I've heard, these are all good items that we should move forward with. It doesn't mean we can't look additionally at this. Alderman Hervey, your hand.
 I was just going to suggest the card reading system for the floor doors for the doors leading into each floor my understanding is it's going to be a part of whatever system we put in it's not like something that would be taken out so I would ask that staff have prepared for our budget discussions this fall as alderman beach suggested
 the full security plan for the entire building including chambers council chambers because we have talked at one time about access to the elevators
 just to go who's coming in and out maybe that's where camera system fits and but rather than piecemeal it I would ask that we implement the card readers immediately for at least the beginning modicum of safety and then the second piece would be to bring us the entire plan for the 2016 budget thank you miss trance and then the
 any problems moving in that direction? This is exactly how we wanted to plan in the first place. This is a first phase, but we have to do something because we do have some people that are entering into the office areas, and we do have to do something quickly about that. Thank you. I'll recommend it.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say on items two and three, I believe both should go out to four bid. I think we have one on item number two. We have three wonderful health systems. One is certainly OSF, which I think the amount of impact that they've made in our community is pretty tremendous. We also have two others that I think have an eagerness to participate in that process as well.
 owe it to the health systems as well as to the citizens to see what else is out there as we did in years past. And then on item three, I would urge that we also go out to RFP again.
 Permar is a great vendor, but I also know of many other local companies that would also be able to provide some really wonderful technology services and actually do so through a number of other municipalities throughout the state and country and would like to see that go out to bid as well. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Durkan. Thank you, Your Honor. I would agree
 what Alderman McNamara is saying, I think the intangible or actually it's a critical issue with the OSF resource agreement is this, is they're in the middle of a certification process with CAAS.
 and they're right in the middle of it is so involved data collection implementation of a program accountability and measurement of effectiveness afterwards and we had to raise this issue with the last council meeting and I you know I would normally I would agree with Alderman McNamara that that we we need to call out we do have three
 very good health systems University of Illinois is here as well I don't know that they would be interested in this or have the resources to do it but I really think that right now interrupting that certification process that they're in the middle of would be disruptive to the program and I would urge the council to at least grant them.
 I know we do this on an annual basis, but as far as medical accreditation, I'd like to see them to have at least three years to start to see it through and establish this program and then maybe go out to bid. Just as a point of information, the proposal is for a three-year term with three one-year options following. Alderman Frost. Yeah. I would agree with the comments made so far with respect to number two in OSF.
 I don't know what sort of correspondence or dialogue took place with the other two health care providers in town and whether or not they're interested or not. And so I think from my standpoint, that my concerns from the city itself, we ought to do a better job of reaching out to those folks to see and gauge their interest because it would be nice if we said, well, we spoke to X.
 at this facility and they said that they're not interested. And it's, I think it would be very difficult now to open it up to an RFP. I know there's no money, it's a no-bid and there's no money with respect to what we're paying OSF. But they have laid all their cards on the table at this point and showed all the different programs and benefits that they are going to help the city with in the fire department.
 So it's obviously difficult at this point to take it back from them because they've put so much into it already. I would just, again, moving forward from the next time this particular issue comes up, I understand the past we used to do it annually, we used to rotate amongst the three facilities and that maybe didn't work so well. So I think we could figure out a way to
 at the end of their expiration of this contract to say or ask another facility if they're interested because they may not even be interested in this proposal which plans and thank goodness that OSF is. So my vote is for OSF tonight but in the future I am always of the tenor that we should be bidding everything. So on number three I agree with Alderman McNamara. If all it is is a card reading system that seems like a commodity to me, nothing specific,
 I know that Permar is our security system now, and it would make sense to obviously keep working with them. So I understand that part of it, but again, at this juncture, all we're doing is adding a card reader. I think it wouldn't hurt us to at least ask if there's someone else that could do it for less. Maybe not. Thank you. Thank you all. And Otto. Thank you. With regards to OSF.
 I know we have three wonderful hospitals and I believe that they're all capable. However, time and time again, it's been OSF for six years. I've never heard of one of our other hospitals coming forward to say, hey, what about me? Why do you keep picking OSF?
 we can offer you X, X, and X, even though they're going to do it for $0, but they've got to come way better than what OSF is doing. So I would hope that tonight my colleagues do go ahead and give it to them because they've done it thus far, and I think it would be horrible to pull this on them last minute after all that they've given to this community.
 Thank you Alderman McNeely, then Beach, and then I think Shirely, did you ever hand up to her? Alderman McNeely next, then Alderman Beach. Thank you Mr. Mayor.
 I will reiterate what I had stated last week regarding OSF and why I'm supporting OSF. I have stated over the years that I do believe that things should go out to bid, that there should be competition. However, in this particular situation, emphasis has been placed upon the certification that had started with OSF, which makes a huge difference with leaving them at this point and going
 the other two great hospitals that we have in the city. I believe I understand that seeing what OSF doing this, the city is in position to save over $192,000
 And last week, I was, my memory failed me in what I was attempting to say last week with the educational part, was Head Start, OSF is working with Head Start, 109 individuals that they're training for first aid and CPR, and they're not just
 charging the city of Rockford for any of that and that saving is somewhere between $5,000 to $7,000. And finally, on West State Street, they're one of the few, if not the only,
 organization, business that's in a TIF area, that they're actually paying the property taxes. As a hospital, they're paying the property taxes, and they spent over $3 million in that facility. So we're not...
 Again, as I stated last week, we're not in competition here regarding the three. We all agree that we need all three hospitals. We respect all three hospitals. It's just the fact that this program did start with OSF. There are a ton of reasons. I just listed a few why I believe we should stick with OSF. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beecher, believe, is next. Yes.
 certainly I'm going to support that with what I said this evening, but I want to go back to number three again and the security. What will happen in the interim for this chamber right here? Now I know that when I go to the county, I go to the county a couple times a week, off of the bell, out with everything, all the coins in the trap, to go through it, everybody knows who I am, but that's what you have to do to get into that building.
 Once you pass that point, you're in the building. So I'm not trying to be funny about it. I'm just trying to say is that what protects this chamber, your life, the life of everyone here, sits around here, just what we have. Our police officer is inside this building, right in this room. So what happens if somebody walks through the store? What happens to the public speaker? Many have come here and have gotten very vocal. We don't know why. I just, am I feeling this personally? I mean, no, I think that.
 It's time that we do something. And I'm okay for waiting for the whole program. That makes a lot of sense to me, to see the dollars and cents. I was talking about next Monday night. That's what I'm talking about.
 So just to answer that question right now, and I don't know if it's meant to be rhetorical. If it was, I apologize. But right now we do have one officer stationed here every week. In the past, at times when we felt like there was a need, we've had multiple officers in the front side of the room, and we'd certainly address that as the case may be. We have looked at designs in the past that would involve
 securing the elevator gateway and the stairwells so that you'd have to go through a magnet
 some level of additional security before you get into the elevator bank. And I think we certainly can look at that again. It's a bigger expense from both an investment and from a staffing standpoint. And I'd be happy to support council and staff looking at that. The immediate need arose in some events that have been recently that have had to do with access on the individual floors.
 So in the individual staff access which needs to be improved we think immediately to address some of the concerns that we've had so I would just
 I'm saying it and I think in summary other people have already said it. I would prefer that we move forward with this proposal while we still are very able to do the additional research to come back with those additional security enhancements for both the Chamber and some of the other access in the elevator corridor. Followed by Regent. Yes, sir, thank you for letting me just follow up.
 What policy do we have about concealed carry here in the city now for people that come into the lobby to pay their bills? It's illegal by state law. Okay. How do we check that out?
 How do we check that out to see whether they really have left their arms in their car? We don't okay So I'm saying right now any particular point in time people could go off and throw a building even with these Recarters aren't and we would not really know that that's correct Okay, so that's the point I'm trying to make is that well, I know what the law is I can't do it. There's nothing to I tell you it's accounting. They would know that when you walk through you couldn't get through I
 You just couldn't get through with it. So I'm just making a comment that we are somewhat vulnerable, and I just make that comment. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Shirley. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to say that, you know, in the time of need and an emergency, we expect our ambulance and EMS people to be well-trained, professional, and I can say they have been. I have gotten so many emails.
 calls from constituents and emails about their life situation like the death situations and how they've been treated think me to thank the city and I want to thank you Jane always suffer that outstanding service of training and I for this number three to four thank you all the number thank you I have in the last three years use the Rockford fire department ambulances four times for my husband who has since passed
 I can tell you that the last time he went by ambulance, he fought with the dialysis lady because he said, no, you're calling my buddies at the fire department. They had suggested another group. I think our fire department is so well trained and our paramedics, all of them. The Rockford Police Department has people trained for emergency stuff.
 Part of that is due to the certification that we have received that St. Anthony's has created and helped us achieve. And I feel at this point, most of the time I do believe we should be going out to bids also, but at this point, and this is such a new program, I think we should let it go
 and be successful and as of right now today we vote on this from this point on at the end we've got three years and then what is I think it's three years renewables so it's
 that wants, even out of county, that feels they can do a better project, a better job than OSF, have at it because OSF has a good program and even if we go out to bids, I feel they would be the one that would come in. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you, Your Honor. I view item number two a little bit differently.
 I do think the OSF has done a great job. I worry about the message that we send to our other partners in how we do business as a city. You know, coming in, you know, it was mentioned, hey, they've already put their chips down on the table. True. But when we started this agreement with OSF, that was as part of a, you know, a process
 proposal. They submitted an RFP. That's typically my understanding how we've done this. We put this out to bid. So by approaching us with a no-bid proposal, you're asking for an exception to what has been the rule knowing that we can say no. And so one, I don't want to set the precedent that well, if we approach and the purchase is on the table and it doesn't go our way, well, I don't think that should, for me, that's not a consideration. That's
 that would truly, like item number three, we have the system, we have an urgent need. So urgent need, system in place, there's a reason for a no-bid proposal there. Item number two, we've seen this coming for years. The standard is to go out to bid. And one of the things we can consider in the bid process is the CAS certification.
 When we're looking at the different options that come in, we can say, hey, what is the impact of other people on this certification? So to me, I think it's more open, it's more proper for us to go put this out to bid. Clearly OSF has a very competitive proposal, but give our other partners a chance to come in, all of whom have done good things for our community, all of whom I think can do a good job training our paramedics. Thank you for the discussion. Mr. Hayes, please call the roll.
 Gacius, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson, Kelly, Otto, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Roman numeral five, C, one, four, five and six, 14 ayes, zero no. Roman numeral five, C, two, 12 ayes, two no. Roman numeral five, C, three,
 11 ayes, 3 no. All items pass. All items pass. Thank you very much. Alderman McNeely. I vote for number 4 to a no, please. Yes, you can. I believe, Mr. Hayes, that doesn't change the outcome, does it? No, Your Honor. Roman numeral 5C4 would be 13 ayes, 1 no. 1 no. Thank you. The matter is passed. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley, do you know that item? No. Roman numeral 5D, legislative lottery. Yes, I do.
 I thought we were both on the air conditioner. For the legislative and lobbying committee, there has been a joint effort with the Winnebago County Board and the City Council to approve the resolution encouraging the State of Illinois to pass a balanced budget. I'll set this up for passage. The matter is up for passage as the resolution encouraging the State of Illinois to pass a balanced budget is in discussion. Hearing none, I'll let the Chair please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I said it has passed the new business. Well, under roll number six, A4 and 5, Rockford Area Economic Development Council agreement for services for passage. And secondly, the second amendment to the development agreement between the city of Rockford and Gorman and Company, so for passage, I'd like to suspend rules first.
 It's been a motion. Aye. And second, to suspend the rules on enrollment number 6A, items 4 and 5. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please seek by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Aye. 7. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would place those two ordinances up for passage. Two items up for passage. Is there discussion? No. One, two, and three, because of the prior action of the council, are not up. So it's just four and five on enrollment number 6A that are up for passage. Is there discussion?
 hearing on clerk please tell the roll uh durkee getches mcnamara connell thompson kelly auto newberg beach ellie i'm sorry i couldn't hear you if you voted six no it's a roman numeral six item a four and five four and five only mcneely sure alderman frost we are voting on roman numeral six
 Item 4 and 5. 6A, 4 and 5. 6A, 4 and 5. Your Honor, Roman numeral 6, item 4 is 9 ayes and 4 noes. Roman numeral 6, item 5 is 12 ayes and 1 noe. Thank you. Matters passed. Alderman Hervey, I didn't know if you wanted to vote on those items. I'm sorry. We've called Roman numeral 6, item 8, 4 and 5. Thank you, Your Honor.
 She was in the chamber while we were voting. I didn't know if you wanted to call. Thank you. I'm sorry. Eleanor Beach had a point of order. 12-1 is 13, but one was gone. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That is passed. Thank you. Eleanor Shrelney.
 thank you yeah remember all six being one amendment to the city of rockford court of ordinance to chapter one twenty one subdivision regulations number two is a rock for school district to annex continuous land by Jefferson high school at fifty two x x thirty fifth
 Thank you. Move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Second. Motion to suspend the rules on Roman 06B1 and 2. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Second, the rules be suspended. Place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. These ordinances are up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getches. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Newberg. Beach. Elliott.
 Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14-0. That is passed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is a memorandum of understanding with the state of Illinois for the temporary placement of a barrier wall along Illinois 251. Item 2 is the Head Start Collaborative Agreement with Rockford Day Nursery Early Learning Program. Item 3 is the proposed amendments to the Revolving Loan Fund for Ingersoll Project. And item 4 is the amendment to the 2015 Development Agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement. I move for suspension of rules.
 I've been a motion second to spend the rules of the Roman numeral 6 C items 1 2 3 and 4 all those in favor of suspending the rules please say aye Aye Opposed no Aye Thank you rules will be suspended I place them up for passage Matters are for passage it's their discussion Carrying on clerk please call the roll Durkee Aye Ketchis Aye McNamara Aye Frost Hervey Aye Connell Thompson Kelly Otto Newberg Beach Aye Elliott Beck Aye McNeely Aye
 Chair Elle, you're on your Roman numeral 6C1 and 2, 13 ayes, 1 no. Roman numeral 6C3 and 4, 14 ayes, 0 no. That is it. Matters all pass. As promised, we have very brief presentation before the end of our meeting. I'd invite our friends from Commonwealth Edison, speaking of electricity and air conditioning, to please come forward to make our presentation. Thank you very much.
 This is Craig Kringian with Commonwealth Edison. Today was the rollout of the smart meter, smart grid program for our community. So homes, including yours truly, in the Signal Hill neighborhood, was one of the first areas hit with the opportunity for a new meter. I'll look forward to you giving your quick presentation and any questions the council might have. Thank you.
 Excellent. Thank you, Mary, and thank you, Council people. Great pleasure to be here. We appreciate the opportunity to come talk about our Smart Meter program anywhere, anyplace. It's a great program that brings great value to our customers, truly a win-win. This is a good
 Originally, our Rockford program was not going to start until much later. We have the opportunity to pull it forward, bring the benefits to the customers much earlier. So that's what we're doing with this limited deployment. I'm going to pass around both the analog and the digital.
 dumb meter if you will, you can take a look at it. Then I'll pass around a smart meter. So a smart meter today, all meters that are manufactured, commercially manufactured are digital meters. That doesn't make them smart. There's a network interface card which is simply a communications module that makes it a smart meter. So it has two-way radio communications. The magic to it, it is a very inexpensive
 low wattage radio that operates in the unlicensed spectrum. Therefore, again, very cost effective, low wattage radio to communicate with.
 We wanted to bring these to Rockford. We have a lot of, within the Rockford area, there's a lot of indoor meters that customers can't get meter reads and causes estimated bills. We know that's a huge dissatisfier to customers to get inaccurate or estimated bills. So therefore, we've targeted a small pilot area to pilot this program in to try to eliminate these estimated bills in these pockets.
 Additionally, we have some, we're slightly ahead of our project, so we have some employees that are from the Rockford area working in Chicagoland now that we're going to redeploy to Rockford. One of them is sitting in the back. Tom Prakulski, he's our manager of customer experience and he's going to be managing our
 pilot deployment out here in the Rockford area with our installers the installers also we have several Rockford data so we've moved out of Chicago and here to do the installs here for your community so with that I think that gravity I think is what what I heard I'll open it up for questions yes sir in addition to reading the meter what other data is this device able to collect and will it be collected
 Yeah, so it collects usage data as well as voltage data, so basic electric usage data over time periods, time interval periods. So every half hour interval, the voltage and the usage is collected. Could you talk a little bit about customers who sign up, the information they'll be able to give back?
 Absolutely. So what this does is it enables customers to use real time, peak time savings programs and real time usage alerts. So you can sign up, see your usage online in detail, helps you manage it. There's also programs, peak time savings programs that you can enroll in at no risk to yourself. So there's no downside to the project. But if you curb your energy usage and move it to the off-peak periods, you will save money.
 and again that deep time savings program there's no no risk or downside only upside all the top security and all of Newburgh okay I have three questions oh I have one statement thank you you the smart meeting you picked the smart neighborhood signal hill to start in and I appreciate that but would you give us a schedule of where you're going to be going after when you're going to be coming into the communities with replacing the units
 I'll pass around a little map here that we have of the small pilot target area that we'll be putting the meters in this year. There's 9,800 of them we're going to do in this target area this year.
 next year we'll do another 40,000 in the Rockford proper and then the following year we'll finish up the greater Rockford area. Now is it required of a homeowner to get a smart meter or can they refuse to get one of these meters?
 There is a refusal process so that the customer can refuse. However, there is a refusal charge that they would have to pay if they refuse the meter. And then at the end of the project, by law, all meters will have to be SPARP meters. And are they going to be located? I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
 You're doing a good job. Thank you. And are you going to relocate the smart meter in place where the old meter is or are you going to be looking for different locations and homes to do that? No, they'll go exactly in the same location as the existing meter. So the meter socket doesn't change, the meter that's plugged into it just gets changed out. So if you happen to have an indoor one that in the past they couldn't read?
 Here they don't have to anymore because it uses radio frequencies to connect. And stop me if I'm wrong and using the wrong terminology, but the more of these that get put in place, they use what's called a wireless mesh communication system. So it'll be more effective the more units that ultimately get put in place. They won't have to come into your house like they would have had to in the past. And my last question. The service maintenance on these new units, does a resident, do a resident have to be at home for you to maintain your units?
 When we do the install, you do not have to be home. If your meter is outside and we have access to it, we will change it without you being home or if you would like, you will get plenty of mailers as well as last phone calls and so forth. If you would like to make an appointment, people can make an appointment if you would like to be home when the install is done. Thank you. Thank you. Good questions. Thank you, Alderman Newberg. Thank you. Two questions. One, does this do away with estimated bills then?
 absolutely it's going to be a great the tremendous reduction of them right to these things are significantly that's where the value streams is it significantly reduces them drastically yes okay and follow up please so that means by 2018 the entire city should be equipped
 That's correct. We should finish actually 2017. The entire city should be finished by 2017. And that's by the way a two year, at least two years I think, ahead of what was originally going to be scheduled, which is the Alderman Oro. That's correct. So what if you're not in my area until next year and I want to meet her in my home, do I have to pay for it?
 At this point, we're just going to install in these targeted areas and by our schedule. So basically, you wait until we come through your area. Most areas will be done by the end of next year. By the end of next year, yes. Go ahead. Thank you.
 How did you choose your targeted area? What made you? By estimated bills. So we looked at which customers, we understand that this is a customer satisfaction project to us and one of the big dissatisfiers we get from our survey data is customers that get estimated bills. And so we looked at a pocket of the most dense estimated bills in the area. These are the areas of the city that have the oldest homes with the highest percentage of non-REEDs. So they had to use estimatability. Gotcha.
 It wasn't because the mayor lives in Sydney Park. Additionally, indoor meters are the cause of problem too is that people don't like anyone coming into their homes and so we find that to be dissatisfying whenever we have to enter someone's property inside their home once a month. So again, customers generally do not like that so it gives us an opportunity to provide that benefit as well.
 all of them in the beach and then all of them in herby yes um then i would imagine that the first bill after the changeover might be significantly higher if the adjustment from estimated to actual would offer as you're saying one of the motivations for you to change is because of that estimated will probably be significantly higher or could it be lower
 Certainly. If you have an estimated bill for extended periods of time, the estimate could be off high or low. We do see them off both on the upside and the downside. There will be a true up when you get the real read and the first real read. What has your experience been in other areas? We have been getting letters
 from constituents that have had this in other places that talk about the fact that their bills really jumped high and what, I don't know what that means, 30 percent, five dollars, 20 percent? It's got to be something. Yeah, but the, I really can't speak to exactly, you know, what the electric usage depends on personal habits as well as temperature, weather, so forth. So it's hard to determine
 what somebody's usage had been, what has been estimated for a long time. But you don't have an average. With all the installs that have been done on the Chicago market, you don't have an average. I think that's what you're asking for. So what I get every month that tells me what I use compared to my neighbors and what I did a year ago, that's not accurate information? No.
 No, no, yes, we have that data. We can follow up and get you some statistics. I don't know them off the top of my head on the estimated bills and how many of them are, what percentage high and low. We can follow up with Mr. Gallrup and get you that information.
 Thank you. Alderman Herby? Is usage data private? And when I say private, I want to know whether ComEd will sell my usage data to other companies or firms or producers, product people or anyone else because as digital information becomes more intrusive into our homes, you can probably pinpoint based on my usage when I'm home and when I'm not.
 So I want to know A is it private and B what are the safeguards to make sure that
 that our personal information stays private. Absolutely. So we will not release your personal information. Absolutely not. You will be able to in a future date if you would like to. So problem with information is some people want to give none away. Other people want to give it away and enable it because different companies can solicit it and say, hey, I can give you a great program if you show me your past usage history.
 So the industry is working on some standards on how to be able to release data through an authorization, you know, a very secure authorization that you personally make. But at this point, we absolutely will not give your personal information away. Could you also just talk about security? If someone comes to your door and making sure that they're not a scam artist, and by the way, if anybody ever asks for you, this happens to me all the time, they ask to see my bill.
 It probably happens once every two months. I get somebody asking me to see my electric bill, and I tell them where they could go. Honestly, God, because it just becomes a hassle. I don't know what list I'm on, but it happens quite frequently where they'll come and they'll almost act authoritative
 that you have to show them your bill. You do not have to show anybody who comes to your door your private electric bill. They're trying to sell you something, but can you speak just a little bit about that? Absolutely, we'll never ask for that. ComEd employees will never ask you that.
 every employee that's going to be out and installing is going to have a ComEd ID badge with them. They'll be wearing ComEd hard head, ComEd gear. They will have a ComEd vehicle. They won't be driving personal vehicles. They'll have big white vehicle that says ComEd on it. So ID, hard head, ComEd gear.
 hard hat, the clothing, the car, so forth. Anybody else comes, it's not us. And if you've got any questions, feel free to follow up. And they will not need any information from you. Our employees will knock on the door, attempt to contact you, ask you any questions at the time of the install, but they will not ask you for any information whatsoever. Bill, name, number.
 No information will be asked. It's purely a courtesy and to ask for any questions that you have at the install time. Thank you. Alderman Newberg, then Alderman McConnell. Thank you. This past summer, NICOR has been replacing something in the ground in the 9th Ward. We were the first. They said 90% of the work they're doing in Rockford is there. They have disbanded.
 opened up streets they've dug up yards they've also done a very good job of coming back and replacing what they've done I'm only in the whole neighborhood I've had two complaints so kudos to them sorry but is this going to cause any trouble to the landscape other than
 Absolutely, that shouldn't cause any damage to the property at all and we specifically audit our employees, make sure that they leave the property clean, neat and clean. We look for even the little meter seals that are on there, that they don't drop them and leave them. So we understand this is a customer service project and respecting your property is the utmost importance. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
 I'm sorry I'm a child of the horse colleges correct only have a very patient my apologies yes I can notify the customers in advance by mail so that least I mean I realize that they have a badge they have a truck they have all that but still in today's environment are you going to notify them in advance in advance that they're going to be in your area during this week that week
 Absolutely. There's mailers and also a blast phone call goes out. So it's a reminder we're going to be in your area installing meters. So we do give a series of notifications as well. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm at Herbie. Yes, Your Honor, I would move that we convene a closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. So we're all done with Friends of Commonwealth Medicine. Thank you very much. Again, thank you very much for having us today.
 No, you may. There's a pending motion on the floor. There's a second on the motion. Second. There's a motion and second to go into closed session to discuss pending or direct litigation. Clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you. The motion carries. We will go into a recess to discuss ending a threat litigation.