August 16th, 2021. As we begin each week, we will begin with an invocation from Chaplain Roy Whitmore. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for this city. We thank you, Lord, for the council. Lord, we thank you, but without you, we can do nothing. We are trusted in you, Lord. Let your blessing be upon this council with wisdom, understanding, and faith.
 that we may take care of the business of the city, and we thank you for it now, in Jesus' name. I pledge allegiance to the flag for which it stands. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Bronte. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Here.
 Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on June 21st, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on July 6th, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed?
 Okay, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on July 12th, 2021? We have a motion, we have a second. I see no discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? All right. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on July 19th, 2021? We have a motion, we have a second. We're moving right along tonight. No discussion. All those in favor say aye.
 Those opposed? All right. Next, before we go to a presentation this evening, we're going to jump ahead as we have a host of public speakers. Just want to remind public speakers that there's a microphone on the back left and the back right of council chambers. You will hear a very, you have three minutes to address the city council and then you will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring and ask that you close your, close up your comments. Yes.
 Our first public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible.
 Servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as not men pleasing, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. Masters give your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a master in heaven. As I reflected on this festered description, the thought came to mind of the distinction between substance and symbolism. Substance is what you are. Symbolism is a representation, not the real thing.
 During slavery, American slave owners presented God as condoning and ordaining slavery. This ungodly and uncivilized practice also bringing in preachers to preach acceptance of servitude and inferiority to slaves. This is symbolism, although perverted. In biblical times, one became a servant or slave for a reason other than color. They had rights, but American black slaves had none. Jewish slaves could earn freedom, year of Jubilee. That is substance.
 Paul urged masters to treat their servants fairly and justly, for you have a master in heaven who vows, as you sow, so shall you reap. Underdogs today can be top dogs tomorrow. Top dogs today can be underdogs tomorrow. This brings to mind substance and symbolism as it relates to local politicians, especially the black ones. The latter I have observed for decades embraces symbolism over substance.
 Most are now wondering why they are greatly disrespected by most black folks, whether they served in some legislative capacity in Springfield on the county board, the Rockford Senate calendar, or in some executive capacity. They were tokens, symbols without substance.
 And it continues in the main to this day. I can think of two exceptions, one decidedly more than the other one, who no longer lives in Rockford. The decidedly substantive one, I attended her exploratory committee announcement a few days ago. I was delighted to send a letter of support to Congressman Danny Davis, who works with our ministers for manufacturing group out of Chicago.
 He responded affirmatively with an email, I got a call at 6 a.m. informing me of the decision, but I won't say from whom, as I have friends who work for the Congressman. That, coupled with the coup de grace from the emissaries from Reverend Jesse Jackson's office, coming from Chicago to deliver his support as well as their support, which portends great things for this black woman of substance. Reverend Dotson, you want us there for the announcement? Yes, I do. And they came.
 One young emissary informed me that he just got out of the joint, but is now making $42.50 an hour, belonging to a union that will support her with foot soldiers and money. His words, Reverend Dossett, it will be Katie Baradunua, it's all over. That is substance over symbolism. She can and will make history in the mold of Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks, Shirley Chisholm, and others, even Vice President Kamala Harris. There's a lesson here and a warning.
 especially for the black women in this body. Don't accept symbolism in exchange for substance, as you are being observed closely. Substance is what you are. Symbolism is pretense, not real. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Bren Langdon. Hello, Mayor. As you know, if I'm here, there's a problem. So we just don't get right down to it.
 I'm very disappointed in the construction that was done at our house when you replaced the pipes. They did a beautiful job on the road, however, whoever you hired to do the contracting for the landscaping left us weeds. Weeds that are up as tall as this here.
 I don't have time or the energy to go out there and work in Maggie's farm. So I need for you to get whoever it was to get back out there and fix that. Or I'm going to be here every week BMW, bitch moaning and whining. And you know you don't want that. Problem number two is my neighbor.
 His backyard looks like Sanford and Soon, has a commode out there, a whole bathroom. Again, I've contacted code enforcement, sent pictures, nothing. Don't get that fixed, I'll be back up here. Problem number three, that liquor store and restaurant on Kishwaukee and College Avenue does not have any type of handicap designation.
 Now, if you don't fix it, I'm going to contact Americans with Disabilities. And once again, I'll be back up here at BMW. Can we take care of that? You want me to come back up here? I think you need to have a conversation with your people. That's my substance. Excellent. Thank you so much. Our next public speaker this evening is former Judge Rosemary Collins.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you all for having me here today. I really appreciate it. I'm here to speak to you about, to ask you for your support for the International Women's Baseball Center that we are proposing to be built near the area of Byer Field. This is really important for our area. It's a huge project. It's a $10 million project that will be located in an area town that I think is really in need of large economic development.
 So it will help the area, it will help the children, and it will help our history. And the history of that field is very significant to us, and we intend to preserve the historical character of Byer Field. It will not be destroyed. In fact, we are trying to seek even further landmark status for the historic entrance and the steps
 So it will not destroy Byer Field, it will enhance it. It will be an area also that we intend to build a youth center. And to me, that's really some of the most important aspects of this. We'll be building a youth center across the street from Byer Field. That youth center will be a place where our youth in the community can come. They can learn baseball skills, but they can also learn other skills that are related to the baseball industry.
 because we know not everybody, not all of us can be a world-class baseball player. But we can work as managers, we can work as coaches, we can work as statisticians, we can be writers. There are a lot of careers in baseball that are open for girls and boys, and with a youth center in that neighborhood which is underserved by youth centers, then we will be able to draw in children from that area and children from all over the community.
 This is a place where the Park District has already received calls from people outside of our state asking when the museum will be open. It will be a huge boost for tourism. It will be a huge boost for the economic development of that area, besides for the $10 million that will be placed on that site. There will be ripple effect of economic development in that entire area.
 And it will help keep our children busy with something to do and give them a chance to learn a different way of surviving. You know, it costs over $100,000 a year to house a kid in the Department of Corrections.
 So what we are planning is a way to try to break that cycle to give kids a different way to learn how to live their life and something else to do. And I think it will be a boon for everybody in the community. So I would urge your support. There's a lot of misinformation out there about this project. So if any of you would like some more information about it, I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Hi.
 He's at the RIT. Okay, thank you. Our next public speaker is Stephanie Brown. Is Stephanie Brown with us this evening? Okay, we'll move right along. So we're going to go back to presentations, and we have our annual audit presentation. I knew this because Carrie Haggerty was incredibly excited about presenting the audit, and we're fortunate we also have Don Shaw with us as well. Both of those are live.
 Thank you for that introduction. I don't think I've ever heard an audit presentation as incredibly exciting, but I appreciate it. I'll try to make it as interesting as possible for you, though. I first want to thank you for having me tonight. I want to thank Carrie, Patty, Mike, the entire finance department for all their help. I feel like every year we talk about how it's been the best audit year ever, and I am confident with Carrie's team that we're going to continue that tradition next year. Thank you.
 Thank you for all the help along the way. Although the audit is not meant to detect and prevent fraud, we have provided, we have completed procedures over the city's internal controls that are meant to reduce that risk. We have also performed procedures over the account balances and transactions that would, that we compared to supporting documents to test the accuracy of the financial statements.
 Once the audit is completed, the City and Waterbuck and Amon work in conjunction to provide a final product, which is the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, which I'll go through with you tonight. If you turn to page 8 of the Annual Financial Report, you will find the Certificate of Achievement Award,
 this award was provided for the 2019 audit we have applied for and expect to receive the same award for 2020 so congratulations on receiving that award if you turn about two more pages to page 11 yeah i'm sorry could you hold the mic our mics are really pretty poor and yeah yeah that better all right much better thank you yep no problem
 So, if you go to page 11, you'll find our LARBAC name and letterhead. This is our independent audit report in which we provide a clean, unmodified opinion. It's the highest opinion you may receive, and it basically states that we found no issues with internal controls or the numbers as they were presented that would otherwise alter our opinion. The management discussion analysis will begin on page 15.
 And the mantra discussion analysis provides a summary of how the year performed in narrative form. So if you have questions on fluctuations from year to year or what the numbers truly mean, this is where you'd want to go for those answers. Your individual fund financial statements will begin on page 36 and 37.
 And the financial statements start with your balance sheet. And on the far right column on page 37 towards the bottom, you'll see that the total fund balance for your governmental funds was at $77 million. 55% or about $43 million is related to your general fund, which is your main operating fund. To see how this fund performed in the current year,
 We can jump ahead to what would be your income statement, which is on page 40. Towards the bottom of page 40, you'll notice that the general fund had a net increase of about $3.5 million. This is primarily due to your revenues coming in higher than was projected and your expenditures being below budget, which has contributed to the COVID-19 pandemic that we saw, which contributed to that. Your notes to the financial statement will begin on page 51.
 And the notes of the financial statement provide you with further detail into how we came up with the figures that we did with supporting schedules. Within there you'll find your capital asset and your long-term debt schedules. I'm not going to go through the notes with you tonight, so if you skip all the way to page 136. Yeah, I don't, I want to stay on your good side, so I don't want to bore you completely. So if you jump all the way to page 136.
 you'll find the start of your budgetary information so if you want to see how a specific fund performed based on what is budgeted this is where you'd want to go and one item that I touched on earlier on page 136 you'll notice that the revenues came in higher than was budgeted and on page 137 your expenditures were below budget which as I mentioned contribute to that net increase of three point five million dollars
 Does anyone have any questions? Well, if not, if you have trouble sleeping and read through this, it'll help you get to sleep. And if you have... Oh, go ahead. I have one question. Has the city ever thought about putting some of their financials in, like, CAFR form instead of CAFR form? Because I'm like... Sure. Sure.
 Yep, I'll take that one, Alderman. We have Patty Rohde is our current accounting manager, and she's new to the position. This is her first audit process or procedure. She couldn't be here this evening. She's taking a well-deserved vacation after getting through her first audit. But we have had conversations about preparing a PAFR. The acronym is Popular Annual Financial Report, and it's sort of a condensed,
 more easily digestible by the public format for governmental agencies to present this information. So we have had several conversations about that. I think we had a lot of room for improvement in just our CAFR preparation process, but that is on our to-do list. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 If I could I just want to acknowledge we have you know Generating this is you know, it's a starts January 1st and it ends June 30 in the following year We have accounting staff that spend a massive amount of time and energy digesting
 information and putting it into a readable format that complies with governmental accounting standards. They aren't the frontline service provider, you know, no one's going to stand and say thanks Patty Rohde for putting the audit together like we all congratulate Kyle.
 But the work that they do is essential for not only maintaining accountability to the public, but also compliance with all of our various funding sources and state laws. And I just want to acknowledge the work of the team that went into this. Patty Rohde, our accounting manager, Mike Childers is our principal accountant. He did some really fantastic work on a new accounting pronouncement this year, preparing our financials to comply with that.
 Deanna Larson and Allison Melton on the payroll side. Just a big, big team effort, and they did probably, as Don mentioned, probably the best audit prep process that we've ever had this year. That's awesome. No, that's fantastic. And none of them would have been able to get to work without Kyle Saunders and public works. This is true.
 No, thank you, Don and Carrie. You and your entire department always do an exceptional job, so thank you. Thank you. And if anyone has, you have a copy of the report, a copy of the management letter as well on your desks. If you have any questions about any of it, either for Don, be happy to share direct contact information. If you have questions about them or their process or questions for me, happy to answer them as well. Any last questions from counsel now?
 Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Enjoy the rest of your evening. Thank you. Okay, we'll move right along. Next we're going to proclamations. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll skip to petitions and communications. And before I dive into the committees, I will go to Director McMeyers. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment.
 in the amount of $420,904.26. Thank you, Director. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 17, 2021, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on August 23, 2021, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Item to liquor and tobacco advisory boards agenda for the meeting to be held on August 17th, 2021, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on August 23rd, 2021 referred to code and regulation committee.
 Item three, memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney regarding approval of a resolution for authority to intervene on the 2020 property tax appeal case for Portillo's located at 6090 East State Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Item for a memorandum from Martin Bloom project manager permits and special events regarding an upcoming special event for the for the answer 2021 referred to code and regulation committee.
 Item five, a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding a right-of-way vacation request for a portion of Center Drive and a portion of North Alpine Road, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And finally, number six, a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 3024 Sears Avenue, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. First is a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the proposed sale of two city-owned properties under the City of Rockford's Moda Owned Program. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And then, Your Honor, if we could stop for a moment to do a bid opening for the sale of city-owned property located at 1020 North Avenue.
 I have two bids that I have been given by the city clerk kind of exciting drum roll, please the first bid is from Nicholas Jackson and he is placing a bid for this property in the amount of two thousand five hundred and one dollar The second bid is from William J and Alice Rebecca Coleman and
 And their bid amount was $1,100. So according to this, the winning bid would go to Nicholas Jackson of 714 John Street in the amount of $2,501. And he has his money order for $251. I'm going to give both of them back to you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we'll go to new committee reports. We have no items under planning and development, so we will go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you.
 Thank you, your honor. We have item 1. the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign for non residential.
 Use in a residential district from 48 square feet to 57.5 square feet along North Alpine Road in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 4405 High Crest Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item to the committee recommends approval of the 2021 2022 contract between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item three, the committee recommends approval for the authorization to execute easements on 15 city owned properties to four river sanitation. City staff is seeking authorization for these grant easements. So for river sanitation may continue its project to the benefit of the city of Rockford. The properties are as follows, 111 North Day,
 2611 West State, 2607 West State, 106 North Henrietta, 2523 West State, 2511 West State, 2507 West State, 2505 West State, 112 North Johnston, 2205 West State, 2201 West State, 2123 West State, 2117 West State,
 21 11 West state and 2105 West state the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you alderman So we have three items before us. Is there any discussion alderman frost? Thank you. Your honor I would ask that the item number one be laid over. We have a motion to lay over item one Is there a second? We got a second. So item ones laid over so I
 Instead of three items, we now have two items before you. Items two and three, any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prunty? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Next up, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost.
 thank you your honor the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of six million five hundred and thirty three thousand three hundred and eighty nine dollars and forty cents as approved at the finance personnel committee meeting which was held on august 9th 2021 thank you thank you we have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item clerk could you please call the roll berkey aye toonberg frost aye tarina prenti wilkins hoffman
 Rose. Aye. Quinones. Meek. McNeely. Bonnie. 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we have officers' reports. Any aldermen have reports for the public? Alderman Trina? I just wanted to acknowledge an unfortunate incident that happened in my ward. A lady by the name of Lorene Gerken, a tree fell on her home.
 And it did kill her, unfortunately. So I just wanted to give my public condolences and prayers to her family and friends. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reports? Alderman Bonney? With all due respect to our finance director, I have to publicly thank our public works director.
 for spending part of his Sunday with me for 815 day at the Pasqua Mercato, which is Leno's outdoor Italian market. And he was very helpful in handling a lot of questions from constituents from all across the city. And we distributed a couple dozen of the Slow Down Save Lives signs, including...
 About half of them to a single constituent and alderman Logan's ward. So it was a good day. Thank you any other reports?
 Alderman Durkee Yeah, I just woke up so I was at the 815 stuff like many people were and I
 We were unfortunately inundated by, actually it was a single protester, which is fine. But I'm wondering, I know we have certain restrictions. I'm wondering if we, in maybe consultation with Attorney Myers, develop a little more comprehensive strategy to move protesters forward
 150 feet 250 feet away from events this individual is pretty profane yesterday I did call the police and we discussed the legalities of the officers were very very good and helped me understand but when these people are misbehaving in that manner when they're profane and yelling at people who are going into the event
 which I found very curious, some of the remarks considering the event. It's unnerving and I think a lot of citizens are tired of it. I don't mind people protesting. They have a right to protest. They don't have a right to be heard though. There's a big difference. And so yelling at people with a megaphone two feet away from them
 I'm not sure that's what our founders really had in mind with protesting. So I'd like to see something in the future to allow these folks to have their say, to put up the signs and do whatever they want, but have a respectable buffer. I know a lot of communities have such ordinances. I think a lot of them were crafted out of the pro-life movement that tended to harass people going in and out of clinics.
 so i'm wondering what we can do in that regard sure so you know we've looked a lot at this issue uh for the last several months um because i would agree there is a difference between uh protesting and what we consider traditional public forums but oftentimes this behavior is
 uh... going over into disorderly conduct we've had batteries we've had you know uh... number of issues so uh... i think maybe more appropriate for me to put uh... that applied you do more when i want to discuss some of the issues we have it's not really a poor upright line
 all the time these are sort of fact intensive cases but i can i can give you an update on sort of where we have gone and to get to where we are now uh in conjunction with with the state's attorney's office and we are in quite a bit of conversation with them and have been for a number of months now so i mean really we want to make sure that we are protecting people um but also making sure we're you know first and foremost uh protecting first amendment rights and often it's a delicate balance agreed yeah i i just think i
 It's drawing it anything's about time that we do the stuff I saw on Sunday was was really not called for No mind that like I said, I don't mind that the person was protesting but Saying the stuff he was saying a couple feet away from people is was kind of nutty to tell you the truth actually Did more to hurt his cause than anything else to tell you the truth. Thanks. Thanks any other reports I
 All right, moving right along. Appointments laid over. Both of these appointments are not to be voted on for at least another two days. So we have the Community Action Agency. Both of those appointments will come up at the next City Council meeting. Alderman Rose? Would it be okay to suspend Rule 18 and we could vote on it tonight? We certainly could.
 i'd like to i'll make that motion all right we have a motion to suspend rule 18 is there a second i'll second we have a motion we have a second any discussion all those in favor say aye aye those opposed excellent they go they're approved uh next we'll go to next we'll go to motions and resolutions uh planning development there is mr mayor that was on the rule suspension oh you're right thank you thank you thank you
 So we've approved the rule suspension. My apologies. Now we have to vote on the item. So you have two items, two appointments before you. Is there any discussion on those two appointments? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Next we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development committee. So under code and regulation committee, Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Item 1, the committee recommends approval of the Rock River Food Truck Fest. This event is scheduled for August 28th from 4 to 10 p.m. The event location will be at Davis Park, 320 South Wyman Street. Item 2, the committee recommends approval of the Screw City Beer Festival. This event is scheduled for September 11th from noon to 4 p.m. The event location will be 324 North Madison Street.
 parking lot of Riverview Ice House and Trolley Car 36. Item 3, the committee recommends approval of the Churchill Grove Annual Garage Sale. This event is scheduled for September 25th from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. The event location will be 1526 Harlem Boulevard, Churchill Grove Neighborhood Association.
 Item 4, the committee recommends approval of the Tour de North End. This event is scheduled for September 25th from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. The event location will be Olympic Tavern parking lot 2327 North Main Street. Excellent. Thank you, Alderman Rose. We have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost.
 thank you number one the committee recommends approval the award of the bid for the citywide bridge preservation plan to eminem concrete amount of eighty nine thousand dollars the project is estimated to be completed by september 17 2021 the funding source is the motor fuel tax number two the committee recommends approval the award of bid for citywide repairs group number three to norwest construction in the amount of three hundred and thirty six thousand five hundred and forty four dollars and seventy five cents
 The project is estimated to be completed on October 1, 2021. The funding source is sales tax. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the West State Street Water Main Relocation Phase 2 to end track in the amount of $874,932.06. The project is estimated to be completed by November 12, 2021. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the grounds maintenance for water sites and fire stations to RCS grounds for an estimated annual value of 69,915 for water sites and estimated 18,085 dollars for fire station. The contract duration is 1 year with 4 possible 1 year extension options.
 Annual price adjustments for CPI considered a contract renewal only the funding sources the water fund and the fire division operating budgets number five the committee recommends approval of the award of contracts for public works materials to northern only service William Charles construction in Rock Road companies of Janesville and track group and
 current contract contracting of Crystal Lake and plotty construction of Hoffman Estates for an estimated annual value of $200,000 based on unit pricing the contract duration is one year the funding source is various departmental operating budgets number six the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for the anti-icing liquid to s1
 Solutions agenda seal in the amount of annual estimated expenditure of 55,000 dollars. This is for evidence. Clarification is also the beach use contract.
 The contract duration is one year with four possible one year extensions. The annual price adjustment for CPI is considered a contract renewal only. The funding sources, the street division operating budget. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the award of contract extension for the Head Start Transportation Services to First Student of Naperville, an amount not to exceed $1,056,911. The contract duration is from July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022.
 The funding sources, the Head Start grant funds. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for the support kits for Head Start children enrolled in RPS 205 program to Lakeshore Materials.
 In the amount of $81,833.20, the funding source is grant funding. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the change order for the fire department turnout gear to Honeywell first responders. The amount is increased by $100,000 for a total amount of $250,000. The current contract is through December 31, 2021 with two one-year extensions available through December 31, 2023. The funding source is the fire department operating budget.
 Number 10, the committee recommends approval acceptance of community foundation of Northern Illinois family crisis grant program award. The grant will provide funds for rapid response for families experiencing a crisis situation for which funding will provide a solution and a stabilizing influence on their life. The expected grant amount is between $25 and $30,000 pending the funding available to the community foundation of Northern Illinois.
 I place these 10 items before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So we have 10 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 10 items? Any discussion on those 10 items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Thurkey. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Director Saunders. Or I'm sorry, Director Haggerty.
 We bid this, we actually issue this bid every year. So every year we come back to council with a new bid. It's a commodity, so pricing is, we don't expect vendors to price that longer than one year at a time. That's item five, right? Correct, yes. This is public works materials. We have several vendors here that we're awarding on. This is, it is just one year, and then we will bid it again and bring it back to you for award for year two. Thank you. Bonnie. 12 ayes. Okay.
 Excellent. Moving right along. We move to new business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 was laid over. Item 2, an ordinance approving the 2021-2022 contract between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. Thank you.
 And then item three, an ordinance approving the authorization to execute easements on the following 15 city-owned properties.
 To four river sanitation, 111 North Day, 2611 West State, 2607 West State, 106 North Henrietta, 2523 West State, 2511 West State, 2507 West State, 2505 West State, 112 North Johnston, 2205 West State, 2201 West State, 2123 West State.
 2117 West State, 2111 West State, and 2105 West State. Thank you. We have two items before you because item one was laid over. Any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Parenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye.
 Excellent, items pass. Next up Alderman Frost. Your honor, thank you. Unfortunately your honor, at this time, I need to make a motion to convene in the closed session in order to discuss pending litigation as well as labor negotiating matters. Thank you. Thank you, there's a motion, is there a second? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose.
 Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. 12 ayes. Thank you. Okay, we are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Quinones. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Mark. Meeks.
 Are you present? Here. Hoffman. Excellent. So present. Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item on the agenda. It is an ordinance approving the adaption of the City of Rockford Police Benevolent and Protective PBPA Arbitration Award. I would also ask that we suspend rule nine. We have a motion to suspend rule number nine. Is there a second?
 We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion on the suspension of the rule? All those in favor of suspending Rule 9 say aye. Those opposed say aye. All right, so now we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Bonnie, 12 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Anyone want to discuss it? Good. No. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.