Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on July 29th? 2019 we have a motion in a second. Is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed
 Motion passes. Next up, we have yet another journal of, is there a motion for a journal of proceedings for the strategic planning session held on July 29th, 2019? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, our final one. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on August 5th, 2019? Second.
 Really appreciate you alderman Beachy. You're keeping us on track. So we have a motion in a second Although is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign All right faded a little bit as we went through those so we know it's an exciting night When we get to see attorney Bobby holds worth and chief Nielsen here because we know that that evening holds just an exhilarating
 Actuary presentation, so I'm going to turn it over to our finance director. Terry Haggard. Thank you
 So, good evening everyone. We have Mike Zurich here from Neihart, which is our, the city's hired actuarial firm. Mike has completed his work for the 2018 year to determine our contribution for, our levy amount for 2019, contribution for the 2020 budget year. And I will let Mike give his presentation, which has already been given to both the police and fire pension boards. So this is for your information.
 Perfect. Thank you. Thanks. Well, it's a tough order to fill here, so I'll do my best.
 Again, thank you for having me here, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. What I'm going to do is present the results of the 2019 actuarial evaluation. Before I get started, again, I would like to acknowledge and thank Carrie for her assistance in preparing the information. Just the data that you provide, the support, and also the police and fire boards. I'd like to thank you for coming out to hear me and see me, and thank you for working with me throughout the year as well. So, appreciate it.
 Why don't we turn to slide two? And I'm going to rip through this. I see a lot of familiar faces here, so I'm going to try to skip through this. But please, as I go along, if you have questions or comments, please let me know. And I will stop and answer all of them as we go along. So just a legislative update. You've probably heard a lot of information about consolidation has been on the agenda for a number of years. There have been a number of proposals that were considered. The governor has a lot of work to do.
 Commissioned a task force and they were supposed to report or they still were report sometime this summer We don't know anything right now. I mean what we did here There was an article in the Tribune a month or so ago and governor Pritzker kind of suggested that he wasn't gonna Jump the ship here and let us know
 He wasn't going to say anything before the task force convened with their recommendations, but he did say it was going to be very difficult for the state to take on the burden of these unfunded pensions, given the credit rating of the state as it exists. So he seemed to kind of hint that there's not going to be any mass consolidation. There's not going to be a consolidation of these plans into IRMRF or anything like that. You know, what I do expect to see is maybe there's going to be some of the –
 Financial restraints on some of the smaller plans get lifted as a result of the tax force, but again, we just need to wait to hear from the governor's task force.
 Before I get into the results of the evaluation and the numbers, I just want to do a quick assumption review. And unfortunately we're going to talk about mortality again. I've spoken about mortality the last couple of years. This year we did make a change to the mortality assumption. And if you look at your presentation, there has been, as mortality studies have been released, the common theme here is that people are living longer. Life expectancies have been extended for the last five or so years. If you look at where
 I'm going to go back here. I know there's a button in here. There we go.
 not a very big pointer. But if you look across the board as we go from left to right, with each of these successive studies that were released, life expectancies have gone from 78 years to 80 years to 82 years. The assumption we were using last year was at 82 years, and the Department of Insurance released a new study, a new experience study in 2017. They were using a similar assumption for members that were currently age 55. And what's shown in this chart is the life expectancy of an age 55-year-old member, and
 The assumption we were using last year was very similar to what the state was using for a 55-year-old member today. Where there is a discrepancy in what we have updated is the state has adopted this generational mortality approach. And what that basically says is that, you know, a 55-year-old 30 years from now is going to have different mortality experience and a longer life expectancy than a 55-year-old today. Historically, we've seen mortality improvements of about 1% per year, and instead of
 swallowing and absorbing those increases in life expectancy as we go through time, we're going to adopt those right now and bring it into the current valuation. So if you look at the assumption that we adopted for the 2019 valuation,
 We're assuming that a 55-year-old today is going to live to about 82.6 years, so 27.6 years beyond age 55. But somebody who is currently age 25 and who's going to turn 55 in 30 years, their life expectancy is going to be almost three years longer. And that's something that we did build into the valuation this year.
 A little bit more on mortality before I get off of this. There has been an update. The Society of Actuaries released a new mortality study early in 2019. We have not adopted that for the 2019 valuation. If you, again, if you look at the chart where we are in 2019, as we're saying that members that are age 55 are currently living to about 82.6 years, this new public safety study that was just released says people are living about three years longer than that.
 Over the course of the next few years, I expect that we'll adopt this study in some fashion. You know, where I'm struggling right now is that there's a discrepancy between this new mortality study and the experience that we've seen here in the state. The mortality assumption that we're using is based on a Department of Insurance study where they look at all the police and fire plans across the state of Illinois, and they say this is the right table to be using.
 We'll blend the two of them over the next few years as we get through, you know, maybe a little more experience. We might apply a set forward or do some type of adjustment so that we're using this new table, but it matches the experience that we've seen here in the state. So I don't expect to see a large increase in life expectancy when we do adopt this new table. I guess the other comment here is that
 If you look at the public safety mortality experience versus the general population, and the Society of Actuaries released three new tables. So there's one mortality study for police and fire. There's this public safety table. There's another mortality study for teachers. And there's a third one for general municipal workers, which encompassed everybody who wasn't public safety, wasn't a teacher.
 Public safety and general public, right on top of each other. Life expectancies are within one or two tenths of a year of each other. Teachers are out another couple years beyond that though. So again, we'll look to adopt this new table over the next couple years as we can blend our experience versus the experience of the state versus this new table.
 A little bit more on assumptions. One of the key assumptions we use is the interest rate assumption. The interest rate is what we expect the investments of the fund to earn over the course of time. And we did make a change this year. We've lowered the interest rate assumption from 7.5% to 7.4%. With the expectation that we're going to continue to lower the interest rate assumption,
 to 7% over no later than the next five years is the target here. And we're doing that for a number of reasons. We've seen a general reduction in interest rate assumptions that other pension plans have been using. What I have here is, it's just a building block justification. If you look at the state of Illinois, the Department of Insurance is using a 6.5% mortality, or 6.5% interest rate assumption
 That assumption is based on a composite investment mix of 45% equities, 45% fixed income, 10% real estate. And historically Rockford has more equity exposure than that. When we ended this past year we were at 55% equities,
 Historically we've been as high as 65% equities. And just when I multiply the math out, with the higher equity exposure than the composite that the state is using, I can certainly support using something higher than the state's 6.5% assumption. We can get into the 6.8 to perhaps 7% range.
 The other support I have here is the results of a public fund study. This is done by NASRA every year, and these are the large state funds. So it's like IMRF, it's the teacher funds across the United States. When we look at their assumptions, what I like about this study is it does
 It's the same control group every year, you know, so it does give me a good look at trends over the course of time. And I've got three bars in the chart. The red bar represents results from a 2008 interest rate survey. The light blue bar represents results from a 2013 interest rate survey. The dark blue bars represent results from a preliminary 2019 survey. And if you look at the chart, you just see a general movement to the left here. People are using lower interest rates.
 Above 8% is basically gone. If you look at some of these, the 2008 and the 2013 survey results, we had a significant number of plans using interest rate assumptions above 8%. And we had, you know, in the low 40% range, using an 8% assumption prior to the most recent survey information. We get to, when you look at the 2008 and 2013...
 Surveys, 43 and 44% respectively, we're using an 8% return assumption. We're down to 5% now. And we've seen that, we've seen that, we've seen a movement left in the chart, and we see that in the averages of this survey as well. In 2008, the average interest rate was close to 8%. In 2013, it was 7 and 3 quarters.
 2019 we're down to a little bit shy of 7.3% so again we're trying to mimic the movement here across the universe the country and use a lower interest rate to have lower expectations for future results now I mean that the
 The result of that is it's a basic mathematical actuarial equation here is that the less that we expect the fund to fill the shortfall based on investment performance, the more the higher the contributions. We've got to fill that hole some way. So the less we're, if we're assuming we're going to get less from investment returns going forward, the correlation there is the contributions of the fund are going to go up to kind of compensate for the fact that we're going to get lower investment returns. And we'll see that when we start looking at valuation results.
 any questions comments i have one question the um when you're looking at the mortality tables from an actuarial point of view you're using a male at age 55 given the fact that the that these pension plans have survivor benefits and many of our employees are married shouldn't you base some of these assumptions on a female
 rather than a male. And they are. So historically, we are using specific tables for different cohorts of the group. So we are, I mean, these mortality tables are age-based, they're gender-based, and now we've got this third dimension, which is also year of birth-based. So, you know, that's where they're going to be. So that's incorporated in your table? So this is just a sample, yes. Okay. I'm just showing these for, you know, a typical male member of these police and fire funds is retiring right around age 55 or so. So it's a, you know, a good look to just get a quick,
 you know, picture view of the life expectancy, the expectations of the fund, but we are, when we do the evaluation, our software looks at the gender, it looks at the age of each individual, and it's using different mortality assumptions based on that. That's a good question though. Okay, I am on slide seven. Just a quick snapshot of the populations. I've got three bars in the chart. The red bar represents the retired members. The blue bar, that light blue bar in the middle is the terminated vested employees. So those are people that,
 earned a pension benefit in the fund, or perhaps they only have a return of contributions coming back to them that they're no longer working, but they haven't started their payments yet. The blue bars at the bottom represent the active employees. And just looking at the two funds, the fire fund is about 7 tenths of a year older, a little bit shorter service than the police fund.
 I guess the big difference here is that the police fund, or the fire fund is a little bit top heavy. They've got more retirees than they do active employees, where the police fund has 295 members in payment status and 293 actives. There's a little bit more retirement
 symmetry between those groups where the fire fund has 320 members in active payment status versus, or 320 members in payment status versus 272 active. It just puts a little bit of a strain on the plan because we've got, you know, relative to the police plan, we've got a little bit larger cash flow obligations.
 So my question was, what is the impact on the city's contribution as the number of retirees begins, not begins, but steadily outpaces the number of active?
 It just puts more cash flow restraints on the plan. The more money is leaving the fund, so we've got less fund to invest and earn in interest rates going forward. Is there a, I don't know how to say it, is there like a percentage impact on a year-to-year basis or…
 It's hard to measure and I haven't measured that. It does put more strain on the fund though because more money is leaving. The more money that stays in the fund, the more time we have for it to earn investment earnings and fill that hole. As more money leaves the fund relative to the active group and the active members that are contributing, we've got to backfill that cash flow differential and it does generally lead to a higher contribution. I don't have the answer as a percentage. I can find that for you.
 No, I just wondered if there was some way that we could plan for it or predict it based on and we kind of know when people are going to retire. We can sort of predict that and how many more that we would hire based on our needs, new stations, that kind of thing.
 I just wondered if there's a way that we can plan for it rather than get hit with it. Sure, and I can help. And as we move through this presentation, there are projection slides at the end that show the projected contributions based on the funding policy of the city. And we can do other – that can provide more demographic information. If you are doing workforce planning and things like that, I mean, I can predict or we can use our –
 demographic assumptions to estimate when people are retiring and how many people we've got to hire, you know, over the next 5, 10, 15 years to backfill the positions that are leaving through retirements. So I can certainly help there if we ever come to that. Other than Frost? Thank you. Could you define the term average plan compensation, what that means? So what that simply is, it's the active participant payroll divided by the number of active members.
 So, you know, for the police fund, the payroll was $23.4 million. We've got 293 actives. The average compensation, if I just take that total divided by the number of actives, is $79,756. For the fire fund, it's a little bit higher. We've got a payroll of $22.4 million with 272 active members. The average compensation, just doing simple math, is $82.2 million.
 Let's check the active employees. It's just aggregate, yes, of the actives. Okay. Oh, slide eight. What I have here is a chart that shows the change in assets for the police plan, and one of the reminders here is there's two bars in this chart. For the valuation, I'm using a smooth value of assets, fortunately.
 The market value tends to be very volatile, and it's something we've got absolutely no control over. So the way to build some stability into the contribution rate is to use a smoothing method. It's a state statute that requires it. Actuarial best practices also suggest smoothing investment returns over a five-year period just to bring some stability into the mix here. And if you look at what's happened over the course of the year, the first
 This is a poor year. I mean, I'm doing evaluation on December 31st of every year, and unfortunately, December 31st of 2018 was a down point. If you remember the fourth quarter of the market last year, it was a blowout then. I mean, asset returns have done much better during 2019, so if investment performance holds up or expands through the end of 2019, I expect to reverse some of this position. But again, fortunately, we are using a smoothing method.
 If you look at the relationship between the red bar and the blue bar at the beginning of the year, and again, red bar is the market value of assets, the blue bar is the actuarial value, the smooth value. I had a market value that outpaced the actuarial value by about $3 million at the beginning of the year. So we had about a $3 million deferred gain that was going to get recognized over the next four years, all things being equal. Because we had a return of negative 3.9 percent during the year, the market value of the
 The market value is below the actuarial value when we get to the end of 2018. So instead of recognizing all of that investment loss at once, I'm only recognizing 20% of that during the 2019 plan year, which leads to this large differential in the market value and the actuarial value at the end of the year. I've got a $13 million difference. So I've got a $13 million deferred loss. Again, all things equal, we're going to need to recognize that over the next four years. So I've got a little bit of a headwind here.
 Again, during 2019 we've had very good investment performance year to date. We met with the police and fire boards. We were in the 11% range year to date as of a few days ago. So again, what the theory here is and what we're hoping for is that the down years are offset by the good years. So if we get good performance during 2019, it's going to erase a lot of that deferred loss before I need to recognize it in the evaluation results. Yes? Can that tell truth overseas?
 30-year examination of our funds? It does, yes. So when we look at the investment results, we've been pretty close to the assumed rate, and that's true across – we've had some really good years, you know, upset by some bad years. And it's not going to make the fund any better funded or any worse funded by doing this five-year averaging. It's going to catch up to itself. What it does, though, it just takes some of the bumps out of the equation. It's not – it's going to take some of the volatility out of the contribution rate and out of the funded percentage that we need to recognize every year.
 But it really shouldn't result in a significant upside or downside potential because every five years we're going to catch up with the averaging period.
 Okay, so that's built into the city's contribution assumptions? Absolutely. So, you know, if we weren't using the smoothing method, we would see a much higher contribution recommendation for 2019 if I had to swallow all of that investment loss from 2018 up front. Because I'm only required to recognize 20% of that this year,
 I'm not going to move as much as we otherwise would without the smoothing method. Okay, thank you. And again, we're going to recognize it over the next four years, so it's not going to result in any shortchanging. But if we get a good year to offset the bad year, we'll wipe it out before we need to change our policy, change our budget, and change the funded percentage of the plan.
 The next slide, slide nine, same information for the fire fund and really similar results. You know, I've got a $13 million deferred loss. The return for the fire fund was the same. It was negative 3.9 percent. And I guess the other thing to point out is, you know, the liabilities are growing at 7.5 percent per year. That's our assumed interest rates though. A negative 3.9 percent return doesn't open a 3.9 percent hole. We're opening up an 11.5 percent hole with a year like we had this past year.
 Again, you know, we're having a good year so far in 2019 Hopefully it's gonna hold up throughout the year and we're gonna wipe that out before we need to recognize it in the contributions to the fund On slide 10 a couple more slides here before we start looking at the 2019 results but what I've got here is just a trying to put the 2018 city contribution in perspective and if you are
 Anybody who has an outstanding loan or a mortgage on their house, they know that the payment that you make to pay down the loan, it has two components to it. There's an interest cost and anything that you pay off on the loan that's greater than the interest on the loan, that's what goes to paying down the principal. And there's a real similar concept here with a pension fund. The unfunded liability is going to grow with interest every year. I'm using an assumed interest rate of 7.4%.
 So those liabilities are growing at 7.4%. The unfunded liability is growing at 7.4%. We also have benefit accruals for the members. The formula is a final average pay formula. For every year of service that members earn, they get an additional year of service. And that goes into growth in the unfunded liability as well. So if I make a contribution that's equal to the normal cost plus the interest on the unfunded liability, I would expect the unfunded liability
 Again, all else being equal to stay stable from year to year. If we make a contribution that's greater than the unfunded liability or the interest on the unfunded plus the normal cost, we would expect to pay down the unfunded liability. If we make a payment that's less than the normal cost plus the interest on the – or the normal cost plus the interest on the unfunded liability, we would expect the unfunded liability to increase from year to year. And that's the situation we're in right now.
 The blue bar represents the normal cost plus the interest on the unfunded liability, and that total is $13.7 million.
 The funding policy contribution is the statutory minimum contribution that the city has been using, which is to fund the plan to 90% by the year 2040. That recommended contribution is $10.5 million. So there is a $3 million disparity there between that break-even point, where we start paying down the unfunded liability, and the recommended contribution that's according to the city's funding policy.
 The actual contribution that you made to the police fund last year was $11.5 million. A little bit deceiving there. You didn't overfund by a million dollars versus the budget or versus the recommended contribution. A big part of that difference came from members purchasing additional years of service in the fund. So...
 brought in some assets but they also brought in some liability and benefit obligations with that. So we're short of the break-even point by about $3 million. And as we see in the projections, we've got to pay off that unfunded liability by the year 2040. If we're underpaying right now, it means that in some future year we're going to have to start overpaying that. Slide 11, same information for the fire fund. Their break-even point is 15… Can you move the mic up just a little? Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. We can hear you. Too many hands going on here.
 So the fire fund, I have a break-even point of $15.2 million. The statutory minimum and the funding policy of the city would say the contribution should be at $11.7 million. You did contribute more than the minimum contribution and more than the funding policy contribution last year. You contributed $12.4 million. So, again, we're roughly $3 million short of that break-even point where we would expect to pay down the unfunded liability.
 Got to feel pretty good that people at home want to hear it so bad. That thing. It's the first for everything, I guess. People putting their babies to sleep or something. I don't know.
 Okay, so I'm on slide 12, and this is the results of the police fund. And like I said, I appreciate the support of Cary and the police and fire boards because we go through all these numbers with them, and they need to make decisions and approve these. So we look at a number of different results. I mean, starting on the left-hand column, I've got results from the 2018 valuation. The fund was 63.8 percent funded, and we had a funding policy contribution of $8.2 million.
 We looked at a number of different alternatives, mainly changes in the mortality assumption. We also threw in that interest rate change at the very end. If you kind of go across the lines or go across the columns here,
 you know, I've got a same as 2018, which is using all the same, it's got 2019 information, but all the same assumptions and methods that were used in 2018. The next column to the right of that is a mortality update. So it's prior to adopting the generational mortality approach. I just used one more year of mortality improvement. The next column over is the IDOI mortality. That is one of the changes that we did adopt this year. That's that generational approach. And if you look at the
 impact of that on the funded percentage and on the contribution. The funded percentage went from 63.8 down to 61.7, so we took roughly a 2% hit in the funded percentage of the plan based on the mortality update, and we saw that the contribution went up by roughly, went from 8.2 million to close to 8.9 million, so we saw a $700,000 increase in the recommended contribution.
 The next column over is the impact of using that public safety mortality unadjusted. Final column, we're using the IDOI mortality, so it's the generational approach. We also lowered the interest rate from 7.5% to 7.4%, and that's the final basis that we landed on for 2019. Again, if you look at the impact on the funded percentage, we went from 61.7% after we made the mortality update to 61.0%. We saw, you know, roughly 0.7%.
 uh step back on the funded percentage of the plan and we saw the contribution went from 8.9 million up to about 9.2 million so another 300 000 in the recommended contribution okay that's the police fund similar information for the fire fund the page is laid out the same way
 Again, the fire carry and the fire board had to sit through the same presentation with me then too, so I appreciate them doing it again. But if you go from left to right, I've got the results of 2018. The plan was 56.2% funded and a recommended contribution of right around $9.5 million,
 When we adopted the mortality update, we saw that the funded percentage went from 56.2% to 53.2%, so a reduction of 3% in the funded percentage of the plan, and the recommended contribution went from $9.5 million up to $10.4 million, so roughly a $900,000 increase in the recommended contribution for the mortality change.
 When we adopted the 7.4% interest rate, on top of the mortality change, we saw another deterioration in the funding percentage from 53.2 to 52.5, so 0.7%. And we saw the recommended contribution went from 10.4 million up to 10.7 million. So another $300,000 in the recommended contribution for the interest rate change on top of that. And again, we anticipate that there will be further interest rate changes over the next four to five years as we kind of converge on that 7% target rate.
 Okay? All right, we're almost done. I've got six more slides here. And what I have here is projections. So there are two bars in the chart.
 The red bar, or let's start with the blue bar. The dark blue bar represents the current funding policy, which is to get the plan to 90% funded by the year 2040. And the red bar, I'm just showing one alternative here. Some of the funds I work with, you have updated their funding policy to contribute more than the statutory minimum in early years.
 And what I've illustrated here is a funding policy to get to 100% funded by the year 2040. So we're using the same amortization period, but we changed the target to be 100% funded by the year 2040 instead of 90%. And you see the impact in the contribution. So this first chart just graphs the contribution under those scenarios.
 I'm using an open group, so I'm assuming that anybody who retires or terminates from the fund is being replaced by a new hire. And in the police and fire plans, there's a different benefit structure for new hires. Anybody hired after 2011 is Tier 2, which is a different benefit structure than the Tier 1 employees that they're replacing as they retire. So throughout this projection period, I'm assuming that the active population stays stable, and the Tier 1 members are being all replaced by Tier 2 members as we go through time.
 You know, what you see in the chart is that by front loading it a little bit now, I mean, I know it's difficult, but by front loading we avoid that very rapid ramp up that we would need to otherwise need to hit that 90 by 2040 target. It's a long time out there. 24 is a long time away, but, you know, the earlier we get started on addressing this, the easier it gets down the road.
 At the very bottom of the page, too, I have a sum of contributions. And I just am always fascinated by this number. You know, under the 90 by 2040, we're seeing contributions of $437 million to the plan over the next, you know, this is by the year...
 this is the next 50 years or so so it's a long period of time but it's a big number if we were to instead of using the 90 by 2040 policy you actually save the city about 47 million dollars over the projection period so again by front loading it a little bit we use the power of interest and and let those funds those extra contributions earn some investment earnings it alleviates some of the contribution needs down the road
 That's the first slide. It graphs the contribution. Second slide is just another metric. Same two projection scenarios. The red bar is using a policy of 100 by 2040. The blue bar is the current city policy of 90 by 2040. It shows the progression of the funded percentage of the plan. And you just see that there's a quicker,
 more rapid movement of the funding percentage upward if we use some type of an accelerated funding policy. Again, I'm expecting that we're gonna see some pressure here over the early years of the projection as we recognize that $13 million deferred loss. And again, if 2019 holds up and we get a good investment year, it's gonna take some of the steepness out of this slope of contributions.
 A final slide here is a projection of the unfunded liability, and we're still looking at the police fund here, but again, I've got the same two bars. The blue bar is using a 90 by 2040 policy. The red bar is a 100 by 2040 policy. And again, you see that there's a lot of pressure on this early on as we swallow that $13 million deferred loss.
 Again, the advantage of accelerating the contribution and putting in more in early years is we're going to pay down the unfunded liability. We're going to get to that crossover point a lot more quickly and start to pay down the unfunded liability using any type of an accelerated approach here. Last three slides, same information for the FIRE Fund. And the charts look very similar. Again, if I have two funding policies illustrated here, the 90 by 2040 versus 100 by 2040, the
 If you front load the contributions, we're going to alleviate some of the contribution pressure in the later years as we go towards, as we convert to 2040. And similar financial information at the very bottom of the page. You save roughly $47 million in contributions over the course of the projection period by front loading and paying more up front. Slide 13, is it 13?
 is a projection of the funding percentage. Again, this corresponds to the two different funding policies. And the final slide is a projection of the unfunded liability, where, again, you know, if we do anything to front-load the contributions, we're going to pay down the unfunded liability, result in some costs down the road. That's my presentation. Any questions, comments?
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you I just had a quick question. You know, I'm looking at the unfunded or our funded Percentage for the fire and it it looks like it's steadily it's been we don't have prior years but it looks like our funded Percentage is steadily falling
 Is that true? It is true. And we were at 60-some percent not that long ago. Yeah, and part of that is adopting some more conservative policies. So we've adopted a more conservative mortality assumption, even just going back to the slide.
 of results for this year. You know, we were at 56.2 percent a year ago when all the dust settles were down to 52.5 percent funded. So we took a, you know, 4 percent hit on the funded percentage this year. That's as a result of using more conservative assumptions. So we're assuming people are going to live longer, you know, especially that next generation, that those people 30 years down the road are going to live, are going to have life expectancies three years longer than a current generation.
 member and we're building that into the valuation today and being more conservative and reserving more for that we've also lowered the interest rate assumption from seven and a half to seven four so again the less that we're going to get over the course of time from investment earnings the more pressure it puts on the contribution and it reduces the funded percentage of the plan today alderman turvey do we have rockford's historical funding percentage
 in other words from 19 let's say 80 or even before to now because when i heard we were only a 50 some percent less than 60 i thought somebody made a mistake and there was something wrong because rockford historically had a very
 high compared to other municipalities. We had a very high funding rate and until, what was it, the recession of 2009, 2010, had never shorted their contribution. So one of the things that people don't understand is, and I don't either, we fall behind. You know that old phrase, the hurrier I go, the behinder I get. And that's what seems to be happening with these pensions. It doesn't matter what we do.
 it's going to eat up more and more of of our tax contributions from from citizens they want roads they want better water services they want better lighting they want better everything we also want strong police and fire pretty soon one is going to alleviate the other
 some historical funded ratios. With what caused the change, especially the big change in 80, 89, 80 or 89, I don't remember. Some of those would be increases in benefit levels, right? So if the state provides a benefit, if the state provides a benefit,
 provides additional benefits to pensioners that increases the exposure for the pension plan overall. And then there were the two big ones, and that was from 55 to 50, and 100% funding for surviving spouses.
 Those were the last major changes, yes. My understanding is those are the ones that hit our funding percentage pretty hard. I think the most dramatic change that we've seen recently is caused by the adoption of the funding policy of 90% funded by 2040. It was previously 100% by 2032, I believe. So when we changed that funding policy—
 We lowered our payment today, which creates greater long-term liabilities because the less money you're putting in today, the less interest earnings that money can make in the future. So I think that what we did several years ago to avoid budget disaster, which was to adopt the 90% by 2040 funded policy, funding policy,
 has led to more dramatic declines in our funded ratio over that time period. But we can provide that documentation to you. And I guess my whole point to that is, there's a break point somewhere where it doesn't really matter what you do. And I kind of want to know what that is, because the other, you know, the elephant in the room is that the legislature still has the authority to extend benefits.
 and create new benefits. So that's the wild card. Certainly. That will always be out there that we don't know. But I'd like to know what it is that we would have to do as a council and as a city to
 this answers part of it to get ourselves to that funding level how much would it take of our budget on an annual basis and I understand why people don't want to publish that sure but I want to know what it is so yeah I mean if we can Mike has very graciously shared with us some modeling spreadsheets that he puts together so that we can change some of those assumptions and see what that does to our contribution levels our funded levels so you know if you want to see
 We want to get to 100% funded by 2035. What is that going to take? We can do that sort of analysis, but I think the point of these alternate scenarios here is to show what contributing just a little bit more in the grand scheme of things, right, a couple million dollars per fund, what that does in the long term, right, because 2040
 I won't be retirement age yet in 2040, and I don't want to have to figure out how to balance that budget, right? So more money in today helps long-term, the long-term financial viability of not just...
 the city as a whole but the pension funds too and you know i i understand that the state makes promises that then the city has to figure out how to fund but these are constitutionally guaranteed benefits so it's our from from my perspective it's our job to find the smartest the most responsible way to fund these benefits yeah and i understand that but at a certain point
 it's not good enough. I understand. Sure. They make the promise, and we have to keep it. Sure. But our residents believe that, for example, this casino is going to bring this big pot of money, and all the potholes are going away within two years of that casino, and that's not where that money is going. So that's part of my point. Sure. There's –
 there's this balancing act that we don't control and somewhere we've got to figure out a way to either make it happen no matter how bad it hurts or We're always going to be behind the eight ball and the state is going to be pointing the finger at us saying you're you're at Less than 60 percent and I don't think it's a fair thing to do because we didn't cause it in the first place. Sure and
 So alderman Durkee, yeah Just follows up on alderman Hervey. Maybe I love to put words in an attorney's mouth, but I Think maybe what you're what we're asking for and I am agreement with there is some kind of overlay We have we have budgetary and we have projections that have been put in place for the pension fund Which you know, obviously with salaries are our biggest I
 You know where cash goes, but if we were able to put those projections with an overlay on what we anticipate the growth in the city of Rockford either by property or by sales tax or whatever it is, what we project our growth to be over the next, you know, to 2040 and how that looks as a percent of tax revenue to the city. What's that look like? Sure. I mean, and that visual.
 That would be helpful. And we've done some of that specifically as it relates to the levy, obviously, because the primary funding source for our pension contribution is property taxes. We have done some of that analysis to show the point at which that pension contribution is
 becomes our entire levy, right? And we can update those, and we can also, using some conservative, you know, none of us have a crystal ball, and I don't like to talk about general fund revenue more than a couple years out, right? But we can say, assuming, you know, a 1% or 2% overall growth in general fund revenue at what...
 How did how did those lines move and how do they move in a different way? So if we were to see that on a regular basis, it's helpful because I agree with alderman Herbie if we have growth from the casino It's spent it's we it's it's when we look at this. It's already spent certainly both that comes to the city Based on some is already spent. I mean we I
 And we can, as part of our initial budget presentation, which we left budget calendars on everyone's desks, which will be coming in the next few weeks, we can provide some of that projection information as it relates to pension contributions. Any other questions? Thank you. Oh, thank you guys. Thanks for the invite. Moving forward, we have Petitions and Communications and Planning and Development Committee Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items. The alderman may not have the updated copy, but there are two. There's number one, a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the Region 1 Planning Council's update of Metropolitan Transportation Plan.
 And number two, a memorandum from Mark Williams, economic development manager regarding amendments to the Rockford Enterprise Zone. Number one, Rockford I-90 Enterprise Zone and Rockford River Edge Redevelopment Zone, designating ordinances for the purpose to apply to Illinois DCEO to expand the limit property tax abatement incentives. Both referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you Alderman Rose and next Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you your honor. I've got two items this evening. First there's a zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 20th, 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Reg Committee meeting on August 26, 2019.
 Second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for that meeting to be held on August 20, 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Rights Committee meeting on August 26, 2019. I refer both those items to the Codes and Rights Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Next, we have Finance and Personnel Committee with Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Mike Hockenson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed trade of 11 XX Railroad Avenue. And I also have a memorandum from Jennifer Caciapaglia, Manager of Mayor's Office of Domestic Violence and Human Trafficking Prevention, regarding the creation of a Camp Hope, Illinois staffing position as part of a juvenile crime prevention initiative. Both of these items will be referred to Finance and Personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. And since we need more money, we're going to turn to our legal director, Nicholas Myers. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm just reporting that we are in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $443,028.64. So I contribute my share.
 Thank you, Director Myers. Next up, we have public speakers. I just want to remind the public speakers that there's microphones on the back left and back right of the council chambers and that you have three minutes to address the council. Our first public speaker this evening is Denzel Winter. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, you know, I'm a transplant from Iowa, and this was a nice city when I first got here.
 but there's so much killing going on in the city. Even one life is one too many and it's getting out of hand. And I think one of the things we need to do that you guys already addressed is, you know, getting the little kids, getting their little kids involved in with the police officers. But I think one thing we're lacking is we need to get the teenagers there too, because if we don't get the teenagers there, we're going to have a lot more of these
 You know, people kicking in people's doors and stuff like that. And we can't afford to have that. So we need programs to help these, help the teenagers. And second of all, I need to know why it takes so long for the police officers to respond to people on the West Side. And that's been an ongoing problem, you know. And we need, we need, we need them to come as soon as we come because I had an incident with myself.
 where they didn't even come until two days later. And that's ridiculous. And third of all, we do need a greater presence in the street. You know, because just like we had this robbery at the Booth Mobile store on Auburn Street. Normally there's a police car there. This particular day, when normally there's a police car there, there was none there. And this happened in broad daylight.
 So if people are getting brazen enough to come out in broad daylight and do something like this, it's telling us we don't have enough presence in the community. And I know this is a community problem, but we need help out there. And I want to thank you guys for just letting me talk. But we need a presence out there because if we don't, we're going to end up
 It's going to be like Chicago or worse than Chicago. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Hosea, the fourth chapter, the sixth verse, it says, My people are destroyed from lack of knowledge, because you have rejected knowledge.
 What I want to speak about tonight is how to reduce the violence, the crime and killing in the black community in Rockford. To this day, 2019, it is sickening and saddening that some of us are so mentally disturbed with a plantation mentality. But we have to wait for a signal from somebody in Washington, Springfield or downtown City Hall to determine what's in our own best interest.
 This is the reason why there's trouble in the black community. Our young people want examples to look to that will give them strength and counsel and guidance. But our young people do not find in their elders the guidance, the counsel, the examples that they would like to follow. So they are given to the streets because we have not given them what they need. The schools have failed in their stewardship of the mind of our young people. And the teachers have failed in their responsibility to the children. Because the teachers are not going, therefore they cannot grow their students.
 out of a system that is a plantation educational system, a plantation political system, a plantation social system, and unfortunately, a plantation religious system. Our children are being taken from the teacher, taken from the preacher, taken from the and sad to say their parents because all together, parents, teachers, preachers, and politicians are dead static and stagnant in the Priscilla. While the minds that we have produced are demanding more than we have the capability to give. As a result of this, they are looking for guidance.
 not in the home, not in the church, that's why they don't go. Not in schools, that's why they drop out. Not from the politicians, that's why they don't vote. They are looking for guidance somewhere else, which are the streets. And therefore we have lost touch with them. They have lost touch with us. And that's why violence pervades the black community. Violence is born of hopelessness and despair. Where there's hope, there's hope.
 there's life. And where there's life, there's love. And where there's love, there's harmony, there's peace, there's together. But when there's despair and hopelessness, violence is bread. Hopelessness is the mother of violence. So our children have no hope in their parents. They see no hope in the church and they see no hope in their present crops of leaders. So they turn in within a destructive way. Because we have dropped the ball of leadership, of all the truth. Solution to this problem? Give our children hope. With a good job with benefits, affordable home, a rental property, daycare service.
 give people with felonies a second chance like god gave us with his grace and mercy affordable education this would help reduce the crime violence and killing the black community in rock and the reason why i know i was in naval intelligence and when naval intelligence come after you they might as well eat some rat poison because your life ain't worth nothing thanks for allowing me to speak thank you our next public speaker is uh john tack bramley
 Good evening, Mayor McNair, all the Persians and Citizens of Rockville, Illinois. I'm going to start from the ending and go to the beginning because it's very important. Attention, everybody. They have lost a loved one to senseless violence. They have plagued Rockville, Illinois. Saturday, August the 24th, will be the 10th anniversary.
 of the death of Mark Anthony Barmore, where I have a memorial anti-violence remembrance and balloon release ceremony. We would like as many people as possible to participate, to bring balloons, the posters and banners to remember your loved ones with us. Saturday the 24th at 6 p.m. at Kingdom Authority Church parking lot, we are sending out the message that this sense of the violence has to end. Make sure to pause and think and listen when you do speak. You have something important to say.
 Jealousy is a dangerous thing. It's a scary thing that what people would do when you didn't do nothing to them because you are blessed. It isn't like they was fighting in the field and the fight got out of control. Abe hadn't done nothing to Kane. They just...
 Just just killing him because God bless him some people just hate you because you are blessed It's not what you do. It's not what you say. They just hate you because you are blessed I'm not going to stop walking in my blessing. So you like me I'm not going to give up my blessing so I can fit in with you If you can't handle it take your best shot because I'm blessed I know who I am just I just laugh inside with certain peoples and authority and
 uh tell me uh you tell me that you're just a resident yeah okay i know who i am and the lord knows me better than you do i'm more than just a resident during the lord calling just this other week there was a ribbon cutting ceremony at lutheran school at north cuba street for the boys and girls club that moved from out of fairgrounds community center i came in with 20 youth and a few
 from fairgrounds walked there. Once I was there, I was waiting to talk with Officer Sanders about an incident in fairgrounds. Then the director chief of the Boys and Girls Club came up to me in a very harsh tone, stated to me, Mr. John Tagg Brantley, why are you here? You was not invited here. I don't want you here and this is not your dog and horse show. I don't want you talking.
 I was stunned by his remarks. My reply to him was, was you want, you got something to say, you got something against me, let's go somewhere to talk. Then my last word to him was, you don't know who you're talking to or messing with. It was over four years ago that no funds for the Boys and Girls Club
 as fairground we would be for winter. They were coming boy the city council meeting on a number of cases as in the shooting and the county to help for that the school program that they're going to mention the fight you and young adult we have we in the boys and girls club received $50,000 grant that they now is getting the CEO of the director of chief how
 dare you get in my face. You getting a paycheck off our at-risk youth and your young adult misery. Come in my house and tell me like I'm a punk. Now I question. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. It was. Yeah. It was. It was. I'll finish it next week. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next up, we have new committee reports and we begin with Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, your honor. The committee recommends approval of the Human Services Department and Community and Economic Development Department's request for the city to establish a tax exempt organization under section 501C3 of the IRS code. Establishing a 501C3 organization serves as the initial step to create a program in which a city would serve as a sponsor of a non-profit community housing development organization, otherwise known as CHOTO.
 for the purpose of developing affordable housing and reducing homelessness. Put that up for committee. So there's a motion and a second to layover and two aldermen. Okay, moving right along. Next up we have Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is the committee recommends approval of the right-of-way vacation for 717 John Street and 706 Salem Street. Second.
 The recommended current market value of that strip of land is $400. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the authority to list the city owned property located at 413 Ford Street for sale. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the honorary street name change on South Madison Street from East State Street to Walnut Street to Mafioli Avenue in honor of Louis Mafioli, the fourth generation of the first Italian family in Rockford.
 Number four the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval approval for a special use permit for an outside storage area for landscape and building materials on a gravel surface and be the variation to increase the maximum height allowed in the front yard from four feet to six feet for a site obscuring fence along 10th Avenue and Parmalee Street and
 Number five the committee recommends reversing the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum number allowed wall signs at 4949 Harrison Avenue Yeah, move to lay that one over I'll second that get laid over Number six that was number five number five number five. That's a 4949 Harrison six
 I'd like to make number six over for some clarification. You could read in and then...
 just make the layover if he can just read in so folks at home can hear it i'll read it in and then you can number six the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a variation to reduce the required required front yard setback from 30 feet to 27 feet along round tree lane for a 12 foot wide garage addition at 1769 red oak lane
 Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. Has this been laid over previously? I believe so. We have a motion. It was laid over two weeks ago. Director Meyer. I believe this was actually held up by the Chairman as opposed to exercising the Perfect. So the two alderman rule is in effect for items five and six. Item number seven, Mr. McFarland. Number seven. Thank you. The committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the ICC code sections.
 This request is by the Construction and Development Division to amend the codes to comply with the Mechanical Review Board recommendations. Place those items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So there is a...
 Seven items before you, but two of them have been laid over, so really there's just five items before you. And those are items one through four and item number seven. And just for benefit of Alderman Gasparini, first time in items read at City Council, just two aldermen can lay it over just with the two with no discussion. After that, it would take the majority. Just so you're going on.
 So there's five items before you, one through four, and item number seven. Is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing Alderman Hervey. Sorry, just with regard to number seven. Do we have any kind of independent review to make sure that these amendments do not add to the burden of construction and renovation in the city? Mr. Franzen.
 So these are recommendations of the Mechanical Review Board, so of the industry professionals that assist the City in that capacity. You know, these are were taken under the effort to really clarify what the interpretation of the code is rather than to increase burden as it relates to construction projects. I guess the reason I was asking,
 I'm not talking about the older buildings this time, but I know we had a group at one point that was looking at, we have people who have a vested interest in more complex rules and more costly rules. And we've been asked by some business people
 to make sure that these things are all necessary, that they are safety related or complying with a higher federal standard. And I just wondered who does that on behalf of the city? Is it staff or do we have an independent group like the Doing Business in Rockford group? So we did have the Doing Business in Rockford group, Mr. Cagnoni.
 Thank you, Your Honor. So historically when the City of Rockford has adopted the next and most up-to-date international code family, we will pull together a number of stakeholders throughout the industry. So individuals that represent
 um businesses individuals that represent the design professionals as well as the contracting world and we typically break the the different codes down into working groups the last time we we adopted a new code we did it on a regional basis so we had county representatives as well as representatives from other municipalities and then we collectively adopted the same code with the same amendment so that we had uniform
 and as director franson stated some clarification so like for one example is in regards to how large you can have a one-way
 a hot water heater above a certain feet. Um, they're increasing the size of the hot water heater, understanding that the first one was too burdensome. Uh, when individuals are trying to add hot water into, um, confined spaces, I need to be able to go the larger. Uh, one of the safety hazards was the depth in which, um, electrical service line would have to go from 12 to 18 inches.
 A third example would be related to exhaust fans and bathrooms, clarifying that that is required. So those are three off the top of my head, but that's where they came from. I know our internal team reviewed them as well. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Durkee? Yeah, to speak to Alderman Hervey's comment, we did have that task force
 that met regarding the codes and examination of what went on in the city. At that meeting and what we heard from folks was the annoyance overall at us monkeying around with the international residential code. In fact, one of the architects on the committee basically said he just wished you just leave the international building code alone
 because it was more um it was just easier to do going from you know architects coming into rockford who don't currently reside here it makes it a lot easier for them to plan and and do certain things there um you know when i i wasn't here i'm sorry last week for committee night but you're looking at the the amendments requiring exhaust fans and bathrooms i understand that
 But and then the burial graph for the burial depth for underground pipes If you're gonna hit a pipe, you're gonna hit a pipe, but these are the kind of things that turn into annoyances you know for Architects for developers and things and things like that, you know and to make the code more predictable there there was a desire to
 to actually bring our code leaner and just leave it alone. I'm struggling to remember some of the comments. We did submit a report that's available for all the aldermen to read, both an action plan that was generated by our intern, and I'm sorry, I forgot his name.
 Zach Walsh. Zach, who did a great job. And then I wrote a report summarizing some of the findings and the comments of both citizens as well as developers. They weren't the overall climate, the overall tone toward the city was negative because of these things. The tone toward the health department was negative and the tone toward how
 it seemed like certain things were random was negative. So, and it's hard to gauge because, you know, we didn't get the, I wish we got a better response.
 But so when I'm looking at when I'm looking at these codes, I understand them requiring mechanical exhaust fans and bathrooms because houses are tighter. But and I don't know where the returns are in some of these bathrooms, but I mean, these are the kind of things that are driving people nuts. You know, we had we had a couple of people who wanted to remodel some this was some years ago, remodel some businesses on Broadway.
 And our code came in and basically said, you need to exchange the air in the building, you know, 200,000 times in an hour. And it makes development cumbersome. So I'm actually opposed to these because I would just rather let the international building code be the international building code and let the architects just work with it instead of amending things.
 You know all the time and and let it be predictable when we were at the Illinois Municipal League one of the individuals this was some years ago alderman Shirely and I were were attending that meeting and I think it was kind of memorable because you know that the guy was challenged because The the building the building code also serves
 ddatblygu'r ffyrdd o ran y dechrau, a'r gweithwyr, oherwydd wrth i chi ddechrau ddweud wrth bobl bod angen i nhw ymgyrchu â'r air, ac yn sydyn mae'r adeiladau hynny, rydych chi'n gwybod, mae'n rhaid i chi ddechrau ymgysylltu â nhw gyda chyfrifwyr a phethau o'r math o beth ffadlogaidd nad ydyn nhw'n ei angen yn unig. Rydym yn adeiladu, nid ydym yn rhaid adeiladu Lamborghini, gallwn adeiladu Chevy ac mae'n gweithio'n iawn.
 Felly dyna rhai o'r ymgynghorion y gwnesom. Fel y dywedais, byddwn i'n gofyn i'r awdurwyr i adolygu'r adroddiadau. Mae'r data cywir ar gael gyda'r sylwadau cywir. Byddwn i'n cymryd eich hynod i ddarllen y data cywir a'r sylwadau cywir hefyd. Yna gallwch chi edrych ar y ton y mae pobl wedi'i gael. Gallwn ni anfon y gwybodaeth i bawb.
 Ydym yn gallu anfon y cwestiwn hwnnw. Iawn, oherwydd mae Zach wedi'i gyflawni ac mae'r cwestiwn yn gadael. Ond dwi'n meddwl ei fod yn werth darllen a gweld beth sy'n digwydd. Felly o ran hynny a'r hyn rwyf wedi'i ddarllen, rwy'n yn benodol yn annwyl i nr. 7. Diolch. Diolch i chi. Rhai eraill o drafodaeth. Alderman Beach, ydy hynny'n ymwneud â'r cyflwyniad? Mae'r Alderman yn gofyn i ni ddarllen hynny ac rydym yn mynd i anfon y cwestiwn hwnnw. Yna, a ydym ni'n dweud
 dyna'r llyfr cyfeiriadol sydd wedi cael ei ymateb i chi mis yn ddiweddar ac mae'n gyhoeddus ac mae'n iawn gallwch chi y cyngor y gallwch chi wneud hynny ond diolch mae wedi bod arall ychydig o drafodaeth Alderman Shirelli gallwn ni gael clarefidiaeth o unrhyw un o Carl neu Todd am y rhesymau pam bod y bwrdd mecanigol wedi cyflwyno'r rhain yn ystod hynny oedd oherwydd
 ysgolion y gweithredu ar gael, neu oedd hynny yn y gwaith cyn y cyfarfod y cymdeithas hwnnw, eu bod yn edrych ar hyn oherwydd fy nghyfathrebu ar y cymdeithas hwnnw oedd yr un fel Alderman Durkie.
 Dyna pam roeddwn i wedi cwestiynau'r amgylchiadau yma yn gynnar pan ddodd ymlaen i gael staff i edrych arno. Ond roeddwn i wedi'u ddweud mai dyma yn argymell yn unigol o'r bwrdd mecanigol honno, a dyna'r gofynion eu bod yn eu bodoli. Felly os gallai Todd neu Carl ddangos hynny i mi.
 Dyma argymellion a ddatblygwyd gan y Bwrdd Arbenigol cyn cyd-dweud bod y Tasglu Gweithredu ar gael, gyda'r amhraifft o'r mater o hyd ysgol y dŵr, a wnaethon nhw sgwrsio a chyfeirio â'r sgwrs rydyn ni'n ei ymgysylltu â'r Tasglu Gweithredu. I ddweud ychydig o bwyntiau o ddarparu,
 roedd Alderman Durkie yn dweud, roedd yna gyfanswm gyffredinol o leihau'r nifer o amgylchiadau lleol. Roedden ni wedi dod i ddod o hyd i'r ymwybyddiaeth y byddai yna mwy o amgylchiadau lleol. Ond fel canlyniad o hynny, bydd Nelson Sjolström yn dod i'r Cyngor y llynedd hwn, a chyfrifo'r holl amgylchiadau lleol gyda chyfrifo'r cyfrifiadau lleol.
 A defense or lack of defense related to each one of those and these would be included within that review as well Just to add a little bit of clarification to director franzens comment In regards to perception perception of a number of amendments I believe that perception was there because prior to we adopted this existing codes There was you know hundreds and more amendments than currently exists so in the most recent
 Code family was adopted. The goal, as mentioned by Alderman Durkee, was to remove as many amendments as possible and rely on the code. There were some amendments that make construction less restrictive,
 and some that are more restrictive and safety related, and then a third category that provide clarification so there's not a misunderstanding of what's required. So that was the balance when the last codes were adopted. And again, in this particular proposal, there's relaxation from what is existing adopted as an amendment as well as the safety issue and clarification. So there's all three in this particular adjustment.
 Certainly, it's at your other man. Surely. Yeah, I would recommend that we lay this item over For this evening again, so everyone can take a look at those amendments. It's clear to me that they haven't really Wraps so we have a motion to lay over in a second. We have not had the two aldermen roll correct Items laid over. Thank you
 Okay, so we've successfully chopped down the seven to now four items to discuss. Is there any questions on the four items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irving. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Aye.
 items pass next up we have finance and personnel alderman beck thank you your honor we have three items the first is the approval of the vouchers in the amount of eight million six hundred ten thousand six hundred twenty two dollars and thirty eight cents next is the approval of the rejection of bid and the amount of five hundred and seventy five dollars received from timothy and beverly davis for the property located at 4xx short horseman street
 And then the third is recommending approval of the proposed sale of a city-owned bacon lot at 1116 24th Street to Marino Realty in the amount of $7,200. And I place these three items for passage. Thank you. So there's three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Alderman Hervey. Yeah, I wanted to ask that city staff maintain a running list of.
 City-owned properties specifically these houses that we sell to Not to an individual for owner-occupied but for any rental purposes or commercial purposes So we can try and I'd like to know that we track those not constantly but maybe once every six months or a year or whatever to see if there are calls for service and if the people if this practice is improving the city or if
 Causing problems certainly can we track it on an annual basis annual would be fine. She's great Thank you any other discussion on those items seeing no discussion clerk. Please call the roll turkey Gasparini timber frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back I Shirely 12 eyes
 Thank you. Those items passed. Next up, we have officers reports. Just two quick items. One is
 I know Director Haggerty already mentioned to you, but there is a 2020 City Council budget schedule on your desk this Friday. Staff department heads will have the budget packages back to Director Haggerty, and then we should have it in all of our hands in about three weeks. The other item I have is...
 This past Friday, Alderman McNeely's father passed away. So I just ask that everyone keep Alderman McNeely in your thoughts and prayers. Alderman Rose? I'll try to hurry as much as possible.
 Last week I had the chance to get a training with Jen Kachapalia from our domestic abuse and human trafficking office and Being an educator. It was one of the best trainings I've gone through I heard from
 multiple teachers and educators that it was a very successful training as well from them. And I just wanted to give a shout out to her work and the people that helped do that training. And I'll share with you why here in a second. But First Free Church donated the space, Catholic Charities,
 the work that they were doing in sponsoring the event. There were a few organizations that were involved, Children's Safe Harbor, the 17th Circuit Court, One Love, which was one of the trainers, Race,
 Those were just a few of them. But I also wanted to recognize some of the educators that were a part of that training and the work that they did in organizing that through Jen's office. Brent Fritz, Barb Diaz, Deb Overton, Erica Truitt, Jennifer Grabowski, Jen Masick, Katherine Larson, Michelle King, Milagros Guerrera, Devonna Foat.
 One of the trainers, Mary Landerholm, did a fantastic job. She's somewhat renowned around the country for her experience in human trafficking. If you get a chance to see her story, it is one that will definitely tug at your heartstrings. She is just a phenomenal trainer and it was awesome having her there. Megan Brecken from Children's Safe Harbor, Kelsey Hart from the 17th Circuit.
 It was one of those experiences for educators that I think moves the needle when it comes to addressing issues with human trafficking and domestic abuse. I know that the teachers who went through it are now more prepared for doing it. They know how to deal with trauma, they know how to identify certain things with students, and
 I just I hope that work continues. I know it's going to continue under our mayor and Jen's leadership, but I can't I can't give enough credit for the work that she put into this. And I just wanted to recognize those efforts. Thank you. And I'll just add to that. I did this just today. Ask if.
 jennifer would provide all the alderman and update i think we hear a lot about the family peace center but not a lot about all the other work that's taken place from working with our first responders to teachers to the business community there's a lot going on so i've asked if over the next three to five weeks she could give you a written report and if you'd like her to present after that she can do so alderman hoffman
 Mayor you may have answered my question already actually i'm kind of playing off of alderman rose are our police officers Being trained by her office and the reason I asked that is that our meeting the rolling green meeting? When she spoke our community officer was writing madly taking notes And really learning from that discussion
 And I was going to ask after that meeting, and he just brought it up again. So are they being trained? Okay. We have the training and planning right now. Okay. So that's in planning, and I believe also fire has already started some of that training as well. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Sorry to do this, Your Honor, but I'd like to go back to our codes and regs number four on the 1430 10th Avenue and change my vote from a yes to a no. I won't change the vote, but.
 Sorry, just so I'm aware, is that the Benson Stone item? It is the Benson Stone item. Thank you. Appreciate it. Just for the record, I thought I asked staff. I believe it was Mr. Capovella that presented that to provide me with some information, and I never received any written information from staff, so that's why I voted. What's the information that you need so we can make sure you get it? We'd have to go back and listen to tape. I don't know what I requested. But I had asked him for some items. Okay. So maybe someone could look into that.
 I'd appreciate that. Sounds good. Any other reports? Yeah, it's not really a report, but could we get a clarification for the city council? What does the condemnation mean when a building is condemned or a resident in Rockford? What happens with the city and how long does it take to get back on off of the condemnation?
 Director Fransom. Condemnation means that the structure is unsuitable for human habitation. It could be due to a variety of reasons, as simple as no utilities to an unsafe structure. And so in terms of getting it back to removing that condemnation, it really depends on what the situation is and working with our construction services team to rectify the building, the property standard violations.
 Do we have a could we get a report on how many residents buildings are condemned at this point? I'm certainly I pull that together Thank you any other report Move on to unfinished business in committee reports laid over Code and regulation committee alderman Charlie. Thank your honor Three items this evening. The first is the screw City Beer Festival scheduled for September 9 2019 the second
 We're at Roman numeral V8. Oh, I understand. Page error here. The first is the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation of no action on the request to establish a yield or two-way stop sign at the intersection of Marvin Street and Green Street. Place that up for passage. Thank you. We have one item before you. Any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? 13. Aye. Thank you.
 Gasparini? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes. Aye. Warren?
 Thank you. That item passes. Next up, we have appointments laid over, but that one will continue to be laid over until after September 4th. Next up, we have motions and resolutions and code and regulation committee. All right. Thank you, Your Honor. I'll get back to that. The Screw City Beer Festival is scheduled for September 9th, 2019.
 We got the number two is the Greek Fest 2019 scheduled for September 7 2019 and September 8 2019 Number three is the tamale fest number four Scheduled for September 14 2019 place those up for passage your honor. Thank you So we have three items before you any discussion on those three items. See no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Yes, Marini
 Aye. Tumberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Herby? Aye. Urbans? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Deitch? Aye. Quinones? Shirely? 12 ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. Next up we have Finance and Personnel. Alderman Beck? Aye. Deitch? Aye. Knolles? Aye. Deitch? Aye.
 Board of Bid for Network Cabling Services, the Chicago Voice and Data Authority, Communication Connections Incorporated, Renaissance Communication Systems, and Kelso Burnett Company for an estimated contract value of $30,000.00.
 The contract is Duration is one year with one possible annual extension next to have an award a bid for citywide sidewalk and ad a repairs package number 1 2019 to Stenstrom excavation in the amount of eighty seven thousand three hundred eighty three dollars and fifty cents Next have an award a bid for citywide sidewalk and ad a repairs package number two 2019 This tends to mix excavation in the amount of seventy three thousand nine hundred and three dollars and sixty cents
 Next I have an award a bid for Third Street bridge over 6th Street deck repairs to civil constructors incorporated in the amount of two hundred nine thousand three hundred forty dollars and sixteen sixteen cents Completion date is November night 2019 next is the award of engineering agreement for Third Street bridge over a 6th Street deck repairs to HR green of McHenry in the amount of forty nine thousand four hundred six dollars and fifty one cents and
 completion date is november 2019 next i have award of engineering agreement for police evidence facilities site design to willett hoffman and associates in the amount of 31 843.76 contract duration is october 2019 next is the award of professional services agreement for the police evidence facility building architectural services to agni architects for
 I'm sorry for an estimated $326,560. Next is the change order number one for citywide street repairs group number two 2019 to William Charles Construction in the amount of $293,204.79 for an amended contract amount of $2,106,450.18
 the original contract amount was 1 million 813 thousand two hundred forty five dollars and thirty nine cents next we have a change order number one for street wide street citywide street repairs group number three 2019 to see TCI concrete for an additional one hundred and sixty four thousand four hundred thirty eight dollars for an amended contract amount of one million five hundred and fifty four thousand four hundred seventy dollars and 27 cents
 Next we have an award or so cut source contract for police portable radios and accessories to Motorola Solutions and the amount of 227 222 thousand seven hundred seven dollars and four cents funding sources of 2017 jag burn grant and police operating budget next acceptance of the 2017 Edward Byrne Memorial justice assistance grant and
 And then the last, we have a resolution expressing official intent regarding certain capital expenditures to be reimbursed from proceeds of one or more obligations to be issued by the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, Illinois. And I place these 12 items up for passage. Thank you. So you have 12 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 12 items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irving. Aye.
 Huffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Those items passed. Next up we'll move to new business and we'll go to planning and development. Alderman Rose. I'm sorry that item was laid over. Thank you. Next up we'll have code and regulation committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you your honor.
 I have an ordinance approving the request to vacate a narrow, grassy strip of land that is platted as the right-of-way between 717 John Street and 706 Salem Street.
 Number two is an ordinance approving authority to list the city-owned property located at 413 Ford Street for sale. Number three is an ordinance approving the honorary street name change on South Madison Street from East State Street to Walnut Street to the Mafioli Avenue in honor of Louie Mafioli. Number four is an ordinance approving the special use permit for an outside storage area for landscape and building materials on a gravel surface.
 a variation to increase the maximum height allowed in the front yard from 4 feet to 6 feet at 40 14 30 10th Avenue Place those up for passage runner. Thank you So the if I have this rate of alderman Shirely items 1 through 4 and item 6 are up Yeah, I don't want to for I
 And items five and six were laid over. Oh, six. I'm sorry. Six was laid over as well. Yeah. All right. Items one through four. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the vote? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 12, ayes. Item number 4, 11, ayes, 1, no.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the rejection of bid in the amount of $575 received from Timothy and Beverly Davis for the sale of property located at 4XX Horseman Street. And I have an ordinance approving the sale of a city-owned vacant lot located at 1116 24th Street to Marino Realty in the amount of $7,200. And I place these up for passage. Thank you. There's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? No.
 Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.