Approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on May 16th, 2022. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 1st, 2022? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Thank you. Item passes. Next we have proclamation. Our proclamation this evening is for Winnebago by local month. You guys know the drill. Whereas, Winnebago Buy Local is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote and support local businesses. There are thousands of registered businesses in Rockford that provide employment for residents, creating jobs for a large portion of our local population. And whereas, buying local is an investment in our community. For every $100 spent at a locally owned business, nearly half goes back into our community. And whereas, shopping locally is a conscious choice that moves Rockford towards towards self-sustainability and helps reduce our carbon footprint by reducing the packaging and fuel required to ship products from far away. And whereas local business owners and employees take special pride in their products, businesses are key partners in helping our community remain vibrant. viable and regularly support local charities and other organizations. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. Magdamer, as the mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of August 2022 to be Winnebago by Local Month. I would just add that I Obviously, our local businesses have not just a rough year, a rough couple of years. And just the amount of courage it takes, the amount of personal investment, both monetary as well as time and commitment is really appreciated and seen. And it does... It being 815-DAY, just continue to urge all citizens, when you have the opportunity, do buy local. Your dollars go a lot farther. They stay in our community longer, and they help amazing folks fulfill their dream, but also create a really vibrant and wonderful community. So just appreciate all the work that you guys do. Thank you very much, Mayor. Lauren Davis, our president at Winnebago by Local, wished she could be here tonight. On behalf of her, the Winnebago by Local board, some of who are with me tonight, and hundreds of local business owners, I want to thank you, Mayor McNamara and the aldermen, for proclaiming August Winnebago by Local Month. Our organization, Winnebago Bay Local, has been around for 12 and a half years and has over 300 locally owned businesses as members. We're a non-profit, grassroots organization for small locally owned businesses, which works to help network together, share resources, and encourage the communities in which we do business. Our mission is to teach the great people of Winnebago County the benefits of buying locally, while supporting and educating local businesses to be their biggest advocate for success. When a few local businesses started the effort to create this grassroots organization in 2010, I'm sure they never could have imagined how it would grow and flourish. The recognition we've received tonight does so much to show our community that supporting local business is important, not only at the micro level, but also for local government too. We're grateful for this recognition and support of our community. By proclaiming August as Winnebago Bay Local Month, we hope it will help spread the word and encourage the people to shop locally, dine locally, and to use local service-based businesses, which in turn helps your local and regional economy and make this a great place for all of us to live, work, and play. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we will move to a public hearing, and I believe Alderwoman Torino will be conducting the public hearing on the annexation of 7XX Waveland Avenue. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight, August 15, 2022, pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5-7-1-1, 7-1-8, and 5-11-15-15.1-3 for the agreement to annex for the following property, 7XX Waveland Avenue. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on July 29, 2022. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, August 15, 2022 at 530 in Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall, located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed annexation agreement for 7XX Waveland Avenue. Are there any comments or questions from council members on this annexation? Okay, no questions from council. Are there any other questions or comments from the public? No questions or comments from the public. Seeing that there are no comments, this hearing is now closed. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. Next, we will move to petitions and communications, and I believe we have a communication from our legal director, Nick Myers. Thanks, we are in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of four hundred ten thousand four hundred ninety four dollars and eight cents Thank You director Myers next we will go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman meets Thank You Your Honor Under Planning and Development Committee item number one memorandum from Kyle Saunders Public Works director regarding an application and award acceptance for the bridge improvement program BIP grant and 15th Avenue over Rock River Bridge. This is referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number two is the memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a recreational lease agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for the use of Fordham property, pin 1126104001, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And then item three is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director. regarding the approval of application and award acceptance for the DCEO Tourism, Attraction, and Festivals Grant Program for Davis Park Master Plan Phase 1 Implementation, and this too is referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman Meeks. Next we'll go to Alderwoman Tarina for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, we have five items. Item number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for meeting to be held on August 16, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on August 22, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two, liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on August 16, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee on August 22. 2022 referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item three, memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager permits and special events regarding an upcoming special event for the Park Fest, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item four, memorandum from Scott Capavilla, planning and zoning manager regarding updates to the annexation policies, referred to, I cannot read tonight, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 5 memorandum from Nicholas Meyer legal director regarding amendments to section 17 dash 1 weed control and 17 dash 2 weed cutting and liens referred to code regulation committee. Thank you all the moment arena next We'll go to alderman frost for finance and personnel committee Thank you number one is a member from Jennifer Jagger community services Regarding the acceptance of seven grant awards for the continuum of care this refer to finance personnel committee Number two, amendment from Jennifer Jagger, Community Services, regarding the acceptance of the Illinois Association of Community Action Agencies' DHS Employment Barrier Reduction Pilot Grant Award. This will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number three, a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a city-state railroad agreement for railway-highway grade crossing improvements at Sandy Hollow Road and the Illinois Railroad. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number four is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, City Traffic Engineer, regarding an application and acceptance for Safe Streets for All grant local traffic safety action plan. This will also be referred to finance and personnel committee number 5 is a memorandum from Lisa Warren head start director regarding a memorandum of understanding. As an addendum to the agreement between the city of Rockford and the Rockford park district, this is referred to finance and personnel committee. And lastly, as a memorandum from Scott capabella planning and zoning manager regarding the request for resolution, directing the zoning officer to accept Oxford house zoning applications. Without requiring payment of the filing fees that their request is referred to finance the personnel committee. Thank you Thank you. Next, we'll move to public speakers. And just to remind each of the public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers. You will be provided three minutes to address the city council. At the conclusion of those three minutes, you will hear a cell phone ring alarm and just ask that you close your comments. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, it says the steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, NICOR and Kamehameha is killing the people on fixed income. with these high prices. The president, the governor, the mayor should crack down on these utility companies. Every time the poor people get a little raise on their social security check, these utility companies go up on their prices. Five people came to me Wednesday and said, Prophet Yusef, would you speak about how our PIP bills went up high. We are finally making it on the little money we are getting from Social Security. The president, the governor, the mayor should give more subsidy to help take the load off the poor people in America. We are helping people overseas. Now it's time to help the people in America. I also want to thank God for Alderman Tuppy for giving a parade for the people in his ward Saturday. Lots of people came out The children who didn't get any candy for Halloween got a lot Saturday. They should have a parade in all the wars before the children go back to school. I also didn't want to tell my brother-in-law, John, who was a Marine in Vietnam, and my grandson, Roberta, this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, brother-in-law. And happy birthday, grandson. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNair and all the persons, our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. I have with me today, last week I had my elementary youth, today I have my youth from Auburn High School and Jefferson High School here with us today. The IC3310 statement, the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king, he will save us. not man made fear and slavery. In Matthew 9, 37, the disciples were worried about 50,000 people that had gathered on the mountain to hear Jesus speak. He only had two loaves of bread and five fishes. Then he said to his disciples, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. This past Friday, We was at Rockford Housing Authority, had a back to school event. We had 30 kids from Concord, had 25 from Orton Keys. They performed and I mentioned that we should have more activities with our kids from Concord and Fairgrounds. There's a legacy out here where our kids from Concord and Fairgrounds will get along. Blackhawk, Orton Keyes kids don't get along. The police department can't arrest their way out of crime. What we can do is start having events with our youth. If I use, for example, Sadie, Tuffy had a program, but our youth couldn't afford to pay for anything that was at Tuffy's event, but yet we were still there in good faith. I want to bring up the fact that this year will be our ninth year going to Magic Waters. This will be the fifth year that the school A bus is providing us with a school bus. We're only charging, the ticket is $30 at the door. We're only charging $25 per family. We're raising funds for the rest of the family. What I've learned since the Corona hit, I asked three questions. One, how many people died from Corona? how many side effects that people have. Then three, how many people still got sick even after they had the corona. The president Joe Biden got sick twice and he even got the booster shot. And so instead of getting mad with the speaker, I'm just speaking about what our concerns are. And so I learned that special interest groups don't support us. Only wants to support us is is a sponsor. A sponsor do not tell you what you can and can't say. If I use the quote that one of my wrote on my Facebook page, I would like to take the time out to bless Brother John Tack Brantley. Happy birthday two years ago. This man is a pillar in the black community. I respect him for being unapologetic himself. He's an activist for our people. You just don't see many black men going as hard as he does for the kids, the women, and men of our future. Happy birthday, Brother John. It's truly an honor to learn from you and serve the community with you. That was two years ago. Three years ago, Timothy Baltimore wrote, it was not for the brother here, John Tagg Burnley. I would like we would not have any school clothes or supplies. He always makes sure, brother. had a little change in his pocket through the summer work program at Rock River Training. How many of y'all remember that back in the 80s? And Orton Keyes, we called it the SEAL program back then. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I'll be back next week to talk about our deceptive times. Next public speaker we have this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. The Bible. Now the God of hope fills you with all joy and peace, believing that you may abound in hope through the power of God. Since we hope with great and confident expectation for something greater than anything we know is in store for us, including beyond the gifts of joy and peace, it is comforting in a threatening and ominous world such as this. There is peace to enrich us and fortify us, as well as joy. But this high hope... of expectation can only be sustained by deep confidence and the sovereign purpose of creative goodwill. So one moves on without fear for the past and assurance for all that lies ahead. We are lifted out of doubt and despair and carried beyond the reach of fear awaiting God's high expectations. This hope abounds and its horizons expand only when God is creatively at work within us according to our faith. And anyone who lacks this enlarging hope and new quality of life has a questionable positive relationship with God. Such a relationship is filled with deceit, dishonesty, and paralyzing fear. An example of that was this past week when a representative from Hood was to meet with our organization at a church of our choosing. The day before, she changed to someplace downtown. We refused to go. That was, in our estimation, deceitful, imbecility, which marks too much of what's called leadership in Rockford. Our suspicion was confirmed when some people we know who frequent the area down there saw some political operatives from the city. They let us know. Yep, our suspicions were confirmed. We will continue to tell our congresspeople there's something wrong with this community and it needs to be investigated. I did take the time to thank Congressman Danny Davis, Congressman Len Schakowsky, and a few other congresspersons who were instrumental in getting the $54 billion part of the recently signed bill by President Biden. I, as one of the chairpersons of Ministers for Manufacturing, are sure that some of those billions are coming to Rockford. And we're going to be certain that some of it comes to the west side of Rockford, where black people will receive some of it. Thank you. Next, we'll move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee, and Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Under item 1 under new committee reports the committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement with Southwest ideas for today and tomorrow Otherwise known as Swift for the rehabilitation and redevelopment of 1111 Avon Street The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk will you please call the roll? Logoman Toomer frost Terina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks 11 eyes. Thank you. Next. We'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor. I For the Code and Regulation Committee, item number one, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 7XX Waveland Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The owner of the subject property has requested annexation to the City of Rockford. The parcel will be developed and allowed for construction of a new church. Item 2 the committee recommends approval of the annexation agreement for 7 XX Waveland Avenue The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance the annexation shall run with the property item 3 the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford of ordinances chapter 105 article 2 technical codes Division 12 elevator safety code the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Is there any discussion on the three items that we have? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Ogerman, Toomber, Frost, Tarina, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, Bonney. Eleven ayes. thank you I was passed and next we'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman Frost thank you number one the committee recommends approval of the voucher in the amount of 8 million 121 thousand thirty seven dollars and fifty one cents as approved at the finance and personnel meeting held on August 8 2022. number two the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement for Charles Street reconstruction this agreement is between the city of Rockford and four River Sanitation Authority outlining project scope and each agency's responsibilities The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of the agreement between the city of rockford and the comment for utility relocation located at city yards using the American rescue plan funds the proposal. The proposed total of $90,652.58 includes relocating existing overhead electrical infrastructure to underground, removal of existing utility poles and lighting owned by ComEd, and to modernize the on-site primary power feed to the facility by upgrading equipment and relocating to underground services. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. number four the committee recommends approval of the proposed sales city-owned property located at 1417 mulberry street to kareem bay for his bid of one thousand dollars mr bay is an adjoining property owner the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i place these four items before you thank you alderman frost uh there is now four items before you is there any discussion on those four items clerk could you please call the roll logeman timber frost Terina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks Bonnie 11 eyes thank you and Council uh with your permission I would like to go back to Roman numeral six new committee reports under item a planning and development number one which was a committee recommends approval for the proposed development agreement with Southwest ideas for today and tomorrow Swift for the rehabilitation and redevelopment of 1111 Avon Street we have a council member who would like to adjust their boat and I will turn the mic do I have everyone's permission to do that Thank you. Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to change my vote on that to abstain for the record. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. And that does not change the outcome of that vote. It still is approved at that point. So next we'll move to unfinished business committee reports that have been laid over. There is nothing under planning and development, and we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval for the amendments to the City of Radford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 17, Article 2, Noise, Article 3, Nuisance Vehicles and Devices, Article 4, The Impoundment of Nuisance Vehicles and Devices, and Section 19-3, Offensive Use of Property. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. There is one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion clerk. Could you please call the roll? Logan in timber frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks Bonnie 11 eyes. I Thank you. Next we'll move to officers reports and just a couple of things to report out. One, I want to thank all of you that were able to participate with the students and the chaperones who came from Ukraine. I also want to say a sincere thank you to the 50 plus businesses and organizations that assisted those students and the chaperones while they were here. If you didn't have an opportunity to interact, I can certainly tell you they were incredibly gracious and grateful for the opportunity many of you helped make for them over those 12 days as a respite from the war. Secondly, I want to say a sincere thank you to Alderman Quinones. The amount of work that went into that parade and festival was tremendous and I think it's something that could grow over the years and just want to say thank you. Also, if you had an opportunity, Saturday evening was the Rockford Boxing Classic inaugural event Event and just a huge. Thank you to the Rockford Patriots boxing club as well as Jimmy Goodman And all those who helped make that a reality and I believe it was through the forward for fun initiative and alderman Toonberg. Thank you Really one the neatest things obviously the talent inside that ring was pretty amazing But just the crowd that was there it looked like Rockford and it was really wonderful to see So thank you and two last items I which is a weekend full of really wonderful events. On Sunday morning at Providence Baptist Church, Providence Baptist Church and Forest City Church teamed up to have one of the best ceremonies I have seen, and it was just really remarkable. And I'm sure Alderman Tarina will probably touch on it further, but it's just really wonderful to see those two churches collaborating. Lastly, a huge thank you to Governor Pritzker as well as our local delegation, specifically Representative West and Senator Steve Stadelman. Our community was awarded about 10% of all the grant funds provided in the state for the rebuilding downtown. downtown's Main Street grants three million dollars was awarded to Joseph James the owners of the Times Theatre for a renovation of that historic theater and the city received two point one million dollars to resurface Madison Street from East State Street to Prairie Street will be replacing a hundred year walk more than 100 year old water main as well as doing number of streetscape improvements and pedestrian and pedestrian and cycling improvements Which just a huge thank you to the staff that applied for that grant well done And with that I'll turn you over to aldermen officers reports alderman can Jonas. Yes As the alderman of the 11th ward we had a festival and parade took place Saturday which was a huge success, but it couldn't have happened with a lot of help and So therefore, I want to thank the city of city staff, Rockford Police Department and the mayor for all the hard work they put in for us. Also Chairman Joe Shirely and Sheriff Carana and the Rockford Park District for helping out also. All the sponsors, big and small, for helping out the 11th Ward, we really appreciate it. And I can't forget the participants in the parade. They came from all over the city of Rockford, from the iron horses, motorcycles, to the real horses at the end of the parade. And the guy that kept me going was Prophet Yusuf. If it wasn't for him, I might not have made it, but he kept me going. This shows by working together, we can make this city great. So I want to thank everybody. Thank you. Other reports. Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. The Seventh Board is having another Forward for Fun activity this Saturday at 1705 Kilburn Avenue. They'll be having a backpack giveaway at the Christian Union Church and that event will be from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. There is also another event that is happening or that was due to happen this weekend on Saturday, the Westside REUNION. BECAUSE OF THE WEATHER, THAT DATE IS GOING TO BE CHANGED TO SEPTEMBER 17TH. I'LL HAVE ANOTHER TIME AT A DIFFERENT TIME FOR YOU ALL. BUT THAT EVENT DUE TO WEATHER HAS BEEN CANCELED FOR THIS WEEKEND. SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE THAT KNOWN. AND THAT IS ANOTHER FORWARD FOR FUND INITIATIVE AS WELL. THANK YOU. OTHER REPORTS? ALDERMAN BONNIE, THEN ALDERWOMAN MEKS. THANK YOU, MAYOR. I would also want to congratulate Alderman Quinonez for his parade and festival. It really, really was impressive. There really was a lot to see and do. I was proud to march in the parade with you, Tuffy, and I had some really tasty tacos, and I had the better judgment to avoid getting on the mechanical bull. But that looked like a very fun thing if you were a little bit younger. And there were some police officers who I saw. having an interesting time on that ride. But it was a lot of, I think, a lot of fun had by all. Also, I would like to congratulate Alderwoman Meeks for her, of all the 815-day celebrations going on in the city today, in her full-time job at Independence Village, she organized a very thoughtful event where she had a panel of veterans speak about their experiences and it included Bob LeMay who is the commander of the Navy Club ship one in Rockford which is the first Navy Club in the in the nation and Stanley Curley Thompson who has talked to the council before who I believe is the first black soldier from Rockford to serve in the United States Marines and it was just a really different and meaningful 815 day celebration. And then in the 14th ward I would, I was happy to attend a ribbon cutting on Friday at Rockford Auto Glass which has acquired two other businesses, I'm not sure whose ward whose wards lost advanced window and Well, the other one is escaping me but they are now all operating in and out of Rockford auto glass in the 14th Ward so there was a ribbon-cutting to Celebrate the expanded product line that you they are now in selling and manufacturing patio doors, windows, mirrors. It's really pretty impressive the amount of large equipment that they have in that space that you probably wouldn't realize from the street. And they've expanded the size of their staff as well, so congratulations to them. And on Friday we had the second of four Forward for Fun initiative for Fridays in the 14th Ward at Lino's and The this is every other Friday now. So the third one is coming up on the 26th and it will be Benefiting the benefiting Rockford promise and featuring the NIU jazz band. Thank you. Thank you other one meets thank you so much and thank you mark for giving my whole speech and So I'm just going to add a few everything he said was completely accurate all of those people were there including State Senator Steve Stottleman and state representative Dave Vela. We also had the loves Park VFW 9759 participate so I'm just really appreciative of my staff that did a wonderful job of putting the event together a lot of people wondered I did we throw an event about veterans on 815 day and I think it's important to always remember that it's their service that allows us all to be here so state senator Senator Stottleman mentioned that in his speech and I thought it was very very true. So celebrating 815 I'm really happy to do that today. It's a wonderful day to be able to do that So thank you for saying all that. I appreciate it. And thank you all who came out to the event fire department as well Thank you so much for sending representatives out bow and skip. I appreciate them both Thank You alderman to burg and then alderwoman Terina. Thank you mayor. I Alderman Bonney may not want to underestimate his ability and his age, and go ahead and jump on that bowl next time. But yeah, there's quite a bit, but I'll try to keep it short. In no particular order, I want to say good job to those entities, including the City of Rockford, for getting these grants, and really looking forward to Madison Street getting underway. Also, there were some other individual applications that obviously didn't get awarded, but hats off to those organizations as well, because they have some great things going. I want to thank Director Saunders, who I've had on speed dial, it seems like in particular the past couple weeks. Also, we have had some of the Mayhem in the third ward as is in the long run the rest of the city, but mayor thank you and Administrator cagnoni and and all what we're trying to do with some of these pop-up parties and tackling that issue also City legal director Meyer. Thank you for For talking with a bait and getting some of that hashed out on this latest ordinance so Yeah, I think that's it for for now. Thanks. Thank you all the woman Trina. Thank you your honor I just want to acknowledge As the mayor did the block party that for City Church did in partnership with Providence Church I just have an amazing relationship with Pastor Martin and Providence He is the real deal when it comes to just being about community You know, he just He's just like, I don't want people to just see this as a church. I want people to see this as a place where just all, anyone can come and just feel safe and have services to be offered. So I just really want to commend him for the work that he continues to do in South Rockford. They also are renovating a, I don't want to call it a community center because it's not really what it is in the traditional sense, but there's going to be like a. Nonprofit housed inside there's gonna be space for you know me to have a ward meeting There'll be space for me to be able to talk to residents as well So I just really appreciate everything that they're doing there and they just really had a fantastic event There was hundreds and hundreds of people at their block party we had a DJ and just a lot of community vendors and So again, just good job to them. And another thing is I'm having a ward meeting for Ward 5. It will be on Thursday, September 29th at Providence. They just have a great space for me. So if it ain't broke, don't fix it. I like, you know, some people change the location, but I'm just gonna keep my meetings there because it's centralized for me. So just mark your calendars. So Thursday, September 29th, we'll have a ward meeting at 5.30. At Providence and I'll keep everyone posted. I'll have it on my social media, but I wanted to announce it as soon as possible because typically the more marketing and the earlier marketing I do, the more people show up. So that's all. Thank you. Thank you. Any other officers reports? Seeing none, we'll move on to appointments laid over. There are 23 appointments listed out. Only the first 20 are actually up for a vote. So the first 20 are up for a vote. Is there any discussion on those 20? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Locum in. Toomer. Cross. Tarina.
 Wilkins.
 Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Items 1 through 9, 12 ayes. Item number 10, 12 ayes. Four ayes, eight noes. Items 11 through 17, 12 ayes. Item 18 is 11 ayes, one abstain, and 19 and 20 are 12 ayes. Awesome. Next, we'll go to motions and resolutions. Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the proposed Davis Park Master Plan and Phase 1 redevelopment implementation. One item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logoman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Fonny. Twelve ayes. Awesome. So that item is approved. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Tarina. Aye. For code and regulation committee item number one the committee recommends approval of the screw City beer fest This event is scheduled for Saturday, September 10th from noon to 4 p.m The event location will be 324 North Madison Street in the parking lot of the Riverview ice house and trolley car 36. I Number two the committee recommends approval for cycle on second this event is scheduled for Sunday, September 11th from 8 a.m To 10 a.m. Roads will close at 7 a.m The event location will be southbound on North 2nd Street from Auburn Street to Walnut Street and item number three a resolution supporting prime videos League of their own series Excellent we have three items. We need a motion to suspend rule number nine so moved Motion is there a second we have a motion we have a second So we'll take just a boat on the suspension of rule 9 We have a motion and a second or any discussion on just suspending rule 9 for that item all those in favor of suspending Rule 9 for item 3 say aye. Aye Those opposed. Okay. So now we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items other woman makes I I probably shouldn't do this, and I know this isn't a discussion, but I just want to say that I did watch a League of Their Own series, and it was phenomenal. I'm on, I think, episode eight right now, and you guys have to go to Prime and watch it. It's amazing. I just have to say. Sorry. That's excellent. It's absolutely a good series. That's commitment, too, to be on eight right now. So we have three items before us. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Is there any way that we can or the alderman can sign on to that resolution that goes forward to let Amazon Prime know not only coming from your office, but for every one of us? We appreciate what they've done here and if that's possible. Yeah, that will be possible. We will make sure that next Monday we have a document here to sign for all those aldermen who are present, and we'll get that out. Thank you so much. Good idea. Thank you. Thank you. Any other items? Alderman Frost. What channel is Prime on? It's streaming. So previously Alderman Frost, Alderman Bonney mentioned age. That would be brought back right at you. Amazon Prime is an ad. that you can stream shows from. It's on the inner tubes that Al Gore created. Oh, yes, yes. Okay, I've heard about that before. Thank you. All right, any other items, discussion for those three items before us? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Weber. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Bonney. 12. Excellent. We'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the demolition of 1406 School Street to DPI construction of Pecatonica in the amount of $13,685. The funding source is the Community Development Block Grant. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the demolition of 2323 West State Street to NTRC Group in the amount of $104,780. The funding source is the Construction Services Operating Budget. Number three is an award of the non-competitive contract for the 280 self-contained breathing apparatus and related equipment to Air One Equipment of South Elgin in the amount of $259,000. The funding source is the Fire Department Operating Budget. Number four is an award of RFP for the Head Start Transportation Services Operating Budget. To first student of Naperville for an amount not to exceed a total of 1,227,060 dollars and 80 cents for 166 school days and some 32 field trips. The contract duration is one year with two one year extensions. The funding source is the federal head start grant. I place these four matters before you. Thank you. There's four items before us. Is there any discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Just help me understand. When we have two one-year extensions, does that not exceed cost? I'll stay at that same price for all three years? We will go to Director Haggerty. And Director Haggerty, the question was on those contracts, and correct me if I'm wrong, Alderman Beach, on those contracts that have two one-year extensions, does that cost stay the same? That depends. Let me just open this specific one and see the The extensions would be generally limited to consumer price index or if there is an industry related increase that the vendor can justify to us and we verify that and accept it then we will do so. But usually we do not fix prices for that long of a term, especially for something like transportation that's so dependent on fuel. Thank you, sir. The reason I ask that question is the language says not to exceed. So that would tell me that this contract is capped at one, two, whatever its number is here. And I'm just saying if we could extend it, is that also not to exceed? That is correct, yes. Not to exceed this number? Correct. Okay, so any increases are automatically built in that number going forth. Would have to look at the specifics of the pricing of this contract the not to exceed amount is based on fixed routes and a fixed number and a number of Field trips that are included in the contract So that not to exceed amount is for this year of the contract the extension would be a new not to exceed amount and I don't have the specific language around the price increases list that apply to this contract, but as I mentioned, generally that's CPI related. So it would be this not to exceed amount increased by CPI. But that would not come back to us, correct? Correct. So we don't know what that would be going forward year two and three? That is correct. I see. All right, thank you. Thank you. Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Item number one and two. On two, I'm surprised that we have this item before us for demolition. I had worked with the owner of this property. He was generous enough to give that building to the city, and the city is now going to demolish it. I know that it costs the cost to to bring it to the point where it could be usable was a considerate amount. However, when I look at this, Mr. Mayor, at this property and the property that the city accepted on North Main Street and the cost, I think it was reported here, to bring it to be usable is around $3 million. Okay. If we have taken that, if we would take that same $3 million and use on this West State Street building, I'm sure that it would put it in a condition comparable to the North Main Street property. The building on West State Street is certainly more centrally located to the public to make use of it. I have proposed that we use that property for a community building. where seniors as well as younger individuals could make use of that property. It's a considerably large parking area where in one section of the parking area, certainly basketball courts could have been put up as well as other sports activities provided in that parking lot. I didn't support the North Main proposal given that this building was available at that time and way before that time. So I hope my colleagues will not support the demolition of this property and consider what I've just said tonight to make use of it. Now, there are community centers throughout the city, but in this part of the city, where they're located are not convenient for kids, for kids... to come and make use of it for the interior, for doing homework, or the exterior, like I said, for sports. So I hope all of you will join with me and not allow the demolition of this property and for it to go back to staff and consider that possibility of what I just said. And on School Street, I'm not sure, maybe staff can help me. What's at this location? What type of property? Okay. Director Franzen, this is a property that's owned by a church. It's the old Residential property is failing and in need of demolition and so it supports their development plans Okay, I I just hate to see buildings go away within within my area That could be revamped as proposed for North Main Street Because we're in need of different properties for various uses and Anyone can go through the 13th Ward certainly go down with State Street and see that there's a lack of Properties for for retail as well as for activities needed in that area and Thank you very much. Thanks. I would just remind council that the property Alderman McNeely is referencing also came with a million-dollar location-specific grant from the federal government and also in that sum included three to five years of operating expenses for the nonprofit inside that site. And the site would cost a lot more than what the North Main site costs us as a city based on that information. Alderman Trina? Yeah, thank you for saying that. I wanted you to kind of compare and contrast the properties. And maybe can you provide maybe Director Franzen some differences in square footage of the two buildings? Can you kind of just? I guess, can I add to that, elaborate on the differences between the 2323 West State Street versus the former Jerome Furniture Building on North Main Street? Certainly. So in between those two sites, the 2323 is significantly smaller than the Jerome and in significantly greater disrepair. And so it is staff belief that 2323 is not a viable redevelopment opportunity. It is city owned. and so an ongoing obligation for upkeep and maintenance and security, but very different in terms of Jerome, not only in location, but in terms of quality of the building as well. Thank you. Alderman Terina, did you have any additional questions? I didn't want to. No, I'm good. Thank you. Alderman Wilkins, did you have your hand raised? I did. I think he just answered it. So no matter what, that building would need to come down, even if you wanted to do something with that property. Is that what you're... Kind of what it sums up to what you just said about it not being viable. So with 2323 we have not received any viable redevelopment proposal for that site You know we have you know, certainly some security concerns there and our inspection team has been through there and believe that the redevelopment viability is Is not there that it's better to take it down. Certainly. It is a great location There are potential redevelopment opportunities going forward Given a green field site or brownfield site at that location But the actual rehab of the building is not viable market wise alderman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor How do you know how long 23 23 is that vacant? I Certainly since my time here, I don't know when it was last occupied, but it has been a long time. Like what's a long time? More than a decade? More than two decades? I don't think it's been more than a decade at all. I would say in that four to eight years period, somewhere in there. Probably eight to ten years. Oh, okay. And then the Jerome building? Do we know how long that one sat vacant? That was vacant for a long time from a consistent use. They used it for storage. They used it for, at one time, I think there was like a roller skating thing that was inside of it. There you go, sir. Thank you, Your Honor. Most recently, the Jerome building was occupied. It just wasn't occupied with a retail use or open to the public. So they had used it for storage and staging, warehousing, and they had internal offices. for the maintenance team of their overall properties within the facility and Was generally has been maintained where as director frauds and said in 23 23 West State Street Was provided to the city After it fell into disrepair had been condemned has continued to deteriorate over the years through a lack of ongoing maintenance of the building and to compound the issue there was property acquisition So much of the parking lot that is on that site is actually public right away or owned by the city of Rockford independent of the the building site and And could it be redeveloped for additional uses in the future? You know, certainly it could, but as Director Franzen said, you know, because of the condition of the building, we feel the best approach is to demolish it because of the blighting and dangerous impact it has to the neighborhood and the adjacent properties. All the woman trained that to finish up then alderman Toonberg and I believe alderman McNeely had a follow-up at this point Are we like legally can we back out of the Jerome building if we were to make that decision? Is that even possible? Mr. Cagnone? Oh At this point, no. We have a valid development agreement with Think Big that we've accepted the property and closed on it. So it is in our ownership. Our public works team has taken over the maintenance responsibility of the building. And we are currently in the design stage through the architectural contract that was previously approved by city council. and our team is moving full steam ahead to meet the deadline set forth within that development agreement. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg. Yeah, as a reminder, the owner of Northwest Foods, Saeed, I think last inhabited this building over on West State and moved over to what most people know as Northwest Foods at the roundabout. And there has been, so that was about four years ago, I believe, maybe five tops. And there have been inhabitants recently at the Jerome building. They just happened to be on the roof taking the copper of the HVAC and such. So there have been inhabitants, but not the kind we'd like to have there. So thank you. Thanks. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. The two properties, as pointed out here, have been vacant or minimal use for several years. The property on West State Street, you had no offers because it wasn't put out to receive any offers, if I'm correct. So no one knew that it was available by the city to come up with a plan to remodel it or reconstruct it or rebuild it or whatever. Okay. So as my colleagues and staff comment on the comparison of the two, I think we have to keep that in mind and let the public know that, yes, there is a difference, but certainly the location on West State Street, for what I had suggested and had talked with the mayor about in the past, would have been more beneficial to the city overall as well as to that particular area of the city. Thank you. you're most welcome alderman bonnie thank you mayor so the question of whether this property on west state is preferable to the jerome interior property is separate from whether or not this property should be demolished correct yes so if the alderman for the ward is concerned that adequate efforts haven't been made to try to save the building Would move we lay over item number two. So we have right now a motion to lay over Item C to is there a second we have a second is there any discussion simply? We're now just talking about item 2 C 2 is there We have a motion we have a second is there any further discussion and the motion is to lay this item over And is there a period of time you want to lay this over alderman Bonnie? I? Wouldn't it be automatic? No, I mean if you had it laid over for 30 days or till the next City Council meeting What's your time? Um, I I guess to give Alderman McNeely time to further discuss this with staff How much time is 30 days? Okay the motion and the second then an older woman McNeely I understand you support that 30-day timeframe as well. I So we have a motion. We have a second for a layover of 30 days Is there any discussion on that vote clerk? Could you please call the vote simply on laying over the demolition of 23 23 West State Street? Logeman to bird for us Torino Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Alderman Beach sorry, sorry Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie. Aye. 11 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Thank you. Next, now we have three items to discuss. Any further discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Hogeman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. 12 ayes. Excellent next we'll go to new business item a planning and development alderwoman meets Thank You Your Honor Item number one an ordinance approving the development agreement with Southwest ideas for today and tomorrow otherwise known as Swift for the rehabilitation And redevelopment of 1111 Avon Street. Thank you. We have one item before us Is there any discussion on that one item clerk? Could you please call the roll bogeyman? tuber frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 11 eyes one of state. Thank you next we'll move to code and regulation committee older woman Torino. Thank you your honor and Item number one, an ordinance approving the annexation of 7XX Waveland Avenue. Number two, an ordinance approving the annexation agreement for 7XX Waveland Avenue. Item three, an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 105, Article 2, Technical Codes, Division 12, Elevator Safety Code. Item number four in ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances chapter 17 article 2 noise article 3 nuisance vehicles and devices article 4 impoundment of nuisance vehicles and devices and Section 19 dash 3 offensive use of property Excellent. We have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items clerk? Will you please call the roll logum in tumor? Torino Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's links McNeely Bonnie 12 eyes. Thank you. I was approved next. We'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman frost Thank you number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and for the rivers sanitation authority for the Charles Street reconstruction the agreement outlines the project scope in each agency's responsibilities and Number two is an ordinance approving the agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for utility relocation located at city yards utilizing the American Rescue Plan funds. The proposed total of $90,652.58 includes relocating existing overhead electrical infrastructure to underground removal of existing poles and lighting owned by ComEd to modernize an on-site primary power feed to the facility. Number three is an ordinance approving the proposed sale of city-owned property located at 1417 Mulberry Street to Kareem Bay for his bid of $1,000. I place these three matters before you. Thank you. Three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Wilkins. Meeks. McNeely. Aye. Vice President Biden. Aye. Vice President Biden. 12 ayes. The President. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Have a wonderful night.