Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, August 19, 2024. My apologies for us getting a slow start this evening. We are fortunate, though, this evening to have Chaplain Ken Henley provide us with an invocation. Shall we pray? Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, we come before you tonight asking that you would guide the minds and thoughts of all those who are gathered together to guide the city of Rockford. We pray that they would be doing what is best for the city, and we pray that their minds would be free to speak what they believe is true. But most of all, we pray that they would be able to take care of the citizens of this community. We pray that you would be with the police and fire departments that go about their daily tasks, protecting us from harm and danger. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Arios Bailey Bonnie 10 present excellent we have a quorum is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on June 17th 2024 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed aye Okay, next, do we have a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on July 8th, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? We have no proclamations for this evening, so we'll move to petitions and communications. And we'll first start with Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is a memorandum from Mitch Leatherby, Street and Transportation Superintendent regarding the 2024 USDA Forest Service Urban and Community Forestry Tree Equity Grants for Disadvantaged Communities Grant Award, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Did you have one other added item, I believe? Oh, I forgot about that. Item number two is a memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding a proposed development agreement with Southwest Ideas for Today and Tomorrow, SWIFT, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderwoman Wilkins. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 20th 20th 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Quota Regulation Committee meeting on August 26 2024 referred to Quota Regulation Committee and number two the liquor and tobacco advisory board For the meeting to be held on August 20th 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Quota Regulation Committee meeting on August 26 2024 referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Thank you. I Thank you, Alderman Trenum. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Deputy Chief Robert Reffert regarding a purchase agreement for 2024 police vehicles. Number two is a memorandum from Owen Carter. Regarding the acceptance of the community services block grant from the only Department of Commerce economic opportunity and number three is a memory memorandum from Brad Holcomb Stormwater manager regarding the flood hazard mitigation program application to Illinois Department of Natural Resources All three of these mayors will be referred to the finance and personnel committee. Thank you alderman frost Next we're going to have public comment and to the media I would ask maybe you can just adjust where you're standing at you Happy to stand but just that's one of the microphones that some of the public may want to use and just want to give them some space Oh Legal director Nick meyer. Do you have something important for us? I do we are in receipt of the comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of three hundred thirty one thousand four hundred ninety six dollars eighty cents Thank you for that. Mr. Myers next we are gonna move to our public speakers We have a microphone on the back left as well as the back right of council chambers want to remind public speakers that you have three minutes to address the City Council and If my phone's operating correctly, you will hear an alarm go off to conclude your comments. If it is not acting correctly, I will just ask you to close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of 1 Timothy, the third chapter, the fifth verse, it says, If a man can't take care of his own home, how can he take care of the church of God? Take care of Rockwood first. What I want to speak about tonight, the value, importance, and necessity of having mobile express care clinics in Rockwood. You will save lives and time. You need one on the west side. You need one on the east side. You need one on the south side. You need one on the north side. You need one downtown in the central district area. By having these mobile express care clinics, you will be helping all the people in Rockwood, because you will be covering the whole city of Rockwood. By having mobile express care clinics, this would help you, Rockford, with the shortage of doctors who left Rockford for better pay. These mobile care clinics should be open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. By having these mobile care clinics, this would help take the load off Swedish emergency hospital units. This also would cut down on time to see a doctor. These mobile care clinics would be used for quick, evaluation and first aid and to see if patients have a serious health issue and be transported to the hospital. These mobile care clinics would help keep people healthy. Most of the people in Rockford are poor and they don't have health insurance. That's why they go to the emergency room this week. They should start a fund to help keep these life-saving mobile care clinics operating. If you use this idea of mine, you will save a lot of people lives in Rockford. And I'm willing right now to put up some money, put my money where my mouth is, to put in this fund. Let's save these people lives in Rockford. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor. I'm Mac Merritt, our argument and our attributorship at Rockford River North. I want to go at first by saying Proverbs highlights seven benefits of keeping quiet. Best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who are wiser. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak you have something important to say. I'm going to take my hat off to the Olympics. If you have watched the Olympics United States came in first place, China came in second. Mind you, China is mostly ethnic China. I looked at all the different countries that participated in the Olympics and most of their stars are African descendants. But most, what caught my eye the most was when that African American, USA, female ran against the British USA female. She gave her that look in the eye and said, I got this. I ain't going to say the word. But she said, I got this. And she flew into the end zone. I'm tipping my hat off to all the different African descendants from all the different countries. Just think, if all the African descendants was working together under one roof, we would be the most powerful ethnic group in the world. But yet, we are not. I'm going to give you an example right here in Rockford. This past weekend, at North Main Island, they had an event. At the Indians, they had over 200 people at the event. Our parking lot was full with no place to park. Mind you, our church van was parked in the manager parking space. Instead of Van Smith calling Brother John down to remove his van, he had my van towed. It costs $520 to get that van out. Mind you, he's also African American, but that's the definition of what we call the bourgeoisie decepticon. Instead of them helping us, they wind up pulling us down. We have too many people that's African American that's in positions to help us But instead of helping us, they hold us back. That's the reason why a lot of African-Americans don't vote, because they own Democratic Party leadership that's in position to help them. They don't help them. The money that I was going to use, that $520, half of it would have been going to take these kids to Magic Waters. Now we've got to scramble to see how I'm going to be able to still take these kids to Magic Waters on Labor Day weekend. Thank you for allowing me to speak. but I am definitely going to blast Van Smith because he worked for Rockwood Housing Authority, and even they said he should have called me down for me to come get my van. $520 to tow a church van? That was ludicrous. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Jim Buckingham. Oh, it's been a long time. Poor and towing. Please remember that for about two minutes. I'm going to tie this in. First of all, I think a reintroduction is in order. I'm Jim Buckingham, a U.S. Army vet with over 20 veterans in my family. First, I was known for the guy that Mayor Morrissey kicked out of City Hall for a year about 15 years ago. And then shortly after that, I was known for the guy that helped many homeless veterans. That was much better. And most recently, known as a rapist, sex offender, and child molester. Yes, they are all grouped together as the worst crime there is. except for one thing. I have spent five and a half years in prison for a crime that never happened. Never happened. After six years of being in shock, I have finally obtained my discovery that everyone being prosecuted for a crime is entitled to. This is a lie. If you are charged with a sex crime, you are not entitled to discovery. The difference between this innocent man and all the other innocent people is that I can prove this. Two months ago, I've been out of prison for a year. I finally found my rear end with both my hands. Two months ago, I got a hold of Discovery. Now that my sentence is completed, the prison sentence that is, I am now moving ahead with Operation Exoneration. When this is accomplished, I will get back to the best job I ever had in the world, working for homeless vets for free. Until that time, I will continue my crusade to have people replace and remove these torn, disrespectful American flags. I call them rag flags. You may have known that was a biggie. When did I do that? 15, 20 years ago. It's back on. The looks I get from these people, I can't believe it. All right. Now I believe that the Rockford Police Department and the city of Rockford should not be in the advertising business. By this I mean promoting the use of towing companies that charge exuberant amounts of fees transporting wrecked vehicles. The city should be protecting us from this gouging. I was recently involved in a collision. I was not at fault and originally thought the other driver was uninsured. So this tow charge had to come out of my pocket. However, the driver did have insurance. So my question is, who do the companies expect to pay these high prices? Or do they even care? Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Lola Mae Thrower-Purkin. Yes, I had papers together. Good evening. But someone had taken them from me, which is not right. You all got to get these people out of my house. It's not right. These are my doors. These are some of my doors. This is what I have to. I can't even close my door. I don't even have a knob on my door. I have no right in there. This is my home. My home. My home. My mother and father bought that home for me. And he didn't even pay taxes on it. It went in foreclosure. And I got the money from my sister and paid double. 63. I paid her. It was $33,000. I paid her 33. Plus I paid her 33 more. She said, you don't have to do that. I did that because I wanted to. to get the house back. These are just leather animals that he cut them up, cut up the leather animals. I mean, I'm just saying anything. This is another door, a different door. Would you want to be in a house like this and you don't get no sleep? I don't sleep. I've got bags under my eyes because I do not sleep. How can you sleep? When you do doze off, you're going to be drugged when you wake up. I just came from the doctor today. That's why I got a bandaid on my head. I just got back for this evening. I'm at the doctor all the time, constantly, constantly. And it's not right. It's not humanly right. I'm 71 years old. I want to live like everybody else. I want to live like everybody else. I have a right to. I have a right to. I've been divorced 30 years. 30 years I've been divorced. I put up with him almost 30 years. He was abusive to me. And I've been divorced 30 years. 30 years I've been divorced. I haven't messed with nobody. I don't follow nobody. I paid my bills. I did everything right. I even got a loan at Carrington Mortgage, and they told me my house was worth $185,000. I went and tried. I can't get nothing. Now Teresa and Parham and Howard Lee Parham have ruined my credit. Death, theft, and fraud is what it is. I can't even get a loan to even get my home fixed up again. My home is worth, they said, $67,000 is what they said. Yeah. 67,000 a long way from 185,000 it seemed like to me. And my son, I've got a picture of it, where he's, where he's staying in. He may not be in here now. I couldn't get him all, I couldn't find him all. But he's staying in the garage, in the garage in my house, and it's not legal. He's afraid. He's traumatized to the brain. Traumatized to the brain, I said. He don't know if he's coming or going. And the police still messes with him. The police still messes with my son. What can I do? Nothing but pray and that's what I've been doing. I'm tired of praying and getting nowhere. It's up to you all. You all are the reason that it's happening, the city and the state. That's who I blame. Yeah, I talked to Attorney General, Attorney General of Chicago, because they won't help me here. Nobody helps me here. Springfield knows about it too. I'm going to keep on keeping on because I'm not going to stop. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Valerie Olofsson. Good evening. I know most of you. I'm Valerie Olson. I'm a commissioner on the Historic Preservation Commission. I'm also an adjunct teacher at Rock Valley. I've been teaching art history for 24 years. And I'm here to speak in favor of the mural at 212 East State. As a preservation policy, we don't even regard paint because paint is seen as temporary. But as an artist, as a working artist, as an art historian, I love this mural. It really continues the tradition that was started with Create 15, which was that fantastic mural project that spanned five years. And here we have someone in the private sector joining in the art in downtown. Joe Tallman's design continues the tradition of Create 15 and it is a celebration of dance and music as well as a memorial to Amy, who is a dear friend of Paul and Karen Slutton, who passed away suddenly this year. It is also a beautiful contrast to the aviator mural on the other side of the street. And so when it's completed, this will be a beautiful gateway and invitation to the East State Business District. I hope you vote in favor of the mural. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. And thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we're going to move to new committee reports. And we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. MS. Thank you, Your Honor. item one is a committee recommends approval of the proposed solar option and lease with kph illinois 35 LLC for the city-owned property located at 844 South Horace Avenue the term of the lease is for 25 years for three five year extensions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 2 Committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford Head Start program and Rockford public school district 205 regarding operations for the 2024 2025 school year the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Item 3, committee recommends approval of the residential neighborhood sign program in the amount of $100,000 to assist residential neighborhoods and neighborhood groups in developing signage to create brand identity and pride in their neighborhood. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. In item four, a committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement with Tadmor Sustainability Institute in the amount of $97,953.20 to establish the Industrial Sewing Machine Operator Apprenticeship Program at 6116 Mulford Village Drive. The funding source is the Mulford and East State Tax Increment Financing, TIF. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderwoman. Council, we have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderwoman Wilkins? Thank you, Your Honor. I'm still working with some aldermen and the city to get some verbiage change for item number three, so I'm requesting that we still hold that one out, please. Lay it over. Yes. I'm sorry. I'm requesting a layover Thank you. So we have a motion. We have a second to lay over item three. Is there any that's automatic, right? Yes Okay. So now we have three items remaining one two and four. Is there any discussion on those items clerk? Will you please call the roll? jerky tuber frost Tarina Wilkins I Hoffman Rose Barrios Bailey Bonnie 10 ayes thank you next we're gonna go to code and regulation committee and all the Roman trainers Thank You your honor I have 16 items item number one the committee recommends approval of the shady Lane Road dedication plat and 2. The Committee recommends approval of a special use permit for a planned unit development for 29 multifamily residential units in the R3 Multifamily Residential Zoning District at 310 Ardent Avenue, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. number three the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for the outdoor storage of vehicles and building equipment in an i-1 light industrial zoning district at 1140 harrison avenue subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm in an i-1 general industrial zoning district at 7xx and 8844 south horace avenue Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number five the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on the building in a C4 urban makes use zoning district at 212 East 8th Street subject to conditions The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I number six the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2021 international building code with amendments the legal director prepared the appropriate ordinance number seven committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2021 international residential code with amendments the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Looks like that's the, no they're not. They're not all the same. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2021 International Existing Building Code, IEBC, with amendments. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code, IPMC, with amendments. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10. 10. The Committee recommends the approval of the adoption of the 2021 International Mechanical Code with amendments, legal directives shall return to the appropriate ordinance. Number 11 the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2021 international fuel gas code with amendments Legal dr. Shepard pray the appropriate ordinance number 12 The committee recommends approval of the adoption of the amendments to the Illinois State Plumbing Code 2014 the legal director shop appear the appropriate ordinance number 13 the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2020 and FPA 70 National Electric Code 2020 with amendments Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 14 the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2021 International Energy Conservation Code with supplements amendments adaptations as adopted by the Illinois Capital Development Board The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 15 The committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 2021 international swimming pool code with amendments the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance And lastly, number 16, the committee recommends approval of the adoption of a 2021 international fire code with amendments. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place these matters before you. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman Trina. Counsel, we have 16 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 16 items? Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to, on item number two, I'd like to lay this item over because... Would like for staff to just do some due diligence if they could please regarding this developer and some of their Projects just so we can get a better understanding of their reliability on this project We have a motion we have multiple seconds That's automatically laid over. Okay council. We have 15 items before us one and then three through 16 any discussion on those items? Burke, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. Ten ayes. Aye. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $10,237,486.90 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee held on August 12, 2024. Number two, the committee recommends approval of release of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties located at 519 Hartford. 3538 Blackstone, 1204 41st Avenue, and 2929 Kinsey. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends authorization to sell the vacant city-owned property located at 316 North Hinckley Avenue to Ronald Carter for his bid in the amount of $1,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number four, the committee recommends approval of the request for authority to hire a new senior engineering technician from Public Works The annual cost of this dress me approximately one hundred and two thousand dollars the funding sources of one percent infrastructure sales tax And the legal director shall again prepare the appropriate organs places for manager for you. Thank you council We have about four items. Is there any discussion on those four items clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? timber frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Barrios Bailey funny ten eyes I Thank you next time we'll have officers reports as any council member have a report other woman weapons. Thank you your honor I just wanted to let the community and everyone here know that comprehensive community solutions love and loyalty amongst all A bunch of community partners will be hosting our third annual back-to-school bash this Saturday from 10 to 2 p.m. It'll be located along Kent Street between AARC Booker, Washington and CCS on South Main. So if you are in town, stop by. If you have some kids that need some supplies, we'll have some entertainment, food. Therapy dogs will be there, a bunch of stuff. So just come check us out. Alderman, would you be willing to email me that and I'll make sure council members have it in case they didn't write things down. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Berrios. Thank you, Your Honor. On Friday, August 23rd, 24, 5 p.m. to 6.30 a.m. at 1516 Broadway, Rockford, Illinois, 61104, we have a public meeting with our Rockford Police Department. Okay. Thank you. Any other reports? Alderman Bailey. Yeah, I just want to acknowledge that the strong house located at 312 Irving Park Irving Park, I'm sorry Irving They had their literacy lounge that I attended the mayor was in attendance along with several other residents I'm glad to see that being utilized in our community with the issues that we have with literacy and I just want to thank a 15 get connected for their leadership and At that facility it's being utilized in our community. Thank you Great event and talking to staff there. They're averaging between 20 and 30 kids It's really getting more and more activated which is fantastic and young adults. I should say older woman Torino, thank you your honor I just wanted to let my residents and anyone that would like to attend and There is an event on Saturday, August 31st at 10 a.m. located at 911 Michigan Avenue, which is directly across the street from Providence Church. There is a mural dedication and celebration for the community. A brand-new mural went up on the wall. It looks really beautiful in the neighborhood, so we want to be able to tell the neighbors what it means, have the opportunity to meet the artist, which is fatherless, incredible artist to work with, They also reside in the fifth ward as well right next to CCS But just want to invite anyone to come it's it's a free event There'll be food and bouncy houses and fun things to do But it's just a great time for the community to be able to fellowship with one another. So thank you very much any other reports alderman Rose Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to comment on the issue last week where our legislative lobbying committee wouldn't take up the issue of the ceasefire. I just think it's really important, and I want to make a comment on it. A lot of people have said that it's not a local issue, that we should reserve time. or not waste time on issues that are not local issues i think it's important to recognize is that we take issues up on immigration we take issues up on social social issues that are done at a federal level we take issues up on schools that aren't even a part of city government we take issue on a whole host of other national international and local issues This body and I think it's important I'll just keep this quick is that when we talk about genocide and You know when genocides are taking place In the world. I think it's very important that cities always have an option always have an opinion on genocide and And that's really the whole point of that whole conversation. And when people talk about genocide and the idea of never again meaning never again, that I think is a really important message. As a student who, as a part of Rockford University, had the opportunity to interview Germans who, had to ask their parents about genocide and ask them to take a stand against it. And when they asked their parents, you know, what did you say when the genocide was happening here? And parents of that generation didn't know how to answer it. That generation was a little bit aghast, you could say. Not really sure how to think about that. And so that's kind of where I... Sit and in this conversation as a historian as someone who's an educator as someone who knows the fact that 477 out of 564 schools in Gaza have been directly struck, you know as an educator. It just makes you kind of rethink some things and I Think about, you know, if something like that, we have school shootings here in the United States and they're just like travesties. They're absolute travesties. And we have a handful of them. It 477 in a matter of eight months. So that's kind of where I stand on the issue. I think it's important that this body is. You know take up this issue at some point. I'm not going to shut up about it. I'm not going to be quiet about it anymore I think that For some people that's okay if they want to be quiet about it. That's your own opinion, but I'm not going to be quiet about it Thank you Thank you. Any other reports? Alderman Thunberg. Alderman Thunberg Thank you, Mayor. Thank you to all who helped to back the Blue Ride on Saturday. I think we had about 300 motorcycles upwards to that 100-mile-plus ride. Thank you to all who made that happen. Great annual event. Thank you. Mayor Redekop Any other reports? Moving right along, we'll go to motions and resolutions, and we'll go to Planning and Development. Alderwoman Wilkins. Alderwoman Wilkins Thank you, Your Honor. item one we have a committee that recommends approval for the 2024 regrow grant program to increase equity and community reinvestment in the amount of five hundred thousand dollars the funding source is the city of rockford three percent local tax on adult use recreational cannabis retail sales thank you is there any discussion on the one item before us clerk will you please call the roll turkey tuber frost terena wilkins hoffman rose barrios Bailey Bonnie nine eyes one no excellent next we'll move to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Tarina Thank Your Honor I number one the committee recommends approval of a cycle of cycle on second this event is scheduled for September 8th from 8 a.m. To 10 a.m. Rolls will close at 7 a.m. The event route will begin southbound on North 2nd Street from Auburn Street to Walnut Street Number two, the committee recommends approval of Stroll on State and Dasher Dash 5K. This event is scheduled for November 30th from noon to 9 p.m. The 5K run will begin at noon. The parade will step off at 1.55 p.m. from Main Street and Green Street, ending at State Street and 3rd Street. The tree lighting... fireworks will begin at 6 15 p.m. the streets will be in closing at 5 a.m. on Saturday number three the committee recommends approval of the text amendment to the city of Rockford zoning ordinance 80-0 0 9-d regarding non-conforming gravel driveways and parking lots thank you I just want for the record I can't believe we're talking about straw on state right now nor nor can I believe we're talking about gravel driveways again but hey here we are we have three items before us any discussion on those three items Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. No, I'm three. Aye. Toonberg. No, I'm three. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Barrios. Bailey. Bonnie. Aye. Items number one and two, ten ayes. Item number three, eight ayes, two noes. Excellent. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Adam. number one the committee recommends approval of award of engineering agreement for the witness sheet rehabilitation to imeg for an additional amount of forty nine thousand two hundred fifty dollars for an amended total of four hundred and sixty thousand two hundred and sixty one dollars The contract duration is 2022 to 2025. Funding source 1% infrastructure sales tax and the water rehabilitation investment account. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the change order for the body-worn camera and digital evidence management to Axon for 11 additional fleet, three squad car video recording systems the amount of $155,118 and four cents the contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions the funding sources the police department operating budget number three the committee recommends approval award of professional services agreement for tiff consultation to ryan llc in the amount of thirty two thousand five hundred dollars they will assist in amending the current east river tiff as well as creating a new TIF district for the project at 325 South Madison. The funding source will be the newly created Mass in Oak TIF. Number four, the committee recommends approval of an award of professional services for TIF financing consultation to Ryan in the amount of $32,500. This one is for... creating many of the current river district north tiff district as well as creating a new tiff district for the private project at 134 north main street the funding source will be the newly created maine and mulberry tiff if if we could um like we could vote on those matters first your honor and then there's a little supplement to the remaining okay council is there any discussion on those items before us clerk will you please call the roll on items before us turkey hi toonberg frost Serena Wilkins Hoffman Rose Barrios Bailey Bonnie Ten eyes excellent those are approved Place so if we could move on without a committee consideration on the matters of five six and seven Thank you. So we have a motion to discharge the committee. We have a second. We have a motion and a second. As you were able to see this evening, there wasn't a quorum for finance and personnel. And so two of the items are the last two packages for infrastructure projects that really need to get out if we are going to get those projects, or at least need to be discussed by this body if we're going to get those projects done. This construction season it's already pushing well into October Believes the last construction date if this is approved this evening would be November 1st, which around here We're we're cutting it close So we have a motion in a second or any discussion with anyone like additional information from director Meyer. I Okay, so motion and second first and we'll vote on just a discharge all those in favor of voting to discharge through FMP commit special committee meeting this evening. Please say aye aye those opposed Okay, so alderman you mind read those in yes, your honor So then we'll move on to number five which is awarded bid for citywide street repairs group number five To rock road companies of jamesville the amount of one million three hundred and seventy eight thousand three hundred and forty seven dollars And seventy one cents the contract duration is through november one 2024 the funding sources the motor fuel tax Number six is awarded for citywide street repairs group number six for extension excavation blacktop in the amount of 651 485.98 and again the contract is through November 1 2024 and the funding source and this one is the one percent infrastructure sales tax And lastly, number seven is acceptance of a HUD continuum of care Rose Grants Consolidated Grant for additional funds in the amount of $86,400 for a new total of $860,960. The grant does require a 25% cost match totaling $215,240. The grant term is from May 1, 2024 through April 30, 2025. The funds will pay Rose Grants for approved clients' housing and supportive services to The city of Rockford will retain $43,040 for administrative costs. I place those three matters before you. Okay. So legal director is advising that how we're doing this, we'll need a motion and a second for these three items. So that's the motion. We just need a second. Sorry. Second. So we have a motion and a second. Second was Alderman Tarina. Is there any discussion on the three items before us? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost, Terina, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Barrios, Bonney, Ten Eyes. Excellent those items are approved next we're gonna move to new business planning Development Committee and alderman Wilkins. Thank you honor I don't want is an ordinance approving a solar option and lease with kph, Illinois 35 LLC for the city-owned property located at 844 South Forest Avenue the term of the lease is for 25 years for three five-year extensions and item two is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford head start program and rockford public schools district 205 regarding operations for the 2024-2025 school year Item 3 is an ordinance approving the development agreement with Tadmore Sustainability Institute in the amount of $97,953.20 to establish the Industrial Sewing Machine Operator Apprenticeship Program at 6116 Mulford Village Drive. The funding source is the Mulford and East 8 Tax Regulatory Financing. Thank you. Council, we've got three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye. timber frost Tarina Wilkins I Hoffman Rose Barrios Bailey Bonnie ten ice excellent. Thank you those items are approved Next we're gonna go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Torino. Thank you your honor I have 14 items as item number one was laid over and Number two, an ordinance approving a special use permit for an outdoor storage of vehicles and building equipment in I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 1140 Harrison Avenue. Number three, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm in I-2 General Industrial Zoning District at 7XX and 844 Southwest Avenue. Number four, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a building in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 212 East State Street. Number five, an ordinance adopting the 2021 International Building Code with amendments. Number six, an ordinance adopting the 2021 International Residential Code with amendments. Number seven. ordinance adopting the 2021 international existing building code with amendments number eight in ordinance adopting the 2021 international property maintenance code with amendments number nine in ordinance adopting the 2021 international mechanical code with amendments number ten in ordinance international fuel gas code 11. In Ordinance Adopting the Amendments to the Illinois State Plumbing Code 2014. 12. In Ordinance Adopting the 2020 NFPA 70 National Electrical Code 2020 with amendments. 13. In Ordinance Adopting the 2021 International Energy Conservation Code with supplements, amendments, and adaptations as adopted by the Illinois Capital Development Board. Number 14, an ordinance adopting the 2021 International Swimming Pool Code with amendments. And lastly, 15, an ordinance adopting the 2021 International Fire Code with amendments. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. Council, is there any discussion items before us? No discussion. Clerk, please call the roll. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Barrios. Bailey. Aye. Bonnie. Nine ayes. Aye. Excellent. Next, we're going to move to the Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. number one is an ordinance approving the release of liens to facilitate the sale of winnebago county trustee properties as previously mentioned number two is an ordinance authorizing the sale of vacant city-owned property located at 316 north hinkley avenue to ronald carter for his bid amount of one thousand dollars number three is an ordinance approving request for authority to hire a new senior engineering technician with department of public works the annual cost of the position has to be 102 000 of the funding sources of one percent infrastructure sales tax Thank you, Alderman. Council, we have about three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Dirck. Tuber. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Ten ayes. Excellent. If people were this excited to see Joe Biden speak, before he never would have had to get out of the race. So is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have one minute.