August 17th, 2020. Before we get moving forward, I just want to make an announcement that due to COVID-19, we still do not believe it's either prudent or practical to have every alderman here in person. So we still have aldermen joining us virtually.
 So I will begin this evening as we begin every city council meeting with an invocation and we are lucky to be joined by Chaplain Roy Whitmore. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for blessing us, Lord. We thank you, Lord, as you look on our nation, our city.
 on our city council, Lord. We thank you, Lord, for you have ordained this, Lord, for the people, Lord. Give the council the wisdom and understanding that they may do well with their city and that they may honor you. And, Lord, without you, we can do nothing, Lord. We are trusting you, Lord, and we thank you for it now. In Jesus' name, thank God. Amen.
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Yes, Barini. Thunberg? Here. Frost? Here. Hervey? Irvins? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Hanley? Chiarelli? 10 present.
 Thank you, so we have a quorum Next is there a motion to approve the journal? Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on July 6 2020 We have a motion we have a second is there any discussion at City Council is there any discussion online seeing no discussion at either Clerk could you please call the roll? Yes, preenie Toonberg frost Irvins all right Hoffman Rose Beach, Kenosha and
 Hanley? Shirelli? 10 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on July 13, 2020? We have a motion and we have a second. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Is there any discussion online? Seeing none in both. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gasparini? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Irvins? Aye.
 Aye. Coffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Ten ayes. Thank you. So we have... We have two aldermen trying to connect the road and they're having problems. Oh, okay. We're going to wait just one moment so we can get our aldermen to connect. Mr. Meyer, would it be appropriate if I could move forward with a public comment?
 well since last time i i failed to get to you until later now i'm getting to you earlier i'm making up for it john so uh just a reminder to our public speakers you have three minutes to speak and uh this evening we are joined uh by mr john tackbrand
 Okay, good evening, Mayor McNamara, Aldermen, and citizens around Rockford just watching today. I want to take this time now to first of all mention that this year, Friday, I look to be overwhelmed because we're going to be giving away back-to-school supplies and fairgrounds.
 Linda McNeely is not here, but that is her ward. It would be very important and the mayor to show up because as soon as they're gone, they're gone. That following week, we go into the art museum, the Art Blasters with a $500 grant where we'd be able to take
 uh... picking about a few to the art museum plastic credit towards the school grade doing in the new year on the whole rock we had of going to take fifty of our youth to magic waters i still call it magic words even though the teachers if it did i was we've been able to get off the twenty dollars so far as of monday i reached
 uh seven hundred and fifty dollars i need to raise a thousand and plus in order to take uh 50 people and plus you gotta pay for parking space we gotta feed them now i want to give y'all uh something um that blew me away this past wednesday uh frank
 Beech have been getting on me for years and Karen Hoffman been saying it for years. Brother John, you need a 501c3. Guess what? My two chief of staff blew me away because she's 35 years old. She owns five properties. She's a financial consultant. They did the 501c3. When it came up with the 350,
 They paid the $350. I was blown away because that's a testament. No female has ever paid for anything for me or for our organization. For these two young moms to step up to the plate, the audience,
 the city, no one. We didn't even ask. I didn't even ask them. They surprised me. So in 30 days, we'll have our 501c3 and then we'll be able to do more things with the city and with the Human Resource Department and with other agencies that have been, even the art museum, because they said we're giving you this $500 grant. But Brother John, you're doing the work.
 But you don't have the 501c3, but the Lord worked in mysterious ways So blessed be in the name of the Lord He may not be there when you want to but one thing I can say he's always on time And we always been on the front line. We are never retreat. We always attack our adversaries when they come to
 helping the have-nots. And that's why so many of them turn and look up to me. I also want to thank the lady at the Human Resources Department. It was a property that y'all condemned the property owner. They evicted all the people that got the property, and they did not give them an alternative where to go. Three of the families came to me, and so if other families come to me, and then it's good because this is over my paper. Thank you.
 It's up to me to bring it to y'all. That's what the precinct community does. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. If you email me, Mr. Brantley, the first congratulations on the 501c3. If you email me the information on the backpack giveaway, the dates and time, and then also information about need for donations, I'll make sure all the aldermen get it. Thank you. Mr. Fryer, you got a problem with Washington? Mr. Meyer?
 Mr. Mayor, just letting the council know that Alderman Thompson-Kelly and Alderman Hervey have joined us. Alderman McNeely had indicated earlier today that she would be joining us via WebEx but has not joined us yet. Okay. So my advice would be we should probably try to reach her first before we move on. So we're going to attempt to reach Alderman McNeely and see if she can get on? Great. Yes. This is Alderman Hervey. We just got the link a few seconds ago, so she may have had trouble signing in. Thank you.
 Okay, we can start because alderman Durkee. No, we're waiting on it issues. Okay. Looks like we can begin or move forward We are at we have no proclamations this evening. So we'll move right to petitions and communications first up We'll go to planning and development alderman rose
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have one. It's a memorandum from Larry A. Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau RACVB Quarterly Report, Fiscal Year 20, Quarter 4, April through June 2020, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation. Alderman Chiarelli. Your Honor.
 I have the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 18, 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting August 24, 2020. And I have the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for that meeting to be held on August 18, 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at Codes and Regs Committee meeting on August 24, 2020. I refer those to Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Thank you alderman trelley next we'll go to finance and personnel and alderman frost. Thank you. Your honor We have a memorandum memorandum from tad keg noni city administrator Regarding keith creek watershed improvement plan the partnership with zion development for an illinois
 Environmental Protection Agency, Section 319, Nonpoint Source Pollution Control Financial Assistance Program. In this bill, we refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we'll go to Legal Director Nick Meyer because he has an announcement for us. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of our Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $49,329.07. Very exciting.
 Thank you. Next, we will go to new committee, new committee reports. Sorry. Next, we'll go to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we will go to code and regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three reports tonight. First, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 107 and 110 Lincoln Park Boulevard.
 The property owner submitted a petition for annexation request for water and is adjacent to the city of Rockford upon annexation The properties will be zoned are one single-family residential The second committee recommends approval of the annexation of 51 54 Spring Creek Road the property owner shall submit a petition for annexation request for water and is adjacent to the city of Rockford and
 Upon annexation, the property will be zoned R1 single-family residential. The third, the committee recommends approval of a modification to an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Brewski's located at 4414 Charles Street. And the legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. So we have three items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers for the three items before you?
 Seeing no discussion, Mr. Meyer, is there any discussion online? No, we have none. Okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. Shirelli. Aye. 13 ayes.
 Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,441,668.27, as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee held on August 10, 2020.
 number two the committee recommends approval of an ordinance authorizing the city of rockford to utilize funds from the public water supply loan program at the illinois environmental protection agency the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number three the committee recommends approval of the one-year extension of the coronado lease between the friends of coronado and the city of rockford the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you alderman frost so we have three items before you is there any discussion inside council chambers on those three items
 Seeing no discussion, is there a discussion online? There's no discussion online. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 10 ayes. Thank you. Next, I will save officers' reports to the end, and next we'll go to motions and resolutions. There's nothing under planning and development. There's nothing under code and regulation. So we'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an award of bid for public works materials to Northern Illinois Service.
 Of Rockford William Charles construction of those park rock road companies of Jamesville, Wisconsin, and track group of last park for an estimated annual value of 250,000 dollars based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through August 31, 2021. the funding source is various departmental operating budgets.
 Number two is an award of a contract extension for EMS building contract to Andres Medical Building of Arlington Heights for a contract amount of 6.2% of collections, which is approximately $440,000. The funding sources collected ambulance revenue. The contract duration is through December 31, 2020.
 Number three is a resolution confirming Community Relations Commission's recommendations on body worn cameras and authorization of City of Rockford staff to draft an RFP to secure body worn cameras for police officers. Thank you. Thank you. Places beyond before you. So we have three items before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those three items?
 alderman frost you know just to be clear on number three uh this is strictly to have an rfp so that rfp uh uh once we if we're able to obtain bids on that equipment it will come back to city council for a vote on that and or i believe it was uh mentioned
 A few weeks ago that there's a chance that we could get actually some grant money that could help defray the cost as I correct Yes, sir. So yeah, the way I've been thinking about it is very similar to the capital improvement plan. You're approving overall policy that Body cameras is a good idea But each item will come back before you as it does with the capital improvement plan each item or this item will come back Before you for a vote and yes, we are actively seeking grants to reduce our burden
 Thank you, Your Honor. Is there any other discussion inside council chambers? Alderman Rose. I just wanted to say that the work of the Community Relations Commission, I know Todd Burton and Jay Ware and a few others on that commission put a lot of work into it.
 this to this resolution, so I just feel like we should recognize them as doing the research and really putting out a resolution that Hopefully will move our city forward. Certainly. They have been giving a tremendous amount of time Typically meet monthly and have been meeting weekly. So thank you for that Any other discussion inside council chambers? Is there a discussion online? I
 All right we'll go uh Alderman Hervey first and then we'll go to you Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Thank you your honor um my objection to body-worn cameras continues. Um I think we're putting the cart before the horse even if we don't buy them. I want to see the policies and procedures first. Garbage in, garbage out. If our policies allow police officers
 to use, for example, chokeholds or carotid interruption, any of those kinds of tactics, or if they allow misconduct, well, I'm sorry, if they allow restraint tactics or in-custody procedures that we find objectionable or that have a history of causing harm or death, in particular to African-American men,
 And those are allowed. The body camera makes not one iota of difference. If your policies are not where they should be in terms of how people are treated and how force is used, how stops are made, when guns are drawn, those cameras are simply going to take a picture and confirm what the officers are doing because the policy already allows it.
 It's the worst thing that's happened with these body cameras because departments come back and say, hey, we're vindicated 98% of the time. The body cameras show that we didn't do anything wrong. Well, I disagree. And I think pushing the RFP and chasing grant money before we revise those policies does nothing but solidify bad practices.
 Second, and this is the one that bothers me the most, so what if the body camera shows that an officer violated the policy? Excuse me, that he or she used a chokehold that we don't allow. Is the arbitrator going to somehow implement discipline just because the body camera shows bad behavior? No.
 The underlying problem in Illinois is that cities don't control or have any authority, pretty much, not like Rockford, over their police department. We don't hire. We don't train. We don't discipline. We don't evaluate. And we don't fire. So what difference does it make what that body camera shows?
 I've been around for a long time and I've worked in the civil rights movement and one of the things that just hurts me to death is that we don't make progress because we keep making the same mistakes over and over.
 I'm going to stop. It's putting the cart before the horse. If we're serious, serious about reform in our police department, we're not going to spend oodles of money on body cameras, people to catalog and handle FOIA requests. We haven't seen that yet. What does it cost? I know you're saying that's part of what the RFP will show.
 But we don't really need the RFP to show that. It's out there already. My guess is the Human Relations Commission probably saw some of it. So I think we're going to jump into the stream not knowing how deep it is and whether our feet will ever touch the bottom. And I can't support it because I – and don't get me wrong, I have faith in my colleagues, colleagues,
 But in this case, maybe you can call it my baggage, but I can't support this kind of measure when we haven't done any of the underlying clear policies and procedures. Once you get the cameras, you can throw any policy out there you want, and there's not a doggone thing we can do about it because this council has no authority over police policies and procedures. Thank you.
 Thank you. Before I move on, Mr. Meyer, is everyone online that needs to be online? Sure. Okay. Sure.
 So Alderman Hervey, you threw a lot out there. I would say a couple of things. One, I think this council and this body can walk and chew gum at the same time. I think both of the issues, a number of the issues you bring up are critical, of critical importance to our community, to our police department, to the aldermen. We did, I did sign on to a pledge to review all of our policies, our policies,
 Community Relations Commission is going line by line through that use of force policy for potential changes you are accurate when you bring up concerns over arbitration rulings but I guess if we
 Solely take that line. There's no sense in us doing anything and I just don't believe that's the right course for our community right now I don't think that brings our community together. I don't think that Provides the transparency and accountability that both our citizens and our officers deserve Alderman Thompson Kelly, did you have an item? It's alderman Thompson Kelly online Alderman Thompson Kelly. Are you there? I am. Can you hear me now? I can yes, ma'am. I
 Okay, I didn't think I was being counted on my other votes. I just couldn't connect. Okay. We were able to, just so you're aware, we were able to catch your other votes. Oh, okay. Thank you. No problem. Did you have any comments on the three items that are before the council right now? No, I don't. Okay, thank you. Other comments online? No. Any other comments here at city council? Clerk, please call the roll. Jerky. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Aye.
 Hervey? No. On all three? I'm sorry. Let's see. One and two, aye. Three, no. Thank you. Irvins? Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones? Hanley? Chiarelli? Aye.
 Items 1 & 2 13 eyes item number 3 12 eyes 1 no, thank you those items pass next up. We'll go to new business We have nothing under planning development. So we'll go to code and regulation alderman Shirely. Thank your honor I got I believe three ordinances. The first is an ordinance approving the annexation of 107 and 110 Lincoln Park Boulevard second is an ordinance approving the annexation of 51 54 of Spring Creek Road and
 And the third is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Brewski's located at 4414 Charles Street. Place those three ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. So, counsel, we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on the three items that are before us here at City Hall?
 Seeing none, is there any discussion online? Alderman Thompson-Kelly has her hand up. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you have any comments on these three items? Oh, no, I don't. I'm sorry, Your Honor, I didn't take my hand down. No worries. Seeing no additional comments, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye.
 Hanley? Chiarelli? 13 ayes. Thank you. So those items passed. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you. There are two ordinances. One is an ordinance authorizing the City of Rockford
 To utilize funds from the public water supply loan program at the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. And number two is an ordinance approving the one year extension of the Coronado lease between Friends of Coronado and the City of Rockburg. I place those two ordinances before you. Thank you, thank you. We have two items before you. Is there any discussion at city council chambers on the two items?
 Seeing none here, is there any discussion online? Seeing none online, clerk, could you please call the roll? Thurkey. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. Shirelli. Aye. 13 ayes.
 Thank you. We're going to go back to officers reports. Is there any officers reports here at council chambers alderman? Durkee? Your honor. I probably will say what uh, maybe a lot of aldermen will can you last monday? Obviously we what? Um last monday, um Just want to make some comments We actually saw potentially what could have been the worst in rockford
 We were really fortunate that it was only an F1 tornado that came through. I was amazed at not the number of houses that were hit, but the ones that were missed. I mean, I had neighbors where trees fell sideways instead of into their house or somebody else's house. It's remarkable that nobody was hurt, and I guess we can be thankful for small miracles.
 The other thing is, while though we may have been looking at the worst, maybe that we could have seen in a storm. We also saw the best I was driving around the neighborhood. It is impressive. This town is a great town. I really bristle when I hear negativity about Rockford, but I saw neighbors.
 yn llyfru, yn gweithio gyda'i gilydd, yn gweithio gyda'i gilydd mewn gwledydd, yn stegio i helpu. Roedd y bobl hyn, Benjamin a chi, yn hyfryd. Roeddent i gyd wedi stegio. Ac nid yw stegio yn y disgrifiad swydd iddyn nhw. Mae hynny'n dod o'u gor.
 Ac mae hynny'n wirioneddol anhygoel. Felly mae gennym ni ddun gwych. I bawb i'r rhwydwyr sy'n cymryd ymlaen a oedd yn rhwydwaith, ac oedd yn agored, ac i'n staff a gwaith cyhoeddus, a'r polis a'r ffurfi, a'r bobl sydd wedi dod allan. Diolch. Yn fy marn i, roedd yn y gorau o Rockford. Gwych sylwadau. Diolch.
 alderman frost i ddweud y gwirionedd i adael ar beth dywedodd alderman dirky roeddwn i'n ei wneud yn y tŷ i gael yn barod i ddod i lawr i'r cyngor drosodd pan ddodd y tre ac mae cael swnio'r sgwrs yn ei ddweud bod hi wedi dod ar draws fy nhyrfa a oedd yn anodd i mi gadael fy mhobl i fynd yma ond nid ydym yn dal i weld y ffotwm hwnnw
 ond fel y dywedodd Alderman Durkey, roedd yn wir, gan y gwirionedd duw, y peth mwyaf bwysic, fel y gwnaeth pobl a rwy'n ymddygiad amdano hefyd, rydyn ni'n mor ffodus bod ddim o ffataiddiaid. Rwy'n cofio'r tornedw Fairdale lawer o flynyddoedd yn ôl, roedd yna llwyddiant a gallai llawer o wlad yn cael ei gyflwyno, gallai'r trefau ei ffatu yn ystod y dydd, ond os oeddem yn cael ffataiddiaid, byddai hynny'n
 byddai'n gadeg arall gwahanol. Ac fel y dywedodd Alderman Jerky,
 Byddaf, ar ddwy o'r ddau, roedd gen i dri bobl i fynd i'r ysgol. Dwi ddim yn gweithio â chainsaw, ond roeddem yn mynd i'r ysgol. Roeddwn i'n gweld y syniad wych o bobl yn ein ddinas yng Nghymru, yn Rockford, yn gweithio gyda'n gilydd. Ar ôl ein bod ni wedi bod yn ddigon, roedden ni wedi mynd i lawr i ffwrdd i'w ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei ffwrdd yn ei
 Mae'r ddinas wedi gwneud swydd gwych ac rwy'n gwybod bod llawer o bobl, nid dim ond gwaith cyhoeddus, ond rwyf wedi cael mwy o gysylltiad â Kyle a'i bobl sydd wedi mynd i'r afael a datblygu strategaeth a rhaglen ac yn gweithio gyda Colegau Cymru a chael ardal ar ystafell ar gyfer ardal sy'n ddifrifol. Nid wyf yn gwybod a oedd Kyle wedi gofio o hyd yn oed y wythnos diwethaf ac fe ddod yn bersonol i
 i gyflawni rhai materion y mae rhai pobl yn meddwl yn fwy pwysig na phobl eraill. Ac fe wnaeth gwaith arwain o fod yn ddilydderol a'i rheoli yn ffordd proffesiynol mor ddiddorol. Ac fel y dywedais, rwy'n gwybod bod ei tîm yno. Roeddwn i'n gweld nifer o bobl, ac rwy'n siŵr bod nifer o wahanol adranau wedi cymryd y llaw, ac rwy'n hoff i ddyleni'r cymdeithas cyfan y gynulliad i ddatblygu
 Great work and doing it very efficiently. Thank you. Thank you alderman Hoffman. Thank you mayor Well, I'm gonna piggyback on what those two just said but I really want to praise my neighborhood too because we were hit pretty hard and we had a lot of people that went four to five days without electricity and
 but neighbors offered freezer space and refrigerator space. So not only did they work in the yards, they actually cleared space in their own houses so that people could bring their food over. It was just really amazing.
 And can we say enough about Public Works? I mean, they were awesome. We can. We have. No. They were awesome. But my neighbors also, same thing, got out the saws. If you went through the neighborhood today, you would hardly know anything happened. So we have a really great town, great neighborhood, and I'm grateful to everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. So I remember receiving a call from a daughter
 And her mother's in hospice, paralyzed, cannot move. They needed power. The father had just gotten back from open-heart surgery. I called George Gellworth from ComEd and said, I don't know what kind of magic you can do there, but they need help. And they helped.
 And you've already heard from around the corner. I just want to say, Kyle Saunders, thank you very much for your crew. You know, I've sent you notes back. I get most, several notes from residents about what has happened, how kind this community's been. Calvin Park South, in another area of the 10th Ward, got hit, as you did, pretty hard. And they took every effort they could to clean it up and get the power restored. And so, what can I say?
 It's already been said, thank you very much for the extra effort. This city has made and our staff has made and com ed has made. God bless all of you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Any other reports in Alderman can you notice? Yeah, I want to thank public works account. Working closely with 11th ward, and we had a lot of down trees and electric out, but.
 I TOLD THE PEOPLE IN THE 11th WARD, KYLE WAS ON IT, AND HE DID A VERY GOOD JOB. SO I WANT TO THANK HIM PERSONALLY. KYLE DID A GOOD JOB. ALDERMAN TRELLING? YEAH, JUST WANTED TO SAY THE SAME THING. BIG THANK YOU FROM THE 14th WARD RESIDENTS.
 Thank you from myself to Kyle, the police chief, the fire chief, all the hard work. It's a wonderful organization, and thank you to ComEd, too. I've got a lot of people called and emailed about the great work, so thanks, Your Honor.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, Kyle. I want to thank Todd. I want to thank Carrie, Carl, Dan, Derek, Anquanette, Cherise, Nick. Man, you guys really did a great job during the storm. Kyle, it was hard to carry you through that. But on a serious note, thank you, Kyle. Is there comments online? Alderman Hervey? Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have been proven wrong about two of your staff selections and couldn't be happier. The first was Todd Cagnoni. Went to lunch and talked to him, looked at him, wasn't quite sure. And I'm thankful every day that I was wrong. He still worked. Leave him alone. He's still working on Barbara Coleman, so hush up. Did you buy lunch or did he?
 Uh, actually, never mind. We don't have to go into that. No, but the second is Kyle. I just thought he looked like sort of a mature 12-year-old, and I was like, I'm sorry, this guy is absolutely ridiculous. It just didn't stick. And from day one, and I have to say this, from day one, he has proven me wrong, and not just because I geek out over water. Jamie wrote, um...
 We have many, many fine staff in the city of Rockford, and it runs like a well-oiled machine. It really does. I'm amazed that all I have to do is turn on a tap, and I get clean, safe water. I go outside if something is wrong, and I got a call here to send my thank yous to some of the people in the Fifth Ward. I have a feeling that some of them don't have telephones.
 I observed some of the young men who are homeless. I know a couple of them. They are homeless that walked around and pulled branches out of the street. They didn't have to do that. And if they had hurt themselves, they wouldn't have had the means to help themselves. Um,
 I went out and gave a couple of them some money. They had to come up to the porch, but I just said, thank you. I saw you and I really appreciate it. And one of them just about broke into tears. They were doing it because it needed to be done.
 And it reaffirms that old adage, just because people are poor doesn't mean they have to act poor. And they certainly didn't. So a huge shout out and thank you to everybody across the city. I got to recognize here George Galrapp, who is the, I don't know what his title is. He's the former mayor of Freeport.
 But he followed Paul Callahan, or Calligan, who was the community liaison for ComEd before him.
 And I didn't think anybody could fill Paul's shoes. And George has certainly done so. I called him. He gave us updated information. People didn't care so much that their power might not be on until Saturday once I told them why. And George explained why. How they take care of the biggest areas of loss before they take care of the smaller areas.
 And the F1 actually hit on the east side. We had an F0 on the west side. I just want to say I think God had a little bit to do with that. So clean water and no tornadoes. Head west, young people, head west. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you, Your Honor. I also want to commend the public work staff. The men and women in that department have proven themselves time and time again. I also want to thank the fire department because I panicked when I was getting residents calling me that needed oxygen and was having a problem with power. And I also want to thank the residents of the 7th Ward.
 uh, that came through, uh, in helping neighbors, helping neighbors. I do appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. I would, uh, Alderman Irvin. Well, I apologize. And I, I want to thank the, uh, city staff for all the work that they did as well. And I just, I want to thank God too, because I didn't even realize it was F1, uh, tornado. And, you know, the sixth ward really didn't take as bad of a beating. It was a couple of down lines. And so we was, uh, tremendously blessed, but, uh,
 I just want to jump in there with everybody else, man. Hurrah. Thank you. Alderman Quinones. I've been receiving a lot of calls and statues going around down here around the country. But the people that are calling me, they like to know what happened to the statue. Lemon, Blake, and Kent, if maybe somebody on the staff could let me know where it's at and what plans do we have putting it back up. I'd like to see it someplace in a prominent city of Rockford.
 So if I get information back on that, thank you. We certainly can and I believe it's in a warehouse right now due to the Reconstruction of South Main, it's been a while but we can get you in update. I know there's been some discussion about it recently I'd echo the comments that so many did about city staff They all I think always do a phenomenal job and definitely step up to challenges I'd certainly echo some of the early comments and
 It was really awesome to drive through neighborhoods and just see neighbors helping neighbors. Rockford does an incredible job with challenges coming together and facing them head on. And Lord knows we have a lot of the challenges ahead of us over the next three and a half months through the end of 2020.
 and i pray every day that 2020 will end uh at some point um but uh you know it'll be that same spirit of us coming together to work through these tough challenges ahead of us that'll get us through this and be a more successful uh open city uh alderman turmeric thanks all thanks mayor
 i would also yes like to thank everyone involved in public works and and administration and all i'd also like to mention that uh city market is open and uh these small businesses that uh participate in city market and also the small businesses that are along
 thoroughfares of downtown could really use everyone's help and if anyone can get down there and encourage people to get down there to support these individuals many of them are entrepreneurs and it would really show a lot of spirit for our city thank you
 Thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak twice. I just needed to say thank you to the Miracle Mile, Paula Olson, the director of the association. We had a great drive-in movie night. I think about 118 cars and food trucks.
 porta potties and all the rest of that stuff great movie good spirit but thank you so much for all the effort uh put on by the american bio business association thank your honor and you look good on the screen too a little bit i thought the ambiance looked good with magna down and this was a big thing i was applauding that evening um is there a motion to adjourn
 We have a motion and a second. No discussion here, no discussion on the line. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Gasparini. Aye. Cross. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Everyone. Aye.