Okay, good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford Special City Council meeting for Monday, August 14, 2023. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Toomber. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Here. Bailey. Bonnie. 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. We'll go to new committee reports and code and regulation committee. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank your honor have one item an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Rockford public school district 205 for police services the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have one item before us Is there any discussion on that one item clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? timber Torino, Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Bailey, Bonnie 11 eyes Excellent next we'll go to motions and resolutions and we'll go back to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor I'm another item it is for the approval of a settlement agreement to accept funds 2 million for environmental cleanup at Coleman yards Which requires suspension of rule 9. Thank you. So that's a motion a second to suspend rule number 9 Is there any discussion on the suspension of rule number 9? I think no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed Now the item will come back up before you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. 11 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to finance and personnel, and we'll go to Alderwoman Prunty. Aye. Thank you. Award of bid, Corbin Street, Montague Road, and Alfalfa Drive, water main replacement to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $1,358,377.01. This project is estimated to be completed by November 17, 2023. The funding source is Water Replacement Improvement Account. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Tunberg. Aye. Tarina. Princey. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. 11 ayes. Excellent. Next, I'm going to add in officers' reports. Alderman Bonney, I believe you have a report. Sure. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Three things. I want to do first thank Pastor Ruby Martin. I was a late arrival, but I know many of us were at the Ministry for Restoration backpack giveaway. I believe this was her 14th year doing it. Great event. Being a late arrival, I had the honor of conducting the prize drawing at the end, but she really deserves to be commended for what it is. enormous amount of work she puts into this event every year. And it's more than a backpack giveaway. And it's just a great event for kids and families. Secondly, thank Alderman Thunberg for inviting me to the Rockford Boxing Classic, which I believe he had a table there, contribute through his Forward for Fun contribution to the event. I MISSED IT LAST YEAR BUT ALSO A REALLY GREAT EVENT AND APPEARS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE A STAPLE DOWNTOWN AND THEN THAT SEGUE WAYS INTO FINALLY THANK YOU MAYOR FOR A WEEK AGO SUNDAY ATTENDING A NEWS CONFERENCE AT LINO'S RESTAURANT IN THE 14TH WARD WHERE WE ANNOUNCED FOR FUN EVENT IN THE 14TH WARD. Everybody should have a flyer on their desks. And that is going to be, it's called this year, it's consolidating what we did last year, which was four Fridays in the 14th award, into a single event called Ferragosto. Ferragosto in Italian loosely translates to August Fest. It is a national holiday in Italy. It's going to be 6th. Hours of live performances on two stages, benefiting six local nonprofit organizations. Those are the Rockford Promise, the NIU Rockford Alumni Club, Friends of the Coronado, the International Women's Baseball Museum, Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, and the Golden Apple Foundation. In addition to the music, all of the, of course, admission is free as a Forward for Fun event. All of the food and beverage sales, all of it will benefit those local nonprofits. Last year, they, done over four nights, they each received approximately $1,000 a piece. We're hoping for better than that this year by consolidating it with more attendance, with greater attendance, and I think I neglected to mention the performers are the Vincerelli Band, the NIU Jazz Tete and a duo by the name of Espinosa and Coffee. And in addition to all of that, we are going to be having a number of both for-profit, non-profit, and public vendors and prize giveaways, including a – Prime seating, two tickets to the Tina Turner review at the Coronado, and Mabel Blair autographed baseball. And Director Saunders created last year a beam toss game for this event called Fill the Pothole. Unfortunately, I didn't clue him in early enough, so at the next council meeting he's going to bring that so that everybody can see it. And – Will he like walk around and display it and show it to us? Possibly. I mean, he was challenging me to try to toss from over here to over there, and I'm thinking Director Myers might have an objection to that. Anybody who successfully fills the pothole will also get entered in a drawing for a $50 Lino's gift card. So I hope everybody here can try to stop by and wish everyone success in all the awards on Forward for Fun events as they are coming up now. And I know... I received something in the mail for Alderman Barrios's. I know Alderman Hoffman has one coming up as well, I believe with Alderman Prunty. So thank you. I just appreciate that you duly noted that Legal Director Myers is somewhat of a fun killer. Alderman Rose. Fun killer for sure. I lost my train of thought for this. want me to come back to you no no i got it okay um so this uh this saturday um 8 19 from 1 to 4 p.m there is a back to school backpack giveaway with some free food free haircuts there's games for kids there will be approximately 500 backpacks full of school supplies this event is happening at 2010 North Main Street, which is at Brown Park. It is organized by Alderwoman Gina Meeks, myself, Rockford Township Trustee Mustafa Abdal, and Rockford Refugee Support Program. So come on out, bring your families, come get some school supplies, get ready for school, and... Just come on out and have a overall good time the second thing is I did want to mention a big thank you to Jimmy Goodman who is the I basically runs Patriots Gateway boxing and Rockford boxing here and the amount of young people that came that were a part of the boxing matches this weekend just shows you that if you have a Young person in your life that needs something to to do to stay busy to stay out of trouble I I gotta say a big thank you to him and his organization because just the amount of kids that were down there That were active that were Staying active in a sport and continuing on the tradition of boxing you know Rockford has a really deep history of Boxing history my grandfather was a Golden Glove competitor here locally and And won the Golden Gloves in the army back in the 1940s but prior to that there were there were world champion boxers that came out of Rockford there were boxers that regularly fought throughout the Midwest Rockford held its own against big cities like Chicago and Milwaukee And so it's good to see that tradition continue through Patriots Gateway and Rockford boxing and Jimmy Goodman deserves a lot of credit for that. I Certainly does. Thank you older woman Trina. Thank you. I have a lot of stuff I definitely want to acknowledge a ministry of restoration and pastor Ruby Martin for Literally just decades of self selflessness She's been a longtime resident of my ward. I she's my best friend's mom I've literally known her my whole life and she got on the mic and she's just like she was the only girl allowed at the boys parties She's talking about me. But she just did an incredible event. It's really, it's her favorite thing to do every single year, so I just want to thank even just everyone that continues to contribute to that event, because it's very, very meaningful. Something that she mentioned at the event, she just kept telling everyone, you're not tolerated today, you're celebrated. And so often, when people are coming to get resources, they often feel tolerated, but she really, really made everyone just feel special. So it was just amazing to be a part of that event I also attended my first boxing match ever, which happened to be at the City Market Pavilion, the Rockford Boxing Classic. It just cannot, I have to mention how incredible that was. I had the time of my life, I didn't know boxers, didn't like do deodorant and everything. I found out all kind of new things because I was ringside. So when you're ringside, you really get a very... in-depth view of things that I just didn't know existed. So I got an education, but it was so fun, and I love when I see diverse audiences like that. That makes me so happy in this city. So shout out to you again to Rockford Patriots Boxing Club and Plus Seven Company as well for their exceptional planning and execution of that event. I also attended Polish Fest, which is a longstanding event that happens in my ward sponsored by St. Stanislaus Church. I went to work to volunteer at 11 o'clock and they did not have room for me, so they're like, we'll just go and hang out. And so I text the mayor at six o'clock, I'm still here. So I had a great time at Polish Fest as well. I had a lot of Polish beer and sausage and potato pancakes and pierogi and punczkis, and I'm Polish now as well. Apparently I have a Polish name, and so does Mayor Maknikowski. So it was, I just had an amazing, seriously an amazing, amazing weekend in Rockford, and I get so excited when I get to have people, As an alderman especially to have new experiences and to just meet residents and just see people having a positive Fun times it's it's amazing not have to leave your city So I just want to just shout out to everyone in these incredible events another thing is coming up in my ward and sponsored by comprehensive community solutions is that it's it takes a village back to school bash it's going to be Saturday August 26 from 10 to 2 p.m. at 917 South Main Street which is at comprehensive community solutions it is yes another back-to-school bash but I think what's special about this one is that there are over 20 partners at the table from myself, Goodwill, VanVleet Foundation, Booker Washington Center, Roffert Park District, Connect Roffert, Wabonga Leadership Council, Love and Loyalty, MC Rare Breed, MC, the Brothers MC, Freeman Entertainment, Grow Community, Musa. There's, everyone's at the table for this, and this is going to be the Roffert Police Department, the Roffert Fire Department, everyone's gonna be at the table. Just really trying to create an experience not just a vendor fair but like some interaction with residents And and getting the kids prepared for school, but also having some really great interactions with the parents So there'll be free food There's even going to be dental exams on-site for free supplies tons of community resources DJs bouncy houses and Biker clubs are gonna be there like it's about to be Oh haircuts. I mean there won't be anything there That won't be all the services that the resident would need to get their child prepared for school will be on-site So we're extremely excited about that. Alderman Wilkins is also working on that project as well. So Just wanted people to be aware again of that August 26th 917 South Main Street at 2 10 o'clock in the morning. Thank you very much. I I'm just looking over here and Chief Monahan's like, I just want to say something. And I think what he wanted to say is that fire beat police at the boxing match. Oh, yeah, that's right. And he looks like he wanted to say it, so I just said it for him. I totally forgot that because it was so much. It was so much. Yes. All right. I have Alderman Thunberg and then Alderwoman Wilkins. I am sure glad everyone had a great time at the Rockford Boxing Classic. I enjoyed hearing each and every one of you give your experiences there. If folks didn't make it this year, I'm sure it will be next year. It is just an electric atmosphere. It's fun. It is the epitome of what Forward for Fun money is used for. This is a free event for individuals to come to. and bring their chairs. And it was pretty much standing room only all throughout. And those boxers, it is a highlight for them. They're getting in front of a lot of people. a lot of people, I don't know, 1,500, 2,000 people, I'm not sure, but it's just a very big deal for them. And it's just, it's really fun to see a sport where they're beating each other up and bloodying each other up, but at the end they hug each other and open the ropes for each other to get out of the ring. It's a very disciplined sport. So it was just a lot of fun. So I'm glad everyone had a great time Appreciate the taxpayers whose money helped contribute to this event through the Forward for Fund money and To Nick at plus seven and everyone at Patriots Gateway great job And look forward to it for next year. The other event is the National Night Out for the the police and That was a great event and I want to give a kudos to kegels Harley-Davidson who had a motorcycle there On a stand and kids got to climb on and rev it up and do all that also some motorcycle safety tips and Salvation Army who had their truck there and were giving out free hot dogs and chips and drink and really Salvation Army Stood up and came to the plate for feeding everyone there and and there was no cost for that So thank you chief for all your law enforcement officers that were there It was a great time and kids were having a fun time too. So thank you. Thank you all the woman Wilkins. Thank you Your Honor I wanted to say that we had our fourth annual kickball tournament last weekend at Andrews Park by way of the Right Way Organization. And it was a beautiful turnout, great turnout. We had lots of fun, good food and good time. So I wanted to thank everyone who participated and even some of the sponsors that made the event possible. Next weekend... EDGE Community Fellowship, which is new to the area. They're located at 2000 Kilburn Avenue. They're going to be having a Family Fun Concert Fest, and that'll be on August 26th. If y'all, no one should be at home on August 26th. There's so much going on on August 26th. I cannot, everywhere. This event will be held from 1 to 6 p.m. Rain or sign. They're going to have games, food, door prizes, a shootout contest. It is free to the community and they will have some live music featuring Chicago's very own The Stars of Heaven, David Ellington, and Worthy. That'll be going on at 3 o'clock. So... Again, if you're in the area, they will be doing they will be hosting that but you can go to edge community fellowship on Facebook if you have so and Seek out more information. I also wanted to just state again. I just really appreciate the The prayers and calls and text messages that I've received over the past month and concerns with my household, and that goes from, I mean, from city staff to councils, the mayor, residents, there's been an outpour of love and it just, it has gotten me through this journey for sure. So I just wanted to say thank you to everyone, even if I have not been a good person. been able to reach out or something of that nature. I appreciate it and I love you for it. So thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Alderman Bailey, then Alderman Bonnie. Yeah. Thank you, mayor. I just want to acknowledge a couple of weeks ago, there was a grand opening that I attended on Auburn street. Can't recall the name of the store, but it's a new furniture store open. And I just wish and hope that the community comes out and support the the individual because we need more small businesses evolving in the 13th war the most recent celebration was this week Thank You mayor and Carl for attending representative attending to the tortilla tortilla Express food is good it's downtown corner of North Main and West a street so I wish and hope that the community comes out and support This business is very important that we see this continue to see this kind of growth that's taking place in the 13th Ward. And then the last item, I've attended a few community meetings over at Macedonia Church, sponsored by John Tagg Brantley, I really appreciate what he's doing. Talking to different community folks, working with Dr. Reed. talking about education, attendance, and absenteeism, which is very important in our community. The meetings are open to the public. They've been on Wednesdays at 1 o'clock, so the community is invited to attend. So if you're available on a Wednesday and you're looking for something to do, we would certainly appreciate you showing up. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bonner. Thank you. I just, with all the... talk about all these great Ford for fun events I guess I wanted to be the first person to first alderman to go on record saying I think we should devote a third year of funding to this out of the remaining three or four ish million dollars I understand of uncommitted ARPA funds and I think for 150,000 dollars annually we're getting a lot of bang for the buck out of that and if it can be continued which would I assume be one last year I would be all for that thank you thank you any other less thank you just wanted to announce that Brook Road Community Center is hosting a hairdos and hangouts that will be on August 19th at 10 a.m. At 1404 Brook Road. So bring your children. They can get their hair done as well as have lunch and other fun activities. They would ask that if you're going to get your hair done or if you're going to get a haircut to please wash your hair ahead of time. Thank you. Thank you. Next up we'll go to new business and we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Public School District 205 for police services. Is there any discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Tarina. Aye. Bronte. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. 11 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. Second. We have a motion, we have a second, we actually even have a third this evening, so that's good. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those who are opposed, have a good night.