Joe Chiarelli, we do have a quorum. First order of business tonight is under Roman numeral two, under resolutions. The staff member. Thank you. So this matters before us to approve the plan of the Rockford Library regarding certain real estate matters. The Local Library Act requires the local municipality that's created the library to approve plans to acquire real estate for library purposes.
 The library is presenting a plan, parts of which require it to acquire property, commonly or presently referred to as the RIC Center or the Resource Innovation Center, formerly operated by the county. The county has reached an agreement with the library where the library would purchase that building from the county and rehabilitate it and use it for a temporary library site while the present library is being demolished.
 The site remediated from coal gasification waste, and then a new library built. As aldermen know, our residents rely on the library for many purposes, and the library felt that a downtown site was essential to the demolition and reconstruction of the library at the same site it presently inhabits. And so ComEd has agreed to absorb the costs
 of the acquisition of this as part of the plan or access agreement that ComEd and the library are working through. So the library needs the city's support to purchase the RIC Center, the idea being that the access agreement will deal with the disposition of the RIC Center at the end of the library's use term.
 This, they felt, was the best alternative given all alternatives available based on local resources, proximity to the existing site, proximity to where the library will be creating its data center as part of this project at the Nordlof Center, as well as for the short haul back to relocate the materials once the new library is built.
 The other real estate acquisition is a small parcel immediately between the existing library on Wyman Street and the Jefferson Street Bridge. The last large occupant on that was the Comcast Enterprise. The developer that owns that building has executed an option agreement with the library.
 The library intends to acquire that site. It will ease the issues related to the demolition by way of access and whatnot. It may well become incorporated in the new library once that is fully designed. That's still to be determined. But in order to acquire it for the present or future potential uses for a library, we need the same approval. The two items then have been combined in a single resolution.
 The funding for all this is Commonwealth Edison through their access agreement. This is an aspect of the River Edge program, which allows ComEd to assist entities with regard to remedying coal gasification waste. These coal gasification wastes were placed there or part of the process there from the 1800s. And in 1903, the predecessor to ComEd transferred this site
 to the city of Rockford and the city established a Carnegie Library there on site. Since that time, that library was substantially remodeled. So much of the historic aspects of the original Carnegie Library were lost in that process. So that being said, the only practical way, money-wise, to remedy the site, remove the coal gasification waste, is to remove the existing library from the site
 So completely demolish it and then determine what to do from there. ComEd's access agreement will fund the acquisition of the RIC Center, the demolition of the library, and the rebuild of the library. ComEd's access agreement does not presently give the library the funds to purchase
 the Comcast building or the 227 North Wyman building. The library has funds on hand to acquire that and will be, as part of the access agreement, renting perhaps parts of that building or including a charge for access to ComEd during the construction to defray some of those costs. But the library intends...
 to at least have an open opportunity to design the entire space between Mulberry and the Jefferson Street Bridge when they design their new library. The executive director of the library is present here if you have any questions. That's Lynn Steinbrook, and I'd be happy to take any questions that the alderman may have. Thank you. Alderman Newberg?
 I make a motion we approve both motions, or both A and B. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to approve the contract to purchase temporary library facility at 214 and 230 North Church Street and a motion to approve the option to purchase potential future library facility at 227 North Wyman Street. Is there a discussion?
 Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I just want to compliment our staff and the library I think this is a very good move my main concern was that the library was not going to be downtown Situated as it is now. It's only two blocks from its current location My one concern is does this the RIC center were also purchasing the parking correct? I
 So the Rick Center parcels include the parking lot immediately north of that, between that building and Jefferson Street, which is elevated from the frontage street. But that lot is part of the purchase. Thank you. Is there a committee member who had their hand up also?
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Just a point of clarification. The Resource Intervention Center, in the second paragraph, it says the trustees have reached an agreement with Plano Bay County to purchase the RIC for $325,000 by August the 30th,
 And then farther on down in the last paragraph of this letter, it says the trustees have reached an agreement that would allow the library to purchase it for $300,000. On page 6, it starts with the Oh, the purchase, the contracts for purchase? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Would you like some time to review that, Mr. Hayes? It does appear that that's correct. I'm not sure.
 certain why there's an anomaly between the contract that we were provided and the explanatory letter from Council for the library. Right. Although, it appears to me that both documents that I have appear to say 325. I'm not quite certain where the 300,000 reference comes from. It was addressed to you, page two, the last paragraph.
 So that $300,000 refers to the purchase price of the 227 North Wyman Building or the Comcast Building, and the $325,000 refers to the purchase price of the RIC or the Resource Intervention Center. Okay, thank you. So those two are the same in both documents. Thank you. Questions from the committee? Alderman Hervey had her hand up. Yeah, I wanted to go back to the parking. With regard to the RIC Center,
 I'm not sure where customer parking would be. I'm trying to fix that with the downtown area. If I remember the Rick Center, I thought there might be a sort of like staff parking north of the Rick Center, but I don't believe there's anything south or is there something to the west that's not visible?
 There's a very small lot between the Rick Center and the building to the south that's a city-owned lot. Okay. Then there's the lot immediately to the north that's part of the purchase price or purchase of the parcels.
 There's also some lot space in local churches that the library's gonna try to make arrangements for their staff to park to free up as much space for daily library users. So it is a temporary space, so one of the things they're doing is they're gonna come through our planning and zoning process to get the variances required and those submissions, they're on the agenda, so we'll be dealing with those from a planning perspective in that process.
 There were limited options and I think the library is trying to work within the parameters of a building that's big enough, a building that's built so it can support the physical weight of what is required to be put in a library. So there's a very narrow set of parameters that allowed an existing building to serve, albeit perhaps it might be a tight fit on parking and access and other issues, but as a temporary site.
 And there is some design elements going on to make it as accommodating as possible as well. So we recognize that the parking issue is going to take some collaboration, some planning. We're working on that as we go. I don't know if the chairman would care, but I don't know if I've done justice to that set of topics previously.
 Director Steinbrook says thumbs up, so I guess I've done a good job. So I don't know if that answers your question adequately. Yeah, I mean, it just seems that by the time you get done with some room for staff, essentially there will be no customer parking. From the discussions I've had, the library is going to prioritize customer parking and have staff walk a little bit to get to and from. Director Steinbrook is waving at me, so if the chair would recognize her, maybe she could add something. Director Steinbrook, please.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak. Yes, the plan is that the parking attached or right next to the RIC will be patron parking only. Staff will, that's where we're negotiating with some of the churches in the area and trying to look at placing our staff parking. So the staff will walk, but they'll walk.
 Twice a day, you know, eight hours apart or nine hours apart, maybe four times a day if they're, you know, going out for lunch or something, versus our customers who come for 15 minutes, a half an hour, maybe three hours or something of that sort. So we really do want that priority to be for our customers next door. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just had a question about the financing of the transaction. Did you indicate that the ComEd will be, in fact, reimbursing us for the purchase of the – I guess it's called the RIC building as well as the building on North Wyman? Sure. So I just want to be clear. We're approving the library's purchase of these things, not the city's. So the city's not going to be involved directly in the transaction other than we have some oversight responsibilities and obligations under the Library Act.
 But that being said, ComEd has described a series, an escrow arrangement withdraws for anticipated materials. And they feel strongly that they're going to be able to meet any of those call demands on a timely basis. The exception to that is between now and when the access agreement is executed. We've been working on that. We'll also have an access agreement with ComEd because the city owns the property for
 from the east wall of the library to the river. It's all owned by the city. So we're dealing with that by way of access and a rehabilitation of that because it will be disturbed in the process as well. But ComEd has assured the library, and I've been a part of those conversations, that they'll create an escrow account system that will meet those demands on a cash basis
 other than the immediate purchase of the RIC Center. I'm sorry, other than the immediate purchase of the Wyman. The RIC Center, I believe, we're going to ask, the library may well be asking for accommodations so that they can wait until ComEd funds the agreement. I don't know the status of that. That's still somewhat fluid. These access agreements...
 The city's access agreement with ComEd will be before the city council in the coming weeks as well. That will deal with our end of the issue as well as certain logistical issues related to the large construction project downtown.
 And then I'm just curious, what will happen to the RIC Center once the new library is built? It will be sold, and the proceeds from that will be dealt with in the access agreement between the library and ComEd, and that's still a point of negotiation between the parties is who gets that. As ComEd is footing the bill for all this, you can understand whether there will be some competition for that outcome. What's comforting, though, at the very least, is that the library won't be at risk for these expenses. Yes.
 The issue of capturing the benefit of the rehabilitated property is somewhat a theoretical lodestar that may or may not appear. That being said, it's part of the negotiation between the library and the comment. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Who will have ownership of the property that's going to be demolished? So as is common in many construction agreements, the access agreement contemplates that once
 the library certifies that they vacated the building. The site will be under the absolute control of ComEd. And so they will have, for all intents and purposes, the responsibilities and privileges of ownership of the site during the demolition process. Once the demolition and remediation of the site is complete, and the IEPA has approved that work,
 Then the site will revert back to ownership of the board of trustees of the library, and they'll undertake the construction process. Again, those funds will be provided by ComEd. So ownership will always technically remain in the library, but as is common with many construction agreements,
 All the real indicia of ownership will become ComEd's during the project so that they can secure the site, make sure it's safe. It will be fenced. This will be a construction site that will be controlled. And part of that will exceed that space and that's a point of negotiation between ComEd and us. So the execution of this
 of this large construction project will, as many large construction projects in our downtown footprint, require coordination with our streets department, the utilities and things like that. And that planning's been underway for a number of months by your staffs. Thank you. Is there any further questions? Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think most of the aldermen know and as well as many of the residents of Rockford know that I actually think many of these elements of this plan, albeit the work that has gone into it and the study that has gone into it, I do appreciate the efforts. I actually think this is the wrong project. The only way you would tear down, move into, buy a building, shore it up to accommodate
 then move back out of it and then build another building in the same place as when you do it with somebody else's money. This wouldn't be done, more than likely, in the private sector. I know there is some elements of ComEd with it, but I still believe that the site for the library really does not belong on the river from an urban planning point of view.
 We've noticed a great turnaround in downtown Rockford as far as 24-7 residents. We've noticed a new, quote, a new urbanism in downtown Rockford, and it's kind of a buzzword, but it does have meaning to it. There is only so much shoreline, there's only so much green space, and it's a precious commodity. And to put a building back on it when you can leave it as green space
 really goes against what urban planners and folks using terms like urban ecology are using. So I don't believe, whether they move out of that, I guess that's fine, but I guess it's my opportunity again to voice my disapproval. I think it's a waste of money to do what they're doing to begin with, but I also think it's the wrong project. We have two
 We have a site that we just announced, Coleman Village. And I thought about, as I was looking at the agenda this week, and I thought about that. I don't understand why that has, why don't we back up and why don't we use Coleman Village as a site? Most of the projects that we see in Rockford that are going up are, when you look at them between the sports core and some other things, are,
 being done Collaboratively with park districts and things like that and Rock Valley College We want an opportunity if we're developing Barbara the Coleman village and putting a college campus there To dovetail that I don't know what that would look like and just you know Like I said, I just gave it some thought over the weekend. We also have a
 What many, in place already, what many urban centers are doing, we have an educational, in a sense, an educational campus that is by Burpee, the Discovery Center. And in many respects, that's almost the ideal area to put the new library from some folks' perspective, from an urban planning point of view.
 Certainly there's some stressed property there. I know the Armory building, it's somewhat cost prohibitive unless somebody wants to write a check to get rid of the asbestos, et cetera, and that. But there's still some stressed property there that can be maybe purchased or acquired by eminent domain.
 or whatever and place the library there. I just, from an urban planning point of view, I just strongly disagree with this project, its plan. I think it's being done in a silo and not looking at a broader context of the city or from an urban planning point of view. We have some pretty talented urban planners, both private and public in the city,
 I don't know what their opinions are. I haven't heard, nobody's called me or anything. But I just think this is the wrong project. And again, I just think it's a waste of money to acquire a building, rehab it for a library, and then sell it again, and move back onto the same site.
 So, but again, I think most of you folks know that. But I would encourage the council, even the library board to actually, in fact, I encourage the library board to actually check out a book on urban planning and urban ecology and urban renewal and take a look and read it because it does, I think their plan does go against what we're seeing in other communities as they try to save green space and especially shoreline.
 Shorelines of precious commodity and I think we got to be really certain what we're gonna do with it Because you can't you can't make new you can't make new riverfront You can make new lots and you can make new buildings. You can't make new green space and new riverfront. Thank you, Chairman Any further discussion hearing none all in favor of the two motions say aye aye opposed I just have that thank you. We'll move on to resolution number two is the kishwaukee tap bike night
 Ms. Noakes, you're all set. Awesome. The Kishwaukee Tap Bike Nights, it's the first year for this event to be held every Wednesday through October 26, 2016. They're looking to bring a safe weekly festival, including entertainment, food, and music to the area and community. The location would be in the parking lot at 2327 Kishwaukee Street, Kishwaukee Tap.
 On Wednesdays, we've amended the date from the original request due to the change in our schedule for August 24th through October 26th, 2016 from 5 p.m. until 10 p.m. The alderman of the ward is Karen Elliott. The event organizer is Amber Pena. And the approximate attendance would be 100 to 250 people.
 The council action would be permission for a promotional event liquor license for 13 weeks, permission for use of the parking lot for special events. No city support and the cost of the event would be paid by the event organizer. Upon review, the staff recommends the following recommendations or list of conditions. The first one would be a designation of at least one employee as security personnel to monitor the entry-exit door for patron count confirmation. Second,
 Submittal of a written parking agreement with neighboring businesses. Number three would be that they must comply with all parking regulations in the public right-of-way on the street. Number four is a detailed site map for a fence area must be submitted. Number five is there will be no burnout areas, excessive noise from engine revving or weight pulls with bikes in the parking lot or on the public right-of-way. Number six would be that the event organizer shall comply with all local noise ordinances and in the event of non-conformance with conditions, the event permit would be revoked.
 Very good. Is there any questions from the committee? Alderman Odo. How many of the conditions have they met so far that we're requesting? They have acknowledged all of them. The only thing we have not received is the written parking agreement, so they are requesting that they not request.
 use the neighboring parking lot that they were looking for the owner's permission for. It would be directly to the south of this business. They said they've had a verbal agreement for several years there, but they've been unable to locate the owner to give us a written approval for that use. So they would like to proceed forward without using that lot and just using their own lot and on-street parking. And what was city's recommendation?
 if they were going to use that lot that we would need the written approval. I know. Without that, on a whole, what is city recommending? There were some concerns at the staff review meeting as to whether the parking would be sufficient given that they would have a fence around part of their parking lot and prohibited parking within that fenced-in area for patron safety and so forth. So staff was concerned.
 that there would not be sufficient parking if this other lot was not used. So that was what formed the basis of that condition. But we've since learned from the applicant that they're unable to comply with that because they can't contact the owner of that property. So I guess in essence, the staff asking the committee, are they recommending approval or denial of this whole thing?
 Well, if the committee is recommending approval, staff would suggest the conditions, at least one through five, if the committee wants to remove the condition related to the written parking agreement, staff would support that provided there is sufficient parking as the event progresses. If staff doesn't receive any complaints about parking, then they would have sufficient parking to move forward. Questions? Alderman Newberg. Thank you.
 With this being a the the lot next door if they're not going to use that is it partitioned off at all or is it just two lots next to each other. Yeah I don't believe there's there's any boundaries that are designated or any partitions that would designate between the two.
 So if there is a problem insurance-wise, if someone is injured or something happens, would a patron come back on the city or would they go on to Kishwaukee Tap? Yeah, it would be a private matter if the city is not requiring or is actually prohibiting the use of that parking lot for this event.
 So we can add that it's prohibited. I would like to see that in number two, submittal of written property agreement with neighboring business. I would like number two to read that the neighboring parking lot is not allowed to be used for this event. I want it in the...
 And if I just may suggest that condition number two reflect that the use of the adjacent parking lot is prohibited unless the middle of the written parking agreement is provided? Yes. Is that sufficient? Yes. Alderman Hervey? I just want to make sure. This is at the corner of Kishwaukee and Peoples Avenue? Yes. Yes. I'm familiar with that area, and I don't know how many bikes they're expecting, but I can't see it.
 I think it's a bad idea. I'm not sure. Obviously, it's their decision, but I'm not sure why they would even want to do that. That site is right on a corner abutting an industrial area, four corners industrial. There's nowhere else to go. And in terms of street parking, there is no street parking. There's no street parking on Peoples to the east. There's no parking on Kishwaukee to the north or south.
 The only thing you would have is People's Avenue to the west, which has no sidewalks. It's narrow and it's industrial. The only good thing going is that most of the plants would be closed, you know, from 5 to 10. But essentially, if they're going to be using even their parking lot, which is pretty small, it just doesn't seem—
 I just think it's a bad idea. And Star Street is right to the west behind that also, which is also, you know, about a block off, basically. Okay, well, I didn't know Star Street was a block to the west, but to me that's still very inadequate. Alderman Elliott? I went down and checked out the area. I had similar concerns of what's being voiced here, but after checking it out, and being that it's a first-time event,
 It was probably going to start small. Being that, I think it being an industrial area actually is a good thing for the event there. There's really no residential around that would be bothered by it. All the industry is closed. They're the only business there open at that time. I say we give them a chance and if it doesn't go well then we can always revoke the permit.
 I think that they will get permission from the other landowner to expand their parking as the event grows. Is there any further discussion? Do we have a motion on this? Item number two, Kishwaukee Tap Bike Night. We have a motion for approval. We have a motion for approval with the amended conditions as stated. And a second. Any further discussion on this? Hearing none, all in favor of the motion, say aye. Aye. Opposed? Aye.
 So that's three to two, is that correct? Okay, motion passes, thank you. Item number three is the Alignment Rockford event.
 This is the fifth annual Academy Expo given by Alignment Rockford. It will be held at the BMO Harris Bank Center on Thursday, September 29, 2016, and it will showcase over 150 careers from local industry experts and will reach out to approximately 2,800 ninth grade public school students. And they respectfully request complimentary parking on September 29 for their 400 volunteers vehicles. The location would be at the North Main Parking,
 or main north parking deck, the former pioneer parking deck. The date is September 29th from 7 a.m. until 6 p.m. Alderman of the Ward is Alderman McNamara. The event organizer is Bridget Front. She's the executive director, and they are requesting the 400 parking permits for vendor volunteers. The total cost of the wave parking fees would be $2,500. Very good. Thank you. Any questions?
 We have a motion and a second to approve item number three, Alignment Rockford Event. Any further discussion? Hearing none, all in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Item number four is the Stumpy Fest. This is a first time event that will be held in the parking lot adjacent to Stumpy's and will showcase local live entertainment. The area will be fenced in and no actual service will take place outside.
 It's at Stumpy's at 5801 Columbia Parkway on Saturday, September 3rd, 2016 from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. The music will end by 10 p.m. The Alderman of the Ward is Alderman Shirely and the event organizer is Jay Gessner. I anticipate approximately 200 people and they're looking for permission for use of the parking lot for a special event, permission for electrical use and for tent and banner. There's no city support needed and cost of the event will be absorbed by the organizer. Thank you. Do we have a motion?
 We have a motion and a second to approve the Stumpy Fest. Any further discussion? Hearing none, all in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Item five is the Greek Fest. St. Constantine and Helene Greek Orthodox Church Greek Fest 2016 is the ninth year for this event and it provides the community with a taste of Greek cuisine and traditions. All proceeds go towards church expenses and charitable organizations. Location would be adjacent to their church at 108 North Fifth Street.
 from September 9th, 2016, 5 p.m. to 11 p.m., September 10th, 2016, from 11 a.m. until 11 p.m., and September 11th, 2016, from 11 a.m. until 10 p.m. The Alderman of the award is Tom McNamara. The event organizer is Greg Costanicos, and they anticipate approximately 2,000 people
 Council action would be permission for a non-for-profit liquor license for liquor consumption on public or private property sponsored by the non-for-profit group, permission for tents and signs, permission for the street closure, and to utilize the private parking lot for a special event. City support would be tent inspection the day before the event, and there is no cost for the event. It'll be paid for by the event organizer. Do we have a motion? No. Do we have a second?
 We have a motion and second. Is there any further discussion on the Greek Fest? Hearing none, all in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Do we have a motion to adjourn? So moved. All in favor of the motion to adjourn, say aye. Aye. Opposed? We are adjourned. We will move directly into our council meeting if there's no need to take a pause.
 So I'd like to call the City Council meeting, the City of Rockford, Illinois, to order. The date is Monday, August 15, 2016, our first ever Rockford Day. And our invocation this evening will be from Chaplain Kenneth Henley of Free Will Baptist Church. Chaplain? Let's pray. Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done.
 on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, we ask this day that you would guide the City Council as they make decisions for the City of Rockford, for all the residents that live therein. And Lord, we also pray that you would be with the first responders that protect us from harm and danger throughout the every hour of the day. Be with the Police Department and its leadership, the Fire Department and its leadership,
 Also, with the city and its leadership, the decisions that were made for the city of Rockford will be good and for the benefit of all people. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Please, clerk, you call the roll.
 McNamara, Frost, Herbie, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli. Twelve present. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Just as a reminder, our speakers tonight are moving to public speaking. I have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up.
 We can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. The first speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman. I will not be silent. Freedom of speech listed first because it is the most important. Last week in these chambers, in front of all of you and the people watching in their homes, I was attacked and my freedom of speech was attacked.
 What we witnessed and experienced was both shocking and disturbing. And as I reflect back upon that moment, I can't help but come to the conclusion that Rockford has a long way to go before any kind of transformation can take place. The transformation we need begins here.
 Have we become so numb by watching the violence on TV and in the movies that glorify man's inhumanity to man? Or is it because we live these horrors in our streets and in our neighborhoods on a daily basis?
 At what point should someone step in to help another? At what point should someone who is trained to recognize an assault step in? At what point is it acceptable to sit idly by and do nothing but watch? To be only a spectator to the world around you? At what point?
 I expect to be attacked while walking down Broadway. Never in my wildest imagination did I ever think it would happen within these walls. In that respect, the city has failed. It failed me, and it has failed you.
 I'm sure that the city is now taking steps to ensure the safety of us all. Despite what happened, I believe that there is still hope for the city of Rockford and for those who lead. Two weeks ago, I stood before this body to participate in the acceptance of the proclamation for National Night Out. I was both honored and humbled.
 And in accepting, I ask every one of you to become a light in your community, to push back the darkness that is encroaching upon us all. Last week, the darkness that I spoke about was here, and there was only one light that came to my defense. That light is sitting before me. It's Alderman Vanita Hervey. Alderman Hervey, I thank you for being a light, not only for me, but for the people you represent in the Fifth Ward.
 And by being that light, you showed everyone in this city what one light can do. One light can stand against oppression. One light can stand against darkness. So again, I ask all of you to become a light in your community. If one light can push back the darkness, just think what all of you can do together. Please become that light and make Rockford shine. I will not be silent. I will be heard.
 I will not be a spectator. I will speak out. I will not let darkness get a foothold. I will be a light. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Diana Walker. Wow. Good evening. Good evening.
 I acknowledge each leader in their respective position and my fellow citizens in the gallery and at home. This evening, I will highlight one of the many reasons that I love Rockford warts and all. Yes, we have challenges, but we are recovering from a negative malaise at a rapid pace daily. Today I spent the entire day participating and celebrating the gyms and entrepreneurs in the 815 celebration.
 One jewel in our community is an organization which I have been blessed to serve with since 2007, specifically West Gateway Coalition, which was birthed from the Weed and Seed Department of Justice Initiative. The West Gateway Coalition service area encompass the following boundaries. To the north is Almond Street, south is Preston, to the west is Pierpont, and Kilburn to the east.
 West Gateway Coalition is an incubator organization serving as an advocate for and providing information to residents in the Covering Area. To date, we serve as a catalyst, organizing four neighborhood organizations, namely Andrews Park, Church School, Lewis Lemon, and Zion West. We have 501 status. We've established a scholarship endowment with the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois. And I am delighted to announce that within one year,
 Mind you, one year, August of 2015 to 2016, we met the $10,000 match from the Community Foundation. I mean, I'm celebrating. I get teary when I think about it. We, anyway, so currently we have a balance of $20,000 in our entitlement fund with the Community Foundation. And we expect to award the first scholarship in the 2019-2020 academic year.
 Our achievements are the result of collaborative, and I repeat, collaborative community partners. Two of the key partners are the City of Rockford Administration and the City of Rockford Police Department. Because of your support, we continue to enhance our great community. Thank you for supporting our endeavors to create excellence everywhere for everyone. God bless. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Thank you.
 Welcome back. I'm Aaron Marcy, our audience and all the women and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 29, verse 25 says, Fear of people can hamper everything you try to do in an extreme form that can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberated.
 Why fear people who can do no harm, instead fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word? A U.S. Secret Service official confirmed to CNN that the USS has spoken to Donald Trump's campaign regarding his Second Amendment comment. There has been more than one conversation on the topic that the officials told CNN, but it is unclear at what level in the campaign structure
 the conversation occurred. The campaign told the USS that Donald Trump did not intend to incite violence, according to the official. As he skipped from one graphic to the next, the Gulf leader, Donald Trump, and Washington and the most competitive states had began openly contemplating turning their backs on their party presidential nominee to provide
 prevent what they fear will be a wide scale Republican loss on the election. Republicans who have devoted their professional life to elect Gov. Katynan say they believe the White House is already made be lost. They are exasperated by Trump's diverse political and his insistence on running a general election campaign and mirror his approach to the primary. His dispute with the parents of a Muslim island captain
 who was killed in action in Iraq, and his suggestion that the Second Amendment people could somehow stop Ms. Clinton, how intensified a doubt is that? That's why I say this. Donald Trump is using fear, hatred, racism, and talking about having people beat up, and he would pay to get them out of jail. That has been me saying that. Guess where I would be at?
 I would be walking, I wouldn't be walking the streets. I'd be locked up in jail, probably in a home and security office, or being talked to by the FBI. So what? So guess what? What are we going, what are we not going to if that happened here in Rockford? Just like what's happened this weekend in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, we do not want that to happen here. So this is what we are going to do by working together with the law enforcement and the city by having a summer Thanksgiving cookout at North Main Manor.
 This past month, July was a great event with the softball game, the community versus the police. I was asked by some of the residents about why not have a cookout for the police and the fire department so that we can show them that we appreciate their service. Therefore, I thought about it and said that could be part, too, of the police and citizen need to team up, take active stance against violence. So how about if we invite the chief of the police department, the chief of the park district,
 the Winnebago Sheriff's Department and the Rockford Fire Department as our special guests for a summer Thanksgiving cookout at North Main Manor and it would be just like loving deer. The only difference is we would have no cigarettes and we would have no drinks. But on this day we would show everyone the winning 16 inch softball that would be autographed by the players and the community and the trophy case and we would decide at that meeting where we would be placing the softball.
 Thank you. And I know I'm in like three minutes. We look forward to y'all attending this here and being a part of transforming Rockford. So instead of complaining and talking about the negative thing, let's talk about rebuilding Rockford with the police department and the community, us working together. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker, final speaker this evening is James Mosley. Thank you for having me. White America, if you can hear past the pain, then you can hear something again.
 I was born into a torn apart culture at an educational and economical disadvantage. I had to disregard my native ways for the sake of my safety. Because it's okay when you're black and you act white, but it's not okay when you're black and you act black. How should a culture act that's been at an educational, economical disadvantage for centuries while being targeted and killed because of their skin color?
 There's a difference between being poor with opportunities and being poor in a system that is trying to keep you poor, keep your kids uneducated, keep you dependent on state help, and keep you in a cycle of failure. Once black people collectively as a culture get past our economical and educational disadvantages, we will be the leaders of America.
 That's why instead of giving black communities business loans or jobs paying at $80,000 or better, they give us $8,000 a year for Section 8, $9,000 a year for food stamps, $12,000 a year for daycare, $15,000 a year for medical bills, and never mind the countless number of fees they get waived for making less income. So all that government funding equals out to about $50,000 a year per person, give or take.
 Plus, they're $25,000 a year job. Why not give a person a job that pays $80,000 a year or better?
 And you can use all of that state funding that's freed up and put it into state jobs, allowing us to have control over our own money and where it needs to be spent and not depend it on $50,000 a year in public aid. How is it that you get twice as much in public aid than you do at a job?
 Hello. How is that, how is it that if you make over $45,000 a year, you don't qualify for $50,000 a year in public aid? But if you make $25,000 a year, you're telling me that I need an extra $50,000 a year to bring me to $75,000 a year. But if I make $45,000 a year, I don't qualify for anything?
 You're giving more money away in state aid than you are in state jobs. Why is that? And I will tell you why. What's the difference between making $75,000 a year annually at a job and getting $75,000 a year in public aid? Empowerment, control, and self-worth is the difference.
 Black people have created some form of happiness, stability, and hope in the midst of all that poverty, destruction, death, and disadvantage. Imagine what the black culture can create if we was in a better living standard with no discrimination or disadvantage. I believe most white people, if they be honest,
 Their fear of black people is that we will be the driving force of the economy, the leaders of the innovators and creators. We will paint their children with our brands and influence their homes with our perspective. We will be the dictators of democracy and we'll reform the Constitution to our benefit. And this truly to me is the greatest fear that most white people have towards black people.
 The culture historically plagued by history and division can rise together from the ashes and take over a country that was once built for white slave owners. Thank you, Mr. Moser. Thank you. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening. Mr. Hayes. Could you take up the matter of acceptance of the journal? I'm sorry, again? Acceptance of the journal. I think you skipped over that. Thank you. Is there a motion to accept the journal?
 Motion and second to accept the journalness of the Journal of August 1, 2016. Are there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of the journal, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. And thank you for the reminder, Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Petitions and communications. Votes and regulations. All in the umbrella. Thank you, Your Honor. I have the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda in the minutes for the meeting that will take place on August 16th.
 And referring those to the codes and regs committee for August 22nd. I also have the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda in minutes that will take place on August 16th and referring that to the codes and regs committee on August 22nd. The third is a memorandum from Marcy Leach, Engineering Operations Manager regarding vacation request for a portion of the alley between 805 Phelps Avenue and 1108 Post Drive.
 A memorandum from the legal department regarding the review of closed session minutes. And a memorandum from Angela Hammer, assistant city attorney regarding the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford Human Services Department and the Rock River Water Reclamation District. Those items will all be referred to the Codes and Regs Committee. Thank you, matters referred. Any additional petitions and communications?
 Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to report the receipt of the second quarter 2016 Comcast franchise payment in the amount of $471,795.81. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Proclamations. Proclamations.
 We have one proclamation this evening. I'd invite our friends from Keith School to please come forward, including Monica Christopa, Director of Advancement, and Rachel Rebsom, Director of Student Engagement and Wellness. And any of the students and other staff that might be with them, please come forward. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Okay.
 whereas Keith Country Day School was founded by an innovative educator, Mrs. Belle Emerson Keith, September 5, 1916, and whereas since its first graduating class, Keith Country Day School remains the only pre-kindergarten through grade 12 independent college preparatory school in the northern Illinois region.
 And whereas Keith Country Day School's graduation requirements remain the most rigorous in the area, and Keith seniors have earned annually at least $1 million in merit-based scholarships. And whereas Keith Country Day School is the only high school in the state that has achieved three consecutive state volleyball championships. Thank you.
 Whereas Keith Country Day Schools Board of Trustees, faculty, parents and students are explicitly committed to academic excellence, civic responsibility and social justice as designed by its founder 100 years ago.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 5th, 2016 to be Keith's School Day. And we urge all citizens to join in honoring Keith Country Day School's 100th year anniversary and centennial legacy of academic excellence. On behalf of Bell Emerson Keith and the Keith community, we are honored to have Keith Country Day School Day on September 5th.
 Thank you very much and congratulations again. Committee reports, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item that our legal counsel would like us to lay over. That will be laid over. Thank you, sir.
 I'll be meeting with representatives of Renaissance this week. We may well schedule, depending on the outcome of that meeting, a special city council meeting next week on Monday evening to take this matter up. Thank you. Alderman Durk, do you just want to hold it out, or do you want to get a motion to lay it over? I think just hold it out. That will be held out. Any Code and Regulation Committee reports? Alderman Hervey, I believe you've got the Finance and Personnel Committee agenda. Yes. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have three items. The first, recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,742,585.68. The second being approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the city and the state of Illinois, central management services for lease of the four parking spaces at 322 South Main.
 And the third, recommending approval of a lease for 424 Buckbee Street to Rock Valley College with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinances for items number two and three. I would place those items up for passage. Need a motion to suspend the rules first? I'm sorry. I would request to suspend the rules. Motion. Second to suspend the rules on those three items. Roman numeral 5C1, 2, and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No.
 I said rules be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those three items up for passage. Thank you. Matters up for passage. Is there any discussion? Mr. Hayes. At the request of Rock Valley College, there's been a slight adjustment to the terms of the lease that reflect certain issues related to insurance. The city will be maintaining coverage on the building because we'll own the building and still have certain activities within the building. Rock Valley will be responsible for ensuring the premises as far as their activities are.
 As well as their personal effects and personal property that rock value places in the building for loss Those were the adjustments to the lease that occurred during the course of last week Those still adequately protect the city as well as divide those issues as is fairly common in commercial leases Thank you. Do we need a motion to reflect those changes as an amendment to the report so
 That item has been posted as amended?
 So, I'd be happy to suggest a motion to approve the lease as amended. MS. I would move that we approve the lease for 424 Buckby Street to be amended as indicated by Attorney Hayes with regard to the insurance arrangements between the City and Rock Valley, and that would be for item number Roman numeral 5C3. MR. Is there a second?
 So, in a motion, second to amend Roman numeral 5C3 to reflect changes in the insurance conditions as part of the lease. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. So, that amendment is approved. So, the amended 5C3, along with the other two, I assume, then are up for passage? Yes, Your Honor, as amended. Thank you. Those items are up for passage. Is there a discussion?
 Hearing none clerk, please call the roll Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Elliot McNeely Chiarelli I am 1 and 2 12 guys And number 3 11 eyes 1 no matters all passed. Thank you further committee reports officers reports
 So I just have a couple items I want to report on this evening. First, there should be a memo that is distributed to council members regarding a couple of appointments that have board appointments that are opening up due to
 two of the incumbents, one on the mechanical board, one on the building board of appeals, failing to file required statements of economic interest. We were advised of this from the state's attorney's office, and unfortunately under state law, that is the, what we must do. So if there's recommendations we're looking for,
 one member for the Mechanical Board and one for the Building Board of Appeals. And I look forward, if you've got any questions on that, you can follow up with Mr. Hayes or myself or Todd Cagnone.
 Also just wanted to wish my mother and father a happy birthday. My mother's birthday was on the 8th. My father's birthday is tomorrow on the 16th, and we wish them the very best. My dad's had some health challenges lately, and, Dad, we wish you all the love in the world and look forward to a great happy birthday for you tomorrow.
 I also want to thank all of the partners in the community that have supported our Rockford Day celebration by the T-shirts and all the activities I know around town. We're all very aware here of the event. I want to thank Kimberly Bruce for bringing the idea, inspiring it, amongst the Rockford Community Partners Group. Thank you, Kimberly, for helping to lead the effort. I think everyone has had a great day. Just some of the feedback that we've had throughout the day has been fantastic.
 extremely positive. Alderman McNamara probably will mention one of the last things I know we did just before council was the
 celebration, dedication of the new mural that the Arts Council students put together on the north side of the, west side of the river, north side of the Jefferson Street Bridge, really looked fantastic. So thank you to all involved, it's really been encouraging. These 815 shirts started popping up a few years ago, I think organically, and it's just been a great opportunity today on August 15th to inaugurate this festival.
 Also, just wanted to, in light especially of what's been going on in Milwaukee over the weekend with the protests, one of the things I think we can continue to do to try to help support police-community relations is the type of thing we did last week. Chief O'Shea, I want to thank you and the rest of the team for publicly discussing our use of force report. So twice a year, we've now been doing for the last couple years reporting on our department's management of use of force.
 I don't know that we can ever eliminate completely the risk of protests and riots and the types of things that happened over the weekend in Milwaukee. But when we've had protests, and they've been peaceful protests, I think it's because we've worked to really build strong relations between the community and our police department. I want to thank the continued efforts of the department and our community stakeholders and council members for supporting those discussions and dialogues.
 and especially for the department holding itself accountable, being publicly willing to discuss the results of its use of force. A lot of the requirements now are mandated under state law.
 that we keep track of the information, but there isn't, at least right now, really a mandate that we discuss those results publicly, which is what we did last week in a public forum, and I appreciate, Chief, for you doing that and the rest of the department. I think it really helps to build transparency and openness and accountability as a cultural element within the department. Thank you. Further officers' reports, Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I would like to give a warm thank you to Altiza and Sybester Williams for their 50th wedding anniversary. It's my sister. And also, I want to expand upon one of the speakers this evening for the dollars that the neighborhood groups have raised
 $10,000 with a matching fund, we are also in the process of having a fundraiser, and we're hoping that that 20,000 by the end of the year will be $25,000 in scholarships that we will be offering the residents of the community.
 I can't say enough for the organization in the things that we're accomplishing there, establishing new neighborhood watch groups, working in the community, cleaning the community. You can't ask for too much more. I don't think Partners got anything on West Gateway Coalition. I also want to thank you, Your Honor, for...
 your support with helping me with hopefully some type of an adjustment to the intersection of Purefond and Auburn Street. I greatly do appreciate that. I do have a passion behind it because we have our children at stake when school is starting again. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Probably, I hope on behalf of everyone, I want to again acknowledge 815 Day. I think my t-shirt is the best, if I may say so myself. No, all the different styles. Every time I saw someone, I was like, no, I want that one. No, that one. It was really hard. So for the merchants, I think bygone era and Delhi.
 Rockford Art Deli. I call it Rad all the time, so I forget the real name down the street. Thank you for putting those out. I think those are just really neat. Pardon? And Crimson Ridge, the keychains. I didn't get my keychain yet, but I'll be out there, so reserve one. I want to thank Bella Luna. If anyone saw the 815 cookies...
 Tom and Kevin ate two. I just... So if you didn't get one, I just had to out them for that. But they're beautiful cookies, and I called to say I was going to bring some early for my birthday, and they were out and I couldn't get there.
 and she called me back a few minutes later and said, Vanita, don't worry about it. We're gonna take some over there. So I have to thank you to Bella Luna. They're in Stewart Square right when you walk in the door. I spend way too much time in the cheesecake there. But they are one of the businesses,
 that grew from City Market and they're now in Stewart Square. I don't want to pump them too much, but I mean if you want some excellent cookies, I mean I'm sorry, they're just out of this world. So I did want to acknowledge them and thank everyone who participated in 815 Day, and Kimberly and
 Rockford Community Partners. And if you didn't notice, Director Cagnoni, he's really rocking that t-shirt too. His is, I mean, full color, so I thought that was great.
 School starts Wednesday. And when it's warm outside and school starts, the kids are excited. I'm gonna ask everybody to slow it down by five to 10 miles an hour. If you're like me, slow it down by 15 and watch out for the kids. And with that, I want to acknowledge the Rockford Police Department. I've been standing here week after week railing about the vagrants at South Main and Montague. And...
 Assistant Deputy Chief Redd and a group of them called this morning. They were down there at the intersection making a couple of arrests from people who are just going to do it no matter what.
 Rob Willamy in Code Enforcement took some action last week. The parking lot does not have a single piece of paper. I don't think there's even a blade of grass. So it got some action going. So thank you to everybody who was responsive to that. The kids will appreciate it, again, right across the street. And...
 Let's keep seeing what we can do with the demolitions to get these houses down. They're becoming a magnet, not because of an X, but because these guys know they're vacant and it's a place for them to go. So thank you to everyone involved in that. Thank you. Full disclosure, I only brought one cookie out here. Alderman McNamara, I don't know how many he had, but there was a lot.
 but they were very good. I just want to announce that on August 31st at 6 p.m. at the Women's Space Pavilion, which is at 3333 Maria Linden Drive in the 4th Ward, there will be a 4th Ward meeting for the residents to get a chance to meet our new police chief, Dan O'Shea, and our fire chief, who is not new to the city, has agreed that he would come as well to comment and speak to the residents. So thanks again. There will be more to come on that. Thank you.
 I had a lot of cookies. First, just thank you, Mayor, for your entire team, especially Kimberly and the Rockford Community Partners, for putting on the 815 day. Also, you mentioned the mural that is on.
 on the north side of the Jefferson Street Bridge, or some will know it in the Henshaw lot. I'm sure it has another title or a number or a letter. But when you go over there, that was done by the Rockford Area Arts Council, their Arts Place kids, as well as Rockford Area Realtors Young Professionals Group. And if you go over there, you can see it from across the river, but it's inspiring to see. It is just...
 Just a huge, wonderful, inspiring piece of artwork that I think all of these pieces of artwork that are popping up in the downtown and throughout the entire city really helped to instill a sense of pride in where we live. And I think it's fitting that it happened today on the first 815 day. So thank you for all your efforts.
 Further off from the reports, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. As long as we're down the road of congratulatory tonight, I'd like to congratulate my daughter, Claudia, tonight for passing her Arizona State Real Estate course license. It was a struggle for her and our family, but she got it done, so congratulations.
 Second of all, with the Newtown project going on, I've received numerous phone calls, Your Honor, about the construction traffic going on there with the Rockford Police Department project going on and the Newtown. If we could talk to the project manager about the gravel in the road, a lot of the gravel
 a lot of construction related items that are going on in that area that are causing congestion and noise. I know I've talked to Matt Vintner and others about this, but it seems to be a continual problem because we have two major construction projects going on at the same time. And that would be very helpful to me and to the residents in that area. But that's all I have tonight. Appreciate it. And we will follow up with our staff on that and do what we can to try to help manage those concerns. Thank you. Further officers reports?
 Unfinished business. Alderman Shirelli, I think it's you again. Your Honor, that unfinished business, item B1, I'm holding out until next week, Your Honor, on request of Alderman McNamara. Sure. So we will next go to appointments laid over, Roman numeral 8, and I believe, Alderman Hervey, that would fall to you.
 Two items under Rome Numero 8, 1 and 2. One is the appointment of Cathy Johnson to the Community Action Board. That's to fill a vacant client sector position for a three-year term.
 The second is an appointment, the appointment of Oliver Behr to the Library Board to complete the term originally occupied by James O'Hagan. Mr. Behr's term would expire June of 2017. Both of these are up for passage tonight and I would place them both. Thank you. Thank you. Up for passage under Roman numeral 8, items 1 and 2, appointments laid over Kathy Johnson and Oliver Behr. Is there a discussion?
 Hearing none, all those in favor, please say, I'm sorry, there's a question all over. No, not a question. I just want to say that Kathy Johnson is one of the brains behind the North...
 West United neighborhood group and she is very conscientious She pushes the alderman the right direction And I would like to see everyone please. I think she would be a good addition to this committee. Thank you. Thank you any additional comments or questions hearing none also those in favor of those two items, please signify by saying aye aye I said, thank you
 Motions and resolutions. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 9B, 1 through 5, Your Honor, place up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage under Roman numeral 9B, Codes and Regulations, numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Items are up for passage. Is there discussion? Discussion?
 Alderman Kirby. Quick question with regard to item number four, Stumpy Fest. Would the aldermen of that area indicate their approval or support? Johnner. Alderman Shirely. Yeah, I'm the alderman of that area, and I am in support of that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Additional comments, discussion? Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to thank the library for the...
 I guess dealing with me and not only myself, I think they did a nice job of holding some public meetings to get input from citizens regarding a host of changes that are coming to the library over the next several years. They also dealt with me and were very patient as I pushed them to.
 review and walk through the armory and actually Lynn and their architect took the time to walk through and potentially needed a mask to get through the armory but I appreciate the effort that they went through and hope that they are successful as they continue to move forward and progress. Thank you. Additional discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee? No, number one. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey?
 No, I'm too bad. Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elligay, McNeely, Chiarelli. Item number one, ten ayes, two noes. Item number two, nine ayes, three noes. Items three, four, and five, twelve ayes. That is passed. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Under...
 Roman numeral nine C items one two three four five and six Would place all of those up for passage up for passage under Roman numeral nine C items one two three four five and six Good discussion hearing none clerk. Please call the roll turkey Back Mira frost curving
 Aye on 1, 2, and 3. No on 4, 5, and 6. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3. 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 4, 5, 6. There's 8 ayes, 3 noes, 1 abstain on each one of those. That is all passed. Thank you. We'll remember 10 new business on Dirkley.
 That one was laid over, I believe, right? Or is held out. So we'll go to, I think that was also held out, was it? Alderman Hervey. Under Roman numeral 10, item C, numbers 1 and 2, let's place both up for passage. We need a motion to suspend the rules, I believe, on that.
 Yes, I'm sorry. First I would move to suspend the rules. Thank you. There's been a motion, second to suspend the rules. I'm rolling number 10C, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. And the place has two items up for passage. Those items are up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McMahon. Aye. Cross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Carnal. Thompson-Kelley. Odo.
 Newberg? No. Beach? No. Ellier? No. McNeely? No. Chiarelli? No. Item number one, 12 ayes. Item number two, 11 ayes, 1 no.
 Mayor, would you allow me to go back to officers' reports for one moment? I just wanted to make council members aware that Tuesday, the 23rd at 5.15 p.m., is the next Fair Housing Working Committee meeting held here. So that's Tuesday, August 23rd at 5.15 p.m. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Any additional business before the council? It's been a motion to adjourn. Is there a second? Motion second to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye.
 Opposed, no. Ayes have it. That means adjourned. Thank you.