Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, August 21st, 2023. We're fortunate this evening to have Chaplain Ken Henley with us to provide us with an invocation. Let's pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, tonight we ask that you would come and fill this room with your presence. And Lord, that the decisions that are made tonight will affect everyone in the city, but Lord, that they will affect them to the good and not to the bad. We ask, Lord, tonight that you would guide the thoughts of every person that's in place of authority here, but most of all, Lord, that we would be able to see the city of Rockford move forward in the way you would want it to. Amen. We also ask that you would be with the police and fire departments as they go about their business, protecting us from harm and danger, that we might be able to rest through the night and be able to go about our business during the day. We ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen. We pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, unbound, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Tunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Barrios. Here. Meeks. Bailey. 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on July 10, 2023? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? So moved. Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, we have a public hearing for the pre-annexation agreement for 68XX Auburn Street, and I'll turn that over to Alderwoman Tarina. Yes. Okay. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to the 25 Illinois compiled statutes 5-11-15. Point 1-3 for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property, 68XX Auburn Street. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Roffert Register Star on July 10, 2023. That notice informed citizens of Roffert that the Roffert City Council would hold a public hearing on Monday, July 31, 2023, at 530 in Council Chambers for the consideration of a proposed pre-annexation agreement for 68XX Auburn Street. Thank you. Notice was provided at the July 31st, 2023 meeting date that the hearing had been rescheduled for August 21st, 2023 at 530 in Council Chambers on the second floor of Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois. Are there any questions or comments from the Council members on this pre-annexation agreement? Seeing no questions from Council, are there any questions or comments from the public? Fantastic. Seeing that there are no questions or comments from the public, we will now close this meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, we have no proclamations this evening, so we can go right to petitions and communications. And we will go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, we have a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic and Development Engineer, regarding an application to the United States Department of Transportation for reconnecting communities and neighborhood grant to fund construction and construction engineering for the 9th Street two-way conversion. Refer to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, I'll go to the legal director, Nick Meyer, for a Comcast payment update. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of our Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $377,706.31. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. A memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding proposed amendments to Chapter 3 liquor of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances establishing a downtown social district, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding proposed amendments to Chapter 3, Liquor and Hookah, at the City of Rockford Court of Ordinances to permit on-site consumption of alcohol at authorized hookah lounges, referred to the Court of Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is a memorandum from Jennifer Kachapaya regarding a change of an MOU partner on the Department of Justice. Office on violence against women fiscal year 2022 grants to engage men and boys as allies in the prevention of violence against women and Girls program they'll be referred to the finance personnel committee as well the remainder all items will be for the finance and personnel Number two is memory from Jennifer catch a pie regarding the acceptance of fiscal year 2024 Illinois Department of Human Services greater Illinois violence prevention council coordinator award and Number three is a memorandum from Jennifer Kachupai regarding the acceptance of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Grant Award. Number four is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the Integrated Mobile Partners Action Impact Grant Award. Number five is a memorandum from Mikaela Harris. uh contracting grant compliance officer regarding the acceptance of the winnebago county community mental health board's mobile integrated health grant award number six is a also a memorandum from michaela harris regarding the acceptance of the winnebago county community mental health board's crisis co-responder team grant award number seven is a memorandum from jennifer catchapali regarding the acceptance of the winnebago county community mental health board grant award for inclusive wellness programming at the family peace center Number 8 is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of the DCO LIHEAP HHS Supplemental Grant Award. Number 9 is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of the Case Community Investment Landlord Engagement from the Community Solutions Grant Award. Number 10 is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of the Direct Cash Transfer as Prevention Program from Point Source Youth Grant Award. Number 11 is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of the Youth Housing Stabilization from the CFNIL grant award. Number 12 is a memorandum from Tad Kainoni regarding the renewal of a lease agreement between the City of Rockford and the Family Peace Center, not for profit at 313 North Main Street. Number 13 is a memorandum from Ann Cornett Parham regarding the acceptance of a documentation for the DHS Office of Minority Health Advancing Health Literacy grant award. Number 14 is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders regarding a development agreement between the City of Rockford and 815 Entertainment for a grant application to the State of Illinois Economic Development Program. And lastly, number 15 is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson regarding the proposed purchase of 4640 West State Street. Thank you. Thank you Alderman Frost. Next up we have our public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the city council. You'll hear an alarm on my cell phone to ask you to close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Glee in there, glee in all the persons, our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois, but mainly the citizens that's watching this, that watch this every day to hear what we got to say. Isaiah 3310, for the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king. He will save us. No man-made fear or slavery will ever hold us. Jesus told his disciples, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Two weeks ago, we went to Chicago to the Sabin Museum and we also went to the Rainbow Beach. We took 60 people there and for the first time only two of the people have ever been to the Silerwood Museum. When we got to Rainbow Beach we had a 70 year old and a 72 year old. It was the first time they ever put their foot in the Lake Michigan water. That was more of a blessing in disguise. That's something that you cannot pay for and what have you. The only thing we was missing was we didn't have a preacher there because we could have went to church. while we was there at Lake Michigan. I want to comment on the fact that we have nothing against the Barbara Coleman building, but when you decide to take my First Amendment rights away and tell me that Barbara Coleman building is more important than our kids, and that was the time our 10 year old that got kidnapped and killed, our top priority, our kids should always come first. Their empty buildings will always be there But we don't look out for our future generation. We won't have no future generation. This here, coming up this Thursday, we having a meeting again with Dr. Reed. And we setting the record. Also, Pastor Maurice West, Sr., Pastor Hightower, 17 pastors been in attendance. The Nation of Israel been in attendance at this meeting. I can go on and name, even the chief of police has been in attendance. All of them have barely been in attendance that I'm meeting. We meet on Thursday at 1 o'clock. We want to address the issues of the absenteeism in school, the suspension in school, the bullying in school, and the social promotion. And if each church were to take 20 or 30 of our kids, we can knock the crime down by 30%. We are planning on, when we go back to school, is being able to cut the... You hear me talking? We've been able to cut the kids' hair, braid their hair, and also being able to have a laundry mat at the different elementary and middle schools. We have a lot of kids that go to school whose clothes is not clean, whose hair is not kept. And so instead of complaining about what the parents are not doing, complaining about what the school is not doing and what have you, What are we doing to help our kids to look out for our future generation? So if we don't look out for our future generation, we're going to have no future generation. And that's why I'm making my pet peeve, even though I'm growing on 70 years old, I'm going to be out here until the day I die looking out for our future generation. And that's what we all should be here doing. Thank you for allowing me to speak, Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Bramley. Our next public speaker this evening is Flossie Horde. Good evening to Mayor McNamara and all who make up this assembly. I'm here to speak on the Avon development. Of course, I don't know that much about it, but I am opposed to it. I had a chance to attend a meeting about close to two months ago. And at the West Side Coalition Avon site, District 1 Police Department, and several community people were there and they voiced concerns about that development. Number one, they wasn't sure if the land was healthy enough to put a housing development there due to pollution with the fairground housing development from years ago. Number two, they expressed concern about the dense area where that housing development is supposed to be located. You have a police department in back. You have a federal prison over to the south of it. You have a railroad train track. You have a creek. And then you have a dense area where there's very little green space there. And then the other thing they expressed concerns about would the purchasers, whoever decided to purchase one of those homes or apartments, would they be able to buy those homes and own them? Would those homes come with a garage? So those are things that they wanted answers to. And we really thought we was going to have another meeting. Mr. Kluwer was there. He addressed that project. And one of the questions I asked him, Mr. Kluwer, how did you get the information out to the community about this project? He said, well, I sent 100 questionnaires or surveys out. I said, well, how many did you get back? He said, about 30. I said, is it possible you could schedule another meeting so more of the community people would know really what's going on and get some answers to the question. So I think it's only fair because we know that Fairgrounds, Concord, Ordon Keyes, Blackhawk, all the areas where you have stacked people on top of each other and not allow them to have the freedom to go and have green space and have social services breed violence. Now there are several areas on the West State area that's conducive to building such a project where you can put homes, a daycare, a technology center, a training center for parents, and Child on daycare not daycare. I'm sorry early childhood site William Dennis over on Lincoln Park Boulevard That is a vacant lot. So I'm not saying to mr. Kluwer that it's not a good project I'm just asking him to inform the community and think about what the citizens asked him to do look at another site for your project and and inform the community on the questions that we don't know the answers to. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Carrie Acevedo. Good evening, Mayor, City Council. Thank you for having me tonight. My name is Carrie Acevedo. I have the privilege and honor of serving as the Executive Director of Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity. I've been with Habitat here in Rockford for a little over nine years, and we have served over 100 communities. and 90 families through our affordable home ownership program. And we have done 116 critical home repairs for low-income families here in Rockford. I'd be remiss if I didn't say thank you for the support you provide Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity on a regular basis, through both funding our home ownership program, our critical home repair program, and most importantly, a down payment assistance program for our first time home buyers that we have the privilege of walking alongside. As many of you know, affordable housing is a crisis, not just in the city of Rockford and in Winnebago County, but across this state and across this entire nation. There are so many people here in our city that are both under housed and unhoused. Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity works tirelessly to bridge that gap, to ensure that every person in this community has a safe, stable, affordable place to call home. One of the things that Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity has had the privilege of doing is working alongside Rockford Housing Development Corporation and in conversations about the South Avon development. I would like to maybe clear a few concerns. First and foremost, all of the single family homes built in the South Avon development will be built by Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity. We have a track record of doing that well. 190 families have been served and only six of them have gone through foreclosure. That is an incredible rate of success. Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity will income qualify every single home buyer that will live in the South Avon development. We will walk alongside them as we underwrite their mortgage and we build their homes. Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity relies 95% on volunteer labor. So the cost of construction that we do in comparison to what developers can do is that we can do that for significantly less cost. And so we are proud to support, as an organization, the South Avon development and hope that we would be able to... see that development come to fruition, every single person in this room recognizes that there is not enough housing for every single person in our city. We need infill. We have needed infill and redevelopment for a long time. This will go such a long way in ensuring that people in this community have a safe place to lay their head at night. We fully support the South Avon development. In addition to that, we also support the tax incentive program for a Habitat for Humanity homeowner that could save tens of thousands of dollars. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Jerrion Calhoun. Good afternoon, City Council. Today, I'd like to address the total disregard to my request to honor our dear loved one, Ronaldo D. Stone. Rinaldo has served the Rockford area and abroad for over 20 years. Over 300 men annually every Father's Day, they would give a complimentary breakfast and also bridging that gap with absent fathers and things of that nature. He's done countless things in this community. I was told that It was one councilman here that still has not been identified that had opposition against this street sign due to, it's not a secret, an allegation that he went to court for and he was deemed innocent. One of the hardest things in America that I find is to be honored and respected as a black man. I don't appreciate the total disregard that this city council has given us. We have funeralized hundreds and thousands of people here in Rockford, Illinois, free of charge. This man reached down in his pocket. I've witnessed him paying bills for those that did not have money to pay their bills, did not have money to feed their children. This man, you all have totally looked past my brother. He gave his last dying day serving. He laid down in his clothes and died after funeralizing someone. It's like we're living his death all over again. Over these course of weeks, I've came and I've sat down in these boring behind-meetings. Only for you all to look over me like it's just an item. He might not have meant anything to anybody in this room, but he meant the world to our family and so many others here in Rockford, Illinois. I'm totally disgusted by the way that this, you all have handled this. You know, if there was a background issue or whatever, maybe you all should put that on the application. You all shouldn't have handled us like that. We've done so much for this city. And it's heartbreaking for us to go through what we're going through now. I still have faith in each and every one of you leaders to do the right thing. Hear my cry. My 84-year-old mother still wakes up in the middle of the night hollering about her son. I want to make this happen so she can again ride down there. She can't even ride down the street because her baby's no longer in the building. So this would have softened that blow for her. This would have eased that pain for her. This is all I'm asking. Please, y'all, do this for us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, we have Maurice. Thank you. Jennison. Hello. Good. I live at the Skyrise Apartments. Yes. 35 units at the Skyrise Apartments are subsidized by Housing and Urban Development for rent assistance. Because we receive federal assistance, the entire building is under the guidelines of Housing and Urban Development. Essentially, we are a HUD building even though a private entity owns the building. Because the federal government does not recognize marijuana, as being legal, the possession of marijuana in a federally subsidized housing building is illegal and I am subject to eviction. The irony is that the state of Illinois has legalized marijuana for recreational and medical use. There are at least three dispensaries that I am aware of in the Rockford area that sell marijuana. My request is that state sovereignty should reign. in HUD subsidized buildings such as the Skyrise. If the state of Illinois can decide that marijuana is legal for recreational and medical use, I am bewildered that I could be evicted for possessing marijuana. I know that we are a non-smoking building. That is one of the guidelines set forth by HUD. I see designated areas in other HUD subsidized buildings in Rockford that have places for people to smoke cigarettes. I'm not talking about smoking marijuana in the building at the Skyrise, but a designated area for smoking as they have at other HUD subsidized housing buildings. I receive no help whatsoever with rent assistance. I pay full market price. I do not qualify for any other assistance either. Between my pension, social security, and the fact that my former employee pays my premium every month for my supplemental Medicare insurance, I am doing well financially. I could easily buy marijuana at a dispensary, go to a friend's house, smoke marijuana at a friend's, and leave my stash at his house. I still can't understand why I will be threatened with eviction if I am... If I am in possession of marijuana in a state that has legalized marijuana for recreational use and medical use, state sovereignty should overrule the HUD statute in a federally subsidized housing building. It just doesn't make any sense. The irony is glaring. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we will move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. All five items, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number one, committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for the continued use of 2221 North Winnebago Street for the resident officer program, Rock House. Item two, committee recommends approval of the license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of the residence located at 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse. Item three, committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with Region 1 Planning Council for participation in Safe Streets for All grant. Item four committee recommends approval of a tax increment financing assistant agreement with KNK associates LLC For the redevelopment of certain parcels located on Madison Street within the East River TIF district item number five Committee recommends approval of an agreement between the city of Rockford and key solutions LLC for the think big Workforce development project Thank You Alderman council. We have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? I Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Logerman. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Toomer. 13 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee, and we will go to Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the pre-annexation agreement for 68XX Auburn Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Committee number two committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from County CN to c2 Limited commercial zoning district and a special use permit for the installation of the solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 6902 and 68 XX Auburn Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of the revisions to the intergovernmental agreement and for environmental services of Rockford Housing Authority. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the final plat number five of Sandy Hollow Industrial Subdivision. And number five, the committee recommends approval for an honorary street name designation on Pierpont Avenue from School Street to Auburn Street to Van Vliet Way in honor of Fred Van Vliet, local philanthropist, former student at Auburn High School, an NBA player, and champion. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these five items before you. Thank you Council we have five items. Is there any discussion on those five items Alderman Hoffman Thank You mayor number two I'm just a little confused if that is the one that is putting in solar farms right next to homes Then I am opposed. I'm a big supporter of solar farms I voted for them to be in my own area but in a place that would not be disruptive to homes, but if this is the one that That is really close to houses then I think we should vote no on that director Franzen I Thank you, Alderwoman. There are multiple solar developments that have been going through council. There is one on Springfield and Halstead that has received some opposition from neighboring property owners. This is not that one. This is on the corner of Meridian and Auburn, approximately a five-acre site. It is in proximity to some... single-family home residential. We did have some individuals show up to ZBA on this and they were appeased or pleased by the landscaping and the view of this and did not oppose the project. Thank you, any other discussion on any of the five items before us? Clerk, will you, or? Dirk. Sorry, any other questions or comments? Other woman training. Thank you your honor. So just with regards to the item. We're just just speaking of number two Can the alderman of the area just speak to if they're approved they approve of it or not, please? Yes Yes, that is my ward and I will be supporting this this solar farm in particular I feel like it is further out from the city as we've had some that's kind of like directly in the city and as Carl stated I'm sorry. Mr. Franzen stated it is out there by Meridian Road It's not you know, highly congested area or anything. So I am in support of this one the other discussion that I may have missed Logan in to bird frost Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach burrios meeks Bailey. Oh Item number 1, 11 ayes, 2 noes. I'm sorry. Item number 1, 13 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Items 3, 4, 5, 13 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number 1, the committee recommends approval of vouchers amounting to $16,971,684.03 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting. held on august 14 2023 number two the committee recommends approval of the city county intergovernmental agreement for jurisdictional transfer of linden road east of alpine road to the city limits to construct left turn lanes and resurface linden road from alpine road to the city limits the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of the extension of the intergovernmental agreement between the rha and the city of rock report police services the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number four, the committee recommends approval of a franchise agreement authorizing NICOR Gas and its successors and its signs to construct, operate, and maintain a gas distributing system in and throughout the city of Rockford. The legal direction shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for a three-year property tax rebate program for newly built residential construction for single-family, townhome, two-family, three-family, multi-family structures located in the City of Rockford and School District 205. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the first amendment to the intergovernmental agreement for certain cooperation on public improvements for lot three, the riverfront between the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford and the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Number seven the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for repairs at the Riverside Boulevard and Owen Center Road Central Avenue intersection between the city of Rockford in the county, Winnebago to facilitate pavement repairs and traffic signal repairs the county is spending approximately 80,000 cities expenditures $26,644 the funding sources the motor fuel tax Funds for the city's cost match the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these seven minutes before you Thank you. Is there any discussion on these seven items alderman Logan? Thank you mayor. I just like to move to For a simple layover for item number five. Okay, we have a motion. Is there a second we have a motion We have a second so item five has been laid over we now have six items before us any discussion on those six items alderman Beach and Thank you, Mayor. Number four, can we find out where in and through the city of Rockford they plan to build these stations? Director Saunders? Alderman Beach, this would be NICOR's franchise agreement, so this would be for all work that they do within the corporate limits of the city of Rockford. So they could come build anywhere they want to with this agreement without our approval? No. No, so they would still be required to pull a permit to do any work. This agreement just outlines some pretty specific roles and responsibilities. Thank you. Any other discussion on the six items that we have before us? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Rios Meeks Bailey 13 eyes excellent next we're gonna move to unfinished business We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to code and regulation committee older woman Trina. Thank you runner We have one item for the Code and Regulation Committee. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a mixed-use building with an early learning center and 64 apartments, 10 courtyard duplexes, a mixed-use commercial building consisting... a vertical indoor agriculture and culinary education, a six-family building, an eight to 10 family multiplex, two side-by-side duplexes with rear accessory dwelling units, and six family residences with rear accessory dwelling units, and an I-1 light industrial, an R-1 single-family residential zoning district at 310 South Avon Street, 1104 Chestnut Street, and 13 XX Preston Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. thank you thank you uh excellent so council we have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item alderwoman hoffman thank you mayor One of the objections I've heard to this is the demonizing of persons making below our city median income. And I want to say these people are some of our own employees, our Head Start teachers. They're our cashiers. They're the people who change our oil. And during COVID, some of the people called us central workers. But because they get a lower income, somehow they're not wanted in this community. But they're necessary people and they're as entitled as anyone to clean safe affordable housing. I also want to say Mulford Village It was Rockford Square. I was there when it was built. I was one of its first managers and rental agents It has two hundred and forty six units much bigger than this and I've talked to Alderman Beach and in his 40 years He said he's had no problems with the area because it's managed well and Same thing. It was an income-based housing unit. That said, I do not support the style of the 64-unit building. It should be townhomes. However, when I asked that the style be changed, I was told that it would be too expensive. My issue is we did it on the east side. Can't we do it on the west side? I was told no. However… We need these units everywhere, and so I'm going to be supporting it. Thank you. Alderman Veach. Thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak on this issue. When it first came before the Council, I did express concern about the gap funding for the six single-family homes on this project between what the banquet loan and what it actually cost to build it. I will support this tonight going forward, but upon record, I'm still concerned about that and to get some real answers on what... ultimately we as a city are going to put in to make that happen. So I will support it this evening. Thank you, sir. Any other discussion? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I think it's pretty well known that over the years I've had some concerns about affordable housing in Rockford, how it's transpired over time. I don't have the advantage of growing up in Rockford, But I've seen a west side of Rockford that essentially became, in a sense, subsidized housing, affordable housing, dumping ground. The sites were not scattered. They were of high density, crowding people together, and complete opposite to how this should have been done. Chicago, other major cities, have learned this. And I don't. No, that we quite have, and we really don't have a way to look at housing and affordable housing or subsidized housing in Rockford. And it's almost like putting more affordable housing in Rockford is like drilling holes in a hull of a sinking ship, hoping the water will run out. And I think we're struggling here across our city. And I'll outline a couple of reasons. I know there's a distinction between affordable housing and subsidized housing, and people like it to make it that way. I think it's a matter of semantics. Most housing that receives either government funding with Section 8 tax credits, grants, tax rebates, whatever you may call them, essentially is subsidized housing and essentially almost a public housing project. I think Avon essentially is a housing project wrapped up with pretty bows to entice our vote. I think some of the add-ons there do that. I think Rockford has more subsidized housing units per capita than any Illinois, anywhere in Illinois, except Chicago is drawing close to us lately. For instance, Rockford has 51 affordable apartment complex. Aurora has 27. Naperville has 8. Rockford has 4,376 low-income apartments. Aurora, 2,554. Naperville, 592. Total housing units with rental assistance. Rockford, 3,026. Aurora, 1,423. Naperville, 370. Okay. The median household income in Rockford is $38,716. Aurora is $63,000. And Naperville is $109,468. Rockford has a population of 140,000-ish. Aurora now approaching 200,000. Naperville, a little over probably 150,000. These data are from an affordable housing survey. website and there is I guess they're as good as 2017 and this is concerning the city of Rockford we bet have repeated I've had and others repeated calls for us to develop some kind of comprehensive approach to how this works we had a HUD representative here a few years ago and I asked him several questions when he stood here As to what is the ratio of public housing units per capita or subsidized units per capita that is sustainable in a given demographic? I also ask them, what is the city's per household or per capita income that is required to sustain a number of affordable housing units within a demographic? I asked... Also about case studies done by the Urban Institute and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, concluding that projects or these type of situations should be scattered, contain less than 30 units or less, and be devoid of group spaces as they tend to lead to battles over the group space use. He was unaware of his own HUD studies at the time. That's fine, I mean people can't know everything, but he was then unable to answer that. This was asked in reference as to why Orton Keys was left as is, but fairground was to be transitioned to a lower density situation with scattered sites. Which never happened in a sense. In most cities this was being done in case in Chicago. And even areas around the suburbs where I grew up over time. They were not building 64 unit complexes. They were scattering them into smaller, more manageable units. Orton Keys at that time was never truly reconsidered for renewal via scattered site redevelopment. It was stopped, I believe, because of a consent decree with HUD over Newtown. And I think under the leadership of RHA at the time, why Orton Key still exists and why fairgrounds wasn't completed still baffles me because these are known to be ineffective. So we never, the big question I have is we don't study the ripple effect that creating more subsidized or affordable housing units have within a demographic. There's a significant percentage of these folks, not all of them, but some of them who require the housing have other challenges that need to be met by schools, schools. health care facilities, fire calls, social service calls, non-government agency contribution, and police calls. In fact, the lady who was speaking about Habitat for Humanity described a 6% foreclosure rate. Well, they also, when people get behind, they actually substitute their mortgage, subsidize their mortgages. So, which is fine. Habitat for Humanity does great work and But there's still some subsidy there, and there's challenges that this particular subset of a community requires. And I think that what's happening in Rockford, because of the volume that we have and the challenges that we face and the needs that are present, what we can offer as a demographic with the economy that we have, we're not Naperville, and we do far more than Naperville. But we struggle to do it right. We struggle to help these people. We struggle to help them move along because there are this subset that require guidance, that require intervention, whatever they need to even get out of public housing. And so we have a limited number of resources unless somehow we magically regrow our economy to help. So I'm not quite sure putting another housing project really at this time is good. Mr. Kluwer basically said a couple weeks ago in front of council that we need 5,000 subsidized units, according to his studies. Well, given the fact that most units of this nature have 2.5 people, 2.54 if you want to know, 2.42 people per unit, that's 12,500 people who may need... further assistance in addition to Subsidizing their housing and so when that comes into play on the schools on whatever How do we how do we further dilute our limited resource to help these folks? So by constantly building more subsidized and affordable units we can't we are diluting the Effectiveness and I think we've reached that point. I think we reached it a while ago and I think one of the One of the things we really have to look at is actually recrafting what we have and making it effective so The other so one of the things I would advocate is that we look at rather than do this project Just take a look at our housing repair and upgrade the units that we currently have to actually inspect and enforce HUD standards and rules regarding landlords receiving Section 8 vouchers. This hasn't been really done that I am aware of. Under Mr. Kluwer's tenure, it doesn't seem that this was ever done. We even gave him addresses at one point, and it never happened. So attempts to find, there were attempts to find the addresses of these properties at one point so we can actually observe them ourselves. And they were rejected over privacy issues, which is fine. That's, if that's the law and that's what happens. But we don't have a handle on it because there's some secrecy regarding it. So the question is how about with Avon, why do 64 units? Do it more like 30 units? Why not actually take Avon and do what was promised at Fairgrounds? Fairgrounds was supposed to be divided up into thirds. New Town became one. Another site was a third, and then they were going to redo the Fairgrounds building, and that never happened. And that was under Mr. Kluwer's leadership. So he over-promised, in a sense, and under-delivered. And so I have some reservation regarding this project with the bows and the enticements that are placed as to where, how this is going to occur. I don't, I guess Habitat for Humanity is doing some of the freestanding homes. My guess is that Gorman, because Mr. Kluwer sits on both the housing board here, and Gorman may do this work. Gorman does quality work and I think that's fine, but I'm not sure that this is the right project at this time. There was also in the document several instances where the term pilot project was used. And so I'm wondering, are they gonna build this and then they're gonna build of? And what is their long-term goal or intent? Is there another agenda? But I do support, affordable housing for people for no fault of their own who land up in dire straits for those unable to care for themselves. But however, general housing in the United States has been a failure. It's a failed mission and being a temporary place for folks to retool their lives and move on. An example, it's mostly an example of toxic charity, creating a dependency. And I'm cynical when it comes to the federal government and government in general. Government likes power. And the best way to get power is to create dependency and keep people dependent. And not actually solving a problem, but managing a problem. Public housing in Rockford has been managed. It's not been done well. And I'm not so sure that we want more of it until we fix what we have. So you want to get my vote? Take Orton Keyes, divide it up. Take this project, an Avon project. If they're willing to take the fairgrounds and finish fairgrounds and put the fairgrounds people in this project and de-densify the current fairgrounds and do what was originally planned, I'm all in favor of it. Not in a 64-unit building. So long term, sooner or later, we have to really take a hard look at what we're trying to do in Rockford. I know there's going to be disagreements. And I'm used to crashing and burning on my appeals, but that's okay. But I think at least consider what resources do we have? How are we going to dilute them? What is our philosophy? What are we doing with public and affordable housing? What are we trying to accomplish? Who are we overburdening? And is it really effective? So thank you for my long bloviating. Are you done? I hope everybody's still with me. You got a lot in there. I would just say I did have an opportunity to meet with Laura Snyder from Rockford Housing Authority. They have been de-densifying fairgrounds. It's when, I believe, and don't hold me to the first number, I'll give you about 170 residents. I think now they're at about 30, 35. And they are doing exactly what you said you wanted them to do and what that plan said. Taking longer with COVID, but thank you. Okay. Alderman Rose and I believe alderman Hoffman had her hand up again. Yeah. Thank you your honor for allowing me to speak Just a few things on this number one is, you know I think most rock 40 ins have received their assessments and if you haven't you'll probably get the sticker shock of 11% increase in your property assessment and that is basically because we have a shortage of housing in our in our area it's created a really Undue need for housing and cause and causing prices to skyrocket in this area and so whether it's low income whether it's Affordable housing middle income, you know, I don't care if it's a mansion We should be seeing build build build here in the city of Rockford otherwise, we're going to continue to see our property assessments go up at rates like 11% and So I'm very much in favor of this project because I hope it gets other developers noticing that Rockford is moving these types of things forward. The other thing that I just would like to recognize is that, you know, the low income and affordable housing units will probably continue to go up at rates. And part of that is because when you give tax breaks to the wealthiest individuals and you don't allow people to make a living wage, you generally see people losing access to housing to the American dream. And I'm all in favor of the American dream, but those tax benefits to the ultra wealthy, I think, have impacted these types of situations in cities like Rockford and around the country. We're seeing it everywhere. And I think it coincides with the largest income disparities that we've seen in the United States ever. So, again, that's another reason why I'm in favor of these. And I do agree with Alderman Durkee on a few things, a few points. Rockford does seem to have a concentrated amount of low-income housing, particularly on the west side. And I think part of that goes to the idea that Winnebago Housing Authority, not Rockford Housing Authority, but Winnebago Housing Authority has used Rockford as its central hub for housing. And at places like Loves Park, McChesney Park, Roscoe, Rockton, Cherry Valley, and surrounding communities, do not have that access to affordable housing because winnebago housing authority has decided to use rockford as its number one stomping grounds and so i would encourage residents to get involved and get and understand that fact is that we have two interests both rockford housing authority Winnebago Housing Authority who have used the Westside for many many years as a part of their housing strategies because Those properties are cheaper. They can access them cheaper and then can provide those Housing units and I think it's unfair to residents on the west side. I think That areas like Cherry Valley and Rockton and Roscoe and Loves Park should have access to affordable housing they have continue to buy units in Rockford. They will not share, again, Alderman Durkee talked about sharing addresses. They don't share the number of units that they have in Rockford that they continuously put on the west side. And so I think it's about time our community take a look at that and see what we can do to get them to start placing other units in other areas. But I will say this, and I think... Alderwoman Hoffman had mentioned this is that with any development that you're talking about with housing it really comes down to management and You know, I agree with alderman Durkee to an extent the government is not a great manager on a lot of things This is done by a private company. This company has really done a lot of its legwork in studying what works and what doesn't work. I agree with him on the fact that the United States government does not do a good job on checking in on housing and making sure that it's livable. However, I think we should take into consideration, whether it's with this development or down the road, that large buildings have a mandatory inspection. I know that at this point it's a little late for this development, but I would hope that at some point Rockford take a hard look at requiring inspections of buildings over 30 units. Okay. When we had an organization come in a few years ago, they said it. They said, this is crazy. Rockford is one of the few metropolitan areas in the country that we've seen that does not require inspections, rental units. And I think we should honestly have it for all rental units, not just those that have 30 or more. But I think starting there would be a good start. but in any case i do think that um gorman and gorman company is a responsible company i think they did their research and i support this development and hope that it passes thank you just a reminder to all alderman we have a zoning item before us uh so we should focus our discussion on the zoning uh so uh i'm gonna go alderman hoffman alderman bailey alderman tunberg Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say I think it's time to get Laura back out here. So much has changed at Rockford Housing. It's unbelievable. And I know every day they're working on getting out those last few families. And the issue is that there are larger families and trying to find larger units for them to move into. And they've even taken to buying some of the homes that are in the area or in Rockford that are low cost. And I believe they have up to $100,000 they can spend on a unit to rehab it. And that's what they're trying to do, build those units and then move the families in. And so it is slow going. They're also trying to find places, other places for them to go. And they can go anywhere in the country if they so choose. But finding larger units that are affordable to HUD is very difficult. But they're getting there. The next thing is life force development. It is a program that is now citywide and anybody that's in need of their program can go. And I have recently been placed on the PCC board, which is with Rockford Housing. They're bringing in an amazing amount of mentors and. community programs all to work with our people that need services and again you no longer have to be in housing to get those services it can be any low-income person they're even working with some companies saying how can we help you make better employees I think that's about it. Oh, and then we've got the move to work designation, which is changing things also. And that's a little complicated. I would leave that for Laura. But there's a lot going on in the Rockford housing that you once knew is not the Rockford housing of today. Thank you. Alderman Bailey. Thank you, Mayor, for getting us to refocus on the issue at hand, the code and regulations committee. I appreciate it what everybody said. I really do. I was born and raised on the west side I'm pro development and as it relates to this Zoning board a deal. I'm still doing my due diligence but as a child growing up, I know what the west side was like and I know what it can be and I appreciate everybody's comments, but we have a lot of work to do on the west side and And part of my thinking is that, you know, what kind of comprehensive plan do we look at tying into any kind of housing needs that we have on the west side? You know, the west side is diverse. You have a lot of caring individuals. But there are a lot of needs on the west side. And I welcome any of you to walk the west side with me. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thanks, Mayor. I just wanted to clarify again kind of what you touched on. I appreciate everyone's comments, but are we going to plan on saving those for next meeting and just because otherwise I'll blow VA tonight Maybe not as long as alderman Durkee But I understand though that we're just under a zoning matter And if we want to if we want to get into inner the intricacies of the different aspects of this Project would we is that what we were considering to do at a later date? I? Once those come before council. I will frame it this way and ask staff. Alderman can speak as they wish, as you have seen. But tonight is simply a zoning matter item. My understanding in speaking with the developer that this item will all be fortunate to have this discussion yet again. Correct. And so I think to your point that you were alluding to, there will be yet another opportunity to speak as well. I'm full of glee. So I'll then keep it short. I guess just on two cents on this, going back years ago when I lived in the city of Chicago and myself and a colleague I mentioned before used to do an after-school program at Cabrini-Green when Cabrini-Green, as I say, was still Cabrini-Green. dangerous, and that's why they tore it down. What I said at that time was that this is a warehousing of people. That's what this project is. The Cabrini Green complex, a warehousing of people. In the third ward, I look at 505 North Main Manor like that. I look at Olsen Plaza like that. But there is a, I do know and I appreciate a lot of the words that were spoken tonight, I do have concerns about Rockford being a magnet for other communities. And I am all too many times I've seen individuals who are mentally and physically able to work, but choose not to for some reason, trying to game the system, what have you. But there are also people out there that I absolutely have a soft spot for that are busting their hump every week at a job. They're law-abiding citizens. They do some of the work that other people may not want to do. But we need those kinds of workers. We need workers in all aspects of our economy. And if someone's busting their hump each week and... For minimal pay due to the job scale it is and they're they are crime-free or they pass the criminal background check and to my understanding I wanted this in writing and it is in writing that Individuals do have to pass a background check. They do have to have a job and And you know if they do commit any crime And break the rules There apparently is a lot of money on the line through these tax credits that they could end up losing the developer So I do have a soft spot for individuals who are not trying to gain the system who are trying to make an honest living and are following the laws of the land and At this time I support the project any other discussion? I Seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Logum in timber frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey ten eyes three nose Excellent next we're gonna move to officers reports any council member have a report alderman Beach Thank you on your desk. You'll find an invitation. I and was brought here today by representatives of the Artist Ensemble, the only professional acting group in Rockford, and it is happened to be Alderman Thunberg and the 10th Ward. But this event is at the Rockford College or University, and you're all invited. There's an RSVP. Look at it carefully. You can bring your family if you want to. Just RSVP. Tell them when you're coming. There's a reception afterwards on the stage for you that attend to meet with the cast, et cetera. But this is their 20th anniversary in Rockford, Illinois, and that's my officer report. Thank you. Thank you alderman rose. Yeah, um mayor I wanted to thank you, but I also wanted to thank mustafa abdul He hosted a backpack giveaway this weekend at brown park in the ninth ward and It was just really amazing to see the community members that he assembled many of them in the muslim community but others From the Rockford Park District the city of Rockford He had private donors who donated dollars for the backpacks. There was ice cream food Social services there and it was just an amazing event especially to see the over 300 families that came through and got backpacks for their kids Again, I appreciate you being there as well our Rockford Fire and police were there. The families had a great time interacting with our officers and fire department And again just a great event for families to come out. I just wanted to personally thank Mustafa for organizing that event older woman Trina then older woman Wilkins Thank You Your Honor and I just wanted to say that I've been driving around, I feel like I've just been all over the city lately. So because of that, I've been able to see a lot of these electrical boxes, and they look phenomenal. They're all kind of different. They're just kind of sort of popping up all over town, and it's just getting such positive response from the community. So that's what's important to me, is that it's making the community happy, it's bringing public art into the neighborhoods. A lot of people don't know that that was an effort that this council did approve and kind of went half and with the Arts Council. So I just wanted to just applaud everyone that's been involved with that because the installations are really, really pretty and it's making residents really, really happy. So just kudos to everyone involved in that. Thank you. Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I mentioned it last week. I just wanted to remind everyone that Edge Community Fellowship is having a Family Fun Concert Fest this Saturday from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. at 2000 Kilburn Avenue. The Fred Van Vliet Family Foundation is also hosting their annual backpack giveaway at Auburn High School from 3 to 6 p.m. as well, if you're in the area. Thank you. Thank you. Any other? Alderman Beach. Thank you for letting me speak twice. I forgot to mention, this is the third time we should get some word to the good humor man. When they come to the parks, they should park next to the park. I don't know whether they should park legally or illegally, but I've seen them park on the other side of the street and little children run across to try to get their ice cream. And so somehow we need to get a letter sent or something to those who have that and make sure they understand that when they approach a park area, to park alongside the park so they just come to the truck and then the kids are safe. Because I just want to see a little child run over by a car trying to get an ice cream cone. So thank you, sir. Thank you. Any other? Alderman Toonberg? Alderman Beach, I promise I'll look both ways next time. I would just like to give the usual shout out to director Saunders and thank you for a lot of Things in the third Ward that you were a pretty spot-on on the job. Thanks the other reports I just wanted to recognize one person and one event had the opportunity I actually saw Alderwoman Wilkins at it the RKFD Lightning women's ABA semi-pro team that played at Rockford University I would just say one they're phenomenal two just a really well done event and sounds like they'll if not the number one ranked they're really close to it right now at this point. They just beat this weekend the St. Louis Sound who I believe was number one ranked. But if they come to Rockford or have another home game, I think that was their last home game but their playoffs may have some home games in it to make sure Rockfordians get out and support them because they're incredibly talented and the event's a lot of fun. Also wanted to recognize, and my apologies that I did not do this last week, on August 4th our community lost Pearly Mayhawks. And she had an indelible impact on our community. She was a small business owner. She was a West High School graduate. She was a Rock Valley College graduate. She was a Winnebago County board member for, I believe, 13 years, as well as a Winnebago County Housing Authority board member. And just certainly our prayers and thoughts are with her. Any other reports? Seeing none, we'll keep moving on. We have no appointments that are up for vote this evening. We'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. At number one, the committee recommends approval of the Tough Mudder Chicago. This event is scheduled for Saturday, August 26th and Sunday, August 27th from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The event location will be at the Chicago Rockford International Airport, 2 Airport Circle. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Labor Day Parade and IDOT Resolution. This event is scheduled for Monday, September 4th from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. Road closures will begin at 9 a.m. and the parade route will be as follows. 7th Street at Railroad Avenue, North to East State Street, West to Wyman Street, South to Chestnut Street, ending at Davis Park entrance. Item number three the committee recommends approval of the Greenwich Village art fair and I dot resolution This event is scheduled for Saturday, September 16th from 10 a.m. To 9 p.m. On Sunday, September 17th from 10 a.m. To 5 p.m. And the event will be held at the Riverview Excuse me in the riverfront Museum Park located at 711 North Main Street. Thank you. Excellent So we have three items before us any discussion on those three seeing none all those in favor say aye those opposed Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of an award of non-competitive contract for enterprise backup solution to CDWG of Vernon Hills in the amount of $548,856.04. The contract duration is three years with an optional one-year renewal. The funding sources, the ARPA Information Technology Fund operating budget. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an award of bid for Citywide Repairs Group number five. To Rock Roads, the amount of $1,089,198.83. It is expected to be completed by October 13, 2023, and the funding source is MFT. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a Board of Professional Services for lead service line comprehensive replacement planning to Fair Graham. Based on hourly rates and materials, estimated to be $112,200. The contract duration is 12 months. The funding source is the Water Replacement Improvement Account. number four the committee recommends approval of a resolution to weigh fees for building plan review building permit building inspection and Water connection service fees for the new residential construction structures on vacant lands unless throughout the city of Rockford Should this be pulled as though there was a motion on the underlying matter? So there's two items. I think that this would have to be laid over separately. This would be a separate layer Okay, all right. I've placed these four matters before you that I Thank you. We have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Was it a motion? I'm sorry. We would need a motion to lay that item over. Yes, we would. I'm sorry. I make motion to lay number four over. Okay, we have a motion and a second. And this will need a vote. Correct. Okay, so this is a resolution, not a new committee report, so we'll need a majority to lay it over. So is there any discussion on the layover? Obviously, council members, this ties into a previously laid over item under new committee reports. So I understand the tie in there. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll simply on the motion to lay over item number four? Durkee. Logerman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey 11 ice to nose Okay, item 4 is laid over so now council we have three items is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion on those three items clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Logoman timber frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach I Barrios, Meeks, Bailey. 13 ayes. Excellent. Next, we're going to go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. An ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for the continued use of 2221 North Wimbago Street for the resident officer program. And ordinance approving the excuse me item number 2 and ordinance approving the license agreement between Zion development corporation and the city of Rockford for the use of the residents located at 908 8th Avenue as a strong house. Item 3 and ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with region 1 planning council for participation and safe streets for all grants. Item 4 and ordinance approving the tax increment financing assistance agreement with KNK associates LLC For the redevelopment of certain parcels located on Madison Street within the East River tip district And item number 5 and ordinance approving an agreement between the city of Rockford and key solutions LLC for the think big workforce development project. I place these five items up. Thank you so council we got five items any discussion on those five items and Alterman timber, I'm sorry mayor. I would just like to extend on number four a Thank you To the Coe family and and the professor professor Brian Huell's on this also administrator Cagnone and director Franzen This really has been transparent from the beginning. I've been kept up to speed. The co-family and the professor have involved me from beginning on this. And it is something for the family and the community they're putting their money where their mouth is and this is really going to be a big thing for the madison street corridor which the city is trying to uh get behind also and we are putting some things in there as well alley and such but and some other things obviously but uh this is gonna be a great thing for that prairie street neighborhood so thank you any other uh discussion Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Coffin. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items. Item number one, an ordinance approving the pre-annexation agreement for 68XX Auburn Street. Item number two, an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from County CN to C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District and special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 6902 and 68XX Auburn Street. Number three an ordinance approving the revisions to the intergovernmental agreement for the environmental services with Rockford Housing Authority Number four an ordinance approving a request for an honorary street name designation on Pierpont Avenue from school streets to Auburn Street It's a van Vliet way in honor of Fred Van Vliet local philanthropist former student at Auburn High School and NBA player and champion and And number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of mixed use building with the early learning center, 64 apartments, 10 courtyard duplexes, and mixed use commercial building consisting of vertical indoor agriculture, culinary education, six family building, eight to 10 family multiplex, two side-by-side duplexes with rear accessory dwelling units, six family residences with rear accessory dwelling units, and the I-1 light industrial and R-1 single family residential zoning district at 310 South Main Street, 1104 Chestnut Street, and 13X Expressing Street. Thank you. Excellent, so we have five items before us. I will also preface this this was not the second time I said this was coming up before us Again, this is still the continuation of the first when alderman Toomer gas me should be coming up again many months from now Is there any discussion on these five items clerk? Will you please call the roll? Logan Toomer frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey I'm number 113 eyes. I remember to 11 eyes to nose items 3 and 413 eyes item number 510 eyes 3 notes and Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the city-county intergovernmental agreement for jurisdictional transfer of Linden Road east of Alpine Road to the city limits to construct left turn lanes and resurface Linden Road from Alpine Road to city limits. Number two is an ordinance approving the extension of the intergovernmental agreement between the Rockford Housing Authority and the City of Rockford for Police Services. Number three is an ordinance approving a franchise agreement with Northern Lillie Gas Company, its successors and the science to construct, operate, and maintain a gas distributing system in and through the City of Rockford. Number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement for a three-year property tax. That's been taken off. Moving on to number five, an ordinance approving a First Amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement for certain cooperation on public improvements for Lot 3 between the City of Board of Library Trustees and the City of Rockford. Number six is an ordinance approving intergovernmental agreement for repairs to Riverside Boulevard and Owen Center Road, Central Avenue, between the City of Rockford and the County of Winnebago. The estimated cost for the city is $26,644, and the funding source for that is the MFT funds. Thank you. Thank you. So we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items?
 No.
 Seeing no discussion on those items, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Makes. Bailey. 13 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Does it pose? Have a good night.