is the top level award that we give out to EMS agencies. In the state of Illinois, there was only four departments that were able to attain this level this year. And so I congratulate the Rockford Fire Department for the great work they do with this and the three hospitals in the city that work closely with them to care for the cardiac patients that they encounter. So congratulations on behalf of the American Heart Association, a Gold Plus Award to the Rockford Fire Department.
 Would you guys like to share a few words? Thank you, Art, for coming and presenting us this award. And on behalf of all our members for all the hard work the guys have done, this award definitely goes to our members for the care that they provide the community here in Rockford. Thank you. Next up, changing topics a little bit, we have a proclamation for Year of the Bird with Jennifer.
 Corota from the Sinissippi Audubon Society and Talia Tavor of the National Audubon Society and we have Jack Armstrong, fantastic Park District Board member. How are you? Great to see you. So we're going to be facing this way so I'm going to need you to come just a little bit over here.
 Whereas, birds are present in every environment, urban or rural, wetland or prairie, and are an ever-present reminder that nature is all around us. And whereas, as part of the Mississippi Flyway, the Rockford area is home to one of North America's largest migrations each spring, hosting thousands of songbirds, cranes, and other waterfowl. And whereas, from the central urban area of downtown to Searles Park Prairie,
 on the west and the Blackhawk Springs Forest Preserve on the east and many areas in between. Rockford's rich natural resources support more than 300 bird species. And whereas bald eagles, peregrine falcons and cerulean warblers are some of the birds that nest and migrate through the Rockford area.
 And whereas 2018 is the centennial year of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, which protects birds by making it unlawful to kill, hunt, sell, or possess most native species of birds in the United States, along with their nests, eggs, and feathers without a permit. Now, therefore, I, Thomas B. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the year of 2018 to be the year of the bird. Would you like to share a few words?
 I wasn't expecting to, but I'd love to. So Rockford this year had a very important species that decided to nest here for the first time, which is a peregrine falcon, and it was on the Rockford Register Star News Tower. And for birders like myself and us on National Audubon and Mississippi Audubon, that's pretty exciting to have that bird in our area and have a successful chick that fledged for the first time. So we can expect to see them stay here for a while, we hope.
 And that's all because of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and peregrine falcons. Essentially, we're on the endangered species list in Illinois up until about three years ago. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Next up, we have a presentation of the City of Rockford actuarial reports from Mike Zurich.
 harry do you want to say anything further so this is our second year with mike here from neihart performing our actuarial studies he presented these reports to both the police and fire pension boards on thursday so we're here he's here today to make sure that city council understands what's happening as far as pension contributions go you have copies of the this presentation on your desks as well so i'll let mike give his presentation thank you
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, thank you again for having me this year. I see a lot of familiar faces. How many of you guys were here last year? Was this a...
 A lot of renewals? Okay. Well, you had me back, so I appreciate it. Us actuaries usually have a habit of clearing a room pretty quickly, so thank you again for having us back. As Carrie mentioned, we're going to just cover the 2018 valuation results for the police and fire pension plans.
 I'm going to rip through this pretty quickly. Again, second year in a row. I'm hoping that there's a third year behind this. I'm going to go through this fast. If you have questions, please ask them as I go along. If you want me to clarify anything, again, just please stop me.
 So before we get into the evaluation results, I want to talk a little bit about assumptions. You know, again, as we go through this with the police and fire boards every year, we want to make sure that everybody is on board with the assumptions that we're using. And, you know, my job as an actuary, you can kind of describe it as I'm trying to predict the future. And the way that I do that is I look at what's happened in the past and try to –
 use that to analyze trends and use that and apply those trends in the future. As these pension plans, we're trying to project the benefits that are payable to your members in the funds. In order to do that, we need to make assumptions about when people retire, what their pay and service is going to be when they retire, what those benefit amounts are. And for that, we rely on the Illinois Department of Insurance.
 So I do year evaluation every year. The Department of Insurance does 600 evaluations every year. They consolidate information from all the police and fire plans across the state.
 And what they do every five years is they do an experience study, they look at when people are retiring, when members become disabled, when members look at salary growth and things like that. When I look at your plan, as large as they are, and you've got some of the larger pension plans in the state, there's still not enough credible experience there for me to use that to predict the future. So what I use and what we rely upon is the Department of Insurance experience study. So they did an experience study in 2012.
 We relied on that for the valuation last year. In October of 2017, they did submit a new experience study. They published the results of a new experience study that covered the periods from 2011 through 2016. It basically made the old experience study obsolete.
 Our recommendation to you for, or to the police and fire boards was to adopt the new experience study demographic assumptions for the 2018 valuations. And we'll see, when we start looking at costs, it was about a wash. We've got, you know, basically we've got people retiring a little bit later. We had some offsets to that. You know, in general, costs were about the same under these assumptions versus the old assumptions. Now, these are the demographic assumptions. The Department of Insurance also...
 new economic assumptions, they've got new investment return assumptions, salary growth, payroll growth assumptions. In general, if you adopted all the assumptions that the Department of Insurance did, you could have seen a very large increase in your pension contributions versus a year ago. If you weren't hiring an independent actuary and you were relying on that three-page list of things,
 the department of insurance publishes a three-page valuation tax levy report for every plan in the state if you were relying on that and you had a police plan on average your costs were going to go up about 21 versus where it was before and if you were a fire plan it was going to go about 16.2 percent we were part way there i mean one of the reasons was
 They changed the interest rate, they changed the mortality. We're already partway there on the mortality. We didn't see that big of an increase and actually our experience over the year was pretty positive. So anyway, nutshell, our recommendation and what we used for the 2018 valuations was the new demographic assumptions from the new Department of Insurance study that was published in 17. Okay?
 So one of the other things that they did was they proposed a new mortality study. And we talked a little bit about this last year, and I think I prefaced this by saying that, you know, I can spend 30 minutes talking about mortality and you would never have me back here again. So we're going to be brief. We are not using the most recent mortality assumption. The reason we're not doing that is...
 later this year or early 2019, the Society of Actuaries is going to produce a new mortality study for public pension plans. And we're expecting to get a new mortality table for police and fire. We're going to get a new mortality table for teachers. We're going to get a new mortality table for general municipal workers. And we've never had a police and fire table before. We've kind of...
 proxy that by assuming it was similar to blue collar members in a private workforce, so we're using this blue collar table. You know, it's basically union members. We're guessing that may be the best table to use for police and fire, but we don't know that. We're going to get this new study. I think the Department of Insurance ideally would have waited on this too until this came out, but I think their hand was kind of forced. They've got to produce this experience study every five years. They can't update or they don't update it in the interim period.
 Nid ydym yn rhyddid fel hynny. Gallwn wneud adborth bob blwyddyn ac mae'n ein hwyl fod yn ystyried y ddwyf mortheg newydd hwnnw pan fydd yn cael ei gynhyrchu y flwyddyn nesaf. Ond yn y cyfnod siwr, fe wnaethon nhw'n ychwanegu ac yn gwneud y gwaith hon. Nid oedd yn ffit da iawn.
 Un peth y byddaf yn ei nodi cyn i ni ddod i'r llun hwn, un o'r pethau y byddwn ni'n disgwyl ei ddigwydd gyda'r astudiaeth newydd yw bod table mortheg, sgiliau gwella mortheg sy'n mynd ymlaen â hynny. Ac mae ein hystyried yn y ffordd y byddwn ni'n mynd i symud i'r ymdrech genedlaethol ymlaen. Ac, gan ymdrech genedlaethol, byddwn yn dweud bod
 Mae ystod oed yn ffactor yn ymwneud â'r profiad mortheg. Felly bydd un 50-ol heddiw yn cael profiad mortheg gwahanol na'r 50-ol o 30 mlynedd yn ôl, yn wahanol na'r 50-ol 30 mlynedd yn ôl. Felly rydym yn disgwyl y bydd hynny'n rhan o'r astudiaeth newydd pan fydd yn cael ei gyhoeddi. Ydych chi'n gwneud mi hwn? Diolch am hynny. Pwynt bwriadol i bawb, cyfrif gwerth.
 Rydyn ni'n cymryd y cymorth i ddod â'r cyfrif gwerth 7.5% o beth rydyn ni wedi'i ddefnyddio yn y flwyddyn gyntaf. Ac fe welwn ni mewn y sleidiau nesaf bod y cefnogaeth ar gyfer 7.5 yn dechrau... Rydyn ni'n dechrau... Rydyn ni'n dal i fod yn y rhan fwyaf, ond rydyn ni'n dechrau dod at y llwybr o'r rhan fwyaf.
 Mae gen i ddau cwpl o colwmni yn y sleid. Un mathu ymddygiadol. Os edrychaf i'ch ymddygiad yn hytrach na'r Gweithlu Gwarchod, mae'r Gweithlu Gwarchod yn defnyddio cymdeithas 6.5% yn 2018. Roeddent wedi'i gyflwyno o 6.75%.
 Nid yw'n amlwg yw'r oedranau yn awyrgyn, ond oherwydd bod gennych chi ymwybyddiaeth cyflawniadwy yn uchel nag y mae'r Gweinidog Gysylltiad yn ei wneud yn eich cynllun. Felly, o ran eich allo, byddwn yn ystyried bod eich ymarfer o fuddsoddiad yn mynd i fod yn ychydig yn uchel nag y mae'r Gweinidog Gysylltiad yn ei ddefnyddio. O, diolch yn fawr eto. Gallwch chi roi'r sleid.
 Felly, rwyf ar sleid 5, a'r hyn sydd gennym yma yw gynlluniant ffrwythu ar gyfer ymddiriedolaethau cyfrifol cael eu defnyddio gan ddyluniau cyhoeddus mawr. Ac mae tri bar yn y sart, y bar rydw i yn ei ddweud yw y canlyniad 2008, y bar blwch yn y canlyniad 2013, a'r bar blwch yn y canlyniad 2018. Ac os ydych chi'n ffocysu ar y barau mawr yng nghanol yng nghanol y 8% os edrychwch chi ar beth ddigwyddodd rhwng 2018 a 2013,
 Mae'r barau rydw i wedi mynd yn ffwrdd. Felly, nid yw unrhyw un yn defnyddio fwy o fwy o fuddsoddiad. Mae'n anodd iawn i'r rhai ddefnyddio fwy o fuddsoddiad na chwe% yn fwy. Os edrychwch ar yr hyn a ddigwyddodd rhwng 2013 a 2018, fe gafodd y bar 8% yn ffwrdd. Felly, mae'n anodd iawn i'r rhai ddefnyddio 8% yn fwy.
 The median interest rate is still about 7.5%, which is what you're using. We still have 30% of the survey respondents are using a 7.5% assumption. If you look at the average, though, it dropped from about 8% in 2008 to 7.75% in 2013, and the 2018 average is a little bit below 7.5%. We're down to 7.38%. If you remember last year, it was right at 7.5%. It was about 7.52% a year ago, so we're seeing that
 that this interest rate continues to slide to the left and that's our expectation going forward too as we go through time our expectations at seven and a half percent interest rate assumption it's going to fall out of the reasonable range it's something that we're going to need to keep an eye on over the next few years alderman beach is that is that a net number it is it is net of investment expenses we do explicitly load for administrative expenses so that's out of the seven and a half
 It is out of the 7.5%, yes. Okay. There's a lot of other stuff going on here too.
 You know, not all these plans have the same investment allocation as you. And one of the, I mean, we're seeing that this assumption is moving to the left for a couple reasons. One is people are just lower capital market assumptions. People are thinking that investments are going to earn less going forward. But the other phenomenon we're seeing is that as plans get better funded, and we've had a, you know, pretty good market run here over the last ten years, some of these public plans are starting to approach,
 70, 80, 90% funded, as they're getting better funded, they're taking some of the investment risk off the table. So that's another kind of side of this graph is that we've got lower equity exposure as time has gone on, as people have taken some of that equity risk off the table. Make sense? Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey, did you have a question? I wondered if our plans, or I don't know if you would do it, looks at a comparative table for investment
 success across different fire and police plans in the state of Illinois? And I haven't, and the reason is because of this investment policy. And, you know, again, going back to that last slide that we looked at, and I didn't really touch on it very much, but that composite plan that the Department of Insurance is using, there,
 They're using a composite plan with 45% equity, it's 45% fixed income, 10% real estate. And they're using that to develop a 6.5% interest rate assumption. Your equity exposure is higher than that, and you've got lower fixed income exposure. So even right out of the gate, if we were using the same capital market assumptions as the Department of Insurance, we would expect that you're going to have a different interest rate assumption just because you've got a different allocation behind it. And that's the hard part of doing these surveys is there's more than one dimension.
 capital market assumptions, but we also have investment policies that come into play. So it's hard to really measure one versus another. Okay. Does that make – I hope that answered your question. It does. I just wondered if there were some that were more successful that were using a different
 Allocation structure and we're seeing a lot more success than we are or failure either way. It's pretty typical I mean a 60-40 is is by far the most common approach that people are using as I did mention There is a little bit there is a trend towards having less equity than funds as funds get better funded alderman frost. Thank you. I
 The fact that we're using an assumption on the investment return is 7.5 versus 6.5. Does that then lower the investment and the capital the city has to contribute to the plan in the end, correct?
 Correct, yes. That's the benefit of, I mean, we're kind of taking advantage of what we perceive to be a market bump or the increased equities? It is. And big picture, you look at the pension, you know, kind of the big equation, we've got to fund for those future benefits that we're going to pay to members in one of two ways. It's contributions to the fund and investment earnings on those contributions. So the more that we're assuming are going to come from investment earnings, the less cash we have to contribute. Less investment earnings, more cash.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Carrie, did you have? No. Oh. Next slide. I'm on slide six here.
 look at the demographics of the two plans, and they're both very similar. There's about 624 members in the police fund, right around 600 in the fire fund, so they're both similarly sized. And both of them have a similar makeup, retirees versus active employees. The fire is a little bit better positioned there. You know, the police fund is about one active for every one retiree. The fire fund, we've got a few, you know, the active headcount is a little bit larger than the retiree headcount, so it puts a little bit less pressure on the plan.
 In terms of average ages, though, they're very similar. They're both close to the average age of age 40 with, you know, somewhere in that 13 years of service. So it's a fairly typical distribution that we see across plans across the state, basically. Those are both mature funds that have been around for a while. You've got a large number of retirees.
 I am on slide 7. So this is a review of the police investment return over the last year. There's two bars on the chart. You know, one of the things that we're doing, one of the things the state requires us to do, and it's just good actuarial practice, is to smooth investment gains and losses over a five-year period. You know, by far the most volatile part of this pension valuation is investment earnings. We've got no control over it.
 And in order to not have the funded position jump up and down with investment returns from year to year, and have the contribution go up and down with investment returns from year to year, we use a five-year smoothing method. And that's what's shown here in the chart. So I've got two bars in the chart. The blue bar is the smooth actuarial value of assets. The red bar is the market value of assets. And the police fund had a fantastic year last year. The fund earned 13.8 percent net of expenses or net of administrative expenses.
 year. And if you look at what happened to the relationship between the actuarial value and the market value, we started the year the actuarial value was $5 million greater than the market value. So we had $5 million of deferred losses that we need to recognize or needed to recognize over the next five years. We had a little bit of a tailwind or a headwind facing us. We got to the end of the year, that relationship has flipped.
 Because of the 13.8% investment return during the year, when we closed out on January 1st of 2018, the market value is now $5 million greater than the actuarial value. So we've got, we went from a $5 million headwind to a $5 million tailwind. It means that we've got $5 million of deferred gains that we need to recognize over the next five years. That's going to help to keep costs down a little bit. Similar on the fire fund, and I'm on slide eight.
 Not quite the return that the police fund had, but still solid year. The fund returned 11.7% net of administrative expenses and a similar relationship between that smooth value of assets and the market value. A year ago the actuarial value was $5 million greater than the market value. We had a $5 million headwind that we were facing for deferred losses. We closed out the year with about a million dollar tailwind. So the actuarial value is lower than the market value.
 Flip positions, it's very it's a better spot to be in going forward. I am on slide nine review of the 2017 contribution and I'm trying to I
 put these pension contributions in context. If you, I mean, just about everybody's here had some type of a loan, right? You know, whether it's a mortgage or credit card payment or anything like that. When you're making that payment, there's two components. It's principal and interest. If you pay anything you pay greater than the interest on the loan is principal that you're paying down. And it's a similar concept here for the pension plan. If we look at
 the normal cost plus interest on the unfunded liability, and the normal cost is the value of benefits that are being earned over there. So if we contribute,
 at a level to cover the value of benefit accruals plus the interest on the unfunded liability, we would expect that the unfunded liability would go down, all else being equal. If we contribute less than that, we would expect the unfunded liability to grow, all else being equal. If you compare that normal cost plus unfunded liability, we're at about $13.5 million. The actual contribution to the fund was about $10.5 million.
 It works, it's going to work over the course of time, but at least here in the short run we are not contributing enough to cover the interest costs on the unfunded liability. It's going to cause that unfunded liability to grow here for the next few years.
 Sleid 10, y Fferm, cyd-dysgu gwirioneddol, syniad cywir. Yn ymwneud â'r ddiddordeb am y cyllid heb ffender, y costau cyffredinol yw tua 15 miliwn. Mae'r rhai wedi cyfrannu tua 11 miliwn o arian yn y flwyddyn. Yn ôl, mae'n ymwneud â statwydau'r wlad. Rydym yn dilyn polisi ariannol i gael 90% o arian gan y flwyddyn 2040, sy'n anghenion y ddiddordeb yw'r cyllid ystod y wlad.
 ar y leiaf yma am y flwyddyn nesaf, os ydym yn dilyn y polisi cyllid cyffredinol ystod y dynion, nid yw'n digwydd i ddod â'r llawrwg heb arian. A byddwn yn gweld hynny pan fyddwn yn dechrau edrych ar bwyllgorau mewn ystod o sleidiau. Yn sleid 11, mae'r canlyniadau ar gyfer y polis, a'r bobl, a'r gobeithiad, Carrie, fe wnaeth hi gosod i lawr. Mae gen i ddwy colwm o niferau yma, ac rwy'n debyg y byddai Carrie yn dangos 10 colwm o niferau i'w edrych arnynt wrth i ni wneud
 Mae yna ychydig o eluniau yma. Yn gyntaf yw cyflwyniad 2017. Os edrychwch ar ble roedd y cynllun, roedden ni ar 63.4% o arian.
 ac roedden ni'n cael cyfraniad argyfwng o 7.97 miliwn. Roedden ni'n edrych ar hyn ar ddiffyn bennod gwahanol. Un oedd yr unigolion a'r methodau y gwnaethom eu defnyddio yn y cyflog 17. Ac wrth fynd ymlaen, cyflawniwyd y mortheg i brysio am flwyddyn o wellaion. Yna, cyflawniwyd y cyfnod mortheg 2017 o'r cyfraniadau demograffol Gweithiol. Hefyd, ystyried yr effaith cyflawni'r cyfnod mortheg Gweithiol. Ac dyna'r un nad ydym ni wedi'i gyflawni.
 Ond roedden ni eisiau iddo fod yno i'w cyfathrebu. Rwy'n credu pan fydd y ddwyll yn llwyddo yma, bydd ein 18 o ymchwilau yn ystod y colwm diwethaf a'r un sydd wedi cael ei gyfeirio yno yn rhaid i ni ddweud yn gyntaf, nid ydym yn gwybod beth mae'r tabl newmortaliad hwn yn mynd i'n ein darparu. Ond y lle rydyn ni wedi llwyddo oedd i ddatblygu ymchwilau demograffig Dau Gweithredol 2017.
 Os edrychwch ar y sefyllfa a chyllid, mae'n gynyddu ychydig yn hytrach na blynedd yn ôl. Mae'r llawrfaoedd heb ariannu yn fwy. Roedden ni wedi mynd o 109.7 miliwn i 112.7, ond mae'r cyfrifon a chyllid wedi cynyddu ychydig, o 63.4% a chyllid i 63.8%, ac roedd y cyfrifiad argymell wedi cynyddu o 3%, o 7.97 miliwn i 8.2 miliwn.
 Rwyf wedi cael y clymnau gyda'r ffurfiadau, gwybodaeth arall. Mae gen i'r un colwm yma. Roedd y cynllun ffurfiad yn 56.1% o'r cyllid y flwyddyn yn ôl.
 Yn ôl y cyfaluad, roedden ni wedi cymryd y cymarniadau demograffig o'r Gweithlu Gwyddon 2017, roeddem yn cyllid 56.2%. Felly, fe wnaeth y cyllideb yn cynyddu ychydig, ond fe wnaeth y llawrfaoedd heb gael ychydig yn fwy na 3 miliwn, tua 3.5 miliwn, o 129.5 miliwn i 133.1 miliwn. Roedd y cyfraniad yn cynyddu tua 1.5% o 9.3 miliwn i 9.48 miliwn.
 Both of those contributions, we would ordinarily have expected those to go up more than they did. The reason they didn't go up as much is we had okay demographic experience, but those investment returns, the fact that we earned 13 percent for the police fund and close to 12 percent for the fire fund, it kept that contribution in check. Okay, last few slides here. What I have here, this is for the police fund. It's a projection of the net city contribution. Alderman Beach, do you have a question?
 Just a comment, if you don't mind, sir. As far as reaching that goal of 90% by 2040, are you telling us we are at 63.8% now for police? 56. I have to turn this page here. Sorry about that. 56.2. That's where we are today. At our present level of contributions, if we... Correct, yes. So we are following...
 the statutory minimum policy to get the plan to 90% funded by the year 2040 using the unit credit cost method and by amortizing the unfunded liability as a level percent of payroll. That's what state statute calls for. And you're going to see the impact of that on these graphs that we're going to look at in these next few slides. And how do we compare to the rest of the state?
 Pretty similar, unfortunately. I mean, we see a lot of plans that are in the 50% to 60% funded range. It's pretty rare to see the 70% plus ones.
 Okay, thank you. Oh, you're welcome. I mean a couple of things have gotten us there You know investment returns haven't lived up to expectations You know We saw where we had been we had been in that eight to eight and a half percent range or that's where a lot of plans Had been the other is the mortality assumption the state had been using a an outdated mortality table that had longer or shorter expected lifetimes and when new mortality studies and
 So we took that into account. It really leveraged up the payment period that benefits are going to be available to members for, and that really contributed to that reduction in funding percentage across the state. Oh yeah. So how does it work then when the fund is earning considerably more and our assumptions are based on considerably less?
 What's that gap in there between, let's say, earning 11%, 12% as I've seen on some of these sheets, and our assumptions are based on 7, 7.5%? Right, so the 7.5% is a forward-looking assumption. So it's what we expect the plan to earn over the next 10 to 15 years. So it doesn't necessarily look at history. We're taking history into account, but it's coming from, you know, we look to online, some of the big investment banks,
 place capital market assumptions out there online, and we're using that to try to build an approach to estimate what funds are going to earn over the next 10 to 15 years. And unfortunately I'm just not smart enough to know what, you know, goes in behind the scenes there. And, you know, frankly, nobody knows what the markets are going to earn over the next 10 to 15 years. But it is a forward-looking assumption.
 And that's it. The fact that we earned 12% this past year instead of the 7% we're assuming, it helps to drive down the cost of the plan over the long haul. So, you know, what we saw this year is the contributions didn't increase as much as we had otherwise anticipated. And that's going to level out. I mean, we're going to – we had a 0% year two years ago. And the 0% years and the 12% years kind of balance out over the course of time. That's really the way that this is supposed to work. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMA. Thank you. MS. So, Alderman, just to clarify, too,
 You have three sources of funds for the pensions. You've got employee contributions, you have investment returns, and you have the city's contribution. Employee contributions are always going to be a certain percent of payroll. The investment returns are what the market yields. The city makes up the difference. So when the investment returns are higher than what we assume, the city's contribution goes down as we see this year that, you know, we have
 one and a half and three percent increase in contributions instead of five percent or six percent increases because We had such a great year of returns last year other Minerva, but essentially regardless of those great returns in the market in order to Recapture the unfunded liability. There is no such thing as a good year and
 I mean just realistically it doesn't matter. We're paying interest on that unfunded liability year after year, so yes. And that unfunded liability did not come because the City of Rockford did not pay its pension obligation. This is due primarily to some of the actuarial changes and some of the assumptions at the state level.
 It's due to assumptions that I would say assumptions at the state level. You know, we hadn't been anticipating the lifetime of members based on where they're living today. I mean, history shows that we were not using these same mortality assumptions. So that goes into this a little bit. Other parts are just state policy. I mean, we're...
 the state could be requiring us to fund this much more aggressively. I mean, when the state reset their funding policy in 2011, they told us to get to 90% funded by the year 2040. They could have said, let's get to 100% funded instead of over 30 years, over 15 years. And if it was a more aggressive policy, plans would be a lot more well-funded, but you'd be contributing a heck of a lot more than you are right now. Well, you wouldn't have any city budget, essentially. Yeah, but I'll go to pensions, right. Okay.
 Alderman Toomer. Thank you, Mayor. Kind of in piggyback to Alderman Beach's question about the funding regarding other municipalities in the state, taking on that question along that line is other neighboring states with pensions, similar pensions, what are we looking at the funding level for those? Yes.
 if you happen to know. Yeah, and I can give you that information. That NASRA study that I cited back on slide three or four with the investment returns, they do have a study that shows the funded percentage of all the big state plans, and that would be helpful. Most states aren't like this one. A lot of the pension plans are done at a state level versus at a municipal level outside of Illinois. So we don't have a great comparator group, but I can show you the funding levels of the big state plans.
 I can provide that information to Carrie and she'll be able to share that with you. Or similar municipalities of this size within those states. Sure, sure. Something that would be a similar comparison. Yep. Thank you. Yeah, where they're available I will find that information. Thanks. I'll share it with Carrie. Sure. Okay, so back to the projections. I've got two bars in this chart. The red bar is the policy that we're following. It's the 90 by 2040, and this first chart just shows
 the projected contributions of the police pension fund. And if you look at where we are today, we're right in that $8 million range. The expectation is that it's gonna grow, and over the next 10 years, we're gonna breach the $10 million level. Once you get past that, though, you see that contribution escalates pretty rapidly. And that goes back to the slide a few slides ago, the fact that we're not paying the interest on the unfunded liability. We've gotta pay down that unfunded liability. We've gotta get to 90% funded by the year 2040. If we're not paying enough right now to,
 wind down that unfunded liability, the consequence is we've got to pay a lot more later. And this is just a back-loaded funding formula. The other chart, the other bar, the blue bar in the chart that I've also graphed here, it's hypothetical, but I'm just illustrating the impact of funding, of a different funding policy. If you were to adopt a funding policy in a lot of the municipalities that I work with have adopted to treat the state policy like a minimum policy, and they're, you know,
 formally or informally following a funding policy to get the plan funded to 100% by 2040 instead of 90% by 2040. And that's what this is illustrating. You see the impact of that.
 I mean, the downside is you've got to put a lot heavier contributions in in the earlier years, but you avoid that rapid escalation in the later years. And in terms of, you know, the sum of contributions, even though we're getting to 100% versus 90%, you're going to contribute $45 million less over the 35 years of the projection that we're showing here. So front-loading contributions pays off in terms of the pension, and, you know, it's –
 Maybe not a fair comparison, this is just the pension. This is not taking into account all the things that you have to take into account or you have to take into account and Carrie takes into account when deciding what the appropriate level of contributions is. But in isolation, the earlier we can put money into the pension fund, the more time it has to grow with investment earnings and the easier the cash flow is going to be on the city over the long haul. This is the first chart. We're just graphing the contributions.
 Where you can also see the impact of front loading the contributions is in this second chart. Again, this is the police. I've got the same two funding policies. The red bar tracks the funded percentage if we follow a 90 by 2040 policy. The blue bar tracks the funded percentage if we follow a funding policy to get us to 100% by the year 2040.
 And you see that there's just a much more rapid escalation of the funded percentage. The plan gets funded much more, the funded percentage crosses the thresholds a lot more quickly.
 o ran y polisi 100 x 2040 yn hytrach na'r polisi 90 x 2040. Rydych chi'n adnabod bod y cynllun hwn yn cyllid 66% neu yn fawr, ond byddwn ni'n parhau i gael ein bod yn y cyllid 60% o ran y cyllid ar gyfer y 10 neu ddau flwyddyn nesaf, os ydym yn dilyn y cynllun 90 x 2040. Ni allwn ni wneud ychydig o ddynion yn y sefyllfa cyllid heb i ni gael adnabod arall yn ffantastig yn ystod yr wythnos diwethaf.
 y ffordd y mae'r polisi wedi'i ddylunio, a bydd yn rhaid i'r cyfnod yna ddynnu'n gyflym iawn i ddod at y targed 90% dros y flwyddyn 2014. Alderman Beach. Felly dyna'r cwestiwn. Rwy'n gweld y niferau, ond lle mae'r arian yn dod o'r ffordd? Dwi'n debyg o fod yn ddiflwyr am hynny, ond sut y gallwn ni allu ddarparu'r gynyddu cyflym iawn at y diwedd? Oherwydd pan edrychwch ar y graff sy'n cael ei allu, drastig, ar ôl hynny, mae'n gwneud chi'n meddwl pam nad y gallwch
 a drop y cyfraniadau. Mae hyn yn dilyn y gwleidyddiaeth y deunydd ac nid yw hynny'n gwneud gwirioneddol iawn. Felly, byddwch chi ddim yn ariannu $3 miliwn ac yna'i droi i $7 miliwn. Ie, dywedwch chi. Ni fyddwch chi. Yn ymlaen â'r trefn target 90%
 Beth yw'r Staf yn mynd i'w wneud? Pan fydd y cynlluniau hyn yn symud ymlaen i lawr y ddae, a yw'r Staf yn mynd i osod polisi i ddewis y cynyddu cyflymau yn fawr, i allu llwyddo hyn yn y diwedd? A ydych chi'n gallu osod polisi eich hun i'w gwasanaethu i'w rannu dros gyfnod hir ac i gyd-dod â'r targed 90x2040?
 Mae rhywbeth yn mynd i weithio gyda chi wrth i chi ddod ychydig yn ymlaen â hynny. Ac mae'r dde, mae'n rhaid i'r wlad ddod â'r gwasanaeth hefyd, oherwydd nid yw'r polisi a gwnaethon ni ei weld ar y llun diwethaf yn gwneud yn dda i gydnabod 30 miliwn a mynd i lawr i blôs 0.
 Felly, Alderman, er mwyn adnabod i chi, y tro diwethaf roedden ni'n cael reformaethau penodiad, roedden ni, y cyfan o ddynion yn y dde, yn dod i'r pwynt lle rydyn ni'n dechrau mynd i fyny. Ac roedd pawb yn dweud, ddechrau Illynoedd, nad ydym yn gallu cynnig y cynyddion hyn yn flwyddyn. Felly, beth roedd yn ei wneud oedd, roedd yn cymryd y traiecteriad hwnnw a'i droi, ac nawr rydyn ni'n dechrau fyny yn ôl eto. Alderman Hervey, roeddech chi'n cael eich ddechrau?
 A oes unrhyw gwestiynau arall? Rwy'n golygu Alderman Chiarelli. Efallai ydw i'n rhywbeth yn ymdrin. Y cyfraniadau gweithiol, beth yw'r rhwydwaith rhwng eu cyfraniadau a'r cyfraniadau y ddinas? Mae'n ymwneud â...
 2-1 nawr. 2-1. Ychydig mwy na 2-1, felly mae'r ddinas yn cyfrannu $2 i bob dollar mae'r aelodau yn cyfrannu. Ac mae hynny ar gyfer gweithiwr tîr 1. Yn un o'r pethau y wnaeth y Gweinidog ei wneud, yw eu newid i lefel tîr 2. Ac mae'r cyfraniadau hynny ychydig yn gysylltiedig â dollar per dollar. Felly, unwaith ein bod ni'n mynd allan o tîr 1 i tîr 2,
 you will see that costs will go down over time because the tier two benefit level is a lot lower than the tier one level so are they affected by the state mandates to
 increase contributions as the city is or is that level it does it always stay level yeah it's a it's set in in the pension code written by the state as a percent of payroll so they and it it's different between tier 1 and tier 2 so anybody that we've hired since 2011 or since the pension reform is now contributing a higher percent of payroll so for an individual it would grow as they contribute as their salary grows they would contribute more over the life of their career but
 as we have retirements and new employees come on obviously our our payroll doesn't grow that exponentially so uh the employee contribution in so in so much as we have tier one people retiring and tier two people coming on that will grow but otherwise the city's contribution is always going to fluctuate to make up the difference that's a pretty fairly predictable number thank you alderman frosty this may be a little bit difficult to answer at this point but uh
 Can you give us any sort of projection as far as how or what the impact will be with the tier two employees coming online? And that's built into these projections. So, so this is an open group projection. So what.
 I use my software to do is as a member, I've got a level population in these projections. So as a Tier 1 member retires or terminates, they're replaced by, it has to be a Tier 2 member. Anybody hired after 2011 is a Tier 2 member. So I'm keeping the population level and replacing the Tier 1 member with a Tier 2 member. So that is built into these projections. And it will help with the cost over time, you know, as we kind of talked about, that 9 point,
 9% of pay contribution, you know, approximate contributions, $9.91 for police and $9.45 for fire. Those contributions pay for a larger percentage of the total cost for the Tier 2 members than a Tier 1 member. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. And out of the 600, how many are Tier 1 and how many are Tier 2? Oh, that's a great question. I can give you a real answer. I mean... We will... I can get you that information. It is. And, you know, the...
 On a cost basis, the cost is with the Tier 1 people. Right. The Tier 2 people have short service. They've got seven years of service at most at this point where the Tier 1 are the – those are the 55-year-olds with 30 years of service where all the costs is – But that would depend greatly on that 2040. In your graphs, how many are in Tier 1 and Tier 2, wouldn't it?
 It does, but it's built in behind the scenes. You have a migration from Tier 1 to Tier 2, but you're absolutely right. If this was all Tier 1, we would see those contributions go up even more rapidly. The fact that we've got a migration from Tier 1 to Tier 2, you don't see it from those charts, but it's actually driving those costs down a little bit.
 Last slide here for police is just another metric. And again, this is the same contribution pattern. I've got 100 by 2040 versus 90 by 2040. And this is what we kind of talked about, that interest plus normal costs. Our expectation is that we aren't going to start paying down the unfunded liability of the police fund for another 10 years or so. Right now we're at about $115 million.
 $115 million of unfunded liability, it's gonna start approaching $140 million as we go through the course of time over the next 10 to 15 years before we start paying it down. And when we start paying it down, it's because those contributions are gonna have to go up to get through that crossover point where you're contributing more than the normal cost plus the interest on the unfunded liability. Okay, that was the police plan. Fire plans are real similar. Same charts, I've got three charts again.
 projecting out the contribution projecting out the funded percentage projecting out the unfunded liability it looks very similar to the police chart we see that if we follow the 90 by 2040 policy
 Unless the state resets this somewhere down the road, you're going to see a very rapid escalation of the contributions that are required to meet that 90 by 2040 policy. Again, anything you can do to front load it. We're just illustrating 100 by 2040 if you do 90 by 2035, or anything to front load the contributions that get money into the fund sooner versus later is going to help to drive down the cost of the pension plans or drive down the cash contributions over the course of time. Again, really similar to what we saw for the police plan,
 If we follow 90 by 2040, we're going to stay in that 60% funded range for an extended period where if we were to accelerate this or change the funding policy to put more in up front, it's going to help to drive that funded percentage up a lot more quickly.
 And the last slide is the unfunded liability. Again, expectations, the plan is right now underfunded by the shortfall is about $135 million, somewhere in that range. The expectation is this is going to approach $160 million if we follow the 90 by 2040 policy until we eventually start to pay down the unfunded liability. But it's going to take 10 to 15 years before we start doing that. Any other good news you want to say?
 I'm the prince of darkness, aren't I? That's why I don't get invited back. Next year we'll see you. Any other – that was the last slide, correct? Yes. Any other questions? Alderman Hervey. Not a question so much as a request. As we get ready to go into our budget planning,
 I mean, we've all heard the deficit numbers and we know what's going to happen over the next seven years. I would like to see what it is that we're required to do on an annual contribution level. These are your percentages and your funding levels. I'd like to see it from a dollar standpoint as percent of budget.
 And I think right now, I think pension liability is what, 47 cents out of every property tax dollar? No, I believe by 2025, it'll be 59 cents, I think. No, I want to know what it was coming over those years. In other words, if you just look at just the property tax, not our other money from motor fuel tax and other sources of revenue, but for property tax dollars that residents pay.
 when are we going to hit the 50% mark, where 50 cents out of every dollar? Sue. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, we'll put that together. And then, I don't want to say where does it come from, but, you know, what happens in those scenarios? Sure. I think we see that. So, with the work that NRN is doing, we'll look at a couple of different scenarios as it relates to pension funding, so.
 And if anybody has any other questions for me or for Mike, please feel free to reach out. I'll be happy to get follow-up questions answered.
 Thank you. Thank you. I also just want to give a special thank you to former Chief Nielsen and Attorney Bobby Holsworth, who also play a critical role for our pension funds. And I think I speak on behalf of all the aldermen. Number one, we appreciate your service. Number two, we expect the same returns this year as we saw the past year. So keep it up.
 Thank you, though, for all the time that you give. For some of us, this is depressing seeing it once a year, but for the work that you do, we really do appreciate it. Thank you. Moving on, we have petitions and communications. First up is codes and regulations, Alderman Shirelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items this evening. The first is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on August 21st, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on August 27th, 2018. The second is the LTAB Board agenda for the meeting to be held on August 21st, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on August 27th, 2018.
 Third is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, our engineering operations manager regarding the right of way vacations.
 Fourth is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes again regarding upcoming special events, which includes Screw City, Beer Fest, and Greek Fest. And the added item is the memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, the city administrator, regarding a resolution to create an advisory committee to evaluate and recommend changes to the existing building practices and regulations.
 All five items will be referred to Code and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. And I apologize, I skipped over Alderman Rose for planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor. We just have one memorandum from Jennifer Yeager, Community Services Director, regarding the 2019 Community Services Block Rank Community Action Plan, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next up, we have Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. First is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding adoption of a new fund balance policy. Next is a memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the acceptance offer for 10th,
 I'm sorry, 1006 Kishwaukee Street. And the third is a memorandum from Daniel O'Shea, Chief of Police regarding the 2018 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant application. These three items will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. Next, I'd like to acknowledge Legal Director Nick Myers for our quarterly Comcast payment. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are confirming we are in receipt of the quarterly franchise fee payment from Comcast.
 in the amount of $446,745.82. Thank you. Next up we have public speaking. I want to remind all public speakers that you will have three minutes to speak and there's two microphones on each side of the ends of the chamber. First public speaker we have is Prophet Yousuf. Good evening ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Proverbs, the 12th chapter, the first verse, written by a wise man named Solomon. It says, whoever loved discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates correction is stupid.
 What I want to speak about tonight is your child ready for kindergarten. Probably not. Too many kindergartners in Illinois arrive in school not prepared. They don't know their numbers, their vocabularies are too limited. They don't know how to constructively play with others or how to focus and learn. Those early deficits could snowball year by year making it harder for children to succeed in school and in later life. Until last week, Illinois educators couldn't pick up the time to go to school.
 pinpoint how many kids come to kindergarten already lagging in language, math, and social and emotional skills. Now they can. The disturbing answer, about three in four children entering kindergarten in 2017 were not prepared for the classroom, according to a broad new state measure called Kids.
 or kindergarten individual development survey. How does this survey work? Kindergarten teachers observe students in their classroom routines over the first 40 days of school. The teachers don't test the students with ink and paper, but instead watch how they learn and play.
 Teachers asked children to add and subtract small quantities, for example, or sort buttons by size and shape. They were tested on their ability to comprehend stories and recognize letters. Teachers also measured a child's persistent and massive difficult tasks, completing a puzzle with small pieces, for instance, and his ability to cooperate with adults and peers.
 teachers rated 106,000 students about 81% of children enrolled in kindergarten in 2017. Those retinas ratings showed a stark racial gap. Even at that young age, 32% of Asian kindergartens and 29% of white students demonstrated retinas compared with only 19% of black students and 13% of Hispanic students.
 know that early childhood education is vital because kids don't magically appear in first grade ready to learn and get along, what to do? We expect many early child education experts will tell programs to spend money to improve the kids' score. But I take this opportunity to pinpoint the people who matter the most in preparing kids for kindergarten. It's the
 for parents. Your child comes to school ready or not largely because of what you do. Many parents probably weren't even aware their child would be observed last year and then rated for readiness. Parents, now you know.
 What can you do to help your child prepare? Plenty. You can read to a child. You can engage him or her in conversation, expand their vocabularies and understand. You can help him or her to learn numbers, shapes, colors. And you can help him or her identify style to manage their feelings.
 those skills are measured by kids. Teachers rely on parents not just to prepare a child for kindergarten but to stay involved in their child's education. That starts on day one. Kids gain an advantage with parents who are engaged. I also have been wanting to tell my niece, Marilyn, who is a retired teacher, and all the women, Vanita, Herbie, all the money. Thank you, Dr. Buffett. Happy birthday and God bless you. Thanks for letting me speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. Mark Beaman.
 Mark Beeman. We'll come back to him if he's not here. Next public speaker is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. Good evening. Tonight I'm here to speak about and keep...
 before the people here an awareness about an investment request of $25 million from Phase 1 for Westside Rockford development. I'm here to represent progressive West Rockford community development and many of the people here from the Westside of Rockford. Most of you are aware of this request that we've made. It's couched in terms of Immanuel Kant's moral imperative, which basically is the golden rules.
 This investment will involve funds from federal, state, county, city, and private equity investors. This $25 million phase one investment will create high-paying jobs, especially in manufacturing where, according to the Illinois Manufacturing Association, 55,000 jobs become available in Illinois each year. And what is part of the result of this investment that we're requesting?
 and economic parity for African Americans, increased tax revenue for the community, reduction in poverty, crime, and the cost of government. The local stakeholders should be aggressively working with us on this. But not so. Why not, one might ask? Well, because of the walls of greed, selfishness, dishonesty, fear, jealousy, and the list goes on and on.
 Walls don't really show strength. Often times they indicate weakness and fear. But we are undaunted. We will succeed in our request for the 25 million dollar investment and we will reach the promised land. I'll conclude by using a biblical analogy. The walls of Jericho fell down flat when the trumpet sounded. I've just sounded the trumpet. I hope that the people understand. I've just sounded the trumpet and I expect the walls of fear
 Greed etc to fall down flat. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is mr. John take Bramley Good evening. They're not Camara all the miss all the women's our citizens of Rockford, Illinois
 Proverbs 17, 27 highlights several benefits of keeping quiet. It's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who'll be wiser than you. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak,
 you have something important to say we teamed up with Kennedy Middle School and Renewal Turning Point Program youth and adults for back to school cookout and book bags there was over 400 people that came out we want to thank our sponsor for making this day happen this weekend in Chicago 59 people shot
 six killed and chicago weekend and rockford this weekend saturday we went to three different events sunday we went to churches without no walls and book of washington center for back to school book bag plus we had rha band renewal turning point band the only problem i had with with
 our baby kids as they do what they always do. However, no shooting, no fighting or killing. Just taking our baby kids doing something different in the community. However, we were not able to finish telling our side of the incident with the police officer and the civilian that was killed on November the 15th.
 Now that the system has spoken, this is what we have to say. By the way, this is a very important election year. The people in the community voice should be heard and not ignored. We will not always see things the same way. Thus, we can and should be able to work out our difference and come together. Now, just this past Friday, five member
 Winnebago County Coroner jury ruled after a brief inquest on Thursday a jury, a former retired police officer, Sergeant read aloud and which lasted less than 15 minutes. Really? How was the jury picked and was this an all-white jury and a former police officer at that? Where's the justice?
 We are not your pets or property. First it took the task force eight months to tell us what we already knew. This is not nothing new for the past 400 years, only four police officers have ever been found guilty on a state level. So let's look at the facts that the community see and have been talking about. Officer Cox worked a double shift that day by himself when the policy state that other officer veterans had been working with him.
 because he's not been on the police force for over a year. Just because he was a veteran of the Middle East war should have been a red flag for the Officer Cox who had been with a veteran officer. Point taken, we have the most powerful military force in the world and they are trained to kill. How does anyone know that he did not have a flash or PTSD thinking that he was back in Iraq? Next at the time of the wee hours in the morning, why did Officer Cox get in behind Eddie Patterson's truck? Was it racial profiling?
 Next, once Officer Cox found out that the license plate did not match the van, he called for backup. So why he didn't wait for his backup to get there? Also, first of all, now we heard that he was shot in the back and the chest. Which one was first, the back or the chest? Why was the gun drawn in the first place? Why he did not wait until the backup got there? Does we the people in the community want to know? Are you calling him a hero? Thank you.
 our next public speaker i'll give one more try for mr uh mark beeman mark beeman okay next up under a new committee reports we have plenty in development alderman rose thank you your honor uh the committee recommends approval of the community development block grants uh cdbg development agreement with bergstrom incorporate uh the legal director shall prepare their appropriate ordinance uh before moving forward with that though um
 we have an amendment to the agreement that I'd like to read. I move to amend the item under Roman numeral 6, new committee reports, A, planning and development committee for item 1, the community development block grant, CDBG, development agreement with Bergstrom Incorporated, to reflect the following changes. Under section 2...
 Award of funds B grant on page two of the agreement following the third paragraph of the section add the following. Any changes to the project design location or the estimated cost would require an additional review and approval by city of Rockford staff and IHPA to determine compliance with all CDBG regulations prior to dispersal of payments.
 Any change in location shall be within the city of Rockford and said location change shall be submitted for approval to the city administrator. The city administrator shall have the authority to approve or deny said change. The ultimate determination as to compliance with CDBG regulations for the disbursement shall be at the sole discretion of the city administrator.
 Thank you. We have a motion and a second, so I'd ask if we have any discussion on these items or questions on this amendment first. And prior to that, Alderman Hervey, I'll leave it up to you since I made a mistake in asking first. Would you like to hear from staff first about why the amendment's necessary?
 Okay, I figured it was You know, I'm sorry director Bronson. Could you address the amendment? So the purchase of the equipment that's being made possible with this agreement Would necessitate an increased footprint for Bergstrom which they originally proposed doing through increased lease space at the 5910 Falcon Road facility since the committee approval of
 Bergstrom was made aware of an alternative site that was more attractive to them for their long-term plans with this increased capacity. That site, we didn't want to hold up the approval of this agreement because of the six-month lead time for building these machines and delivering them.
 But they're still going through the due diligence on that. It is still within the sixth ward. It is still within the city of Rockford. And so we wanted to approve the agreement and give us authority if the due diligence came out and that was the more attractive site for us to approve that without having to come back to council. None of the other terms of the agreement in terms of dollar amounts, job creation, or any performance measures have changed. Thank you. Any other questions or discussion on just the amendments?
 Okay. Do I need a voice vote on just the amendment or roll call? We'll do a roll call voice. All right, all those in favor of alderman roses amendment say aye Those opposed. Okay. So now do you want to put that item up for passage? A motion for the committee to recommend the public community development block grant CDBG by the regent and the first director so that they are prepared for the appropriate amendments.
 Okay, so now the amended version is up before us. Is there a discussion on the amended version? I'm going to start again. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Thank you. So that item passes next up. We have codes and regulations with alderman Shirely Thank your honor first item is a committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommending Recommendation for no action on the following item request to establish hallway Stop at the intersection of Charlotte Drive and Forest View Avenue thus repealing the existing traffic control and Forest View Avenue Stopping for Charlotte Drive number two committee
 Committee recommends approval of the annexation of 2109 2111 Angela Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The current use is a duplex that was lawfully established in the county, but its current county zoning category is not conforming to its use. Place those two items over for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there a discussion on those two items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. No vote. Aye. Two votes. Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Canones? Aye. Beck? McNeely? Chiarelli?
 14 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. Two items. The first is the approval of the vouchers in the amount of $8,607,551.44. And the next item is approval of the contract for purchase and sale of city-owned lot located at 4550 Harrison Avenue to Members Alliance Credit Union for the amount of $15,000 through the multiple listing service.
 And I place these two items up for passage. Thank you. Two items up for passage. Any discussion or questions on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. Next up, we have officers reports. First, just want to state two items. One is our own Chief Derek Bergson participated in a program that had 30 participants, and he's participated in this over several years.
 a long period of time, providing a week at each go of it. And the program is called the Executive Leaders Program at the Naval Postgraduate School Center for Homeland Defense and Security last week. And he officially has completed that, so I just wanna say congratulations and thank you for your continued work on behalf of the city.
 Second thing I wanted to just mention, I know we've had a discussion a host of times about the decorative board up. And I just wanted to, this is anecdotal, but I had an individual that gave me a call who I would call is a frequent flyer when I was an alderman of people who would call me. And routinely and very astutely point out things in the neighborhood that needed a lot of improvement.
 And 1920 was one of those areas that, in this gentleman's opinion, really needed a lot of work. And he had his doubts about the decorative board up. He would, like all of us, would have preferred that it was torn down, but said he would get behind it. And he gave me a call this past week and wanted me to express his thanks to you all.
 because he said he while he was calling me it was looking outside his window and there was three neighbors that he has never seen pick up a rake or work in their yard and they're now doing so
 So it was a small gesture. It's obviously not a final solution for the blight at 1920, but the amount of energy that was poured into the work there by the entire community in that area is something I think special, and other people around there are recognizing and now reinvesting in their own homes. So just wanted to extend that to you all. Is there further officers' reports? Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you.
 I want to give a thanks to Mark Stockton and his staff for meeting with me with the Cottonwood Airport Board to discuss the possibilities of the signal lights going at the intersection of Auburn and Pierpont Avenue.
 uh... and also thank them for putting in the turn lanes i did today was the first day of school and i did go down in the traffic was moving a lot of faster than what it was in the previous years we had promised three years ago the student body of that school that we would take a look at that and improve that those conditions for the accidents that has happened there with the students and the newly driving students in the driver's ed
 and i want to thank mark and jeremy carter for staying with it and supporting those turn lanes being put in just before school starts it really was a big help thank you alderman rose and just touching on some of the work that was done on the decorative board up i wanted to mention that next week
 those people that had volunteered and there were numerous, numerous neighborhood people, people from not the neighborhood that just wanted to help out.
 we wouldn't have been able to complete most of the project and we there's still a little bit more to do but um, I wanted to touch on an invitation that I received that Uh, you will be honoring those volunteers, uh who helped with the project at city council next monday august 27th at 5 30 pm So we're inviting those volunteers to to come out if you if you picked up a rake If you you know did any of the work along that? um
 Project we'd really like to recognize those people. So please come next week to City Council so that you can be recognized Thank You alderman Beach. Thank you a couple items your honor. It'd be nice if alderman Frost good and
 bring his daughter down here so we can thank her probably that would be wonderful and uh you can send that note back to Libby uh the other thing is there's been a lot of conversation in recent days about the count the uh putting together the 911 centers and that kind of thing uh was it possible to get the chief to just respond to his personal opinion of what we ought to be thinking about here
 so we certainly can i won't speak for the chief but i have a feeling he's going to say that there's a draft report and he's probably not real comfortable uh reporting on something but all right well that's what would you like to uh make a comment on the report
 I think we're reviewing the draft report right now as far as the 911 board and maybe next week or two. All those comments are due August 31st, so we can kind of give you a report once those are finally submitted and then kind of a take as far as from the City of Rockford perspective and then the 911 board perspective as far as the outcome of that study and what we think the next step should be if that would work out.
 And Chief, could you just outline the report was delivered on the 14th and then we have until the 30th to respond? And then what is that process and who are the decision makers of what will be the final release of a report?
 So the comments are due back the end of August and then they'll go to the mission critical along with the 911 board to finalize that report before it's submitted and then that will be presented to the 911 board talked about presenting that to city council and to the county board also.
 Thank you. And Alderman Hervey and then Alderman Quinones. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to say a little bit more about the mural that was painted by Libby Frost, who is the daughter of our own Kevin Frost. She obviously got 99.9% of her gene pool from her mother. No doubt. And she's really lucky. But in all seriousness, if you look at the scale of...
 the size of this mural. She started on July 25th and finished it on August 3rd. And some of the pictures, this is on our desk, just shows what she went from, from zero, I mean all the way to the finished product and what it took, and she's there, you know, doing this by herself. So first I want to say thank you to Libby and
 Basically, I think as we always do, by the way, she's 17. She's a senior at Boylan High School this year. So many, many thanks to her and congratulations to her parents in all seriousness. That's quite a feat to have good kids. My parents always wanted one but were just sorely disappointed. Lisa's done a hell of a job. Yes, she has.
 One other thing I wanted to mention, there is a second, I believe it's the second public meeting regarding the, correct me, it's not the Domestic Violence Justice Center, Family Justice Center, but it's to help deal with domestic violence, human trafficking, some of those kinds of things. That's going to be this Thursday, the 23rd, from 6 until 8.
 i don't know if it's eight i'm not sure of the time but it's going to be at the station one um police district station at the corner of avon i think it's 10 45 west state street yep it's six five uh six p.m to eight p.m six to eight okay so that's going to be um that's going to be this thursday um and i also have a request with regard to the decorative board ups um i'd like to know if we could put together a list or something so
 We know what's coming up for those. The old Rock River School on Kishwaukee is just horrendous. I know we have a number of buildings. It is close to a lot of children. It's on a main corridor. I would love to see if that building would be appropriate for a decorative board up. People are starting fires there. They're dumping. I've gotten three or four calls from residents. Our staff responds. They clean it up.
 You know, they they secure it again and then it's just gone. So If especially if legal could follow up I have no idea what the status of that building at one time. I think there were nine parties including insurance companies that all had some interest or Or argument in the building Lastly today was the first day of school Um, we put up the signs that kids matter. So please slow down. I saw two
 just ridiculous examples of people who had no disregard for children. And I have a feeling both were parents because it was school pickup time. I hope we can deploy a few officers to watch for some of these transgressions. This was speeding. I mean, just...
 scary in school zones with children running back and forth across the street to get into their parents' cars. It's worse in some areas than others. Washington School, for some reason, is just packed, more so than it was when the gifted program was there. So I would hope we could do a little something and maybe help Washington come up with the better traffic flow for getting kids in and out. Narrow street, just the worst possible.
 Thank you. Alderman Quinonez. I want to thank, I think it's a good opportunity here for me to thank Lisa Brown, Executive Director, Michael Stubbe for working with the Mass Transit District. We were able to get a shelter for the people to catch the bus at Val Holcomb Plaza on 7th Street. So we're having a little ceremony on Thursday at 10 o'clock in the morning. Everybody's welcome.
 Like a ribbon cutting for the shelter on the people on 7th street. So job well done with the rockford mass transit alderman timber. Thank you, Mayor. My fellow alderman frost will be happy to know that I won't elaborate on alderman Herbie's comments on the gene pool.
 but yes i want to thank libby frost on on uh what a beautiful work that that is and making our downtown uh more beautiful than it already is and especially uh thank you for her work in in the third ward thank you i bet she didn't pick the fourth word alderman back thank you your honor this morning um i was at an event with um
 Director Franz and I know he was there in your your stud as you had another commitment But it was a just another exciting day for the 12th Ward and for Rockford Specialty screws a company that's been just kind of quietly doing their thing on Huffman Boulevard for many years And this is the second time I've been able to attend an expansion of that business And so they are building on a twenty thousand square foot and
 their existing plant and going to hire 10 new employees. And it's a company that really cares a lot for Rockford and for the community. It's going to be a very environmentally friendly addition to their business. And so I just want to congratulate Russ Johansen and all the employees, especially Screw, and thank them for being such a great neighbor and such a great supporter of Rockford. Thank you.
 alderman trellis yeah thank you i just jumped on that bandwagon too about thinking libby it was wonderful to see that kevin should be proud of your wife also lisa i also want to thank our chief of staff western worry for helping me in the 14th ward on some issues that i needed some help on to get a grasp of and and also the staff members that jumped in to help on that also again i think that's wonderful that he's helping out on those issues
 And the other thing I wanted to say, Mayor, is that a couple weeks ago I talked about the city and the county working together on some type of border agreements. It's continually getting worse.
 When neighbors in this city, residents of this city have to abide by these ordinances. And then in the county, which are very close to them, do not have to abide by the city ordinances and their properties are a disarray and problems. And I also ran into it in the street level also. Part of the street is in the county and it's in total disarray and there's major problems with it. The city handles our problems with it.
 Now you've got half a street or a quarter of a street that is not paved and there's no Sense of the when it will ever get done So we need to really work on those issues when we have these border issues and street issues that are common I know I've worked with the township many times on Agreements to have part of the road paved by the city and they do some work We do some work and it works out very well, but we also need to have that with the county. Thank you. Great point. Thank you. I
 Seeing no further reports, we'll move to unfinished business and Alderman Trelli, you're back up. You're right. Very good. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item tonight. Committee recommends reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a methadone clinic in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 5416 8th State Street. Place that up for passage. Is there any discussion? No.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. That's correct. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. I'm sorry, 14 ayes.
 No, thank you. Alderman Shirely. Next up under unfinished business ordinances that are laid over, Alderman Shirely again. Thank you, Your Honor. I have just one item. An ordinance approving for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the fast food restaurant and video gaming facility.
 at 479 North Springfield Avenue. Place that up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the item before us? Alderman Hervey? This is one I think I actually got mixed up on which ones were being held out and I voted yes for the committee report. But I am opposed to this. We're approving the sale of beer and wine in a fast food restaurant and video gaming. Now, I know we said restaurants.
 But there's a reason this is classified as fast food. Are we really establishing a policy whereby we're going to approve liquor sales in McDonald's, Burger King, fast food restaurants? That's almost anything is a fast food restaurant. You know, you don't need to sit down. Excuse me.
 to qualify as a fast food restaurant. And I think it's wholly inappropriate for beer and wine. It just doesn't qualify. And I think, again, I talk sometimes about my concerns with the proliferation of liquor. I know people want the beer and wine because of the gaming. And I understand why people want the gaming. It's lucrative.
 But the coupling with alcohol, I think, takes it out of the range of acceptance. And I can't see going down this rabbit hole. And I think that's exactly what we're going to be doing if we approve this. Thank you. And just one note on the proliferation. One of the things that was kind of, I wouldn't say shocked me, but I wasn't thinking would be the case is
 I think we looked back, was it eight years ago or ten years ago? We looked five years, sorry, five years ago. We were all concerned and we had 294 licenses then and now we still have 294. I saw that. When I talk about it, I'm talking about where they are. Not just the number of licenses, but where they are. You know, these parlors. We talked about whether gaming was intended to be for gaming parlors as opposed to true restaurants.
 And we put some conditions on that. Now all I'm saying is this goes from restaurant to a fast food restaurant or establishment. And I think that takes it into a different realm. If we say yes to one, I think we have a very difficult time saying no. Now I don't think McDonald's would allow any of their franchisees to have beer and wine with their Big Mac, but who knows?
 I just think it's a bad precedent to set. So. Understood. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly appreciate my colleague's concern. However, I've seen a number of establishment, as she stated, throughout the city and as well as in the county where this does exist. And it's existed without any problems that I'm aware of to date.
 This business has been at this location for some time now. It's located with a gas station, and there's a food restaurant located there as well. The business owners have proven to be very responsible. They opened this business, I believe,
 maybe three, four years ago. And the community certainly has supported it. The community certainly does support having the video there, the video gaming there, as well as the beer and wine. You can now purchase the beer and wine at that gas station as well. So this is something that I believe for that area is needed.
 Again, I stated that individuals within that area certainly are looking forward to having this. I don't consider this to be like a McDonald's where you would go in and the family would go in and sit down and the kids would go to a play area. There's no play areas within this location.
 More conducive to adults coming in and sitting down and having a glass of wine and maybe playing some video. So I'm asking my colleagues here tonight to support this. I think it will be good for that part of the city. Thank you. Thank you. Other comments or questions regarding the item before us seeing none. Clerk, will you please call the role? Durkee. Tumber.
 Frost. Aye. Irby. Irvins. No. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. No. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Yes. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. 9 ayes, 5 noes. Thank you. Item passes. Next up we have no items for finance and personnel, correct? Next up we have appointments laid over.
 I'll just roll through these. We have an expiring or we have appointment to community action agency board for Mr. John tech Brantley. Next we have an appointment to and a reappointment to the rest of electrical commission. Matt not will be reappointed. Brad Williams would be replacing. Charlie Charlie Lasconas. Next up. We have a reappointment to the fire pension to.
 Carrie Haggerty next up appointment and reappointment to the Historical Preservation Commission We have George Batchi who would be replacing Jeffrey Kirk We have for Robert McCarthy who would be a reappointment Matthew wolf who would be a reappointment Then we have an appointment and reappointment to the library board Jamie Getsch us would be replacing Brad England Molly Braun and Jessica Colts would be reappointments and
 Then we have an appointment and a reappointment to the mechanical board. We would have Ryan Marshall replacing Rick Beck and Mike Saban as a reappointment. Then we have a reappointment to the police and fire commission for Maurice West Sr.,
 We have a reappointment to the Rockford Area Venues and Authority Board and John Phelps. We have an appointment to the Rockford Housing Authority for Ziad Shiada replacing Jerry Lumpkins. Then we have a reappointment to the Liquor, Tobacco Advisory and Zoning Board of Appeals for Craig Sockwell. There are 10 appointments before you. Clerk, will you call the roll? Dirke.
 Or is there I'm sorry. Thank you. Is there a discussion or questions or comments about the appointments? Sorry, Thank You Alderman McNeely. Thank You Mayor. I know you're Ready to get your appointments in place However, I do want to make some comments I there are a number of individuals here that I know that have been either on the board that you're appointing them to or some other board in the past and
 and they're all very good citizens. There's no question about it. They're committed to this community. And I'm glad that they are not selfish and do take the time to take time out for their community to be on these particular boards or other boards in the past. I do have some concerns regarding the same people being
 placed on boards year after year after year, whether it's the same board or another board. I truly, I submitted to the mayor's office a number of individuals that would like to participate in helping the city through boards or commission or whatever, but they do want to be involved. They do want to help their city.
 So, unfortunately, I don't believe any of the individuals that I had submitted were placed on any of the boards. We had votes not too long ago regarding boards, and I didn't vote on them because I'm hoping that we can get past this point. In a city this size, there are a number of individuals that could be.
 such a positive force for the city bringing new ideals and new concepts and I think that we should open those doors up for individuals to participate and not have the same ones I know that the ones that have been on boards or commissioned in the past do offer excuse me
 They do offer a lot to the city, but please let us open the doors and bring in more people. So tonight, given that I've made these comments and given that I know that the mayor has heard me, not just tonight but in the past, I hope that in the new appointments we will be looking at new individuals. Thank you very much.
 Thank You alderman McNeely also state so we have just for everyone because a number of people have given me names So many names actually we have over 200 people have been submitted to our office of the individual names I'd also mention out of the ten this evening six of those ten have never served on a city board or Commission Any further comments or discussion? Okay, there's a motion a second to lay over one other questions concerns. I
 And to lay over number out now, I'm sorry, that's the wrong one your honor number seven, okay, so we'll take Alderman Beck's first motion. We had a motion to Good question for appointments. Is it automatic to alderman layover? I would assume so No
 Okay, so we have a motion we'll take alderman Beck's first motion to lay over item one Which is a community action agency board appointment for mr. John tech Brantley There was some motion. Is there a second to do so? I believe Kevin alderman frost it was the second all those in favor of that layover say aye aye Those opposed. All right item one will be laid over. I
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly, you said item seven? Yes, item seven. Alderman Thompson-Kelly would like to lay over the reappointment to the Police and Fire Commission for Maurice West Sr. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor of laying over Mr. Maurice West Sr., say aye. Aye. Those opposed, can we get a voice vote on item seven? No. A law.
 So the question is to lay over item number seven. A no vote means you do not want it laid over. A yes vote means you. No. I believe it was an aye. So that fails. So before us this evening will be items two through ten with item one being laid over. Any other further discussion or comments about items two through ten? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Okay.
 Aye. Aye. No on seven. Aye. Yes. Yes on ten. No on all the rest. Two through nine. Aye. I have seen on eight and then. Yes. Yes. Aye. Aye. Just for the same thing she said, but we all submit names to people. These are over and over and over and over again. I'll do that one. Why would you say that?
 Excellent all of them passed next up we have codes and regulations For motions or motions and resolutions code and regulations alderman Shirely. Thank your honor I got three items this evening the first is fall for Rockford scheduled for Saturday, September 22nd from 10 a.m To 10 p.m. And downtown Rockford number two is cycle on 2nd Street and I got closure resolution scheduled for Sunday, September 23rd from 7 a.m. To 9 a.m. and
 Number three is the Holy Family Fall Festival scheduled for Sunday, September 23rd from noon to 3 in the church parking lot at 4407 Highcrest Road. Place those up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. So we have three events or three items before us. Is there a discussion on the three items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. Next up we have Finance and Personnel Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is award of bid for Public Works Materials to Northern Illinois Service
 Rockford Illinois William Charles construction at Luz Park, Illinois Rock Road companies of Janesville, Wisconsin and n track group of Luz Park, Illinois at the unit pricing Identified on the bid tabulation the estimated annual value is two hundred fifty thousand dollars Contract duration is one year next to the award of bid for citywide sidewalk and ad a repairs package number four do campus construction of Rockford in the amount of seventy thousand one hundred four dollars and sixty cents and
 funding sources sales tax next to the award of bid for citywide street repairs group four arterials to n track group of los parker illinois in the amount of 1 million 443 thousand 657 dollars and 85 cents next to the award of bid for city yards equipment building roof replacement
 H.C. Anderson Roofing Company of Rockton, Illinois, in the amount of $110,500. Next is the award of bid for West State Street Phase 2 Demolition Package J, 2018.
 to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $34,945. Funding sources, sales tax and IDOT. Cities' share is $8,736.24, and IDOT's is $26,208.75. Next is the award of bid for Harmon Park Drainage Improvements Phase 9 and 10 to Northern Illinois Services of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $259,839.80. Next is the award of RFP State...
 for state street west parking deck repairs to jay gill and company of tinley park illinois an amount of 574 thousand 590 dollars next is the award of non-competitive bid for anti-icing liquid to sni solutions of geneseo illinois for one point or one dollar and fifteen cent
 per gallon and an average annual expenditure of fifty five thousand dollars the contract duration is one year with two one-year extensions and the last item is an engineering agreement for construction engineering at cedar street parking lots to imeg of rockford illinois for a not to exceed amount of thirty nine thousand nine hundred and two dollars and eighty seven cents funding sources river's edge redevelopment zone grant i place these up for passage
 Thank you. So we have nine items before us. Is there any questions or discussions on the nine items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke, Logerman, Toonberg, Frost, Hervey, Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 14 ayes.
 Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, we have new business and planning and development. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We're approving an ordinance for the Community Development Block Grant CDBG Development Agreement between the City of Rockford and Bergstrom. I put this forward. The amended agreement? Yeah, the amended agreement. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Any discussion or questions on the amended Bergstrom agreement before us?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yerkin. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Feach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. That item passes. Next up, we have codes and regulations. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got an ordinance approving everything. Thank you.
 Seeing if everyone was awake. Oh, I'm awake. Okay. I have an ordinance approving the annexation of 2109 and 2111 Angela Avenue. About to lay over a whole bunch of stuff. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on the one item before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Vogelman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones?
 beck hi mcneely aye shirelli aye 13 eyes thank you item passes next up we have finance and personnel alderman beck thank your honor i have an ordinance approving the contract for purchase and sale for the city-owned lot located at 4550 harrison avenue to members alliance credit union for the amount of fifteen thousand dollars to place it up for passage excellent is there any uh questions or discussion on the item before us seeing none clerk will you please call the roll
 Logan. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Ross. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Back. Aye. Shirelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. Second. We have a motion and a second. Do I need to roll? No.
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. 14 ayes.