Thank you, Mr. Meyer. Did you call the roll? Here. Yes. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Thank you under motions resolutions. There is one item under the finance and personnel committee, which is an award of bid for the 22nd Avenue and 7th street water main replacement. To stem from excavation of rock, Illinois, in the amount of 489,876 dollars and 10 cents. The completion date is October 18, 2019.
 the water replacement improvement account also known as the WRI a Their motion approves you can take a voiceover. Thank you under officers reports is very alderman have any Officer reports. Yes There will be a fifth ward meeting this Thursday at 6 o'clock at the district 1 police station Thank you. Any other officer towards all the beach? Thank you. I don't if I can find it quick I know the hours late, but I just want to I
 say that he received a nice letter uh from a constituent commenting on the professionalism of our robert staff in regards to a problem that they had in their neighborhood and was giving direction to delbert black and ken and others and since the hours late
 I had promised I'd read the letter, but I'm not going to read it entirely. But I'm going to put it on file here, and I'd like to have the clerk to make a copy of this. Make sure the alderman get it. I'd like to have the alderman read it, make sure public works director gets ahold of this. They went out of their way to say they wanted to honor these people for the way they treated them during this difficult time. And I said, I'll take care of that. I'd like to share that with each of you. I think it's wonderful.
 the work that our employees do great work here. So thank you for letting me make this report, sir. Thank you. And perhaps in addition to maybe copying, we could also maybe just get an email sent to all the aldermen because that's great information to have. All right, sir. Thank you.
 Alderman Hoffman. Thank you. I passed around a flyer tonight to all of you concerning AAUW. We are going to be having a free seminar for women on how to negotiate salaries.
 But this teaches not only negotiation of salary, but how to negotiate anything, how to buy a car, close a loan, anything that's basically financial. So please share this with any women that you may think needs a negotiating help. And again, it's free and it is going to be September 28th. Thank you.
 It was location that Katie's cup and it's a Saturday morning at 10 o'clock But seriously, if you've got a daughter that's going to college You've got a wife that you want to put to work and get her a good job Anything help her learn how to negotiate. I feel like you're speaking directly to me when you say those comments Thank you. Any other officer reports? Is there a motion to adjourn all those in favor to keep I host? Thank you. This means adjourn