Toomber, Frost, Herbie, Urbans, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, 13 present.
 Thank you. Under motions and resolutions, we will go to Alderman Shirely for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got two items this evening. The first is the Greek Festival scheduled for Saturday, September 8th from noon to 1130 p.m. and Sunday, September 9th from noon to 9 p.m.
 at 10 at St. Constantine and Helen Greek Orthodox Church at 108 North 5th Street. The second is the Screw City Beer Festival scheduled for Saturday, September 8th, 2018 in downtown Rockford from noon to 5.30 p.m. Thank you. That's the passage. There's two items before us and two events. Is there any discussion on those two items? All those in favor say aye. All those opposed, same sign.
 The motion passes. Thank you. Next up, we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a change order and contract addendum for Head Start Transportation Services. The first student for a not to exceed amount of $917,566 contract duration is
 July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019. Funding sources, Head Start Grant Funds. I place this up for passage. Thank you. So we have one item before us under Finance and Personnel. Is there any discussion? Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Hogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye.
 Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion out there? I move. Second. Alderman Herber? Just one.
 Yes, there will be a fifth board meeting this Thursday at 6 p.m. Excuse me at the station one police station at the corner West State and Avon. We're going to have Officer Calhoun and a little bit of fun celebration. So I hope people can come out. Excellent. Alderman Thompson Kelly.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I was a busy weekend this weekend with shootings and happening in the community. And I've received phone calls and some questions that I possibly could not answer. So I would like the Assistant Deputy Chief to explain to and share with the community the status of especially the incident that took place.
 Where and about Pierpont and school street or Auburn or I don't know where it took place. I've heard three different locations Chief would you be able to provide us some insight? Outside on the east side of
 Pierpont at McIntosh school and there was nothing that we can tell that was involved with the football game or any of the students There was no commotion or fight or anything going on at the football game The game was just going on normally and the shooting happened just to the east more towards McIntosh school We did recover some shell casings. We did talk to some witnesses at this time We don't know exactly what happened, but we were working with RPS 205 and
 Very very much involved with them and trying to figure out what we can do this weekend There is two more games this weekend one at why with stadium one at Swanson Stadium We're gonna have extra presence from police officers. The RPS 205 is gonna have an extra presence there with their staff members and at this point in time We're just trying to sort through what happened, but we cannot tell there's anything connected to the football game. I
 Okay, so I appreciate that because the parents and the citizens are concerned, especially with the games coming up, that we have addressed the issue. Yes, we are. Thank you. Good question. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to thank staff. I have several elderly women that have had problems with renters,
 doing various things to them and one particular lady and her daughter live together and the neighbors, which were renters from four different properties.
 That have been harassing them since last year. She finally called me and then. I got in contact with chief. Brass and and he had the community officer. Contact her and work with her.
 And then a week or so ago, it got even worse. They poured paint on her daughter's car. The other daughter, they took their car and ran against it on the side, and they'd turn her water on from the outside and leave it on all day. She'd get home, and she'd have to turn it on. Just horrible things they were doing. And when I contact...
 contacted the police chief and the city legal and all the staff that were involved that showed up and addressed it last Friday I don't know how many departments that showed up but I just want to publicly say thank you
 It was horrible that this lady and her daughter had to go through what they were going through. But there was a remarkable change on Friday night and Saturday.
 And Sunday night, there was a little bit of loud music, but overall, the appearance of the city coming in full force made a huge difference. And one of the properties I was told today that it's being condemned.
 I just want people to know that city is here to work with them. They do have to reach out to their alderman or to the police department so that we do know what's going on. It's unfortunate that there are younger people that would do the things that they were doing to this.
 her daughter, but thank God the staff may or did really did step up and help. So thank you. Thank you Alderman Frost. Thank you. I don't need a response to this right now, but I think all of us all the minute there are I think most of us received an email from a resident about.
 an armed robbery that took place on Bell School Road, I think it was a week ago last Thursday. And I just responded back to the individual and told him I would try to find out the information, but again, I don't need it now.
 The gist of it was they were wondering if an unfortunate event happens like that where I think there was a large search involving canine dogs going through a neighborhood and people were outside. And they were just, I think they were just concerned and didn't know whether or not there was some sort of way, I'll use like reverse 911 or something like that, that would notify them.
 People of an event like that. I don't know if that's possible with respect to an active investigation taking place spur of the moment if someone can do that or not. But I just said I would try to get a response as to why it does take place, why it doesn't take place. Just the protocol to inform the citizens of the events and why they happen the way they do. So, great question. I got the same email that I believe all aldermen did. Okay.
 We're going to have that information for you. Hopefully tomorrow we're also going to have information. That email also contained a number of thoughts that this establishment may have had a number of calls to service. There was kind of that tone inside of it. Yeah.
 My early understanding is that's the 1st call, but I'm going to create something to send to all aldermen in response to that for you. And sorry, I haven't done so. Yeah, I took the liberty respond to the other issue myself, but I'll share that. Like, I'll forward you the email. Thank you. All right. A couple more here. All of them can. Yes, I like to since.
 Our police officers keep an eye on the bicycle riding on the sidewalks in the 7th Street area. I got a couple calls from business people that said that the shoppers are going in and out and having confusion with the bike riders on the sidewalk in the 7th Street district. Yes, similar to what the owner said this evening. Yeah, I've already talked to Mr. Worry, and I believe there's some coordination between Public Works about a resolution for that. Okay.
 Thank you. Now is there a motion? Move to adjourn. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same time. Have a wonderful night.