I wanted to personally thank Officer Jones, Officer Washington, Officer Presley, Sims and Carla Redd for the hard work that they put into the rodeo. It was full of gains and especially Officer Washington that took his time and walked through the neighborhood and worked with the parents. It was a refreshing thought
 to see parents at the rodeo with their children. That is a milestone. They have accomplished something that we haven't accomplished in a long time, to have the parents come out with the children in order to receive advice and participate in the activities at the Safe House. So I wish Chief O'Shea, would you please pass on that? I really do appreciate their services and their commitment.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just very quickly, Fifth Ward meeting will be this Thursday at 6 o'clock at Montague Branch Library.
 and it will be my birthday pizza party, so everybody should show up for John's pizza. Happy birthday. I didn't mean the ultimate. I meant people in the war. Just kidding. You get yours next Monday. Thank you. Any official office reports on the trailer? It's not an officer's report, but it's a referral, Your Honor. Sure. Thank you.
 We have a referral from Scott Capavilla, the zoning and land use administrator, regarding the final plan of Mercy Health Riverside Campus subdivision and the final PUD of Mercy Health Riverside Campus. That would be referred to the next codes and regulations committee. Thank you. Thank you for their officer's reports. One item I want to comment on, I want to thank Chief O'Shea and our entire department for a great turnout and support from our schools and our community. They were involved.
 involved all over the city, public schools, private schools. I think it was really nice. We got a lot of positive feedback, including from my own family. My children go to school and appreciate the greetings and the really nice regards. We got a lot of positive feedback. The additional officers' reports.
 So the one item that was on P&D, the applicant has requested that we hold off on that tonight. That would be the amendment to the redevelopment agreement at Rockford Renaissance Development. So the only item that we have right now up is on their motions and resolutions. The finance and personnel committee item.
 I'll come back to you on ticket. Thank you, Your Honor. We have an award of non-competitive contract with the Human Services Weatherization Vehicle to Anderson Rock River Ford for a total of $22,242. Funding source is the Illinois DCEO Health and Human Services Weatherization Grant. I'll place this up for passage. Thank you. The matter is up for passage. Is there any discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. 13. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newbert. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McMillan. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Matter passes. Ready for the business proposal. Nelson.
 adjourn second motion second journals people was that I was no I seven