a strategic planning session being the fifth Monday of the month. As we call to order the City Council meeting, we are fortunate to have Chaplain Dan Herman with us this evening to provide an invocation. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Some of you may not know that there's a chaplain's division within the police and fire and 9-1-1 and if you don't know we get called by police fire or dispatch to help out in a scene with people to make death notifications and some of us are also trained in critical instance trustee briefings that we work with our police and fire so you may wonder who we are sometime. Would you bow your heads and hearts?
 Good and gracious God, as always, we call upon you with many voices that reflect our community, Christian and Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, Sikh, and many more. Our world is fractured by people who call upon your name for purposes of greed or power and desire to put others below themselves, but we work as one to lift all people.
 This mayor and city council work hard in every effort to lift people up rather than put them down. They deserve your blessing for the manner in which they work together to make our diverse city a safer, more equitable, and prosperous home for all. We ask your special blessings upon our health care workers and Dr. Martel as they guide us through the straits of COVID.
 bless our fire police and 911 dispatch personnel with strength of spirit as they serve our community in troubling situations and grant us all your loving grace as we share in the conversations and our work together amen to the flag of the united states of america clerk could you please call the roll timber ross terena frunty hoffman rose quinones meeks bonnie
 Here. Logeman. Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. We have...
 We have four public speakers signed up. I would like to remind the public speakers there's a microphone on the back left, or for some of you, the back right, of council chambers. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring when the three minutes that you are allotted has completed. Just ask that you close up your comments so we can move on to the next public speaker. The first public speaker we have this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr.,
 The Bible. Beware of the scribes which love to go in long clothing and love salutations in the marketplaces, and the chiefs feast in the synagogue, and the uppermost room at feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayer. These shall receive greater damnation. One can easily paraphrase this passage as its message is no period peace,
 When people put on so much pretense to be recognized by politicians and other so-called prominent persons, as we see with too many black citizens, it demonstrates that they don't have much confidence in themselves or their message or their mission. They're almost seen apologetic to these so-called prominent persons as if they want to justify God to them. How sad.
 Part of this is the result of the oppression placed on these black citizens that circumscribes their social, political, and economic station, causing rage in too many instances in themselves. They should recognize that people like these scribes, who need this fawning attention, reveals that they lack a significant insight or character. Wise black citizens,
 should recognize that there is a crisis in African Americans, and it's a dilemma that is characterized by this crisis of personhood and the human spirit. Only in America is it necessary for a whole race of people to live under an identity cloud, and it is the result of a form of slavery that continues and is mostly economic.
 And any black person, especially in America, who doesn't recognize and denounce this continuing economic enslavement is not only delusional, but is a fraud. That is one reason I'm glad to see the black church recognizes sickness and is willing to support its sister, Alderwoman Linda McNeely, as she seeks to become a congressperson from this district. She advocates against this sickness. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr.
 John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor. Mike and Mayor, all the persons and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. First off, we're making history here in Rockford. We've got more arguments. There's minorities. And for the first time, we've got two ladies. There's one, the chief of police and the chief of the fire department.
 And we'd like to congratulate you from the community and the Renewal Turning Point program to seeing progress being made. I want to start off by saying Proverbs highlights several benefits of keeping quiet. It's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. It allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who are wise. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something
 very important to say. Well, Brother John Tagg Brantley, first of all, I got an excellent secretary. I got the best mentor in the world. My secretary is the University Library
 My mentor is the Lord, and that's who I follow, and that's who guide me to do the things that I do and the things that I say. I'm not going to open up my mouth unless I know what I'm talking about. I'm going to continue to bring up we are living in the new world order, the new Jim Crow law. We are in the middle of a civil war, coronavirus.
 of virus vaccine and wearing the mask. We have a lot of our government officials that are very naive about the Civil War, wearing the mask, taking the vaccine. The domestic violence, the overdose, the death has increased.
 The results of the census takers are so far off and it's dead wrong. I know too many people that did not fill out that census. Instead of trying to call me a liar, you should be asking me how can we sit down and work out our difference. We are going to work with you or without you when it comes to being an interrupter, standing up against domestic violence and overdose. I was at a meeting when I went to interview the chief of police.
 And one of the ladies that was there, she was white. She said, we wish we had 10 more Brother John. All the person said, there's only one Brother John, and he's very unique. We need other people to stand up in the community to serve the community. Going on with that, our people have a very deep mistrust of the system, and mainly DCSF.
 I'll give you the most recent case. We refer the client to the Justice Center, and this is the way they respond to a new attorney point. Ms. Cox was in our program for the past two and a half years. We were forced to bring her to the Justice Center because of the dangers that she was facing with her brother. We were the only two families that were there for her. So now in the group home that she's staying in,
 Her guardian told her she could not be around me because I'm a man. She could not go to any events with a new turning point program. Keeping her from families and friends is only hurting her mentally. The rules and regulations are so outdated that they took her phone away so that she could not call me. I'll just finish this at another time. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Our next public speaker this evening is Lisa Jackson. Lisa Jackson.
 Am I able to just start speaking? Yes, ma'am. OK. So when I signed up to speak initially, I indicated my topic would be professionalism. However, I believe a more suitable descriptor for my topic is civility and the collective conduct of this board. Initially, I am going to digress, so just bear with me. For those of you who may not know me, I served on the school board for eight years and I represented Sub-District A.
 Sub-district A has the highest black population and historically has been a subgroup that has been marginalized, disenfranchised, oppressed, and discriminated against by the district as evidenced by the People Who Care lawsuit. Before my tenure on the board, I was known as a parent advocate and an educational activist. I was very vocal in my criticisms of RPS 205.
 I attended board meetings on a regular basis and I spoke at just about every board meeting. Typically there were three responses that I got from board members. They didn't understand, they didn't agree with, or they did not like my comments, which is code for you're making me feel uncomfortable. My very candid response to each board member was always the same. I didn't run for office, you did.
 I don't care if you understand, agree with, or like what I'm saying. I'm speaking my truth and I'm using the process that the board has established to do so. The only thing you need to do is respect me at the podium and respect the process. And if you can't do that, then maybe you should rethink your service on the board. When I was elected to the board, I live by this basic principle to respect the people and to respect the process.
 I recognize that individuals spoke their truth and whether I understood it, I agreed with it or I liked it, it was immaterial. Last week, I observed Ms. Jones address this board. More of you than not showed an absolute disregard for Ms. Jones and the process put in place to facilitate public comments,
 Almost half of you sat with your back to her and a poor act of contempt. As an elected official, the most basic action you perform is to respect members of the community you serve. And if you can't do that, then I respectively encourage those members to reconsider your service on this board and to our community. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Kenneth Dickens. Kenneth Dickens.
 i'm glad she brought up the people who cares act i'm not originally from rockford but i've studied a lot about the long-sorted racial history of rockford the very obvious and very very now separations upon racial lines economic lines which can't be delineated or separated from race when i sit here i come to many council meetings and i hear the money being divided in the city but you can't speak about money without speaking about race in this city
 they're not separate. They never were, they never will be. It's not a racist issue that I'm talking about of me being racist. I'm talking about observing racial lines in economics in Rockford, Illinois. Again, I'm glad she brought up the People's CARES Act. National federal precedent, segregation on an education level, which transcends to teenage years, adult years. And then I look at the history of the Justice Center downtown,
 Again, not being from here, I'm thinking why in the world would a city, not as big as Chicago, but why would a city this large jeopardize its own future by putting a jail downtown and putting a city hall on a side street? I said that didn't make sense, but I'm using that to get to my point. Rockford, those that may not know, if you research it, you'll see it is going to be very difficult for the city to ever garner a Fortune 300 or Fortune 500 business because of where the Justice Center sits.
 This is a fact. This is not my opinion. So there were politicians at a specific time in history of the city that made a very pivotal decision over all of our lives and impacted all of our lives, black and white, for the sake of the future hopes and dreams of the city. So now we all sit at this current time begging a casino, a casino, a casino to come to the city. But yet there's a hotel downtown and we all thought if you build it, they will come.
 Not realizing the intention of the casino was never downtown because of the jail. That's why it's where it is, where it is. Now, my point is this. Because you cannot separate race from economics in Rockford, Illinois. Rockford City Council must. This is from an article. Rockford Register. Rockford Register. Rockford City Council must decide how to spend fifty four point three million dollars in pandemic relief funds.
 Jeff Coakley, Rockford Register Star, 530 p.m., June 22nd. Rockford City Council must decide how to spend $54.3 million in pandemic relief funds. Rockford City Council has until, this is a part of the article, Rockford City Council has until August. What is today?
 how many people do you think generally walking around rockford know anything about this money not many my hope is that the black community sees some of this money thank you sir i hope everyone heard me my hope is everyone here thank you that the black community thank you next uh we will move to proclamations and we have one proclamation this evening
 Is Pastor Violet Jonaker and Alisa Maggio with us? Whereas International Overdose Awareness Day is a worldwide event held each August 31st to remember those who have lost their lives to an overdose. And whereas Rockford, Illinois, like many cities across the country, is fighting the epidemic of prescription and illicit opioid deaths.
 And whereas Rockford and the surrounding area have an active and effective drug overdose prevention program that utilizes many community partners, such as the Rockford Fire Department's mobile integrated health care program, to both increase the availability of naloxone for preventing overdose deaths and reducing the stigma of addiction.
 And whereas many in our community work tirelessly to assist those with substance abuse disorder into recovery by treating addiction not as a moral failure, but as a treatable disease process where recovery is possible. And whereas International Overdose Awareness Day is an opportunity for all to support those who have lost family and friends to overdose, those who are working toward their recovery, and those who are active in their addiction.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim August 31st to be International Overdose Awareness Day. Would you like to share a few words with us? First, I just want to say thank you for recognizing August 31st as International Overdose Awareness Day. Some things that our community members could do is wear purple in support of overdose or put purple lights outside your home or your residence or business.
 And then also tomorrow, our community partner, Live Real, is sponsoring an event at Nicholas Conservatory, and there will be a memorial honoring lives lost to opioid overdose. And Violet is going to talk to you about what you can do in the faith communities, and I trained her in naloxone use.
 Thank you. Alyssa is an excellent trainer. I encourage everyone to get trained in how to use naloxone if you have not yet done so. One of the things that all faith traditions agree on is the moral responsibility to care for our neighbors, and that includes loving our neighbors who use drugs. So we encourage every faith community to spend time in prayer and outreach and encouraging treatment.
 And last week, Rockford Urban Ministries held a program with specific ideas about how faith communities can do more to prevent overdoses, which we all have a responsibility to do. You can look for that on the Rockford Urban Ministries Facebook page. And I encourage you to come down tomorrow to the event at Nicholas Conservatory in the evening, where we will be honoring all of those who have lost their lives to overdose, more than 93,000 people last year. Thank you for the city and the county's continued commitment to this important issue. Appreciate the work. Thank you.
 Next up we will go to new committee reports. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee alderman meets Item a for Planning and Development Committee number one item number one the committee recommends approval of the 2021 Funding agreement with Rockford Area Arts Council and the legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? I
 Alderman Toomberg, I believe you had discussion on that item. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'd like to recommend layover on this, please. There's a motion to layover this item. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. And that's all we need right now. So next we will go to officers' reports. Any aldermen have a report to counsel? Alderman Rose? Alderman Rose?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just was wondering if we could take a moment of silence for all the soldiers and the recent news of the ending of the Afghanistan war. One reason why I'm asking for it is because so many of my classmates and friends throughout the ages have served proudly in that war, and I think it's something to address and just take a moment of silence.
 Certainly can't thank you any any other alderman have any other reports other men Logan just real quick I know this week. It's the first week of school for a lot of our teachers some teachers here on the board and then new students too and I I'm gonna be driving a lot in the fifth ward my daughter She's gonna go to barber elementary school so happy to be part of our PS 205 so alderman Torino I'll report any potholes that I see in your ward. Thank you. I
 i can tell you olympia's really excited to go to haskell any other reports okay we'll move on uh next item is an appointment that's automatically laid over for 30 days unless there's a rule suspension so we'll move to motions and resolutions and we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman rose thank you your honor
 we have one item the 2020 property tax case tax appeal case for pertillos the request for approval of a resolution for authority to intervene on the 2020 property tax appeal case for portillo's located at 1690 east state street excellent thank you so we have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion on that one item clerk could you please call the roll logan man all right
 Tumberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prenti? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonney? Aye. 10 ayes. Excellent, thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. Any discussion? Second.
 Any discussion? Alderman Tunberg? Sorry, Mayor. I just wanted to thank you very quickly for recognizing the children. That had a lot to do with the planning and speaking of Alderman Rose's comments there earlier. At the Veterans Memorial Circle, the roundabout, North Main and...
 Auburn and a lot of kids had a lot to do with that and thank you for recognizing them and Making it worthwhile and such so couldn't do it without him. No for that today. That's a great point alderman Thunberg mentioned about 12 young kids today were recognized because throughout the summer they had been volunteering To help beautify and maintain the veterans memorial circle over at Auburn in Maine just really neat and they I
 It looked like they had a lot of fun during the summer, even though some hard work, but also had a little fun today, so thank you. So we have a motion, we have a second, no discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right, we'll move on to the strategic planning session.