Let's pray. Father in heaven, as we come into your presence tonight, we ask that you would come and be with these proceedings that take place tonight. May Lord, it be for the best interest of the city of Rockford and those who live here.
 Lord, we'd also ask that you give a hand of protection upon us. But most of all, Lord, we pray that you keep safe those who try and keep us safe with the police department and the fire department. Be with the city council now, Lord, as they make these decisions that affect our lives. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call roll on again? We have our first meeting of the special meeting at the City Council. Durkee, Gatchas, McNamara, Frost, Kirby, Thompson-Cohen, Odo, Newberg, Beach,
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
 and covering those items before we go to our strategic planning session where we have a guest presentation this evening from Antonio Riley, who is here from HUD Midwest Regional Administrator, as well as then covering our presentation on our 2016 annual budget by Chris Black, our friend. So we'll start with our public speakers, and our first speaker tonight is Prof. Yusuf Nakhut. As a reminder to all of our speakers, they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Luke, the 18th chapter, 27th verse, it says, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.
 What I want to speak about tonight, you don't have to go up on your water rates to replace aging, unreliable water main. These high prices are killing people on fixed income and business who do business here. Solutions to your problem, only thing you have to do is take $5 million from the $22.75 million you already have for 2015. That will leave you with $17.75 million, enough money to replace four miles of pipe this year instead of one mile. By keeping your prices low, this will keep people here
 and business will stay here. This would also bring in more people and business will set up shop here because of the low prices. This would bring in more revenue to the city of Rockford because you would be getting market share of the business in Eleanor and by using your twelve resources, I told you you have, you could bring in Rockford four billion, eight hundred fifty million, nine hundred forty six thousand, one hundred twenty five dollars
 and ten cents a year. Enough money to help fix the infrastructure in Rockford. Enough money to help people to go to college who are poor. Enough money to lower the unemployment rate by putting people to work. Enough money to eliminate homelessness in Rockford by putting people in the home. Enough money to eliminate poverty in Rockford. Enough money to help reduce mental problems by putting people in a mental institute by opening single back up. Enough money to reduce alcohol addiction and drug addiction by putting people in facilities to get help.
 This idea would also help you reduce crime in Rockford, especially domestic violence and juvenile delinquency. Crime is related to money and education. Mayor Morrissey, I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. You can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm not the only one who has a birthday. Coming up. I know it.
 The day is hers, but I said it last week. I thought it was going to be in Chicago. All right. Thank you. Recovered. I want to make sure you didn't forget to give great honor to Solomon Harvey, whose birthday is this evening. Celebrating. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Toby Holtman. It's kind of like grabbing a basketball. Kind of guess what it is.
 On Sunday afternoon, I observed a prostitute walking down Broadway. She stopped on my corner, Broadway and Parmalee. I notified the police and decided to pick up my video camera. In less than a minute, a truck drove slowly by and pulled over in front of my neighbor's house. The prostitute quickly crossed Broadway and met the man in front of my house where they were negotiating what kind of job she would do for him.
 I let the man know that I was videotaping him and you should have seen the look on his face when he was caught looking directly into my camera. I told him his wife was going to love seeing this. He quickly scurried away acting like the truck across the street wasn't his. I read him his license plate and told him to leave my neighborhood in not so nice words.
 The only thing he said to me was, she's not in my car, she's not in my car, as if that makes any difference. Had I not made my presence known, he would have picked her up. This morning, quarter to five, two more prostitutes, Broadway and Parmalee, Broadway and 10th. Oh, what a selection. As I write this speech today, it's 4.07 p.m., I glance out the window, and what do I see? Any guesses?
 4.12 p.m., another on my corner, Broadway and Parmalee. I see no end in sight and only sporadic help from the powers that be. Then we find out that the mayor wants newspaper to do something. Not the first time and certainly won't be the last. It's called manipulation, and politicians and governments have been doing it since the beginning of time. I bet they all hate freedom of information.
 As I sat in the audience at the last council meeting, I truly cannot tell you how glad I was to see several council members had their blood boiling at the feds, telling them what to do or else. I tell you this, keep the passion or step down. God created man. Man created the states. The states created the federal government. We, the people of these United States, must get the federal government under control.
 And now we have the Daily Paper telling our elected officials to shut up. How do you like it? I will not be silent. I will be heard. Please stay tuned for a very important message from a fishy whale. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Ron Flewer. Happy birthday for all of those in attendance tonight whose birthday it is.
 I just really wanted to come to you with the Choice Neighborhoods update. On your desks for each of you, I first put a thank you and some photos from the Save a Lot store that opened last week. And I don't think you often get thanks, so thank you for all the work you did in that store. It was the number one item residents said they wanted when we went through the Choice planning process.
 and I thought, how are we going to deliver that? It was great to not only see it come across the finish line, but really see it come across the finish line as an A1 store in a neighborhood that for 35 years has not had a grocery store. So thank you very much.
 Couple other updates, we have a redevelopment agreement in place with the Love Foundation for the team and family center. That will also be the home to the West Gateway Coalition. That will be at the Old St. Pat's School, that's progressing nicely. The walking school bus will continue at two schools this year, and last year we made a dent in truancy at the rate of 57% reduction. We continue to look forward to that.
 The county has made great progress in lead-based paint grants, making lead-based paint a problem of the past in some of the homes in all of our neighborhoods, but particular attention over here. We also saw the latest Attorney General grant documents circulated this past week for the $2.5 million that had been awarded over to the neighborhood.
 And I also put on your desk something new this year, which is the learning zone program to help kids in the Fairgrounds neighborhood really not see the summer slide. And so that to me was great to see the conclusion of that as our kids head back to school. And while we haven't yet come to an agreement on public housing deconcentration, I believe when we do, the doors for neighborhood improvement will even be open greater.
 So there's a common theme in all of these and that is partnerships. And I started with a thank you to you for the Save a Lot Partnership. I need to thank all of the members of the Choice Neighborhoods Group who work diligently to make sure that all of these programs work. This isn't a Rockford Housing Authority program. This is a City of Rockford initiative and there are many partners at the table.
 really working diligently. So over the next few months we'll be reopening the Choice Plan. We told you that it would be a living, breathing document and we mean that. We're really looking forward to your participation again in the planning process. We will use as the framework for the plan as we did in the past your consolidated plan as well as the RMAP plan for sustainability and the Deconcentration of Public Housing plan.
 So we think those plans are essential. We look forward to continued improvement there. And I also want to let you know, I will be sending you an email this week about an open public comment period on Promise Zones. I'm really looking forward to working with the city and not just elected officials, but staff on the Promise Zones application, as well as a successful Choice Neighborhoods implementation grant request this year. So please look for those emails.
 We'll continue to update you and we'll continue to look for positive progress in all of these initiatives. Thank you. Sorry about that. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Poska. I am fishing whale Roland Poska. I wish the rest of us here a very happy unbirthday. Why not give everyone a loan? Why not give it a try? Why not give everyone a loan? Why not give it a try?
 Why not give everyone a loan? Why not give it a try? Read my book for details. Thank you. Our next and final speaker this evening is John Brown.
 Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the women and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Lectures verse 5, verses 11 through 12 say, Blessed are you when people insult you, prosecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you. Be customly, rejoice, and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven.
 This past weekend was a very busy weekend. On Saturday, we had a Northern Illinois food truck in the parking lot across the street from North Lane Manor in front of Ocean Plaza, high-rise. There was over 300 people out there that day. The management staff of the two high-rises did a very good job of trying to keep everything running smoothly.
 From there, a group of us from North Main Manor went to Collison Stone Frual Home to pay our respects to one of our North Main Manor residents that passed away at the age of 70 years old, Ms. Sue B. Avery. From there, we went out to Black Hawk Park to the second annual...
 Orton Keyes Family Reunion. There was over 200 people there, out there, way back from the 70s to the present day. On Sunday, this was the second annual Midtown Ethnic Parade and Festivity. The young ladies from Fairground danced in the parade under the direction of Mrs. Jazz. They did a very excellent job.
 We had two banners in the parade. One that said Transform Rockford, the other one that said Renewal Turning Point Program and had fairgrounds. We would also like to thank our sponsors that helped to make this happen. Transform Rockford, Save a Lot, Rock River Training Driver, Kingdom Authority Church Van Driver, S&S Aquarius Entertainment, William G. Van Driver and the families and friends that came in their cars and vans. There was
 80 of us all together in four different groups in the parade. We are still working on trying to get a van or a bus. The next event is Labor Day Parade and we are going to need your help with getting a van or a bus for this event. Can someone help us out? Also, I saw on my Facebook page they was talking about the nomination for 25 Black Reapers to watch awards.
 Thanks for the recognizing of leaders in the community. We want to thank TMSB and Soul News Network for hosting such an elegant event. Thanks to those who is nominating these individuals. However, what have you been doing this past three years to nominate these individuals? It's one thing to get an award,
 But truly, what good is an award when we still have the high dropout rate, black on black crime, highest unemployment, poor social skills, poor education, and a lot of our young people want to work, want to go to school. However, there are very few road models for them to look up to. So this is not an attack against Cam and Soul News Network,
 But to our 25 nominations, now that you have this award, what are you going to do to transform Rockland? If you want to take the last three years that you have got these awards, that 75 people at the 75 churches and the jobs that these individuals work, just go out and pick 10 of our at-risk youth and 10 adults. That's a total of 2,300 young people. That's more than three-fourths of our young people's at school. Then you can be proud of your Black Believership Award.
 A lot of people ask me, John, why were you not nominated? I'm not doing what I do for no award. I do what I do because this is a board that needs to be taken on. If we are going to work together, we are going to have to help our youth and young adults. You will see the drop in crime rate go down, graduation rate.
 go up, jobs go up, poverty go down, then we can transform Rockland. And this would not happen unless we start working together. I want to finish off, since my time is up, and say that next week, Fairgrounds, we've got a meeting at 4 o'clock with the new
 Man-Goddess Peace Coalition, but that Thursday we got a meeting at the Salvation Army. That meeting at the Salvation Army is going to look at us opening up the door on October 15th with the YMCA. But I want to call out Ryan Kluwer off the carpet because we need the computer program that they're going to implement at the Salvation Army to get that up and going within the month of September. Thank you, Ms. Braley. Thank you. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Thank you.
 So with our special meeting tonight, I would call on Alderman Durkee, Planning and Development Committee, new committee reports. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one report from the Planning and Development Committee. The committee recommends approval of the request for approval of the 2016 Community Services Block Grant Program work plan as required by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Mr. Hayes. Just to clarify, this was addressed at the August 17th council meeting and this committee report failed. The item is on at the request of Alderman Thompson-Kelley for a motion to reconsider. Thank you. So Alderman Thompson-Kelley, did you want to address the item? Okay. In respect to Rule 13, I would like to move to reconsider the
 Black Grant work program for 2016. There's been a motion to second reconsider the item. Is there discussion? Larry? Thank you, Your Honor. I had an opportunity to speak at length with Mr. Davis, really at length with Mr. Davis. And I still have significant problems with the restraints that are placed on how these monies are expended.
 I almost, when Mr. Holdren was talking about, I don't want to come off like some kind of anti-government rant, although at 60 I think I can have my say. It is difficult to spend money and know that it's not meeting the needs of our local residents, that we can't allocate it where it needs to be allocated in the way that it needs to be allocated. I don't want to punish people who need these funds.
 by withholding that vote. But I do want to express my extreme frustration and ask not only Mr. Davis, and he and I have been talking about this for years. We go back to 1995 when I first came to Rockford, and we were talking about everywhere from education to the welfare system and how it has harmed the very people that it's designed to help. We seem to only make incremental steps, and those steps are hugely ineffective.
 My opposition to the work plan was not directed at Mr. Davis. It is directed to the parameters. Well, I didn't know some of the parameters existed until we talked. We need to have our legal counsel, people who are specialists in this area, and our lobbyists or get lobbyists at the federal level and at the state level
 to talk about how you cannot dictate the use of these funds from the cheap seats. If you're not in an urban community, if you're not in a poor neighborhood, trying to define what people need is often going to fail. So again, I don't want to see the people who need the funds suffer and not be able to receive these very needed services.
 Some of those restrictions, though, even if we don't get to them this year, we've got to start making some headway. I don't think Mr. Davis is happy with the work plan. I know a lot of people on council are not happy with the work plan. But I'm kind of satisfied that some of the restrictions aren't going to go away in the short term. But we've got to start chipping away and making a difference.
 Because that old saying, insanity is doing the same thing you've been doing and expecting a different result when all you see is failure and more decay. So I would urge us to address these bureaucracies and policy nightmares so that we can truly make a difference. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. So the motion on the main floor is the motion to reconsider the item, which is the 2016 CSBG Community Services Block Grant Program.
 work plan as required by the Hawaii Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. If there's no further discussion on the motion on the floor, I just ask for a voice vote. All those in favor of reconsidering the item please say aye. Aye. Aye's have it. My matter is on the floor for reconsideration. Further discussion? No, I just wanted... Yeah, sorry about that. Thank you. If there's no further discussion on the underlying vote, Mr. Hayes, are we in order to take the vote at this point?
 So I'll just ask the clerk to roll. Durkee, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson, Kelly, Newberg, Beach, Elgin, McNeely, Levin, Arnjul. The matter passes, thank you. So we'll go to motions and resolutions. Alderman Shirelli is not here tonight.
 There has to be two reports in front of the committee tonight. The first is to recommend the special events for 815 Giant Festival, scheduled for September 4th through 15, from 3.30 PM to 11 PM. And September 5th, from 11 AM to midnight at 100 North Main Street and Norloft Center at 118 North Main Street. Under A, a staff memo regarding Stumpy Sausage Fest,
 Rock to event fest alley walk number two special event for Memphis Subway Festival scheduled for September 5th 5801 Columbia Parkway from 10 a.m. 11 p.m. John Gessner is the event planner and these two are placed for proof tonight your honor. Thank you for passes that would be the two special event items the first having to do with 815 giant festival September 4, 3 30 came at 10 p.m.
 and September 5th 11 a.m. to midnight at 100 North Main Street and the North Lost Center, 118 North Main Street. And next is the special event hermitage and stunting festival, September 5th, 5801 Columbia Parkway, 10 a.m. to 12. I think those are just the only two items. Yes, sir. To add to the passages to the discussion here at Nulls, if everybody's happy. I think. I said thank you. Any new business in 2016, community service and broadband program
 is going to require suspension rules that is all up here do you want to take that yeah we had 12 of us so under new business we have the committee the planning and development committee recommends approval of the request for approval
 of the 2016 community services block grant program work plan as required by the Illinois Department of Commerce and economic opportunity legal director will prepare the ordinance and motion to spend rules yes sir
 I think so. No, I'm reading the crib from the attorney, which, you know, attorneys speak. I make a motion that we suspend the rule. So, when Durkee moved in, it was seconded to suspend the rule. Is there an item, all those in favor of suspending the rule, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I second the rule to be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then we place this ordinance up for passage. It's up for passage. Is there any additional discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee.
 MacKinnon Aye Ross Aye Kirby Aye Cahno Aye Odo Aye Newberg Aye Melliger Aye McGeeley Aye Levin Aye Jordan Thank you the matter passes before we adjourn the special meeting I would like to do a brief officers report I've got just a few memos I'd like to read in and then I'll run up to the floor for any other items of business under officers reports first I will not be here next week but I will be here next week
 Actually before that, next Monday is Labor Day. And due to Labor Day holiday schedule, we also have a chamber schedule for me. I will not be here until Tuesday the 8th, meeting. In my absence, Oliver Frost will serve as pro tem. And then also I'll be gone for a few days. Jim Ryan, our city administrator, will have my signature authorization. And Ryan, identifying his authorization to sign documents in my absence, has been circulated.
 And the CRISPR Act, our state finance director has circulated, or is in the process of circulating, the proposed 2016 budget calendar. We said a little bit more later this evening, but I just wanted to reference that. And that's all I have on our officers' reports. The officers' reports are none. Is there a motion to adjourn our special meeting? There's been a motion and a second to adjourn this special meeting. We'll be reconvening immediately thereafter for our
 strategic planning meeting, but is there a discussion on the motion to adjourn the special meeting? Hearing none, I'll just say aye. I stand with the meeting. So we will...