provide us with an indication. Father God, we just stop for a minute to thank you for your goodness and kindness to us. I pray that even this evening that the words of thy mouth and the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, thy strength and our Redeemer. God, thank you for the city council. Thank you for our mayor and the staff. Thank you for all the people that put their minds together to serve our people. Be with us this evening, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
 i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all thank you alderman beach clerk could you please call the roll turkey gasparini here toomberg here frost hervey here irving's here captain kelly yeah hoffman here rose beach
 Keonis, Hanley, McNeely, Shirely. It's 13 present, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have a quorum. I'm going to first ask if we can go to petitions and communications, and I'm going to start with Director Meyer. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. The only thing I have is prior to council today, I did receive a letter of resignation from Alderman Gasparini that will be effective 5.30 p.m. on September 8th.
 i've given copies of that letter resignation to all the council members thank you is there any comment you have regarding public speaking yeah um we did have a glitch in our system today um or maybe been last week as well in regard to public speaking sign up so if anybody's here uh to speak we would probably want to entertain them because they were unable to fix that thank you uh alderman gasperini and with council's permission to say a couple of items uh
 One, thank you for your service and your participation on City Council. It's meant a lot to, I think, this body and all Rockfordians, especially in your ward. You've looked back at your time here. We won't blame you for all of 2020, but you've looked back at that time and you...
 You were always a staunch advocate and supported significantly our work against, to prevent domestic violence and human trafficking. You supported our work to provide a staff member to work with young kids impacted by trauma due to violence in the home. You look at...
 how you worked through a difficult budget on this Council keeping property taxes flat and still providing core critical services to our constituents fighting off yet another deficit You look at working through an incredibly short time frame To get a casino Process that was transparent and through the entire public and off to the IGB We're not blaming you on waiting for the IGB but
 Your work through that was deeply appreciated. Then you look at, while in office, a pandemic that has crossed over the country and the world and how our community has faced it and your advocacy for businesses and for residents to get the support they need during this tough time for them.
 was instrumental on council floor and all of that you provided thoughtful leadership on citywide issues But also provided excellent service to your constituents in the second ward and just want to say thank you on behalf of city council And on behalf of the city of rockford for your service during this time. Thank you. Thank you ginger also
 Yeah. Alderman Gasparini reminded us that Alderman Hanley came to us in 2020. We won't blame you either. But thank you for your service. Also, Alderman, just want to mention that there is a memorandum on your desk for the appointment of Jonathan Logaman as second ward alderman.
 He'll appear on the City Council agenda for your consideration at our next meeting, which is September 8, 2020. As we move forward, I'll go through petitions and communications, and Mr. Brantley, I'll come right back to public speaking. Petitions and communications, Alderman Rose for planning and development.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We just have one item. It's a memorandum from Jonathan Bell, Economic Development and Diversity Procurement Coordinator, regarding a modification to the CDBG COVID-19 Microenterprise Loan Program, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. It doesn't look like we have any code and regulation items, so I'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, our legal director, regarding an ordinance pertaining to the local cure program, and this will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we're going to backtrack just a touch and go to public speakers.
 Again, we apologize for the inconvenience some may have had utilizing the system since we had a glitch today in that system. So we would recognize Mr. John Tack Brantley for three minutes of public speaking.
 good evening mayor mcnerney all the persons and the citizens that's watching this here video i'm going to start off first by mentioning uh the have-nots in our community is really hurting with the five major pillars that is not open yet and i want to repeat them over again which is a public aid uh unemployment office uh the uh child support office
 the Human Resource Department and this one other, but these five major pillars is hurting our have-nots as far as school and other things that they need taken care of. Proverbs 28 says, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. Malcolm X stated during the 60s, don't be in such a hurry to condemn a person because he does not...
 do what you think or think as you think. There was a time when you did not know what you know today. We have three major things going on this year. They are the election, censors, the coronavirus have taken this nation by storm. Thanks to the wannabe dictator Donald Trump opened up what was once only talked about
 are done behind closed doors. He had brought systematic racism to the front line with the police killing of George Floyd in May the 25th and just last week, Sunday, police shot Jacob Blake in the back seven times. One would think that after what happened to George Floyd that the police department would think twice about shooting a black man. That's not true to some of them. See us only as animals and they're slave master property.
 I just want you to know that we are watching this country slowly moving into a civil war part two. Look what happened when Abraham Lincoln was elected president. Now Donald Trump has openly sent in federal troops. His supporters line up on the side of the police department against Black Lives Matter protests. The new name for the civil rights movement of more than 200,000 people at any given time
 is now called Black Lives Matter. They have moved more than one million people, not only in the United States of America, but around the world. We are watching as Donald Trump tries to find a way to stop people from voting. I will talk about this at another time. This past Thursday and Friday, we took 48 kids to the art museum. I was blown away. Channel 13 and 23 interviewed two of our kids. Had four of our kids were very excited about being interviewed.
 uh at the art museum the tour the painting and being able to be exposed to something that they wouldn't have never been able to be exposed to before we also want to thank all our supporters because coming up this year's saggy we were supposed to be taking 50
 But yet, I guess 60 people that we're going to be taking to Magic Waters. We needed $1,200 to take 60 people where we raised $1,350 in less than two weeks to be able to take them to Magic Waters. We want to thank all our supporters and sponsors for being able to take our youth to Magic Waters next week. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Appreciate it.
 is there anyone else here that attempted to sign up for public comment and was unable to next we will go to new committee reports and we'll go to planning development committee alderman rose thank you your honor the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to the development agreement between the city of rockford and 222 7th street llc regarding tiff assistance for the rehabilitation of the 222 7th street
 Thank you. So there's one item before you. Is there any discussion here at City Council for the one item before you? Seeing no discussion here, Mr. Meyer, is there any discussion online? Okay. Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Culley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 Beach, Keonis, Hanley, McNeely, Shirely. It's 13 I's, Your Honor. Thank you. I'm going to hold that officer's report until our close, as we've done since we went with virtual. Next, we'll go to motions and resolutions, and we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item. It's an award of bid for the Edgebrook Phase 1 and 2 water main replacement to N-TRAC group of Bus Park. The amount of...
 2 million 409 thousand seven hundred and seventy dollars subject to the specifications in the invitation to bid the funding sources the water replacement improvement account place that before you for vote here thank you so we have one item before us is there any discussion inside council chambers
 Seeing no discussion inside council chambers, Mr. Meyer, is there any discussion online? No. Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gasparini? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye.
 13 eyes your honor. Thank you. We'll go to new business and move to planning and development committee alderman rose. Thank you. You're honored. I
 The only item is an ordinance approving an amendment to the development agreement between the City of Rockford and 222 7th Street LLC regarding the TIF assistance for the rehabilitation of 222 7th Street. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on that one item? Seeing no discussion inside council chambers. Mr. Meyer, is there a discussion online? Seeing no discussion online. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Yes, Verrini? Aye.
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Hanley? McNeely? Aye. Ciaorelli?
 it's 13 eyes you're in thank you we're going to go back to officers reports before i turn it over to alderman just want to remind everyone who may be watching this at home or in the audience or being streamed that we are holding this both in person and virtually due to covet 19 we don't see that this is either practical or responsible to have all aldermen or require all aldermen to be present at this time with that i'll turn you over to officers reports are there aldermen who have officers reports
 alderman rose just a few items uh your honor and i'll try not i'll try to be brief unlike alderman thunberg usually but um uh real quick i just wanted to say thank you to the city employees especially in public works and with our economic assistance programs there's a minor rehab lottery that they just released more recently and for people who
 Want to or who would like to make improvements to their houses? There's up to twenty five thousand dollars in home assistance As a part of that program and I was just wondering if a staff member could comment a little bit more about What that means to the community and how that program works? We can do that director Franzen
 Absolutely. Thank you, Alderman. This is our home-funded rehab program. So as you stated, $25,000 to bring a property up to minimum property standards. The household needs to meet income qualifications based on HUD.
 but we are holding interest applications until the 9th, and so we encourage all residents to contact our office, and we anticipate overwhelming demand, so we will hold a lottery to determine. We anticipate being able to assist 20 properties at this time. Thank you for working on that program. I also wanted to share...
 Just yesterday, I had a chance to go to St. Bernadette's to do a socially distanced softball game with a group hosted by the Northwest Neighbor organization. So I wanted to thank them for hosting that and getting people outdoors a little bit. Some individuals had asked me if there were other events coming up to share those. And one of those other events is the Mel Anderson Slow Roll Bike Event, which is coming up in October. That's Sunday, October 4th.
 From 3 to 530 it's being held out on Mel Anderson bike path which the meeting point will be at Northwest Community Center, so Families can come out and get to Get to connect with different organizations. I bike Rockford United Way Northwest neighbors Rockford Police Department Rockford fire rock I
 Our transportation team also in assistance that program Northwest community center is hosting it. So, and also we're getting help from the Rockford Park district. So really cool family event. They're doing bike giveaways as well. And there will be food available at that event. So.
 The last item I just wanted to share is there's a really important meeting going on this Thursday at the Norloff Center between 2 and 6 p.m. It's a...
 Basically, I'm meeting to discuss or for citizens to give their 2 cents around mental health in our community. And I think it's a really important discussion for our state health board to see that Rockford is really in need of the services that are being.
 I think squandered away. And so I wanted to share the letter that I will be sharing with the state. It's going to be a modified version that I'll be sharing because I only have three minutes to speak in front of the state board. But I did want to share it real quick. It says,
 Dear Health Facilities and Services Review Board, for years the Rockford community has faced urban challenges of despair, disinvestment, and economic strife leading to divisive issues around fair housing, poverty, and mental health access for area residents. Our urban setting has overcome some of the toughest times, even facing detrimental cuts during times of economic success. It is at these times it seems like these challenges come to a fork in the road.
 The fork leads down a path where non-for-profit services are diminished in low income neighborhoods, or they maintain the line item cuts with state support and community organizations willing to double down on our citizens. Unfortunately for Rockford, Janesville based Mercy Health System is moving down the path of irrefutable damage for our community.
 By reducing the services of our mental health unit at Javon Bay Hospital along Rockton Avenue, we are experiencing a crisis beyond compare. Every day our police respond to at least two calls for mental health issues around suicide. Our town was in crisis when the mental health unit at the hospital was fully functioning. So it is beyond common sense why Mercy Health System would be pushing for the denial of services to Rockford residents most in need.
 Mercy claims the hospital mental health unit was underutilized and didn't seem to have the patient need. With over 70 calls for suicide a month and 469 overdose calls a year, we disagree. Of course, it wouldn't be utilized if the hospital system didn't advertise its availability or properly run the unit with a full functioning staff.
 It is entirely against all known medical research at this time to allow Mercy Health to rid their hospital of a mental health unit. The medical research below we believe strengthens our argument for Mercy to hold firm and offer our community a fully functioning mental health unit with beds and staff, doctors and nurses at Rockton campus.
 The facts that I'll lay out are here. It is estimated that among children experiencing poverty who are in need of mental health care, less than 15% receive services and even fewer complete treatment. Families living in poverty experience a unique array of stressors. Food insecurity and housing problems to be two examples. These stressors can increase parental risk for mental health problems and substance abuse.
 which can diminish their capacity to engage in positive parenting practices. The third fact is a quote from the national, I'm sorry, a quote from Health Affairs. It says, the lack of inpatient beds has become so severe that patients have to go outside of the community to receive inpatient care. That's a national trend and it's also a trend impacting our community.
 JAMA's psychiatry journal suggests that mental health doctors often do not take Medicaid patients, further exacerbating mental health access for low income individuals. Non for profits like Mercy Health who receive federal, state and municipal tax breaks should be mandated to service our citizens or forego their tax benefits.
 If Mercy is allowed to leave our community high and dry without these vital services, we expect them to play a financial role in establishing administrative and fiscal support and finding a replacement in place before they are granted this state waiver.
 As leaders in the Rockford area, we disagree with Mercy Health Javon Bay Hospital. And we hope that the state board denies their request to reduce mental health access to our community. The following leaders agree that Mercy should offer a fully staffed mental health unit until another hospital in or around the Rockton campus can offer these services.
 Those members that have signed on are myself, Alderman Tuffy Canones, Alderwoman Karen Hoffman, Vanita Hervey, Alderwoman Vanita Hervey, Alderman Tony Gasparini, Alderman Ginger Hanley, Alderwoman Linda McNeely, Frank Haney, Winnebago County Chairman, Angie Goral, County Board Member, Joe Hoffman, County Board Member.
 Burke girl County board member, Dorothy red County board member. Jaime Salgado County board member Jasper, St. Angel Rockford township supervisor. David Siegel Rockford school board member and Chris skull firefighters union. Local 413 I'm also asking that if you are a.
 Community elected official and you would like to sign on to this letter, please. You can contact me via phone It's on the city website or you can you know Facebook message message me or whatever? I forgot I forgot Tony Gasparini. I think I didn't have you on the letter yet But if you're an elected official and you'd like to sign this letter Please feel free to get a hold of me and I'd be glad to add you. Thank you any other officers reports? I
 alderman mcneil thank you mayor and thank you alderman for for that letter you have always regarding the hospital in rockton and i appreciate what you're doing in the past and what you're doing this evening and i hope that others can go to that hearing before the state board thank you i also want to thank um the alderman
 Tony that's leaving us. I've enjoyed working with you. You've been great to work with. We're going to miss you and wish you the very best. Once you leave here. Thank you. Other officers reports. I at council chambers right now. Alderman can you own us? Yeah, I want to thank all the men gas bringing to you help me on.
 We both help each other on border borderline issues between our words and he did a very good job helping me out and vice versa. When he needed assistance, I went over there and helped him out. Thank you other officers reports seeing none here. I'm coming right on to online. Is there anyone online Alderman Thompson Kelly Alderman Thompson Kelly will go right to you.
 Thank you. You're welcome. I also want to make a comment in regards to Alderman Gasparini. It's been a joy working with you. And hopefully we'll stop here, we'll continue to work together. I also want to remind Alderman Rose that he omitted my name after our conversation to add my name to his letter.
 And also I would like the Community Development Department to give me an update on the community solar trajectory agreement that we've had. If there's been any activity on it and is it expired about now, I would greatly appreciate that information. Okay.
 And I wanted to announce the fact that the listening sessions that the Alderman had a month ago, we have now come up with our roundtable discussion dates and times and locations. And the dates for the discussion and the roundtable discussion will be September the 10th, 15th, and 17th at District 1.
 From 530 to 8 PM, if you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to give me a call. I greatly would appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. And we'll definitely get you an update on a solar trajectory. Next up we have alderman. Herbie.
 Your Honor, I have to diddle the comments for Alderman Gasparini. I felt like I'd been working with you for the past three years. He just walked right in there and just became a natural. And I appreciate the fact that you're kind of stepping out to let Jonathan Logerman back in. There's no requirement that you do that. Thank you.
 but I think that just speaks to the kind of stand-up guy that you are. So I hope we don't lose our contact just because, well, I've lost contact with everybody for now, but certainly don't want to lose contact on an ongoing basis as we move along through the next year or so. Second, a thank you to Alderman Rose. Thank you.
 for really just stepping in on the mercy health issue. But I also want to know what the city is doing as a city. Although he certainly blew it on his...
 jumping the gun on shutting down the mental health unit I will also remind that he is once again cutting back emergency services to the point where I'm sorry trauma services well I don't even think we'll have pretty much any emergency services there the community needs to know what is going on there I
 I don't think he should have the right to bundle people up and ship them out to Riverside when, if they have a serious trauma, the best place to get stabilized is where they're going to be able to take care of you. I think for many people it would be better to take another 10 to 15 minutes maybe to get out to OSF with their level one trauma center. There's no argument that Riverside is not worse. And...
 I don't think that whether the person has insurance or makes money should be part of the equation. No, I'm not accusing them of that, but it sure as hell wouldn't surprise me. But the second part is, if we are now left without those trauma services, even if it was just level two trauma services, how are we going to communicate to the community what they need to do best?
 To get their traumas. We've got farm traumas that come in there from our Western farming communities. We've got traumas galore. What did I have here, Chief, this weekend? Two shootings in the fifth ward. I don't know if anybody was hit.
 But the gunplay is totally out of control. And once again, the area that has the highest need for trauma is left in the breach. With all of this going on amidst a novel virus that is hitting communities of color harder than anywhere else, it's a very, very difficult time.
 just off the charts and number one i don't believe he should be able to get away with it but um the law was changed shortly before mercy health came rolling into town a few years ago so i don't think there's anything we can do to stop him from closing uh the hospital and that's sickening also so
 i would like a response not necessarily now but i would like a response from the city are we going to appear and speak at the health facilities and services review board right now i guess it's just on the mental health unit but also on the emergency services and trauma care unit my understanding is
 after whatever this next change is, there will be no acute care beds. There will be no inpatient service. You know, the letter wasn't even clear.
 But if you read it a certain way, there will be no inpatient care at Rockford Memorial. A couple of beds, if somebody comes in and they can't get you out quick enough and bundle you up and ship you over to Riverside, so there might be a couple of beds for people to stay in, but it's not the best place to be. So what exactly is going to be there? He wasn't answering the media's calls.
 Um, so there's some real confusion out here that needs to be cleared up, but I want the city to be up front, um, for the community as our advocate, unless you agree with them. In that case, um, I may have to come out of sequester and.
 put on a hazmat suit and go myself um so i would appreciate some action on part of the city and i know you probably said something to a mayor in private but the public needs to hear some things too they need to know that they are being championed at this time as well so um thank you at that yeah thank you alderman hervey just we can provide you a more thorough response but obviously
 Wrote an op-ed outlining all the things that I believe Javon Bay has stripped from the Mercy Rockton campus. It's not just ER. It's not just mental health. It's also the pediatrics care that he's been stripping from there. We most certainly will be providing, I'll be going on behalf of the City of Rockford and speaking at the hearing and also providing written comment as well as the verbal comment. And also just a
 very briefly and we'll get you a more in-depth response for citizens, but obviously the first thing that a citizen is going to do regardless of
 whatever deplorable actions that Mercy takes is to first call 9-1-1 and Our fire department will respond immediately and take them to the appropriate Care location, but we will get you more thorough answers and I can assure you We will continue to fight for everything that we can to stay at Rockton and we're also I should add that we're in a
 Constant communications with Swedish American and Jennifer Marr as Swedish American as well as OSF and Paula Kerensky to ensure that citizens will still be able to receive appropriate care due to the systemic and pretty systematic reduction of services that Javon has perpetrated on Rockton.
 Yeah. Well, one other thing I'd like to request that we do, too, is to, and I'll send this to you in writing, but I have a list of metrics that I would like to have reported or received information from. I know they're not subject to FOIA.
 But I do believe under some of the medical facility standards, there is certain reporting that they're required to give to the community. And there may be some that's required under the COVID-19 guidelines.
 parameters, but, you know, about the number of people that are treated, the amount of charity care. I have a whole list of them that I have no doubt. We can certainly work to obtain that information for you and provide it to all counsel.
 Thank you. And by the way, I didn't mean I hope I didn't make it sound like I didn't think the city wasn't doing anything. I'm quite sure you are. But I just want us to to be up front at that that meeting. And I really regret that I can't be there. Absolutely. Understand. Thank you. No problem. Alderman Irvin's.
 Yes, thank you, Your Honor. I want to say thank you, Bill Rose, Alderman Rose, for all your hard work, brother, your inspiration to us all, man. And Brother Gasparini, unfortunately I'm not there to see you in person, but I want to say thank you. Never even felt like we was coworkers. I always felt like he was my brother, always from day one. I admire how you just came in and plugged in, man. It was like, wow.
 So thank you and I hope to see you around. But I want to go back to BuzzAttack Bradley's comments earlier about
 I can't help but to hear it as an echo. The way that he speaks, it's almost in an echoing fashion. You hear it every week. I can't help but for today for it to lay on me the word pillars. When I think of pillars, these are strong things that support a foundation or a heavyweight.
 And, you know, I guess I just want to share a little bit to what the Lord has been speaking to me about, you know, which is the fivefold ministry. But I mean, I'm not going to talk about that. But I do want to talk about that number five and it being God.
 the number of grace when you see it throughout the entire text, you know, he talks about the land on of hands, which, you know, off topic tears me up because, you know, I remember as a child growing up, um, having to bounce around throughout my life. And the only place that I ever found comfort was at the altar. Um, and,
 and to see the churches not even be able to gather the way that we used to, it breaks me because there's so many people that are going through traumas and are financially hurting and are looking for hope and looking to place their faith in something. And when I listen to Brother Tack Bradley, and he speaks the word, and I know the word of God, you don't play with the word of God,
 And since I've sat on city council, not only has Brother Tack Bradley, but also the prophet, Prophet Yusuf, they send the word of God forward. And, you know, I can't help but to think about, you know, Moses when he kept coming back to Pharaoh and speaking the word of God. And there was always this resistance there.
 and he said, Moses, keep going, keep going, keep sharing the word of God. And when I see Brother Tack Bradley sharing the word of God repeatedly, I'm like...
 We need to look at this, that number five, that grace, that these are people that are hurting. And I don't know what it is we could do within our own means in the city or what we could do to even give a response. I would love to hear a response on what we could do because, you know,
 When you love people, you love God. And when you take care of God's people, you're taking care of God. That's what ministry is, serving people that are hurting, the have-nots. It's actually very specified in the scriptures that those that, you know,
 you know, felt as though they had it all together, there would not be the ones that inherit the kingdom. It would be those that are poor, those that have not, those that are hurting right now terribly. And, you know, I just, I don't know. I would love to hear a response on that from someone. But I don't know. I just...
 It pains me, even with the hospital situation. I mean, we're hurting, and I feel like Rockford, we take two steps forward and three steps back, and it sucks because we see our hard work, and then it's taken from us as if we are being rocked.
 And we're not fighting back. And, you know, it sucks. We are the big brother of all these surrounding cities. And it reminds me of an individual named Joshua in the scripture. He was anointed. I believe this city is anointed. That's why it's been under attack for so long. And only until we start to come together...
 I don't know. I don't want to apologize because my heart is different. And...
 But we got to get it right. Sin is missing the mark, and we have terribly missed that mark. You can see it. Fruit is identified by the fruit it produced. And I look at my city, and I'm looking at looting. I'm looking at people that are hurting, and it makes me want to go into tears. We are missing the mark. Jesus said...
 They praise me with their mouth, but their hearts are far from me. And so I just, I wonder, is there anything that we could do to address Brother Tad Brack? Is there anybody that can respond to Brother Bradley's comments from earlier?
 Yeah, Alderman Irvins, this is Tom. So I believe what you're discussing is the agencies that are closed right now, which Mr. Brantley has expressed frustration over, quite honestly, probably since the beginning of the pandemic.
 I can tell you that we've had discussions and advocacy to the state and to the federal government. There's just certain agencies they haven't fully opened up due to the pandemic and the concerns over it. I can tell you he has done a tremendous job.
 Mr. Brantley has done a tremendous job, not just with youth, but when he comes across adults who are in need of care, reaching out to our Human Services Department, either directly or through me, to ensure that they get services that they need during this global pandemic, because it's been far more difficult for many to access those services.
 Yes, we have spoken directly to Mr. Brantley and quite honestly appreciate his frustration. It's a frustration. I think, and not just Rockford's going through, but all of Illinois is going through in many areas. I know, I know, and I appreciate it. And it just sucks to helpless sometimes, you know, and I.
 And I really appreciate all the work that everybody is doing around this. I know this is something that none of us have ever gone through and is new to everybody. And, yeah, that was pretty much all. I really appreciate the opportunity, Your Honor. Yeah, thank you, Alderman. Any other officers, reports, Alderman Hoffman?
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to pretty much piggyback on what Bill was talking about, Mercy. I wanted to bring up one issue that I haven't heard addressed, and that is I hear that they'll just get an ambulance and they'll bring the patient over to the other hospital.
 but i want to remind people that a lot of the area where they're coming from they're low income and they don't have the transportation to get over there and those folks need their families just like everybody else needs their families and that's not an uber group they can't afford to uber all the way out there every time they need to see their family so we definitely need to keep those services on the west side
 Thank you other officers reports seeing none. Is there a motion to adjourn from the special city council meeting? We have a motion. Is there a second we have a motion? We have a second Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Is there any discussion online? Seeing no discussion online or inside council chambers clerk. Could you please call the roll jerky? jessarine Kirby hi urban
 Aye. Thompson, Kelly. Aye. Hoffman, Rose. Aye. Beach, Keonis, Hanley, McNeely, Chiarelli. Supporting aye is your honor. Thank you. Meeting is adjourned, and we will call to order the City of Rockford's strategic planning session scheduled for Monday, August 1st.