There we are, from Pastor Rebecca White-Newgren of Second First Church. I pray in the Christian tradition, please join me as you so desire. Let us pray. Gracious and loving God, I thank you for every public servant in this room. I pray that you would give them the courage, the energy, the love, the peace that they need to do this good work. I pray that you would give them the ability to disagree, the ability to tell the truth, and the ability to listen. Rain down your Holy Spirit into this place.
 so that our good city might be even better for every citizen after this meeting. In your name we pray. Amen. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logaman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Beck. Here. McNeely. Here. Chiarelli. Here. Eleven present. Here.
 Thank you, we have a forum this evening is there a motion to accept the journal for the City Council meeting held on August 20th 2018 we have a motion in a second any discussion Seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign Motion passes could I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on August 27th 2018 We got a motion in a second all those in favor say aye and
 Not all at once. Those opposed, same sign. Motion carries. Next up, we have proclamations.
 Whereas, suicide is the 10th leading cause of all deaths in the United States and the second leading cause of death among individuals the ages 10 and 24. And whereas, youth suicide is the fastest growing killer of youth today and kills three to six times more than homicide. And whereas, suicide claimed 45 lives in 2016 and 40 lives in Winnebago County.
 And whereas the issue of youth suicide and how to prevent it is of extreme importance and must be recognized as an immediate need for awareness and prevention. Whereas the stigma associated with mental illness and suicide works against suicide prevention by discouraging persons at risk from seeking life-saving help.
 and whereas statistics show that awareness, education, and action does save lives. Heightened awareness and education will encourage communities to develop strategies to prevent suicides, and whereas the yellow ribbon is recognized internationally as a symbol for awareness and prevention of suicide. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 9th through the 15th
 to be Yellow Ribbon Suicide Awareness and Prevention Week. Would you like to share some words? You know me, I always like to talk.
 Thank you for having us here tonight and each of us that stand up here accepts this proclamation in honor of our children who we've lost to suicide and for many families in our community who have also been affected by suicide. We all should know by now that suicide greatly affects our community and more needs to be done. In Winnebago County, we lose an average of 41 lives to suicide. Already this year, we've lost 33 lives.
 Research shows that for every one suicide death, there's at least 115 people directly affected. Suicide deaths in our community outnumber homicides on an average of 30% per year, and we should be talking and doing more to address these high numbers. We know, as I've mentioned before, as reported by Winnebago County Mental Health Advisory Committee, that mental health disorders have been moved from a critical situation to an emergency situation in our county, and more needs to be done.
 We have to speak up as a community, break down barriers, improve understanding, and raise expectations, and create opportunities and funding to improve mental health treatment and prevent suicide.
 I'd like to invite you guys all to a few things that are coming up over Suicide Prevention Week the next couple weeks as well. This Thursday on September 6th, Shatter Our Silence, which is a local nonprofit working to provide prevention education for young adults, is having an event at Rockford University at the Maddox Theater called Artists Out of the Ashes. This is a free event. Doors open at 5 p.m., and the program starts at 6. We hope you'll join us.
 Also, on September 12th, Vintage at 501 across the street, Blue Line, and Amakasi are donating 20% of their proceeds of all sales, including carryouts, to our foundation, the Tommy Corral Memorial Foundation. This money raised stays local and helps provide mental health first aid training as well as supportive services.
 by those affected by mental illness and suicide in our community. And then lastly, on Saturday, September 15th, we have our fourth annual Each Breath of Faith 5K Fun Run and 3K Family and Dog Walk at the YMCA Pavilion downtown.
 Registration activities start at 8 a.m. We have magician and lots of dog activities free giveaways Face painting and all sorts of fun for family and dogs the run and walk starts at 9 a.m And there's many free giveaways and drawings as well We hope that you'll join us to fight against suicide in our community and support mental health treatment. Thank you for letting us be here today So Xavier, can I have you just stay up here for one second? So I
 We started something new at the city over the last couple months, and one of the things that we started new is when I got elected immediately, I found a,
 our employees do amazing things inside their offices, at their desks, in their cubicles, but they also do amazing things outside of their work. And so what we wanted to do was find special ways that we could recognize employees who go above and beyond and make Rockfordians proud, not just as an organization, but as a city.
 And Xavier has won the Inspiring 815 Award in the last couple of weeks. But Xavier also won the Service Above Self Award from the Rotary, local downtown Rotary group. And I just want you to know you inspire me and I think you inspire all your coworkers as well for the tremendous work that you do. So on behalf of the city, we would like to provide you with a challenge coin recognizing your tremendous work. Thank you.
 Okay, next up, we're going to petitions and communications. Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one item. It's the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on September 12, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on September 24, 2018, referring that to the Codes and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you. Alderman Beck for financing personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, CIP Operations Manager, regarding an interagency agreement between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois regarding Illinois 2 and U.S. Bypass 20 interchange. Next is a memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the acceptance of
 for 1326 Chestnut Street and 715 Bluefield Street, which were listed for sale through the MLS. And third is the memorandum from George Davis, Executive Director of Human Services, regarding Rockford Park District Head Start lease renewal. These three items will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 thank you alderman beck next up we have our public speakers and public participation we have three speakers tonight and i would just remind all three speakers that you'll have three minutes there's microphones at both ends of the chamber uh the first public speaker we have this evening is prophet yusuf good evening ladies and gentlemen
 In the book of Numbers, the 23rd chapter, the 19th verse, it said, God is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should change his mind. Does he speak and then not act? Does he promise and not fulfill? What I want to speak about tonight, a poem about I'll never make it.
 They said, you'll never make it. And they thought that they were right. But I kept on plodding onward because I hope I might. They shook their heads in wonder that I lacked the sense to quit. But I held my chin up high and I didn't mind a bit. They said, you'll never make it as the problems multiply. But I had to make an effort and to know at least I tried.
 So I dug my heels in deeper, though sometimes my spirit lagged. And I showed them what was lightest, and the rest I sort of dragged. And I found to my amazement at the ending of the day that what they said I couldn't, I hadn't managed anyway. It only took three little words, Lord help me, and I ripped myself about. And all they said I'll never do, I did. Also...
 Didn't want to tell Mayor Morrissey this for a long time. And I'm getting this off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend, and I wish you many more. And God bless you. I also want to pay my respect for my good friend, Mr. Stockman. And I got you in prayer. Thank you, my good friend. God bless you. Thank you. Next speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Maritime, Macamara, Aldermen, Aldermens, and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proverbs 27, with all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention. Faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard and help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success.
 Be sure that in all your worries, planning, and organizing, don't forget the people who are helping you the most. The power of a party precinct committment can't be underestimated. The precinct committment is the person who is legally charged with getting out the votes on election day. If he does his job well, he will ring the doorbells of every household in the precinct and ask polite questions.
 to find out the party and other political views of every voter. That's called canvassing. Don't hate the messenger, but ask what we can do
 to work together in peace. I have been to a few fundraisers and they love to recognize everyone else at the event but the precinct committeemen. So we ask the question, why is that? The only time some of them do recognize the precinct committeemen is before election time. Then you wonder why the community does not trust politicians or some people that work for the system.
 They make many a promises that they do not keep. That's why a lot of people feel that they vote does not count. This was the first year that three different persons that was running for governor came out or family members called me. We had a track record of winning. 95% of the people we back up win. A lot of the people were asked to precinct, who will you vote for, Brother John? Thus, we vote for the person that's going to truly help us in the community, and if you not, we will vote for,
 for someone else next year. Why ask what our concerns are if you're not going to help us or use them against us? We're not always going to see eye to eye. Nevertheless, we can work out our difference in dialogue instead of violence.
 I can not only talk about what we are doing in the community, you can see what the Renewal Attorney Point have a strong relationship in the community. We can work together if you really care about our city. As one would ask Brother John, we can't stop you, but can we work together?
 So I said, why not? Just this past month, we had a few things that we have done. We have been to court just about every week. We have a family that was evicted, get reinstated. We have homeless youth. We engage with domestic violence every week. The mother that was arrested with three juveniles and one adult, she just had a baby. I know her well.
 Her daughter stays in a lot of trouble. What did the A's do? She let her daughter get herself caught up in. This very past weekend, it's Saturday through Monday, it rained all weekend. We was in the Labor Day Parade with the Renewal Turning Point Youth and Adults. Also, we had 815 Diversity Dance Team. This is our fifth year that we have been in the parade. We want to thank our sponsor for helping make this event happen. Saturday, we took the youth to a chicken dinner in the library. We took youth from
 Fairgrounds and Orton Keys who generally don't get along because they can't stand to look at each other. Thank you, Jim Thank you. I finished later. Our next public speaker is Jerry Del Santo. Mr. Mayor City Council I happen to be watching the FBI channel the other night This is all true These women who are working by themselves that stop and go in these gas stations are being raped throughout the country because for the simple reason they're by themselves the sexual predator is
 They wait until all the customers leave and then that's when they attack. So I think just Rockford should have an ordinance that these women and men should have at least two people working there and maybe they should even be armed for their own protection. Also, about a week, two weeks ago, I was at the police station on Broadway there to report a crime and the two police officers sitting there, they were like ignoring me and they told me the police station was closed.
 I couldn't believe it. How can the police station be closed? So I talked to these other two police officers and they heard my, what they said, and they said, well, the person that the crime was committed on, they have to be there in person, you know, so. So I, the person that the crime was committed on didn't want to, he was embarrassed, you know, so. I just thought I'd bring that up. How can the police station be closed in the afternoon broad daylight? So, thank you.
 Okay, next up under new committee reports. We have a planning and development and alderman rose So for uh, thank you your honor for new committee reports. Uh, we have only one item It's the committee recommends approval of the 2019 community services block grant community action plan The legal director shall prepare their appropriate appropriate ordinance. This item is referred to New committee reports. Thank you. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on item before us?
 alderman hervey and i apologize to mr davis i got his um update that he gave us today a little bit late but i did just want to clarify with regard to neighborhood network how is that going to be handled are we just going to it looks like the requirements are not as onerous as we we once believed so they will have some time to get the required numbers and registrations for the state of illinois
 Can we encumber funds or technically we can't encumber funds until now that we are aware that they don't yet have the. The necessary registration number through Sam. We have to wait until they get that before we can actually encumber funds, but.
 What we've indicated to their board is that any current invoices, we will hold until they actually get that registration confirmed. And then we can go forward with paying in terms of just the current year. But from a standpoint, until they get it, we can't really move forward either with the current year as far as paying invoices or next year. But hopefully they will have it soon.
 Okay, I guess what I'm concerned about is that we are holding those invoices and We received a missive from one the director explaining some things from their position I'm failing to understand how if the state implemented a new requirement in the middle of the year Normally there is some notice or that new requirement does not apply retroactively
 So if a person has performed work under a contract, under the conditions that were in place at the time, I'm just failing to see how the state can tell us that we cannot pay them for that work. I think, Alderman, that it's a matter of the potential risk to the city should we go forward until now that we are aware that they are not in compliance.
 The state administrator who- But I'm sorry, let me, they're not in compliance only because the state changed the regulation after we had contracted with them for services. The, actually the clarification that was provided by the state indicated that it's not a new requirement. They're indicating that while they have not enforced it consistently, that it's actually an requirement that's been in place since 2008.
 And so now they're saying that it was something that they wanted to remind us that it's a requirement. And we did have the impression that it was a new requirement when they brought it up. But in fact, when we followed up with them, they indicated that in fact it's not new. Well, I would hope that we would provide some support.
 to the CAP board to help them through these requirements as much as we can. We have, in fact, provided them. When we met with their board last week and went through this in some detail and provided them with the documents that we were aware of that are from the federal website, they had already started the process at that time. And so they were familiar with the steps they needed to take.
 and actually have just only recently submitted invoices to us, so it's not been a long delay for them to get paid. And our hope is that if they were able to finish the process fairly soon, that it would not really affect them for very long. Okay, thank you. Sir, further discussion on the item before us? Alderman Thompson-Kelly. On that same note, but wouldn't we have to amend our report?
 $4 for each one of the categories if we use. As far as the current plan, the work plan? Yes. Really, there's technically not a need for us to amend because we haven't specified
 at this point a certain dollar amount going to any organization. But as long as we have that program in our budget and we've indicated that the amount that we're putting in there is not a reduction from what we've had previously. We have the flexibility as to how we actually use those funds once the work plan itself is approved.
 They will not prevent us from contracting as long as whoever we're contracting with is eligible. But we have to make sure that we have a place in the plan that indicates that we would be funding neighborhood work. And then the amount is again unchanged. It's really more the question of how we will implement it. So the difference is that we have to make sure that if we put forth an organization as a vendor, we have to make sure that they meet the requirements at that time.
 Thank you. Further discussion? Seeing none, clerk will you please call the roll? Thunberg? Aye. Herbie? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Veach? Quinones? Beck? McNeely? Chiarelli? Eleven ayes. Excellent. The item passes. Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulation. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Several items this evening. The first is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish the traffic on 3rd Avenue to be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of 4th Street. Thus repealing the existing traffic control on 4th Street, stopping for 3rd Avenue. The second, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime except paratransit restriction on the west side of Auburn Court from 230 feet south of Auburn Road to 200 feet south of Auburn Road.
 The third committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the following items. Request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Court Street and Belmont Boulevard. Request to establish no parking anytime on the west side of Nelson Boulevard from Orange Street to Broadway. The third request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Winthrop Lane and Pioneer Drive.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the right away vacation request for 8XX Marcosano Street, it's a paper realities Swedish American hospital. The fifth, the committee recommends approval of the right away vacation request by the Rockford Housing Authority for Echo, Score and Ranger Streets within the Orton Keys development area.
 The sixth committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Housing Authority for the vacation request for the right of way portion of Echo Score and Ranger Streets within Orton Keys Development Area. The seventh committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit for a planned unit development for a funeral home and crematory.
 And B, the variation to site and landscape plans with deviations from regulations to keep site as is in an R1 single family zoning district at 200 North Johnston Avenue.
 Subject to conditions number eight committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for an outdoor store outdoor storage and equipment of firewood mulch and compost and Be the variation to increase fence height from four feet to six feet along Fultz Avenue for a slight site of scurrying fence and then light industrial zoning district at 2301 North Central Avenue
 Subject to conditions. Great job. Thank you. Do you want to repeat the first seven Alderman Durkee walked in? Oh, Alderman Durkee. Please. Please. Pick up the pace. Number. Attorney. No, he says no.
 Number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a landmark style freestanding sign from 48 square feet to 96 square feet. And a variation to increase the maximum allowed height of landmark style freestanding sign from eight feet.
 to 10.5 feet in a rural estate zoning district at 1902 Reed Farm Road, subject to conditions. Number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for an installation or an operation of a solar facility in the light industrial zoning district at 5444 11th Street, subject to conditions. Number 11, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for
 And a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 331 East State Street, subject to conditions, the 12th. I'm sorry. My paper says 331. I believe it's 331 East State Street. Number 12, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural in an R4 multifamily residential zoning district at 525 North 6th Street.
 Subject to conditions number 13 the committee recommends Sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum permitted number of wall signs from two to four And a variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage for an east wall sign from 240 square feet To 450 square feet in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3505 North bell school road subject to conditions so
 Number 14, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a variation to increase the maximum permitted number of wall signs for 2 to 4 in a C3 general zoning district at 815 Marcassano Drive, subject to conditions. Number 15, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's recommends approval for a special use permit for a mural in a C4 urban mixed zoning district at 134 North 1st Street.
 Subject to conditions number 16 the committee recommends reversing the zoning Board of Appeals denial For a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in a front yard from 4 feet To 6 feet along Crosby Street and an r1 single-family zoning district at 230 North London Avenue subject to conditions
 Number 17, the committee recommends sustaining LTAB's advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6690 East State Street.
 Subject to conditions number 18 the committee recommends sustaining the alt tabs approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating. The sale of package liquor in conjunction with a restaurant and a C4 zoning district at 219221 East 8th street. Subject to conditions number 19.
 The committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern nightclub and outdoor seating area and be the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern nightclub in a C4 zoning district at 511-513 East State Street, subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances on all 19 of those items, Your Honor. I place those up for passage. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Shirely. We have 19 items before us. Is there any discussion on any of the 19? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to...
 I'm sorry, Your Honor. There's 19 of them. Yeah, I actually marked it, and now I can't. Want us to come back to you? Yes, thank you. Okay. Is there other discussion on any of the 19? I believe, Your Honor, there's one that we need 10 votes on this evening. What number was that, Alderman Shirelli? I'm sorry, that's in the ordinance. We'll move on when we get to the ordinances. Any other discussion on the 19 before us now?
 All right, Alderman Harvey, we're back to you. No pressure. No, I'm sorry, Your Honor. Oh, I do remember. With regard to the vacation of Echo, Score, and Ranger Streets. What number? That is number five and number six. Okay. How does it, is there a waiting period? Is there any action that's required on the part of the city before the police department can start to enforce that? Director Meyer?
 Yeah, there are a couple of small items. The first is we need to complete the
 The actual legal description of the property that's being taken. It's not one strip, so it's a U. The other is that this item went to the RHA board in August for their preliminary approval, which we got, they meet again at the end of September to give authority for the chairman to execute. Okay. Those are the only two things. And then once we will schedule a closing on the property, and then we'll alert the
 the management company and the police that they can of the of the transfers they can begin enforcing their band notices and until that um occurs or after that occurs because we still have maintenance for the street would we put up signs basically saying no parking anytime or would that be the requirement of the housing authority my point in asking these things is i want to make sure that the police department can move forward quickly
 acting on the no parking restriction. We had met and then discussed putting up no parking. I'm not sure if that's been done. I don't recall, Jeremy, if that is taking place or not.
 card you know if the no parking signs have been placed i believe we put up fire lane signs okay temporarily but um after they take over the road we can work with them to get up the no parking signs okay thank you good question any other uh questions regarding the 19 items before us seeing none clerk will you please call the rule jerky um timber no one which one gotcha
 Frost. No on 69. Hervey. No on 18, being on 19. Thompson Kelly. Hoffman. Being on five and six and five. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirely. What a funny man.
 Items 1, 2, 13 ayes. Item number 3, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item 14, 12 ayes, 1 abstain. 5 and 6, 12 ayes, 1 abstain. 7, 8, 13 ayes. Item number 9, 12 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 10, 11, 12 abstain.
 13 ayes, items 13, 14, 12 ayes, one abstain. Item 15, 13 ayes, item 16, 12 ayes, one no. 17, 13 ayes, 18 and 19, 11 ayes, two nos. Just impressive. We'll move right along, all those items pass. We're moving on to finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. All right, and I have 20 items on my agenda.
 I'll do Alderman Shirley. No, actually we got three. First is the approval of the vouchers in the amount of $8,560,057.31. Next is the approval of the adoption of a new fund balance policy that requires the city to maintain an unassigned fund balance of 20% of the current year's appropriation. And item three, acceptance offer for a city-owned lot.
 located at 10 0 6 Kiswahki Street and the amount of $3,000 from John Thale. I place these three items up for passage. Okay we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on the three items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk will you please call the roll? Gerke, Logerman, Tunberg, Frost, Hervey, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones,
 Beck? Aye. McNeely? Shirely? Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. All items passed. Next up, we have officers' reports. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Your Honor. I am so excited to announce tonight that Laura Schneider will be our new CEO for Rockford Housing. Laura is a 20-year employee, and she worked her way up.
 The comment has been made that she's the first woman to ever hold this position, but I want everyone to know that she earned it. We put her through her paces, and she passed every single time. One of the things that she was up against is cleaning house. Out of 91 current employees, 30 were replaced.
 One is deceased, but 29 were replaced. They either left or they were given encouragement to go to another position, not NRHA. And then we've hired additional employees. So we now have 91, two-thirds of which are new employees.
 uh the other thing that she was able to accomplish is that she has now submitted the section 18 to get our residents out of brewing tin oaks it's right now looking like it's going to pass and our hope and goal is that we have everybody out by the end of the year hud would have liked them out by september 27th i don't know that we're going to meet that deadline but we would like them out by the end of the year
 The next thing that is in front of us is that we have $3.9 million to bring down Brewington Oaks, but it has been found to be filled with asbestos, so we are going to be working on creative ways to develop partners to get it down. We currently have an RFP out for a consultant to help us design and move forward on fairgrounds.
 And we all want everyone to know that we are going back to the original purpose of housing, which is to help people have clean, safe, affordable housing while working on reducing unemployment and maximizing self-sufficiency. And we also want it known that public housing is not to be the housing of last resort. We are going to be making sure that we have housing
 Good tenants in our housing and it was stressed that housing is not an entitlement It is a business with a social mission and we are going to be following those rules any other officers reports
 Alderman Herbland. Yes, Your Honor. I wanted to remind everyone that the decorative board up on South Main Street, the 10 and 1100 blocks of South Main Street, starts tomorrow at 10 a.m. It's going to run from 10 till 7. You can just come anytime you want. There is no minimum amount of time. I will be providing coffee and donuts that I did not bake. So,
 perfectly safe and that will be both tomorrow and Thursday so I do hope people can come give an hour whatever you can give it's not back-breaking work but we do need some people to provide some muscle so if you're out there please do do join us other reports
 Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. As the member from City Council on the Rockford Area Arts Council Board, I just wanted to remind everybody that this weekend
 We're bringing back an event that has been gone for a while, but at one time was a pretty big deal in Rockford. It's called BD is. And so now it's called BD is back. So it will be this weekend at BD Park. And we encourage people to come out, and it's going to have lots of fun activities and art stuff going on, and it's going to be a nice community event. It really will be. That's excellent. What's the times again? I was afraid you were going to ask me that. I'll find out. During the day. Okay.
 You can definitely look up on the Arts Council website, but I believe it starts at 10, but it may be a little bit earlier than that. 9 o'clock, George says. 9 to 6. 9 to 6. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Okay. Moving right along. Next up, we have appointments that were laid over. Motion to leave. Sorry. Okay.
 The appointment that we have before us is appointment to Community Action Agency Board, John Tack Brantley, to replace Cindy Green, term to expire April 2021. Is there a discussion on that appointment before us?
 item over this evening Motion a second. I believe what was laid over last time. So we'll have to go around right? You're on I just wanted to say the reason we're laying this over there several didn't want to have a chance to talk to mr Brantley understood. Thank you understood. So so we're not taking public comment. Mr. Brantley So we need a Dalton men to lay this item over. Okay any discussion on the item before us being laid over and
 Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. Item passes. We'll be laid over, I should say. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, but we do have items under codes and regulations. Alderman Chiarelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's the creation of an existing building task force. It's creating an existing building task force to be chaired by Alderman Timothy Durkee and some aldermen named Joe Chiarelli.
 that will be the vice chairman the task force will evaluate recommend and implement best practices and regulations for redevelopment of the 16 buildings place that up for passage excellent we have one item before us is there any further discussion on the one item alderman hervey just wanted to the existing buildings um i mean i know ancient buildings or century buildings are also included but is there a special focus or will there be a special focus on
 old buildings, those especially industrial but also residential structures that are more than 80 years old. That's arbitrary on my part, but I just want to know if there's going to be a focus on adaptive uses for those older buildings. Mr. Cagnone?
 Thank you, Your Honor. That was the intent for existing buildings, not specifically 80 years in age, but recognizing that we have a number of existing buildings as a community we'd like to see reinvested and redeveloped. And so that could include commercial, industrial, and residential as we worked with the task force.
 i will offer up my 118 year old home for for practice purposes if there's any experimentation needed excellent any other discussion on the one item before you for codes and regulations seeing none clerk will you please call the roll durkee logoman timber frost hervey thompson kelly kaufman rose beach quinones beck shirely
 12 ayes. Item passes. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Six items. The first is an award of bid for citywide street repairs. Number five, to William Charles Construction in the amount of $649,018.62. Six.
 Next is a change order for Citywide Street Repairs Group Number 1 to Rock Road Companies of Janesville for an additional amount of $57,309.81 and an amended total of $2,505,262.54.
 Next is the change order for citywide street repairs package number four to N track group for an additional amount of one hundred ninety five thousand dollars and an amended total of one million six hundred and thirty eight thousand six hundred fifty seven dollars and eighty five cents.
 The original amount of the contract was $1,443,657.85. The next is an award of RFP for Citywide Lighting Shroud Painting 2018 to JEM Painting and Contracting in the amount of $45,900.
 Next is the change order for the granular activated carbon replacement. It was originally awarded to Calgon Carbon Corporation of Moon Township, Pennsylvania on September 19, 2016. Price has increased from $1 per pound to $1.20 per pound. The estimated annual amount is $80,000.
 The final item is change order for citywide street repairs package number three to TCI concrete of Rockford Illinois for an additional amount of forty seven thousand four hundred dollars in an amended contract total of two million two million two hundred and sixty two thousand two hundred seventy eight dollars and sixty six cents Okay Now my notes say suspend rule 15 on this item. Is that yeah there we so
 So item number six that was read in. So before we vote on the other items, I would move that we suspend rule number 15 on item six. There's a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? And then I place the six items over passage. Now we have six items before us this evening. Is there any discussion on the six items before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. All six items are approved. Next up under new business and ordinances, we have planning and development. Alderman Rose. We only have one item. It's an ordinance approving the 2019 community services block grant community action plan. I put that up for approval. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before us?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Nogaman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. That item passes. Next up, we have Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. This time I only have 18 items, I believe.
 So I have an ordinance establishing the traffic on 3rd Avenue to be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of 4th Street, thus repealing an existing traffic control on 4th Street stopping for 3rd Avenue.
 An ordinance establishing a no parking anytime except paratransit restriction on the west side of Auburn Court, from 230 feet south of Auburn Road to 250 feet south of Auburn Road. An ordinance approving the right away vacation request for 8XX Marcosano Street. The fourth is an ordinance approving the right away vacation request by the Rockford Housing Authority for Echo, Score and Ranger Streets within the Orton Keys Development Area.
 The fifth is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for a vacation request for the right-of-way portion of Echo, Score, and Ranger Streets within the Orton Keys Development Area.
 the sixth is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit for a planned unit development for a funeral home and crematory and a variation to site and landscaping plans with deviations from regulations to keep sight as in at 200 north johnston avenue number seven is an ordinance approving a special use permit for outside storage and equipment of
 firewood mulch and compost and a variation to increase fence height from four feet to six feet along Foltz Avenue for a site obscuring fence
 at 2301 North Central Avenue. Number 8 is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a landmark-style freestanding sign from 48 square feet to 96 square feet and a variation to increase the maximum allowed height of a landmark-style freestanding sign from 8 feet to 10.5 feet at 1902 Reed Farm Road.
 Number nine is an ordinance approving the special use permit for the installation and operation of a solar facility at 5444 11th Street. Number ten is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a mural at 331 East State Street. Number 11 is an ordinance approving the special use permit for
 For a mural at 525 North 6th Street. Number 12 is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the maximum permitted number of wall signs from two to four. And a variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage.
 For the east wall sign from 240 square feet to 450 square feet at 3505 North Bell School Road. Number 13 is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the maximum permitted number of wall signs from two to four at 815 Marcassano Drive. Number 14 is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural at 134 North First Street.
 Number 15 is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the front yard from 4 feet to 6 feet along Crosby Street at 230 North London Avenue.
 Number 16 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating area It's 60 66 90 East State Street number 17 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating and sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a restaurant at 219 and 221 East State Street a
 Number 18 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern nightclub and outdoor seating area and sale of packaged liquor by the drink or sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern and nightclub at 511 and 513 East State Street place all 18 of those ordinances up the passage around Excellent. Thank them number 15. We need 10 votes on that I
 Alright, so is there any discussion on any of the 18 items before a Solomon Beach? Thank your honor Under new committee reports the items that are listed here Number 17 18 had a and B. So you could vote either one How do you separate over here on 17 and 18? director Myers
 So, both of those items passed the committee report. The ordinance reads to include both of those. So, you would need to make a motion to amend the proposed ordinance to exclude alcohol. Package sales, that would be on both items. Is there any other discussion? Alderman Frost. Respect to number 18, Mayor.
 I was curious if that business actually sold. I think when Mr. Capovell was here, it was anticipated that the business was going to sell, and I just didn't know if it did sell, whether they were going to continue to keep the name known as Jammers Pub Inc. DBA, the office. Mr. Framson. It is our understanding that they do not intend to change the name, that they intend to keep the operations as is. Any other discussion?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Staying on numbers. Logerman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. No objecting on any of these. Hervey. 17 and 8. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. And staying from 4 and 5. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Staying on 8. Cirelli.
 Items 1, 2, 12 ayes. Items 3, 4, 5, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. 6 and 7, 12 ayes. Item 8, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 9, 10, 11, 12, 12 ayes. Item 13, 14, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 15, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 16, 12 ayes. Items 17 and 18, 10 ayes, 2 nos. All of them pass.
 Thank you, Alderman Trelle. Next up, Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's an ordinance approving the offer for purchase and sale of the city-owned vacant lot at 1006 Kishwaukee Street for the amount of $3,000 from John Thale. Place it up for passage. Excellent. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on the item? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irby. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Excellent. Item passes. Alderman Chiarelli, do you have any news? I'm just joking. Is there a motion? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. All those opposed, have a wonderful night.