Toomber frost Herbie urban Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirely 14 present around. Thank you. Can I have a motion to a Thank you All those in favor of approving the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 21st 2017 please say aye
 Any opposed, please say aye. All right, that journal passes. Can I have a motion to approve the journal proceedings for, thank you. All those in favor of approving the journal proceedings for the strategic planning session held on August 26, 2017, please say aye. All those opposed? All right, both of those are approved. We have two proclamations this evening.
 First proclamation that we have this evening is for Go Gold Day. And if Randall Rapierre is here, all of you are more than welcome to come up. How are you? Great to meet you. How are you? Great to meet you. Good to see you. Thanks for being here. I'll see you then.
 Whereas next year roughly 16,000 families will find out that their child has cancer and sadly approximately 2,000 of those kids will die of their cancer. And whereas federal funding for childhood cancer research trials continues to decline and whereas K Cancer Baseball is a youth-run 501c3 nonprofit corporation working to make a difference in the lives of the state-line families that have a loved one battling childhood cancer.
 And whereas K Cancer Baseball works to increase awareness to childhood cancer issues, assist established area nonprofits and provide direct assistance to those in need. And whereas K Cancer Baseball will host Goat Gold Day for Childhood Cancer on September 9th at Rivet Stadium from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. to raise money to continue the fight against childhood cancer.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McTier, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 9th to be Go Gold Day. Would you like to share a few words?
 Hi, my name is Sean Asano. I'm a Youth Advisory Board member on K-Cancer Baseball, and I just want to share with you kind of what we do. So we work with local families in the Rockford area who are battling childhood cancer, and there is no pediatric oncology facility in the greater Rockford area, so all the treatment for them happens out of town. So we work with these families, and we try to support them and help them through their tough journey.
 And we just really wanted to thank the mayor and all the city council members for making this proclamation. And as he stated earlier, we're going to be having that event to kind of celebrate and give awareness to our childhood cancer teammates. Thank you all so much for helping us raise awareness to the struggles our families are facing. And, Mr. Mayor, I don't think we're going to take it easy on the Salud Rusalko game Saturday. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next up, we have a proclamation for Yellow Ribbon Suicide Awareness and Prevention Week. And Xavier Whitford will be accepting this.
 So Xavier is not only a standout city employee, but personally I've been humbled by the work that Xavier has done to bring suicide awareness to our entire community, especially in light of some personal difficult times. And I just can't thank you enough on behalf of the entire city for all the work that you have done. It's truly inspiring and humbling to see how much work you put into your day job and outside giving back to the community. So thank you.
 Whereas suicide is the tenth leading cause of all deaths in the United States and the second leading cause of death among individuals between the ages of 10 and 24. And whereas youth suicide is the fastest growing killer of our youth today and kills three to six times more than homicide. And whereas suicide claims 37 lives in 2015, 45 lives in 2016 in Winnebago County
 And whereas the issue of youth suicide and how to prevent it is of extreme importance and must be recognized as an immediate need for awareness and prevention. And whereas stigma associated with mental illness and suicide works against suicide prevention by discouraging persons at risk from seeking life-saving help. And whereas statistics show that awareness, education, and action does save lives.
 heightened awareness and education will encourage communities to develop strategies to prevent suicides. And whereas the yellow ribbon is recognized internationally as a symbol of awareness and prevention of suicide. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of September 10th through September 16th, 2017, to be Yellow Ribbon Suicide Awareness and Prevention Week. Would you like to share a few words? Yes.
 Well, as Mayor McNamara said, I have the honor of serving the city of Rockford as a central services manager, but I also have the honor of serving our city as a mental health and suicide prevention advocate. We accept this proclamation in honor of our children who we've lost to suicide from our community and for the many families in our community who have been affected by suicide loss.
 There is a perception amongst the general public that suicide isn't something that touches the broad community, but in reality it is an issue for many individuals from all walks of life, and Rockford community is no different.
 In Winnebago County, we lost 49 lives in 2014, 37 in 2015, and 45 lives in 2016 as a result of suicide. Suicide deaths in our community outnumber homicides by 36% in 2016. We should be talking and doing more to address these high numbers because suicide is preventable with the right education, support, and care. For each life lost in the community and around the world, there are family members affected, friends, and schools.
 This is affecting our community greatly, and as reported by the Winnebago County Mental Health Advisory Committee, mental health disorders have moved from critical situation to an emergency situation in our county. We have to speak up as a community, break down the barriers, improve understanding, and raise expectations to create opportunities and funding to improve mental health treatment and prevent suicide.
 The Tommy Corral Memorial Foundation, along with other organizations like Shatter Our Silence, NAMI of Northern Illinois, AFSP, and Mental Health Association of Rock River Valley, are all working locally to educate, support, and provide resources in our community. But we can't do it alone. So what can you do? You can help find ways to secure funding for mental health crisis response services and start treating mental health as important as physical health and education. Thank you.
 I'd like to invite you all to support Suicide Prevention Week next week by wearing your yellow ribbons and suicide pins. Also join us for a couple awareness events that are coming up locally on September 13th. Vintage at 501 and Blue Line are donating 20% of their proceeds for all sales, including carryout, to the Tommy Corral Memorial Foundation. This money helps to create teen support groups in our community and also pays for educational training and mental health first aid.
 September 24th at Anderson Gardens, there's the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention Out of Darkness Rockford Community Walk. And last year, there were over 300 people that were affected by suicide in attendance, and $23,000 was raised. This is a great community event to help provide hope and healing for those affected by suicide in our community. We hope that you join us in the fight against suicide in our community and support mental health treatment. Thank you. Applause
 Thank you. Moving on to petitions and communications, Dr. Durkee. Your Honor, there are two items. One is a memorandum from Nicholas O'Meara, the legal director, for a proposed amendment to the RDP development agreement and lease. That will be referred to planning and development. And the second item is a memorandum from Jennifer Yeager, community services director. This is regarding the 2018 community services block grant application. This will also be referred to planning and development.
 Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli for Codes and Regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. First item I have is a memorandum from La Pequeria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 3502 20th Street. The second memorandum is from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the review of closed session minutes. Third memorandum is from La Pequeria Vaughn, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the amendments to Chapter 4
 of the City of Rockford Ordinances, Dogs Running at Large. The fourth is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding proposed adoption of an anti-tethering ordinance. The fifth is a memorandum from Carrie Partridge, the City Attorney, regarding the amendment to the City Council Rule 16.
 The sixth is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held September 13, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs meeting on September 25, 2017. The seventh is a memorandum for LaFakiria Vaughan, this Assistant City Attorney regarding Lovest Park Boundary Agreement.
 The eighth is a memorandum from Nick Myers, Legal Director, regarding the amendments to raise the threshold for competitive bids. And the ninth and final memorandum is from Nick Myers, Legal Director, regarding the proposed adoption of welcoming ordinance. All of those will be referred to Codes of Rights, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Torelli.
 Next, we will have public speakers, and all public speakers will have three minutes to speak, and the first to speak is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the Book of Psalms, the 133rd chapter, the first verse, the psalmist said, How good and pleasant it is when brothers live together in unity. What I want to speak about tonight, hurricane rescue, shows how quickly division washed away. Tragic like the one unfolding in Texas. It's a tragedy.
 As rain continue to fall and flood water rise, have a way of peeling layers off people until only their humanity remains. Just the bare essence, the good stuff, strip away all the things that bog us down so much, things like faith or skin color, sexuality or political beliefs. A few days before Hurricane Harvey began unleashing its fury on the coast of Texas, Senator Tammy Duckworth, an Army combat veteran who lost both her legs in Iraq, released a statement reacting to a propaganda.
 a proposed ban on transgender men and women serving in the military. When I was bleeding to death, Black Hawk helicopter, after I was shot down, I didn't care if the American troops risking their lives to help save me were gay, straight, transgender, black, white, or brown. All that mattered was they didn't leave me behind. When it comes to life or death,
 Bias and bitterness tends to wash off rather quickly. So it has been in Houston and Rockport and Dickinson and other Texas cities and towns. You don't see videos of people squabbling, you see regular people becoming heroes and stranded people accepting help with tears and elation. A story by Matt Pierce of the Los Angeles Times described it this way, across Texas there were reports of citizens mobilizing with walkie-talkies, boats and boots to help poor people
 from the rising war. Social media lit up with a video posted by a reporter for KRK News in which a man from Texas City, Ned Jefferson, was prepared to deploy his small boat. I'm going to try to save some lives today, he said. That man is black.
 I don't imagine that made a lick of difference to the people he went on to help. There's a singularity about these folks. They're good people doing good things. And there isn't anything else about them or about the people they're rescuing that matters. It shouldn't take a tragedy to remind us how capable we are of cooperation. It shouldn't take a storm to wash away our prejudice and grief and get us to grasp hands. Hurricane Harvey...
 Brought out the worst of Mother Nature. But it also brought out the exceptional goodness of the American people. I've been wanting to tell Mayor Morrissey this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Next public speaker is Reverend Derek Shelby. Revelation chapter 12, verse 9 and 12.
 and the great dragon was cast out, the old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world. He was cast out into the earth and his angels was cast out with him. And now has come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. The devil comes down knowing that he hath but a short time. I think what we had in Rockford was a containment policy for black people. Economically,
 socially and politically. This is the work of Satan. This way past racism. 50 years of containing and raping our people. Black people. Especially our children. Especially the males. 50 years. This is satanic. These are men who are following Satan. You know how many... You know how much blood is on their souls?
 They will never be able to face Jesus. Ever. Not ever. Not five years. Not seven years. Not ten years. Fifty years of evil against human beings that has done nothing to them. And somebody going to tell me that's right? Don't stone a hundred million dollars. I figure that's on the low end from the west side. Now put the dime back. Now they're getting ready to open up another prison. They got the big alt switch.
 You know what that jail for us? We make up 14% of the Winnebago County population, 13.7. 50% of the black people in that prison down there is black. That means you targeted them. And that filthy man up there in that school district kicked out more black males than anybody else in five years. Containment policy. Those are, that's satanic. They're being ruled by Satan.
 Don't lost their souls. What they gonna tell Jesus? After all that evil. And they keep telling me I'm messed up. Jesus kicked him out of heaven and you done put him in your house. Raping black people for 50 years y'all. Now listen, I'm talking about September of 2017 backwards. Next public speaker is Mr. Jim Phelps.
 First of all, I want to thank the mayor personally for giving me a phone call this morning, along with city staff who talked to me just briefly. But I'm here again to talk about the same thing I talked last week about. On Wednesday I observed the same motorcyclist cross the sidewalk perpendicularly, not parallel with the sidewalk, on the sidewalk into his business in the 411 block 7th Street.
 And he was assisted by, I believe, his wife who brought out a plank and first she put it perpendicular across the curb and that wasn't going to work, he said. And so she put it lengthwise against the curb so he could jump the curb and drive straight into his business. I came across an old German saying that I forgot. I lived in Germany for a while so I'm kind of a Germanophile. But here it is.
 You have the choice that here can be paradise or it could be hell. It's a simple choice and I think that we can work together to make Rockford a better place. And I think that's what everyone wants here in this city is for things to become better. And I think it's the little things that we do and address and that we do incrementally will make Rockford a better place.
 So I'm very much hoping that we will have some sort of ad hoc committee meet and we will come up with some constructive ways to instruct Rockfordians to behave because this is just bad behavior simply. And again, I wish to thank the city for contacting me and I look forward to meeting with you folks and doing some important work here. Thank you. Next public speaker is Ms. Tana Vittori.
 Thank you so much, Mayor and Council Members, for allowing me to speak today. I'll be brief. I won't be terribly long. This is not the most comfortable thing for me to do. But after last week, I thought it was really pressing on me that I wanted to thank you for your consideration this evening for Strong State, and I also want to thank you deeply for your partnership.
 And I thought, when you look and you analyze a budget of $185,000 for Stroll, and I'm asking for 4.5%, I know that you consider that, you think about that, but it's a small piece of the pie, and maybe we could get it from somewhere else. But it resonated with me, and I think it's important that you know that you are very important to
 and that your support always matters. And it matters in this way. Every time sponsors ask us if the city is backing and supportive of Strong State, they want to know what your investment is, and I'm just telling you the true story.
 All the time when we deal with volunteers and we're encouraging them, we're taught, we have this big kickoff at the beginning of every strong state shift. Someone always asks who our partners are. Is the city partnering with us? And it's important to them. It's really important, and I can't replace that.
 and I just think that that's very, very important for you to know. And so today I was just going through some memories and some favorite photos of mine of Strollen State.
 Because five years ago, we had no idea what was going to happen, and that's just the truth. I wish I could claim it and say we had this big vision, we had this goal of 100,000 people coming downtown to enjoy Rockford, but the honest truth is we started just to decorate for the holidays. And very quickly, we saw that it was an opportunity to celebrate the holidays, to kick off the season, to try to establish traditions for families and friends to come together in the score of our city,
 that we would decorate and that we would have you and invite you to be involved and to celebrate with us. And I think that we've accomplished that. We just had no idea that it would be 75,000 people in four years. So I thank you for your continued partnership.
 I invite you to join us as part of the stroll parade again this year and just take in the moment and the celebration that it is and enjoy it as representative, as our alderman. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Next speaker is Mr. John Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all of the women and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 17, verses 27 and 28 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. First is best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause and to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something important to say.
 President Trump on Tuesday ordered an end to the Obama era executive actions that shield young undocumented immigrants from deportation, called the program an amnesty first approach, and urged Congress to replace it with legislation before the beginning of March the 5th. I really like what Senator McCain said. He said we must respect his authority and constitutional responsibility.
 We must, when we can, cooperate with him, McCain calls him, but we are not his subordinates. We don't answer to him. We answer to the American people. We must be diligent and discharge our responsibility to serve as check on his power, and we should value our identity as members of Congress more than our policy of affiliation.
 I want to go on to say that Donald Trump was not elected by the popular vote. He was elected by the
 the whatever the word for it. But he didn't win the popular vote. But what I want to bring here today, since I broke my glasses, I'm going to go freestyle, is that our elected officials here, you was elected not by your party or by your religious affiliation, but by the Constitutional right of all our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. If I use for fairgrounds, for example, the shooting that happened in fairgrounds where a young man was killed and
 start coming together, but they also had fear of being able to come outside. Even though they gave me an office in Fairgrounds, while I'm there, there's peace there, there's harmony. They say, John, we want you to live in Fairgrounds. No, I can't live in Fairgrounds. What happened this past weekend, we was in the Labor Day parade, 100 Strong came through. They had chicken and hot dogs. Beautiful Beginnings came through. They've been assisting. Other organizations have been coming through.
 But we have to do more than just hot dogs and blocks feeding the folks. We have to come with events, activities, events not just with me taking them to the library on the weekends, with me having them in parades, with me helping families that's in crisis with going to court, or with me helping families in the school system where they're having their kids having a hard time. We have half our kids.
 I shouldn't say it but I've got to say it, that's homeless, that live in fairgrounds, that live with relatives, that go into the school system, that have a hard time being in school, they need to be in school. We need more after school programs for our youth to deal with them and not only deal with them after school but deal with them on the weekend. We also need programs to deal with our single moms for a year.
 I can't one use the word Panther skill but but uh, but uh, uh life skills and with that being said since I broke my glasses I had to go freestyle But we need to work together because the police can't do this by themselves. They can't arrest their way out of crime They're going to take all of us working together. They see me, but they need to see all of us. Thank you Moving to new committee reports. We have uh alderman Shirely
 12th belief 12 committee reports this evening the first is a committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval For a modification of a special use permit to increase the number of passenger vehicles for sale from the maximum allowed 12 to 23 in a c3 zoning district at 1330 Kilburn Avenue with the revision to condition 2 to allow 23 vehicles and
 That's all subject to conditions. The second is a committee recommends the following regarding 236 North Phelps Avenue. Reversing the zoning board of appeals denial of a variation to increase the number of permitted wall signs from two to three. And sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a variation to increase the maximum square footage allowed for a menu board in the drive-through lane from 36 square feet to 38.40 square feet.
 and a C3 zoning district at 236 North Phelps Avenue, subject to conditions. The third is a committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and a C2 zoning district at 3121 North Rockton Avenue, subject to conditions.
 The fourth, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming facility in a C2 zoning district at 4225 Charles Street and 3840 Charles Street with the amendments to conditions 4 and 6 to reflect the sale of beer and wine only.
 subject conditions. The fifth is committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval of the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a recreational facility clubhouse and an RE zoning district at 1900 Reed Farm Road, subject to amended conditions for packaged beer and wine sales only and all packaged liquor sales cease at 10 p.m.
 The sixth committee report recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Wealthy Avenue from Greenwood Avenue to 50 feet.
 South of Greenwood Avenue the seventh the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish traffic control of Greenwood Avenue yielding for Rome Avenue the eighth the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval requiring all traffic on 16th Avenue be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of 16th Avenue and 18th Street Woodruff Avenue and
 thus repealing the existing stop sign control of 18th Street stopping for Woodrood Avenue. Ninth, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to repeal the existing no parking anytime except paratransit parking restriction on Grant Avenue from 120 feet south of Napoleon Street to 140 feet south of Napoleon Street. The tenth is the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval of no action be taken at the following items.
 The first is request to establish a three-way stop control at the intersection of Larson Avenue and Shenandoah Avenue, thus repealing the yield control. The second request of establish no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Park Terrace Drive from 300 feet north of Lombard Street to 380 feet north of Lombard Street.
 The 11th report recommends the proposed sale of a lot located at 6XX Chestnut Street and placing it up for sale for a minimum bid of $1 with preference to the adjacent owner-occupied property owners.
 The 12th, the committee recommends approving a proposed ordinance to revise the language in the City Rockford Code of Ordinances, type of protection required to meet the compliance – oh, I'm sorry, Your Honor, that item I am referring back to committee. I didn't even read my own notes, Your Honor. So number 12, I'm referring that back to committee. Yes. Thank you, Your Honor. Anything else you want to read in at all? Oh, there's a few more coming up later.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. With those up for passage, is there any further discussion on any of those items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 3, 14 ayes. Item number 4, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item number 5, 12 ayes, 2 noes. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11, 14 ayes.
 Thank you. So all those items pass. And Alderman John Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. Under C, item 1 is the vouchers in the amount of $6,518,996.57.
 Number two is recommending approval of an intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation District for installation of sanitary sewer and replacement water main on Rock Street for a total cost of $57,000. Three is recommending approval of the Early Head Start Child Care Special Needs Waiver Request, the requirement that 10% of enrolled children in Early Head Start Child Care program have identified special needs for the 2016-2017 school year.
 Four is recommending approval of the Head Start, Early Head Start request for a waiver of $400,000 for a reduction in the required amount of non-federal share for the grant period April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017. Five is recommending approval of the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership Grant
 Request for a waiver of $133,000 for a reduction in the required amount of non-federal share match requirement for the grant period of July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017. Item 6 is recommending approval of the fine reduction request.
 for 126 South 1st Street from $9,000 to $1,000. And item 7 is recommending approval of the fine reduction request. Reduce the fine for 416 North Chicago Avenue to $0. And I'll replace these seven items up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion on any of those seven items? Alderman Hervey. A question with regard to the Head Start waivers. I seem to remember that they used to be,
 Under two hundred thousand one seems to have doubled is that a function of the grant or are we getting less? In-kind support so that the amount of the waiver has increased mr. Davis I
 The amount of the in-kind support has actually been gradually rising and really we've come closer to the required amount. The part of the thing that has occurred though is that as we've added early Head Start to the mix, the required amount has gone up.
 So it seems that, you know, we're falling further behind, but it's just that the amount that we have to raise is increased significantly when we added early Head Start. And the other, is there any indication that the federal, I don't know if this falls under health and human services, is there any indication that they may reduce their budget in some way such that this liability could become a reality? Okay.
 There is not any indication at this point. The waiver is at the discretion of the Secretary of Health and Human Services on an annual basis and in the way that the legislation is written for the authorization of Head Start, it has to be applied for annually.
 annually, but they have the discretion at any point to decide if they will grant a waiver based on the conditions that we put forth. But because of the fact that it's in the legislation, the only way for that obligation to be reduced permanently would be a change in the actual legislation itself. And then this is one of the aldermen, newer alderman called and asked me these questions. So the other part is, has the city ever had any financial
 financial obligation because of a waiver request was not approved? We have not. This has been a process over the past seven to eight years that we have yet to have any real issue with receiving a waiver. I will not say that it's not a risk, it is, but we've yet to experience an issue with being able to get a waiver granted. Thank you. Is there further discussion?
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 14 ayes. Item number 7, 11 ayes, 3 noes. I believe Alderman Herbie had her hand up.
 Alderman Hervey. I had meant to vote no on item 7 and I think we can adjust that just this once. Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. The new vote will be 10 ayes, 4 noes. Item still passes. Thank you. So all items pass. Thank you. Moving on to officers reports. I just want to, I just have a big thank you to the fire department for the work that they did over this past weekend. They had a
 A fire that caused three people to be injured, a grandmother, a mother and an infant. And just it shows the work that our fire department does on a daily basis. And just really appreciate, Chief, the efforts of you and your entire department. I'll open up the floor for other officers' reports.
 Alderman Harvey. Thank you your honor. A couple things. Thank you for your participation at our fifth ward meeting and also the Pilgrim Baptist Church for sponsoring it. A good time was had by all, especially your cupcakes in honor of my 62nd, so that was nice. The other thing I just wanted to mention this is kind of in response to some of the comments about Stroll on State and the city's contribution. I would love for our
 public relations or communications department one day to make note of some of the many things that the city does on behalf of the the region as a whole One thing I think a lot of people don't know is that under Mabus? That's the mutual alarm box system with our Fire department if no one is available for volunteer fire departments Rockford fire Stations answer those calls
 out in other areas and we don't get reimbursed for it. We don't get paid for it. That's fire only not ambulance. So when we talk about some of the protections, Rockford as a city council, we've always supported major events. One, because they are in the city of Rockford, but two, because
 It's a commitment to provide entertainment and social events for families and for residents. I would love for people to ask more frequently about those things on a county and regional basis with regard to contributions. Rockford is a hub for Winnebago County, and it should be because of its size. But I would just ask that sometimes people
 give more recognition to the fact that Rockford does a lot to support the region as a whole. Thank you. Certainly. I think you bring up a good point. We need to do a better job of telling our story and the impact that we have throughout the area. And one other thing I wanted to comment on is,
 It was an issue that came up with the Winnebago County Sheriff's Department and a couple of officers, not authorized, but nonetheless handing out calling cards that had pictures of a picture of a skull surrounded by razor wire and some other things. I got a number of, not just phone calls, but people stopping me in the grocery store and over the holiday weekend.
 not appreciative but happy that finally Sheriff Caruana decided to take that emblem down from their roll call unit. But interestingly, people asking me whether they thought it was contradictory to the efforts that Chief O'Shea and the Rockford Police Department are trying to implement within the city of Rockford. And I think it is. But I'm glad he took it down. And I hope
 we can start to have some more conversations. I have a feeling Chief O'Shea does. From the chase policy to the Terry stops to some very aggressive tactics that are being used, particularly within what are called high-crime areas. I live in one, and I know they're high-crime areas.
 But that doesn't mean that everybody within those areas is a criminal or should be treated like one or should be suspected of criminal activity just because of where we reside. That is especially true of of Terry stops and saturation patrols where innocent individuals are stopped and really frightened. People pointing a gun at you or having a gun surrounding your car, especially frightening to teenagers.
 on their way home from work or school or a football game or a basketball game. We need to have a conversation about those tactics. It doesn't bother a lot of people because they don't perceive their child ever being subjected to that kind of treatment and to that kind of fear. But it's counterproductive to what we're trying to do. At the same time, I've seen Winnebago County Sheriff's Department chasing people dangerously through an urban area
 I've seen our police department get a license plate number and go arrest the miscreants at home a couple hours later. No danger, no crashes, same result. And I wish we could come up, not wish, I want to ask that we come up with a more unified effort. Rockford is within Winnebago County, so contrary to what some people have asked, we cannot bar the Winnebago County Sheriff.
 from activity within the city of Rockford. But I think what we can do is try to come up with a unified and cohesive policy that isn't counterproductive, one working against the other. So that's my request on behalf of Chief O'Shea and that Sheriff Caruana join in that, and especially with regard to the culture that I believe he's creating within the Winnebago County Sheriff's Department. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to, keeping with the Police Department, but on a lighter note, I'd like for the police chief to announce the ribbon-cutting for tomorrow.
 Tomorrow we will open up District 1 police station out on West State Avon area. At 1 o'clock we'll have the ribbon cutting, and we invite everybody to come out if they can. Come out, tour the building, see the new digs. I know Assistant Deputy Chief Carla Redd is ecstatic. She will be vacating the current premises. So if people all want to come out, it would be fantastic. We'd love to see the public out there. Thank you. And I just want to echo, I agree with Alderman Hervey in her comments that she made. Thank you.
 Thank you. And Alderman Rose? I got a few comments, so it might be a little bit, but I just wanted to applaud Gary Caruana on a few things that maybe go maybe unseen. Recently in an article in the Register Star, the article,
 Winnebago County Board is looking at making cuts to his department and one board member had made note that let's just let Rockford off the hook and not really offer those services.
 I wanted to send a reminder to them that a reduction in service to Winnebago County Sheriff's Department should be equitable, continue to represent the constituents of Rockford, which by and large is the largest city in Winnebago County. So I think Gary's doing a great job, and...
 Some people may not agree with his tactics. I can tell you the residents in my ward actually really don't mind the saturation patrols and the reason is because they see an active police presence when they're doing it. They feel safe because they know that the police are out and about and going after active criminals.
 I've gotten a lot of feedback from residents saying, you know what, I saw the sheriff doing a saturation patrol. It feels good to...
 be in this ward and know that he's doing that work here for us. So I just wanted to talk a little bit about that. I wanted to also thank a few people who have done a lot of work on a neighborhood event coming up this weekend, our neighborhood picnic, Vicki Fogle, Maria Saavedra, Cindy Hall, Jenny Kaczynski, and our very own Third Presbyterian Church for...
 planning this event and it's for area residents of the North End Square Neighborhood Association. So they've done a lot of work. My final statement, it's a little long but I wanted to read it. I prepared it two days ago and I just wanted to go ahead and share this with the residents of Rockford but also just in general our city.
 When I woke up the other day on Sunday, I grabbed a Rockford Register Star. As I opened up the paper on the opinion page, I noticed an interesting article that seemed to be quite inappropriate for a Labor Day celebration. My view, another Labor Day without labor reform. Written by anti-union organization Center for Union Facts Executive Director Richard Berman.
 If you know anything about Richard Berman, he rubs elbows with the anti-union corporation Walmart and offered millions to ensure Scott Walker could continue his attacks on Wisconsin families. Berman was once quoted for saying, Walmart seems to be, by and large, a good place to work. I think every kid probably dreams about working at Walmart. Just kidding. My qualms towards Berman are evident as a union member, but that is not why I'm making my statement.
 Rockford has been divided and it's passed off for good paying union jobs in the city, and it continues to see this division. However, union brothers and sisters are making gains. Our city council now has three current union members, two teachers from the REA, and one carpenter from the local 792. Another member is a former AFSCME union member. I was born into a fourth generation union family.
 When I ran for office, it was the union support of voters that entrusted me to support better wages and health care for families in Northern Illinois. When our governor talks about companies leaving and our population decline due to high state taxes, I cringe. Our state's population isn't leaving over high taxes and unions. They're leaving Illinois because they lack opportunity in education and in the workforce.
 our unions provide support to education, trades, and workforce development. It is not only irresponsible to print the kind of opinions of Richard Berman on a date we celebrate our ability to join unions, it's distasteful. In 1919, the Progressive Farmers and Household Union of America, a black farmers organization, was attacked, leaving over 100 dead in Elaine, Arizona.
 In 1932, five workers were killed outside the Ford plant in Dearborn, Michigan. In 1937, union protesters were massacred in Chicago when ten steel workers were killed. More recently, in 1979, massacres took place in Greensboro, North Carolina, when five workers were attacked along racial lines by Ku Klux Klan members.
 In today's world, the Rockford Register Star has an obligation to its readers to print stories and opinions that reflect its population, not that of big corporations or billionaires. I ask the Register Star to look at its labor history, and I hope that next year you print a story that celebrates Labor Day, not attacks it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Further officers reports? Alderman Quinones? Yes, I'd like to announce that there will be a free pet fair, health fair, Blackhawk Court Saturday, September 9th from 2 to 4. They'll be offering free vaccines, rabies shots, county tags, and microchips for your pets. So, it'll be serving zip codes 04, 02, and 01.
 So everybody bring your pet down and receive your free vaccines. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to back up Bill on what he just said about the saturation patrols. My neighborhood loves them, and we are very appreciative of everything that has happened because of them. So I also thank the sheriff for putting the saturation patrols in and strongly support them.
 thank you and alderman beefs do you have your hand up yes i just want to mention that this thursday night three three of our neighborhood groups palmwood alpine ridge and californ park hills neighborhood will be meeting together for their monthly meeting it's going to be held at the first covenant church in their fellowship hall 5 30 for coffee 6 o'clock meeting they're going to focus on
 on home security. There will be a couple vendors there to display and talk about that for home security. And also John Guile will be the featured speaker talking about Eyes on the Street. And we'd like to urge all that's interested to come and join us then. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to say thank you to our community policing officer in the third ward, part of the third ward, Ashley Calhoun, for
 taking on an initiative that we came up with. And I'd like to thank you for her hard work in getting the police involved in that. Secondly, the mayor and I would like to invite everyone for Saturday for the K-Cancer baseball game out at Rivet Stadium. There will be a lot of activities for kids.
 The mayor and I are going to make mincemeat of those opposing us at the plate. And so we really look forward to that. Third, I would be remiss when you mention, Mayor, about getting our story out there on a local level. I was taking care of that on a national level the other day with yet another guest from out of town. This is a friend of a friend.
 was in from Memphis on business, calling on a major Rockford company. And so we went out for a jog in the morning along the beautiful Rock River. It was his first time in Rockford. Had nothing but good to say about our morning jog along that great path we have. And of all people that we ran into was our own city attorney, Nicholas Meyer. So...
 out for a morning jog. So I do say if there was anybody, anybody in the... Wait, wait, someone saw Nicholas Meyer running? Yeah.
 He did make sure I mentioned that. Okay. Yeah. So if in one of our lovely neighborhoods, in this case Churchill's Grove neighborhood of Rockford, if there was anybody early morning feeling seismic activity, that was just Nick and I taking a morning jog in the neighborhood. So thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you.
 My wife's concerned that I'm going to blind everyone on Saturday with my white life. Does anyone else? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I hope everyone had a great weekend. I also would like to join in with the Chief and Alderman Thompson-Kelly in inviting the community out to the opening of the West 8th Street Police Station.
 I'm hoping and praying for the very best for that station and certainly for the areas that it's going to serve. I know that we have some great officers that will be manning that location, and I look forward to continuing to work with them. I also would like to recognize...
 The young lady that put together the free pet health fair, she had contacted me last month, I believe it was, and she was so excited about putting this together. So I'm happy for her that she was able to put it together. I think it's a great concept.
 for the community, especially the zip code areas that she's serving. And I wish them the very best on their day. I do have concern regarding the Sheriff Department. I read the articles. I received questions and concerns as well.
 I'm glad that the sheriff took upon himself to ask that they no longer pass the cards out with that emblem on it. I understand from the article in the paper that it was not official. I'm not sure why they will feel comfortable enough to use a card that's not official in an official capacity. I'm also concerned whether or not the
 officers in the Sheriff Department truly understand why individuals would be concerned, frustrated, and upset, and or upset for the use of that. And certainly within certain communities, it brings up rather negative thoughts, historical thoughts. So I'm glad that they did get rid of it, but I do hope that
 the sheriff will consider having some type of training for his officers regarding the use of that and why it was taken down. And finally, I also agree with Alderman Rose regarding the unions. I also thought that that was kind of strange for the newspaper to print that editorial for Labor Day
 given the history of the unions, and especially the history of the unions, the history of females, the history of African Americans, they go hand in hand. There's no question about...
 the fact that the union had an opening doors for females as well as African Americans. So I hope, along with Alderman Rose, that next time the newspaper will be more considerate. Thank you. Thank you. Seeing no other officers' reports, we will move on.
 Moving on to unfinished business, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. The first is the approval of the fine reduction request at 626 South 3rd Street to $0.00. And the second is a committee approval of the lien waiver request of $1,348.50 for 60XX Cranbrook Road to $0.00. I place those two items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on these items?
 You're on finance. Unfinished business. Page five. Roman numeral seven, Alderman Thompson Kelly. My question is in regards to the waiver request financially. I think from Alderman Miller.
 I think there was a request for information in regards to the hardship for, is there a hardship for the financial, for the waiver for DeZero? My understanding is that this morning at about 10 a.m., we had not heard back from the neighborhood association.
 Thank you. Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, the Neighborhood Association did send an e-mail to Thaddeus Mack. Microphone. He did send a – there was an e-mail that went to staff. I don't know when it went. I read it. The – we're – you know, we bloviated on this issue forever and wasted – when people look at government, they look at discussion of this as craziness.
 liens, fines, tickets, assessments. It's money that the government is extracting from people for doing either something wrong or to correct behavior or to promote it. Where this comes from and where the individual for hardship comes from is, again, this is an area of vacant property that was noted by a newly formed homeowner association.
 One of the neighbors who was responsible for this brought it to the new homeowners association that they had been negligent in doing this. The leader of the homeowners association actually checked on it, went and actually the leader of the homeowners association paid the back taxes on the property on his own with no guarantee that he was going to get any of the money back. None. He had another guy help him.
 Let's roll this scenario to where it could have gone. There was this property could have been sold for back taxes or otherwise seized for back taxes because nobody would pay it. And who are you going to get it from? Homeowners Association. I don't know how you do that. So now the county or the city has a piece of property that's going to lay there, and then you're going to have to mow it anyhow. And then you're going to have to take care of it. So there's an added cost to that.
 So these guys on their own decided to, one guy decided to pay the fine with no regard whether he was going to get reimbursed or not. And so they assumed that responsibility, and so did the neighborhood. If you're going to fine somebody, at least fine them, lean them, or do something for bad behavior. You're actually going to fine these people for good behavior. So they took care of this property, and...
 And now are just asking for a little bit of help after they've paid the taxes. The irony is there's vacant properties down the street that they mow, saving the city from doing it. And so now, where's the bad behavior in any of that? So from a philosophical point of view, what are we doing? We're going to fine people for acting right in their neighborhood.
 It makes no sense to me. I don't care if it's a lien. I don't care if it's a ticket. I don't care if it's a fine. We just passed two, we approved two fine reductions for people who probably let their property stand in blight. But we pass these fines so that we can execute a sale. So we reward bad behavior.
 So, I just find it fascinating that we beat this to death and I frankly don't understand it. What they should have done really is they should have just let the property go, let the county seize it for back taxes and then we're ready to go back. So these folks did the responsible thing, they stepped up and took care of it, they take care of their neighborhood, they mow,
 properties in the area. They're not getting away with anything. There's $1,300 fine in that neighborhood. They just paid their second installment in many of those houses and properties that are paying five-figure property taxes. These people aren't getting away with anything. They're asking for a little help. And so again, are we leaning them and enforcing a lien because of bad behavior or can we help these folks out for stepping up and doing the right thing? And those are the discretions we do as a City Council.
 So we can tilt at windmills and we can do all that kind of stuff. We can bloviate over these things, which has been goofy, quite frankly. Or we can look philosophically, see what we're trying to do as a city council, work with neighbors, work with community groups. A guy steps up and pays a fine on his own without any hope of getting a return. I mean, that's a neighborhood you'd like.
 So I'm in favor of supporting this neighborhood group, this individual who stepped up. I'm sorry that somehow the e-mail didn't get transmitted forward. So I would ask your support in reducing or eliminating this fine. Okay. So we have a couple of additional discussion points. We will go with Alderman Rose, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, then Alderman Hervey.
 Well, you know, I don't see this as a fine or a lien or anything. I see it as services rendered by the city. Any person who, you know, would have had the city, who would have came in and done the lawn mowing, would have had this, quote-unquote, fine on them. And you're right, they are being responsible for that.
 part of the homeowners association, but again, it's their property. They should be responsible for it. Those costs of the mowing that the city had done would have been on them anyway. I mean, they would have had to maintain their property. And so, to me, to say that we're rewarding or we're hurting a homeowners association for the fact that that's what they're supposed to do is take care of the property they own,
 It just kind of seems ridiculous. When I asked for documents by the city to seek out any kind of financial hardship, none have been received, and it's been weeks to receive those documents, and none have been received. And to me, again, that kind of leaves it open to debate, but
 Their responsibility is to take care of that property, and granted, are they stepping up to the plate? Yeah, but that's their responsibility. That's how I see it. I don't have any homeowners associations where I live. We don't have enough money to have a homeowners association in my neighborhood, so that's where I'm coming from. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kellett? Thank you.
 First of all, I guess I want to say this to my constituents that are listening that go through the community cutting grass, cleaning up the neighborhood, doing the cleanups that we do four or five times a year, being responsible in our community. I would never say as a representative of this city to just let it go and don't do anything. I think that's very poor and bad advice that any of us would give to any of our constituents.
 feel that.
 When I'm faced with a senior that has been deemed by the city, taking it to zero, even on a fixed income, is not necessary because you've got staff's time involved. When you receive staff's time, legal time, the police time involved, it's a great deal of dollars. And we're going through a budget crisis, looking at everything that we can do to cut costs and increase revenue. And I'm not doing it for revenue. I think...
 Alderman Durkee, you just convinced me how to vote on this by your comments. But I do want to say to my constituents that I do appreciate you taking the initiative, being responsible in the community in which you serve. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Herbert? Yeah. When we started looking at waiving these fines to get some of these properties back out, one of the principles that we chose as a city council, staff didn't tell us to do it,
 was that we would look at the fines and reduce those fines, looking at when they were accrued and whether the current owner was a part of that, whether they were getting money for the property or whether it was just almost the bank getting it off their books.
 But that for those instances in which we had attached a lien because the city had actually paid contractors out of taxpayer dollars. Yes, taxpayers pay for staff. All of it is money spent in some way. But liens are actual monies that we pay out because we have to hire a contractor to go board up the house, fix up the property, mow the grass.
 And that was our principle that we set as a city council. So if we want to waiver on that or say, well, we're going to take it on a case-by-case basis, I have no problem with that. But if we're going to take it on a case-by-case basis, then we're going to change that principle and do it based on the merits of all of the claims that come before us. I had one sitting right here that is a gentleman whose property is being taken from him by the government under eminent domain.
 His fines should, his liens, we're going to take the fines to zero. But all I said was if we're going to waive liens for one group, then certainly in this case we should waive them. If we're going to start taking liens into consideration and basically telling taxpayers you're going to pay for some people's property maintenance but not others, I have no problem with that. But it has to be equitable. And I find that...
 almost insulting that we would use the amount of property taxes that someone pays as part of the standard as to whether they should be given special consideration. They pay more in property taxes because their property is worth more. So are we going to have a standard in Rockford where if you're in a wealthier area and you pay more in property taxes, you get special consideration? If so, let's put that on the floor too. But under any other circumstance,
 If we want to take these on a case-by-case basis, I have no problem with that. But let's say so, so everybody out there knows that they can bring their case and plead their case, as opposed to staff telling them you have to pay the mowing leads or other hard costs. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beck? Yeah, I just...
 And we've never considered whether there's a hardship or not before. We've determined whether to waive the fees or the liens or whatever. And I don't think that we want to get into the business of having our staff check the
 income tax returns and, you know, where do we draw the line? Who, you know, what's the level of poverty or wealth where you'd either pay your fine or not pay your fine? I think we have to base it on the merit of the case. I think this also brings out the fact that we were talking about this earlier today. We really need a very clear policy going forward
 to help us make decisions that we can be consistent and that guide us. And then if somebody wants to challenge the policy, then it would be something that would come to council for consideration. But otherwise, it would lay out the clear guidelines of when we would and wouldn't waive either fees, liens, or whatever. But I'm certainly in support of this waiver based on the arguments laid out by Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you. Is there further, Alderman Irvins? I don't have much to say, but as I grew up, I was always told, you know, if you do for one, you do for all. You don't come home with, you know, food for one child and don't feed the other. I mean, I understand that there, it is really unclear, you know, how we go about approaching this. I mean, there's very unique situations, and I believe that I,
 until we get some consistency and clarity on how we handle this, I'm not sure how we should go about attacking this because, I mean, it's almost playing favorites and that's never fair. So that's all I got to say. Thank you. Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We need to address how we handle this issue.
 This, to me, I know that Alderman Durkee made some comments that would offend some of us here, but before he even made his comments, I had decided at the committee level to support this because I have been over the years in a situation where I have fought for my one or more of my constituents to receive a waiver.
 and I thought that my reasoning was justified. It may not have been the same reason as Alderman Durkee's, but certainly I requested it. The council did pass it. So for me tonight, it's not a question of what Alderman Durkee said or what the property owners or association or whatever did. For me, it's a matter of getting our ordinance right.
 For me, it's a matter of us standing by our ordinance. And no matter which constituent comes to us and asks for that variance, for us to keep in mind this particular argument. So tonight, I will be supporting this. I'm not going to look at it as...
 one side versus the other side, wealth versus poverty, or any, on any level like that. I look at it as us doing our job by getting the ordinance straight and following it. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Irving. Sorry, I'll make this brief as well.
 Like it's been said, there's comments that could be taken offensive. But I do know that we as a city, I believe that we make it difficult for people to want to come here and develop and start something new, a fresh business. Because of, I mean, I'm speaking from a business that's
 Over on kishwaukee you know this this building has been vacant for over 25 years and they just purchased it in Right away. They're saying the city is saying you need to do this this and this within 30 days and there's so many other financial burdens that came with this property you know I'm I
 I'm not quite sure how to go on this situation tonight because, you know, on one hand you have a resident that is contributing to the city and trying to make it better and doing what they feel is right and asking for a little bit of help according to Alderman Durkee.
 investing in their property and paying taxes. And so I kind of don't know where to go. Is there a lean call role? Is there a middle place, a gray area? I'll have the legal director answer that question. Not as far as I know yet. We'll work on that. Thank you. Any further discussion on either of the items in front of us?
 Alderman Rose. I just want to quickly point out that the reason I asked for some kind of financial document or activity from them was to see if there was some kind of hardship that they're facing. This would have been something I would have supported if they could have proven that. I'm 100% for better neighborhood standards. I'm 100% for making our neighborhoods better. What I'm not for is bailing out people that
 potentially are in a good financial situation that just don't want to pay a lien or a fine. What I'll say, and I'll continue to now have more discussion over this, I think the number one thing that is clear is we need to have a policy over it. So I can promise everyone here that we will have a policy presented and a clarifying policy to all aldermen. So we'll first go with Frost, then Thunberg, then Durkee.
 That's fine. I'm just going to agree with Alderman Beck. I mean, with all due respect, Alderman Rose.
 We don't have a policy in place, nor should we ever, where we're looking at the, either the ability to play, the ability to pay, or a financial hardship in a situation like this. Whether someone, it's a matter really of what's practical, and that's why we do in fact as a council, we do get, in fact earlier tonight we voted on two, one on South First Street and one on North Chicago Avenue. And we weren't asking what's the criteria, whether they have the ability to pay. In this particular case,
 There isn't actually a specific individual that has to pay. I believe it is a homeowner association, so everyone pays their dues. They're not real liquid with respect to probably what they have in their dues. If they had to have to pay a lien, then they'd probably have to just, as an association, have a special assessment to raise their dues to pay the fine. I guess in all practicalities, they probably could. I have no idea what their dues are for their association.
 I live in a neighborhood that does have a homeowner association and people, we raise the dues from $100 to $125, people get all upset about it. Again, people will pay it, but it's not really a matter of whether or not you have the financial ability to pay. We really need to look at, I agree, we can develop a policy down the road, but in this particular case,
 You have people, and I think Alderman Durkee, I don't mean to speak for him, but was being facetious when he said, well, they could have just walked away, never paid it, had the lien continue to go, had someone buy the property, and then lost the property of the homeowner association on this corner. Again, I know where the property is. It's on a corner. I would have had no idea this property was ever owned by a homeowner association. It's a vacant corner.
 at Mulford and Springbrook Road that's been vacant for years and is unutilized land. So I don't want to get into whether it's fair or not that they have to pay to mow it. If someone new took over and they didn't know or there was no knowledge passed down, then I understand the point of matters that it was in fact cut by the city and there was in fact a problem.
 money expended. However, I think in this particular case what the information has been presented This is our job to vote on. I would call it for a vote, but I would support the waiver under the circumstances Thank you. Thank you Alderman Tumber. Thank you mayor. I along with Alderman Beck Do stress we need to Work on this to set it more in stone. I would caution the City Council as being a
 more of an activist council in a sense that I would not like to see us dwell on class warfare. And, you know, I think that, you know, it's a slippery slope when we start going that way. So I'll be supporting this in support of Alderman Durkee. Thank you. Alderman Durkee.
 Alderman Durkee, did you have your hand up? Oh, yeah. Just a matter of... Will you pull down the mic? Oh, I'm sorry. A matter of clarification, this is a brand-new group. They have no... That's been reconstituted, so they have no history with this property. And...
 So, like I said, it's been recently discovered. They have no budget. So I don't know when that will go into place. But, again, these are a brand-new reconstituted sort of community group that just discovered this. So that's a matter of clarification. Thank you. Alderman Tumor? Yeah, I'm sorry. I'd like to add also, you know, in my comments to – I was listening to my fine colleague over here whisper –
 over here so it kind of side tracked me. I was going to say in relation to becoming an activist council we are going to have some very very long council meetings if we become that way. I understand each of us have passion regarding subjects but if someone states a fact that people
 Some people pay a lot in property taxes. That's a fact. Some people in Rockford pay a heck of a lot in property taxes. I'm not saying give them special privileges, but if someone can take offense to a fact that someone pays a lot of property taxes, we're going to have a lot of long meetings. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Or I'll... Call the vote.
 Alderman McGinney, call the question. Please call the roll. Call the roll. Turkey. Logaman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. On both. Irvins. On both. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Items 1 and 2, 9 ayes, 5 noes.
 Okay, so both of those items passed. That was fun. We're going to move on. The appointments have been laid over until our next council meeting. Alderman Durkee, under planning and development, under motions and resolutions, you're up. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 9A, it's a proposed demolition of 16 properties through the abandoned property program using approved demolition ranking systems. I place this up for passage. Is there any discussion on this item?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk please call the roll. Aye. Aye. Thank you. So that item passes. And I apologize. Something came up that I failed to mention during officers' reports. We had a pretty unique situation happen for the City of Rockford and for a particular family who's part of the City of Rockford. Officer James Nechampasic,
 or aka known as Champ because of that last name, him and his wife, he was working on Saturday evening, Sunday morning, and at 5.42 in the morning, he left earlier than that to go home, pick up his wife, bring her to the hospital to have their new baby boy. Their baby boy was delivered at 5.42 a.m. at Alpine Inn
 By our own officer and little baby Leo is healthy as can be mom is as healthy as can be and I don't think the police department's taking that type of phone call for service But we have an extraordinary police department and officer James. I'll call them the champ should be Recognized for that and I just want to make sure all of the aldermen the city residents who are still watching with us right now are well aware of the
 what an extraordinary effort that is. So moving on to codes and regulations, Alderman Shrill. Thank you, Your Honor. Congratulations to the family.
 The first item I have is transfer of city-owned properties to RCI Blight Reduction Program. Proposed properties, 2022 Auburn Street, 944 North Winnebago Street, and 1428 Fairview Avenue. The second item, the Stroll-On State, scheduled for Saturday, November 25, 2017, in downtown Rockford from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. Place those two items up for passage. Is there discussion on any of those items? No.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Fortinia? Aye. Geronimo? Thank you. This item is passed unanimously.
 Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have 12 items. First is award a bid for 2017 Demolition Program Group number 3 to Northern Illinois Service Company in the amount of $76,887, funding sources of Community Development Block Grant and sanitation funds. Next, we have an award a bid for Coronado Building Roof Replacement to H.C. Anderson Roofing in the amount of $91,820.
 Funding Sources Property Fund. Next is award of bid for diesel-generated atomic power of Wilmington, Delaware in the amount of $62,890. Funding Sources Central Supply Capital Fund. Next is award of non-competitive bid for anti-icing liquid to SNI Solutions of Geneseo, Illinois for $1.10 per gallon, an average annual expenditure of $45,000. Funding Sources Street Division Operating Budget. Next is award of bid for citywide crack sealing
 to Complete Asphalt Service Company at Pittsfield, Illinois, in the amount of $80,000 for 54,000 pounds, funding sources, sales tax. Next is the award of bid for Citywide Street Repair's Group Number 5 to William Charles Construction,
 of Loves Park in the amount of $1,624,926.40, funding source of sales tax, next to the award of bid for well number 45, water treatment plant addition to Vissering Construction Company of Street, Illinois, in the amount of $3,270,000, funding source of the water replacement improvement account, next to the award of bid for Salter Avenue water main replacement to N-Track, group of Loves Park,
 in the amount of $460,049.89, funding sources water replacement improvement account. Next is the award of bid for 2017 fast track demolition group number two to Northern Illinois service in the amount of $32,590 and a J.D. mark in the amount of $28,455 for the
 Let's see, and the funding source is the Community Development Block Grant. Next is award a bid for BRP RCI Demolition Package Number 4 to Northern Illinois Service of Rockford in the amount of $65,552.00.
 And that's blight reduction program funds as the funding source. And then we have an engineering agreement for well number 45, water treatment plant addition, for the construction engineering to Fair Graham of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $217,300, funding source is water replacement improvement account. And then finally, we have the contract with Humana Insurance for mobile integrated health. I place those 12 items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on those 12?
 With regard to number seven, I had a question for Public Works. I just looked at the aerial map and I didn't know whether or not this particular well is the same volume or capacity as needed now based upon it looks like there's quite a bit of vacant land and some buildings around there that are I don't think being utilized like they were back in the day. I just didn't know if it's something that serves such a large area that we need the volume and capacity or not.
 Good question. Mr. Stockman? I'm sorry, Alderman. Could you repeat the question? I'm having a difficult time hearing over here. Sure. Not in its entirety, just...
 Briefly. I can do that. He mentioned, tell me if I'm wrong, Alderman Frost had a question if that well needs the same capacity that it once did. In his review of the aerial, there was a great amount of vacant land and some industrial buildings that he believes that are not as used as they once were. Is that accurate, Alderman Frost? Thank you. Mr. Stockman, what do you think? Thank you, Mayor.
 Over the years, because of the number of wells that we have decommissioned, yes, we still need the capacity from this well. Just a little history on the property, the old Stanley Street pumping station, which is that large building that you see at Tay and Cedar Street, is scheduled for demolition next year. And the filtration site will be attached to the existing new facility, which is kind of mid-block next to the reservoir. Thank you. Any further discussion on any of the other items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Lopeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. And under new business, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First, I have an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit to increase the number of passenger vehicles
 for sale at 1326 and 1330 Kilburn Avenue with a revision to the condition 2 to allow 23 vehicles. The second is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the number of permitted wall signs from 2 to 3 at 236 North Phelps Avenue.
 The third is an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum square footage, allow for a menu board and the drive-through lane from 36 square feet to 38.40 square feet, the same location at 236 North Phelps Avenue. Fourth is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station at 3121 North Rockton Avenue. Fifth is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station at 3121 North Rockton Avenue. Fifth is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas
 Sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming facility at 3840 Charles Street with amendments to conditions 4 and 6 to reflect the sale of beer and wine only.
 The sixth is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the recreational facility clubhouse at 1900 Reeve Farm Road. The 7, 8, 9, and 10, Your Honor, and 11, or I'm sorry, 7, 8, 9, and 10 are traffic-related items. If anyone would like me to read those, I will. No one's hand went up, Your Honor, so...
 Number 11 is an ordinance approving the proposed sale of a lot located at 6XX Chestnut Street and placing it up for sale in a minimum bid of $1, in reference to the adjacent owner of occupied property owners. And number 12, I have referred that back to committee, Your Honor, so we will not be hearing that one tonight. Place those items up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Is there any discussion on any of those 11 items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Logeman.
 Toonberg, aye. Frost, Hervey. On number two and number six. Irvins, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Aye. McNeely, Shirely. Item number one, 14 ayes. Item number two, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item three and four, 14 ayes. Item number five, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Item number six, 12 ayes, 2 noes.
 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11, 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. The first is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Reclamation District for installation of sanitary sewer and replacement of water main on Rock Street for a total cost of $57,000. Next is an ordinance approving the Early Head Start Child Care Special Needs Waiver Request.
 requirement that 10% of enrolled children in Early Head Start Child Care Program have identified special needs for the 2016-2017 school year. Next is an ordinance approving the Head Start, Early Head Start request for a waiver of $400,000 for a reduction in the required amount of non-federal share for the grant period April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017. And then four is an ordinance approving the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership grant
 request for a waiver of $133,000 for a reduction in the required amount of non-federal share match requirement for the grant period of July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017. Place those four items up for passage. Thank you. Is there discussion on any of those four items? Seeing no discussion, clerk will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirely 14 eyes excellent before we leave tonight this alderman Shirely have anything like that Yes, your honor Unfortunately, I have to make this motion tonight. So it says following the end of new business Please move to convene in closed session. So I move to convene in closed session your honor pending litigation. I
 for pending litigation matters thank you clerk will you please call the roll Logan to burn right Irving's testing Hoffman rose beach to known as surely 13 I think that's what I was looking for
 Everybody say bye.