Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely. 11 present. Thank you. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council Meeting held on May 31, 2022? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed say aye. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council Meeting held on June 21, 2022? Aye. We have a motion. We have two seconds, so we're good. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, we have no proclamations this evening, so we'll move to petitions and communications, and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Under planning and development committee item number one memorandum from Jeremy Carter traffic and development engineer regarding an application and acceptance for the Illinois transportation enhancement program grant for Riverwalk design engineering and This item is referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item 2 is the memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic and Development Engineer, regarding an application and acceptance for Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program grant for High Crust Road Multi-Use Path. That is also referred to Planning and Development Committee. Then item three is the memorandum from Mitch leather B Street and transportation superintendent Regarding an application and acceptance of the urban and community forestry grant this also is referred to Planning and Development Committee Thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina Thank you your honor for the code and regulation committee item number one is A memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the second quarter report from April to June of 2022 on liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 5798 Logistics Parkway referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number three, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager of permits and special events regarding upcoming special events, which include the Tour de North End, Bourbon, Brisket and Blues, Rockford Public Library 150th anniversary celebration, Festival of lights and stroll on state referred to code and regulation committee item for the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on September 14th, 2022. And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on September 26, 2022 referred to code a regulation committee. Item 5 memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding a request for modification to existing liquor license For additional video gaming terminal at 44 12 Manchester Drive referred to quarter regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you Next we'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost There's actually six matters on the agenda and all be referred to the finance personnel committee Kyle Saunders public works director Regarding the intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Davis Junction for snow plowing services, number two is a memorandum from Jamie Rotwater, superintendent, regarding an agreement between the City of Rockford and Illinois Railway LLC for a railroad pipe crossing license to put a water main under an Illinois Railway track on 15th Avenue near the intersection with Kishwaukee Street. Number three is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, City Attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement for the exchange of services with Rockford Public School District for Rockford 5-0 program. Number four is a memorandum from John Wuch, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a fine reduction request for 1803 South 8th Street. Number five is a memorandum again from John Wuch, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a fine reduction request for 1726 Picnic Avenue. And lastly, number six... Is a bid opening for the sale of city-owned property located at 4XX Short Horseman Street. Looks like it's from someone with the last name. I'm going to actually open the envelope now. It is from Seneca Meeks of 4312 Rockaway Court, Lust Park, Illinois. And the amount of the offer amount is $2,100 for the purchase of this property. And I have a check for 10% of that for $210.00. In this manner also before the clients the person on the I'm gonna give the check For a cook right now, so I don't have any more possession of it. There you go. Thank you Thank you. Next we'll go to how well we've already done public speaker. So we'll move to new committee reports I don't have anything under planning and development committee. So we'll move to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina Thank You Your Honor for the code and regulation committee we have 10 items number one committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from r1 single family residential zoning district i2 General Industrial Zoning District at 402 to 528 Martin Road 33 31 and 33 33 Foley Street 4x X to 517 Berry Road 4x X to 440 Berry Road 32 13 32 X X and 32 15 Blair Street 3306 and 33 12 Blair Street 315 Kennan Road and 33 19 Lyle Street for River Sanitation and Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number two the committee recommends denial for a special use permit for a planned unit development for a pet grooming facility dog bar new vehicle storage building new parking lot in a bar building in an r3 multifamily residential zoning district at 6588 Springbrook Road William Caldwell applicant thus reversing the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of approval item 3 The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for religious assembly and associated activities, and a variation to reduce the required front yard setback along Preston Street from 25 feet to 15 feet, and a variation to reduce the required front yard setback along Waveland Avenue from 25 feet to 15 feet in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 602 South Pierpont Avenue and 7XX Waveland Avenue. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval of a license for the sale of liquor by the drink, Class E, in conjunction with the restaurant and outdoor seating area in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 5494 East State Street. Jose Chavez, Mexico Classical Grill. Thank you. RESTAURANT APPLICANT SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM 5. COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS SUSTAINING THE LIQUOR AND TOBACCO ADVISORY BOARD APPROVAL OF THE CONTINUED OPERATION UNDER A CLASS A LICENSE FOR THE SALE OF LIQUOR BY DRINK IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE RESTAURANT OUTDOOR SEATING AREA UNDER NEW OWNERSHIP PURSUANT TO AN 80% STOCK PURCHASE IN A C3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 6860 SPRING CREEK ROAD. LAURA RENNER, JOSEPH OF BARBADOS. SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS. Committee recommends the same the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval of a license for the sale of beer and wine by the drink class NGWB in conjunction with the restaurant and outdoor seating area in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1710 rural street number three Stacey night Kevin night to the pocket Lydia's subject conditions a legal director shall the appropriate ordinance number seven the committee recommends sustaining the liquor tobacco advisory before and the continued operation under a class a license for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar video gaming terminals outdoor seating area and the continued sale of packaged liquor under a class pkg in conjunction with the bar video gaming terminals and outdoor seating pursuant to 100 stock purchase in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 2401 and 2402 latham street pauline teresa kowalski latham tap Is the applicant subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Number 8, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for. A license for the sale of tobacco products with the gas station and convenience store and a license for the sale of packaged liquor class PKG in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 320 North Mulford Road. I will not try to knock that. Patel will say that. The gas station applicant subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Number nine, the committee recommends approval. Thank you. of the proposed amendment to the City of Rockford annexation policy. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And finally, item 10, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 17-1, Weed Control, and Section 17-2, Weed Cutting Leans. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. So we have 10 items before us. Is there any discussion? Alderman Rose? Yeah, just for items 9 and 10, I was wondering if staff could just give a brief recommendation on those changes and what those items are for the public. I can take number 9, Alderman Rose. This is the annexation policies of the city. They have not been updated since 1993. So we went through those and we updated a lot of the things that we're currently – using now in terms of annexation agreements and petitions and creating strategies and providing ultimate boundaries and Updating the boundary agreements that we have with the adjacent communities to the city. So that's all part of this document and director Myers Sure, this is just an adjustment to our code of ordinances to clarify or make more clear I guess that when we have property owners that are routinely not taking care of their properties requiring city staff to go inspect them and then mow them that we can seek to enforce our ordinance not only through cutting the property and leaning it but also seeking a fine In addition to that we have we have dozens of property owners each year I guess we call repeat offenders that essentially wait for city staff to either tell them to to cut the their weeds or they wait for city staff to cut the weeds for them and then just pay off the lien at the end of the year or sometimes not at all the problem is that you know going through that process you have a neighborhood that has to deal with a lot that's long you know long grass for four weeks on end while we go through our week running process so our current Our current process allows us to find those folks, but we're just making it more clear when we send them notices that even if they cut their grass, they're still subject to a fine to try to put a stop to someone's behavior. So it's basically to address the repeat offenders for those parts. We have the ability to do it right now, but this is clarifying in our ordinance to make it crystal clear that we can do it. Thank you. Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Adding a fine... With this change in the ordinance are we sending notices out to? individuals current Property owners, so we're not we're not adding a fine. We already can find this is just clarifying the way the ordinance reads right now It's not as clear as it could be We can we can seek to levy fines in addition to liens so we're just making that more clear for our enforcement officers and our I property owners we've still follow our normal process which would be to you know if we get a report of high grass or weeds to still give people notice that they need to comply with their ordinance it's just this is gonna make sure that they don't understand that if they do not comply and don't cut it in addition to a lien administrative fee that they can also be set it to the fine so that's new it's not they already are this is making it more clear the way our ordinance currently reads it's not as easy to understand Okay, I just want to make sure that people are informed whether they they follow the ordinance or not that they're informed that There could be additional money charged to them We'll make sure in our notice if it's not already in there that it certainly will be in there moving forward any other odd discussions Were you finished elder woman McNeely? I did have a question regarding the annexation. Thank you on the annexation I'm not sure how it was determined that But I know that there's at least one location in my ward that I would like to know how they handled it Which location do you want to discuss? on West State near Farm and fleet mr. Capavilla. Do you have information that you can provide to us about how it was handled at West? West State near farm and fleet for the annexation for the item that's up this evening for the annexation policy adjustments. I It doesn't really affect the farm and fleet, but it does put an emphasis on the West State Street corridor and annexing a lot of the properties that are unincorporated and putting those under the city's control so we can basically clean. I always like to say clean the area up a little bit, and hopefully one of these days we're going to connect the dots with a few businesses out there that already have pre-annexations, including farm and fleet, and they'll become part of the city. Okay, great. Thanks. Thanks. Any other discussion on the 10 items? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple on item 9. The notice in the document, the notice for annexation is one week. I don't have a draft for an amendment, but any thoughts on maybe moving that to a month, moving that back a little bit? Just an observation. I don't know if that is reasonable to do or not. Or annexations now there's I guess there's a notice of hearing for one week prior, right? I'm not he's stating that in the policy that he's reading this evening with the really annexation policy Yeah, there's it almost reads like an ordinance and then it talks about notification of the property owners One week prior to a hearing or something. I guess that is I And can you speak in the microphone so everyone can hear you? There's 900 pages. Oh, no. It's just bad. I mean, there's a number of different annexation types, right, where we have voluntary annexations for water, voluntary annexations for development. There's also a surround annexations. Most of those require at least a 30-day notice to the other taxing bodies as well as to the owner that you may be referencing, you know, when it comes prior, comes up to finance, or when it comes to codes and regs committee, making sure that they're provided a notice in advance, which could be one week, but that shouldn't be the first notice that they would have received, right? Because really it's the surroundment annexations that I think you would be referencing because the other ones are voluntary and the property owner would already be aware of the process. Okay, I don't know if you could provide some clarification on that then you're 100% correct. Mr Cain that's I don't know. It has to do with the surrounding stations for the city Yeah, and I don't know what I don't know what I read but one of the and I can't find it but the phrase jumped out at me that it was a one-week notice and I don't know. I'll read it again. We can make sure that we look back at that, that we provide ample notification. It's not our intent to get too far ahead of ourselves, understanding that's lots of times there are services that need to be provided as well in coordination with the other departments. So it's not as if something takes place at that quick of a time frame. One more question. Very simple, just a quick one. Quick answer why the struggle all this time with Belvedere tickets boundary 1842 right no idea Any other discussion other woman fronted thank you regarding item number one Could you just share a little bit about the plans for that area? I Where the zoning is being changed for the four River Sanitation Authority all their imprinted That's they've acquired a lot of homes over there. They're expanding their facility. They're building a new maintenance garage and relocating other current facilities from up in the Chesney Park and Consolidating everything into one campus down in kishwaukee street. Thank you any other discussion on the ten items before you Clerk could you please call the roll turkey? Hi, okay, man. Oh Toomer frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenonas Meeks McNeely items 1 through 7 13 eyes item number 8 12 eyes 1 no items 9 and 10 13 eyes Thank you. Next. We'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and alderman frost. Thank you. I'm a Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers the amount of $6,985,596.25 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on August 22, 2022. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the first addendum to the intergovernmental agreement for the lease of Fairgrounds Park Daycare Center between Head Start and the Rockford Park District. The addendum provides the city some protection of federal interest and gives the park district the right to review and approve any major projects at the Pace Center at Fairgrounds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 3. The Committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for the City-State Railroad Agreement for railway highway grade crossing improvements at Sandy Hollow and Illinois Railroad tracks. The agreement outlines the funding of the estimated $533,264.22 project. The funding of the project is 90% federal, 0% railroad, and 10% city, which is $53,326.45. The city's portion will be paid for using the motor fuel tax funds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these three items before you. Thank you. There's three items before us. Is there any discussions? Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you, Mayor. On item number two, with the addendum to the agreement, Was there increase in any funds paid? What's the question an item number two was there a increase in funds? paid for the use of their grounds for this Agreement dr. Parkin no there was not an increase in funds. Okay. Thank you any further questions alderwoman McNeil Woman printing and then alderman Beach Thank you. Regarding item number three for the railroad, could you give us an estimated completion time? Director Saunders? Alderwoman Prunty, we are cautiously optimistic that the railroad is still going to mobilize to Sandy Hollow yet this year to make those improvements. It has taken some time and a lot of pressure from our engineering team. We've... Communicate with both I dot as well as the ICC to kind of push the railroad to move as quickly as possible So we are cautiously optimistic. They're gonna be out there this year It could linger into the spring of next but obviously we're trying to push as hard as we can. Thank you alderman Beach Thank Your Honor that On number two it says the addendum provides the city some protection of federal interests and I'm not sure I understand what that would mean I Someone can help me understand what that means director. Pardon sure alderman Beach in the prior Agreement with the Rockford Park District there were no terms in the agreement that specifically indicated That the federal interests were being protected because of course this lease is in existence for head starts So the items purchased the upgrades made to the building etc all utilized on head start federal funds and And so with this amount of improvement being made on the property for this playground We needed to ensure that there that the federal interests were being protected in the event that the lease ends that the park district does Something different that the financial investment that the federal government made into this space They would be able to recoup and there were no terms like that in the prior agreement Okay, so the word some means all and Not all, but essentially what's recovered depends on where we are in the lease, where the timing of any potential breach to the agreement might happen, or if it ends early, that's contingent upon what interest the government would be looking to recover. So it depends on the spectrum of time. It may depend on what the recovery looks like, depending on when it happens. And that would be our responsibility then if there was some Something to be recovered that we would recover it. Yes, we don't know what that Well again the the purpose of the agreement is that the park districts agreeing that they will That they will provide And pay out on that interest to the government. So whatever they owe So this again the purpose of the of the agreement is not that we have to seek it from the Park District But that they're willing to give it to us if for some reason this agreement is cancelled in advance Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion older woman McNeely. Thank you. So Head start and fairgrounds. Do you anticipate? moving the Head start to another location in the near future. No, we do not. Thank you any other questions clerk Will you please call the roll turkey? logoman timber frost Torino printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's Meeks McNeely 13 ice excellent next we'll go to officers reports any council members have reports alderman rose I Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to update residents of the Ninth Ward. On September 22nd at Halstead Road Baptist Church, Hal Sprague from Trajectory Energy will be presenting. Idea around a energy project in the ninth ward and is inviting local residents to come and hear about that opportunity for us and also share how Trajectory is looking to give back to the community with that project. So again, that's September 22nd at Holstead Road Baptist Church at 6 p.m Thank you. Alderwoman Trina. Oh thank you your honor uh quickly i met with the bloomers today at looker and i had a really good time they were fun and i don't ever cook but i cooked today i'm feeling feeling good about myself because i brought some peach cobblers and they liked it So that's good. It's a tough crowd you get some of the older seniors, you know They the season ain't gotta be right and they said it was right. So I did a good job So just shout out to my boomers, huh? Did you bring any for us? I mean we would be able to tell you if they went through it. They took some home So they didn't leave any so I just enjoy my time there So I just want to give a shout out to them but I also just want to just give a reminder to my residents of my war that I am having a ward meeting and Thursday, September 29th, it will be at Providence Baptist Church, 2209 Clifton Avenue. And it starts at 530, and it's typically held in the basement. So again, September 29th, Thursday, 530, Providence, 2209 Clifton Avenue. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reports? Alderwoman Prunty. Thank you. THANK YOU AGAIN. JUST WANTED TO THANK THE CITY AND THE CONVENTIONS BUREAU FOR THE FORWARD FOR FUNDS. WE WERE ABLE TO HAVE ANOTHER EVENT AT JEFFERSON BRIDGE. WE HAD A CORN BOIL. I WANT TO THANK OFFICER MATT WILLIAMS. for boiling the corn, I don't know if he's in here, but it was really, really nice. The food was good and it was really nice to get with those folks from both the city and the county. So thank you. Just wanted to say that we will be having another Forward for Fun event. It will be a block party on September 17th at Kinrock Park. from 2 to 4, and that is between Brook Road. It's behind the Methodist Church. So it will be at Kenrod Park. And then on October 6th at 630, we will have our ward meeting at Plumbers and Pipefitters, which is on Boeing Drive. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reports? Moving on, we have appointments laid over. We have appointment of Sam Castry to the Human Resources Appeals Board for the three-year term expiring August 2025. We have appointment of Jenny Weckerle to the Human Resources Appeals Board for a three-year term expiring August 2025. An appointment of Rashonda Williams to the Human Resources Appeals Board for the three-year term expiring August 2025. Is there any discussion on those three? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logoman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Harunty. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 12 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Next we'll go to motions and resolutions. We'll go to planning and development committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Under motions and resolutions, I move to first amend item eight, I'm sorry, I move to amend item A, number one, TO STATE THAT THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE GRANT APPLICATION, AUTHORIZATION, AND AWARD ACCEPTANCE, BRIDGE INVESTMENT PROGRAM, BIP, 15th AVENUE BRIDGE RECONSTRUCTION IN THE AMOUNT OF $10 MILLION, $30,000 the cost match for this application is 20% or two million five hundred and seven thousand five hundred dollars and the funding source is the motor fuel Tax funds do I have a motion to approve the amendment? Thank you. I have a motion. I have a second. I is there any discussion on that motion second uh director myers so um we'll make sure if i can get that from alderman meeks i'll make copies they should have had copies made for council we can do that right now so we have a motion in a second am i i'm on um so we're on motions and resolutions which is roman numeral h and alderwoman meeks had to make a an amendment due to an error in our drafting of the agenda okay and so it is really a 10 million dollars towards the bridge improvements uh with a 2.5 million dollar match oh okay all right okay thank you is there any discussion on that um we have a motion in a second is there any discussion on just amending it so it now has accurate uh numbers Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you. You're welcome. Was there a change in the amount? Yes. Because under the paper I have, there was no amount here. So was there an increase? Yes. So, yes, her motion and her amendment was it'll be $10 million of BIP funding and $2.5 million as a local match. That was the amendment. So, yes, a large difference in the numbers that's in front of you. Thank you. No problem. Is there any other discussion just on the amendment? All those in favor of amending this item, as read by Alderwoman Meek, say aye. Those opposed? OKAY. SO NOW WE HAVE ONE ITEM BEFORE YOU. ANOTHER ONE, MIX, DO YOU WANT TO READ THAT SECOND ITEM? YEAH. SO THE SECOND ITEM, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION AND AWARD ACCEPTANCE FOR THE DCEO TOURISM ATTRACTIONS AND FESTIVALS GRANT PROGRAM. THIS IS THE DAVIS PARK MASTER PLAN PHASE I IMPLEMENTATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $500,000. NOW READ IN THOSE ITEMS. Okay, so now we have two items before you one has been amended And so we have two items before you is there any discussion on? Those two items all those in favor say aye those opposed Okay, both items pass next we'll move to code and regulation committee, you know all the woman Torino I don't believe I have any items. Oh, I'm sorry. No you don't I'm so sorry Next we'll move to finance and personnel committee And alderman frost. Thank you. I Number one is the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Colorado Avenue drainage ditch Repairs the DPI construction in the amount of forty four thousand seven hundred and twelve dollars The project is estimated to be completed by September 16 2022. The funding source is the CIP general fund 2. The Committee recommends approving the award of bid for the Saratoga Storm Sewer Repair Testentium Company of Rockford in the amount of $30,753.35. The project is estimated to be completed by October 14, 2022. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. number three the committee recommends approval award of bid for the central garage backup generator to miller engineering in the amount of 294 500 the funding source is the american rescue plan act number four the committee recommends approval award of rfp for the website design to civic plus of manhattan kansas for initial cost of 90 900 a year one and 27 200 annually starting in year two the contract extension is one year with four additional one-year extension options Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only the funding sources the information technology fund operating budget number five the committee recommends approval of the supplemental Supplement resolution for improvement on the only highway code for citywide asset management capital planning council authorization is required for use of the motor fuel tax funds for an estimated annual amount of $15,000 and a total amended amount of three hundred and fifteen thousand dollars a Number six, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the IACAA Department of Human Services Employment Barrier Reduction Pilot Grant Award in the amount of $123,750 and does not require a cost match. The grant term is from signature date to June 30, 2023. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the Continuum of Care Rosecrans Consolidated, the grant IT'S FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT, THE AMOUNT OF $774,560. THE GRANT DOES REQUIRE A 25% COST MATCH IN THE AMOUNT OF $193,640. THE FUNDS WILL PAY ROSECRANS FOR APPROVED CLIENTS' HOUSING AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES. THE GRANT WILL RETAIN 40... I'M SORRY, THE CITY WILL RETAIN $43,040 FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. THE GRANT DOES NOT REQUIRE THE CITY TO BEAR ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS. The grant terms from May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the Continuum of Care for Gross Grant 2003. The grant is a renewal of an existing HUD program amount of $145,219. The grant does require a 25% cost match of $36,304.75. the farms will pay russ grants for approved clients housing supportive services the city will retain eight thousand fifty nine dollars for ministry of costs the grant does not require the city to bear any additional costs the term is from june 1 2022 to may 31 2023 number nine the community recommends approval of another continuum of care shelter care ministry consolidated rapid housing this grant is from hud in the amount of one hundred and forty seven thousand two hundred ninety dollars The grant does require a 25% cost match to the amount of $36,822. In 50 cents, the funds will pay shelter care ministries for approved clients housing support services. The city would retain $10,175 for administrative costs. The grant does not require the state to bear any additional costs. The grant term is from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of continuum of care for shelter care ministry consolidated permanent support housing is from HUD in the amount of $181,054. The grant does require a 25% cost match in the amount of $45,263.50. It will pay for their approved clients housing and supportive services. The city will retain $14,000 for administrative costs. It does not require the city to bear any additional costs. The grant term is from September 1, 2022 to August 31, 2023. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the Continuum of Care Carpenters Place PH1. This grant is also from HUD in the amount of $116,920. The grant does require a 25% cost match amount of $29,230. will pay for their approved clients housing and supportive services. The city will retain $6,735 for administrative costs. It does not require the state to bear any additional costs. The grant terms from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023. 12 is another recommendation for approval of the team of care for Carpenter's Place PH2. It is the same as the last one but the amount is $33,392 with the city. 25 percent cost being eight thousand three hundred and fifty dollars It is for the same purpose of housing and supportive services The city will retain two thousand one hundred and seven dollars for administrative costs It does not require city the city to bear any additional costs and the grant will run from December 1 2022 to November 30th 2023 the committee recommends approval of the final continuum of care for youth rapid rehousing from Department of Housing and urban development the grant is amount of ninety five thousand nine hundred eighty nine dollars The grant does require twenty five percent cost match the amount of twenty nine twenty three thousand nine hundred ninety seven dollars and twenty five cents The funds will pay for the approves clients deposit rent clients budget education staff training payroll and administration the city will retain a $8,197 for administrative costs. The grant does not require the city to bear any additional costs and the term is from November 1, 2022 to October 31, 2023. Number 14, the committee recommends denial of Oxford House request to waive zoning application fees for their submission of zoning applications for four properties listed below. Each zoning application sought a variance to approve a reasonable accommodation to allow more than six unrelated individuals to reside in an R01 zoning district. The council for Oxford House requests a waiver of the zoning application fee of these properties. city council by adaption of a resolution may waive zoning application fee the filing fee for such property is 440 dollars 40 cents each number 15 is an award a bid for the charles street rehabilitation william charles construction in the amount of five million five hundred and thirty seven thousand two hundred and thirty eight dollars and eighty four cents projects estimated to be completed by october fifteenth twenty twenty three the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax number sixteen is award a bid for the city Wide sidewalk and ADA repair 2022 package 3 to campus construction amount of $81,230.50. The project is estimated to be completed by October 31 of this year. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number 17 is an award to bid for the demolition of the Lorden building at Davis Park to N-Track Group in the amount of $1,144,400.00. is estimated to be completed by May of 2023. The funding source is the redevelopment funds. I place these 17 matters before you. Really good job. There are 17 items. I'd like to talk to somebody about the continuum of care. Could you just repeat, like, 9 through 13? So there are 17 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 17 items? Alderman to Berg. Thank you mayor. I get this question me to director parm Have we made any progress any up to this point? I know it's only been probably two weeks on the request for the some of these entities to report back whether some of these individuals we are assisting through passing these grants through City Council on whether it was a those in HELP are local or not local or how long they've been here and such? Thank you, Alderman Thunberg, for your question. You're welcome. Yes, so actually there were a few requests that came up during the committee meeting. And so the one about asking Rosecrans where they were recruiting the clients that participate in this program. And we did schedule a meeting with their team. Our contact over their homeless programs was on vacation last week, so we have not been able to meet with her. yet since I put that request in, but we do plan to meet and ask that question. However, just from speaking with our staff anecdotally around where the clients are that they're serving in this collaborative program, these are people that have been around our community for some time. So again, like I suspected, it's not a situation that folks are coming in from other places and utilizing this particular resource. at Rosecrans. Okay, because I guess it just to piggyback on and maybe bring this up in conversation is that you know the the numbers of individuals that are being assisted and and I commend assisting individuals in need of assistance, but as they are spread around our community and put in these units, that seems like a pretty big task for even an entity like Rosecrans to keep continuous, almost a continuous care for individuals when they're spread out in the sheer numbers they are. I don't know their model to the extent you do, but that just seems like that is a monumental task. I would say that calling the model continuous is generous. While it is part of the funding from the continuum of care, that is not to... insinuate that the care is continuous. I believe, well, the council actually approved a grant application previously from our department that we were receiving funds from the Balmer Foundation that was specific to try and actually have both housing and programming together in one space that indeed would be more continuous and provide services and have coverage for some of the most mentally ill families clients in our community that had previously been incredibly difficult to house. So again, I wouldn't necessarily call it continuous service in that that is an area that our community is still really working to address in terms of really seriously mentally ill folks. Now the clients being served through this program do typically have a dual diagnosis, which is why they're able to receive on both mental health and substance abuse services from Rosecrans. So, but again, it is not continuous, but they do have, they're able to be connected through case management to other services and care. So there's... i guess i'll say a lot of different touch points so to speak um besides the interaction that that our staff um have with them and the case management from rose grant so there are different touch points for these folks but again the goal is is really kind of helping um helping all these resources be aligned for them to get it but i i wouldn't call it continuous that's a good point i just hate to see these individuals get lost in the community we definitely share your concerns for that but interestingly enough i wouldn't say that they get lost uh because if they fall out of care get evicted etc they're they're back with us so getting lost is that's not really uh something we see very much well i'm gonna do a bad choice of words Thanks, thank you any other discussion alderman Durkee then alderwoman McNeely follow-up on the Rose cranes in this housing and I share the same concerns and It's one of those things where you like to trust but verify be interesting to see really that the data on these and Actually their effectiveness. You know you read the document and obviously Lot of who a lot of homeless we all know a good percentage of them are schizophrenic One of the biggest problems with them is getting them on their meds and trying to get these folks treatment now We we closed singer because schizophrenics don't have a pack and they don't have a voting block. I But one of the things that government's responsibility is, although I'm not a big fan of government interfering in a lot of people's lives, but one of them is to take care of people who can't take care of themselves. And this model that we have appears to me wholly inadequate. The better model is seen even in the city of Chicago, and that is a multi-unit building with a single entrance where you can keep tabs on people coming and going. The ability for schizophrenics to hurt themselves and sometimes hurt others, not intentionally, they're mentally ill people, is high, and the in and out is high. And I'm not so sure that I agree with this Rosecrans model. If it's a standard homelessness venture where somebody has lost their job or something has happened, that's not their fault and we need to assist them, that's fine. But when it comes to the mentally ill, I don't see how this is effective at all. And when you look down the list, a lot of these folks are trying to do that. But we just passed a tax in the county to gather funding to help the mentally ill folks. And it seems like our efforts are in 12 different directions. And we're throwing, again, we're throwing money at the wall. And then we stand up and take a bow and put something in Facebook about, hey, we passed money for this program. We have no idea how effective it is. And I mean, that's how you take a bow, but it's not how you help people. So I'm not sure that this Rose Camps model and some of these are effective, especially when it comes to schizophrenic. It would be nice to reopen Singer. And I think we have three big health systems, and sooner or later these guys have got to play nice in the sandbox and figure out a way to help the mentally ill. But it's inpatient, and if we want to call it the halfway house model, it's long overdue in Rockford. And so I can't, until I see data or I see the effectiveness or whatever, I can't support it because I think it's throwing good money after bad. And I guess you could vote for it because we have nothing else to offer. But, and I'm not saying, you know, excellent is opposing good. I don't even know that this is good. So that's just, you know, just my comment. The other observation is, Your Honor, you're the signature of all these. Are we the entity responsible for compliance in the ultimate sense, or is the recipient of the grant? My understanding is if you sign, we are. No, so for for some of these CoC Grants like for example the current agreement that we have with Rose grants. They are also responsible for Reporting to HUD as well and when we have monitoring reviews they are Responsible for the information that's provided to HUD as well in terms of their outcomes and what they're measuring. But again, I think to be honest, just your views on what compliance looks like, that's different as a clinician that would be looking towards maintenance of one's mental health with regard to housing as far as what that differs than necessarily what HUD's measurement of success is, which is that that person has been housed. So I think I definitely I appreciate your comments and honestly I welcome both your feedback and your ideas about what that looks like for our community as a whole to align the variety of resources that exist around how we collectively address mental health in our community and what that looks like from the city standpoint. I'll support this because I don't want these people to be out of housing but I think it's the wrong model I think over the next year Number one, we need to do that, and secondly, we need to see data from these entities on who's coming in and who's going out and who's monitoring these residents and how are they getting care. It's not a HIPAA violation because as long as you don't have patient identifiers, we can do that. I'll give you an example of HUD. Okay. that the definition of functional zero of homelessness. At any point in time, the number of people experiencing sheltered or unsheltered homelessness will be no greater than the current monthly housing placement rate for people experiencing homelessness. Now if anybody understands that, let me know. As a clinician or anybody, we look for helping these folks out and being effective. Whatever that metric is, if somebody gives me a valid metric, I'm all for it. But somebody has to provide it. Because these folks, one of the roles of government is to take care of people who can't take care of themselves. And this is a population who needs our help, and it's got to be effective. So that's my comment. But that's your challenge. To see what we can do over the next year, and somebody, some coordinated effort between us and the county, That and and the programs that they're supporting there's got to be some coordination in the air because let's face I don't care what they say Rockford is the regional way. This is where people come and Regardless of what they call a county program. It's still Rockford other woman McNeely Thank you, do we determine the dollar amount that we're receiving for? administrative or whatever with each entity that does HUD? So basically what HUD does is they give us a rubric in terms of what the maximums are, but then there's also sometimes some wiggle room in terms of what's actually considered administrative costs, which varies across some of our HUD grants. It's not always the exact same thing. So for example, Some of them would consider administrative costs to be our staffing of the program, whereas other grants might consider the administrative costs going towards what we'll call subrecipient, for lack of a better term, what they're spending. Towards providing direct client services so in some of the grants direct client services are allowed to be Calculated as an administrative cost and some they're not so it's kind of like a rubric that they give us So it depends on what's being proposed the full amount of the grant and the services but the total amount of funding that we receive is a formula amount, so that amount is given to us. We don't request a specific amount. HUD dictates that amount to us. So do we go over that amount? And if we do, do we get re... No, okay. Thank you. Alderman Rose? I just would like to say I 100% agree with Alderman Durkee's sentiment. allowing mentally ill people determine the level of care that they receive is just it's so impactful to our community and what has happened in our community around mental health closing of singer is the single worst occurrence to Rockford And the funding that came from the state with the running of that facility, I don't know where it goes or what the state did to move that funding mechanism somewhere else. But it's so egregious, that act of closing Singer. We see it now with the amount of people who beg on our streets. We see it now with the way we handle mental health situations, which is our Winnebago County Jail. That's the first line of defense that we have for mental health is our jail. I mean, it's just, it's simply a system that is broken. And until some groups and organizations and groups like these that are here saying, hey, you know, this model isn't working, we're putting a Band-Aid on a knife wound, right? We're just going to continue to see levels of crime that are up. We're going to see continued poverty in our region and in regions across other urban centers in this country. I think it also begs the question is how do we address health care needs for those people? I know when we have hospitals closing mental health wards in our community like Javon Bay, that's another impact that is happening. And we're allowing these very wealthy hospital systems to get away with it. And so I think it brings about that conversation of how do we regulate hospitals? How do we regulate treatment and Look at it from a state perspective I don't know if there's any other way to do it But I think it also brings about the question of you know having adequate services that are affordable for people if I'm poor I can't afford health care and I can't go get health care. I can't afford my pills for my health care. And we have people who say, well, you know, good luck. You know, that's the system is good luck. And getting rid of or trying to phase out components of Obamacare because hospitals don't want to pay it and insurance companies don't want to pay it, they are making the rules for the system. They're also making the money for the system. So I'd like to point those out as well But I think that that that issue that you brought up alderman Durkee begs those questions And we as a city need I think to tackle it and continue to advocate for those changes at the state level Thank you. Thanks any other comments? I I guess I would like to know, because you all have said a lot and I agree with so much of it, and specifically I wanted to address the oversight portion, but I guess I wanted to address it from the client's perspective. Who does the client contact when they have concerns, especially if we are concerned? Like Alderman Durkee said, your signature is on there. So we have some sort of skin in the game. So when they experience something that they feel concerned about, they call their alderman. Is that what you're expecting? Like who do they have as their advocates? Director Parham? Alderman Prenti, so for, I'll speak specifically about Rose Grants because that's kind of where the conversation has been around, but I will say typically we do have clients that are in this collaborative program that will reach out to our case managers in the homeless program. They do have contacts within the Health and Human Services Office, so they will reach out to you. to their case manager if they're having certain issues that they feel like haven't been resolved on the Rose Grant side. But to be honest with you, more often than not, our office gets more calls from the landlords because part of these properties, a number of them are Rose Grants owned, where in which they house these individuals, but some of them are also owned by private landlords who contract with Rose Grants. And so when there are other issues, those clients will reach out to Rosecrans and they'll also reach out to the Health and Human Services office as well. And so then we do send our case managers out to again work with those clients and then we also advocate with Rosecrans for on behalf of those clients depending on what the request is or complaint that's come to us from those landlords. So they actually do regularly contact our office to engage and intervene in situations. Thank you Any other oh, I'm sorry. Thank you alderman Durkee just briefly the items are good housing be nice for these Organizations to give us an audit of how they use last year's funds and I think we should be able to see that But on item six, I just had a real quick question on the contract If there's a dispute on item six we go to Sagamon County. Is there a reason for that? I So, Contract 6 is with the Illinois Association of Community Action Agencies, and they are housed in Springfield. The organization is in Springfield, and that's why. So, but we're housed in Winnebago County. And the membership is housed all over the state, so that's a term that's actually pretty much the same for all of the community action agencies that enter into these agreements with them because the agency represents all the agencies all across the state of Illinois. So that's essentially the central location that impacts all of the agencies the same. And then one more question, Your Honor? Yes. Thank you, sir. At the end of the contract, there's a line out The party to the agreement, acts in contradiction to the agreement, that's lined. Who wanted that lined out, us or them? I'm not sure. Do you have that page up? It's at the end. Okay. End of the contract, under liability, right before the signature. All right. One second. Let me pull that up. While they're looking for that, a lot of good dialogue tonight about a number of these items. We can certainly add this to legislative and lobbying agenda, and also we could help coordinate opportunities for aldermen to meet with all of these providers. I mean, it's well within your ability to do so, and we'd be happy to help schedule times for that to take place. I asked a question about the contract. Okay. I can bring it over. Did you find it? Do you know what page? I'm scrolling through trying to get to the agreement page. Right, one of them. I think we did. Huh? We didn't? Oh, then they must have. But it was their agreement. Just so everyone can hear the answer, Director Myers? So, yeah, that was not, we did not cross that out, that liability language. So I believe that was crossed out when we reviewed it. I'm not sure why they it's their contract is their language Probably more appropriate just to delete it and then cross it out. But I I assume that this is the template they use So what as soon as the template contract that they use and rather than deleting it They crossed it out. So they they crossed it out without letting us know or no I this would have been part of the agreement that we reviewed and We reviewed as I recall seeing the cross out when it came through for legal for review because when I read the agreement that the Contradicting party probably will be them. I And I see us as always being the non-contradictory party. And if we have to do something with them, they basically say you're on your own. The liability is both ways. So if we are, our liability is equally limited as well as theirs. So the language says that if either party breaches it, I believe. But I trust us more than I trust them. Any other questions? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. frost grunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely 12 eyes on items 1 through 3 11 eyes 1 no on item 4 and then items 5 through 17 There's 12 ice director Myers would like to address the getting across one more one more item. So this language is Relates to payment of attorneys fees As a matter of practice I always make sure those are crossed out because I don't want the city liable or anybody to Pursue the city for attorneys fees in case we breach so this would be consistent with how we do almost every contract We don't as a matter of practice our department does not include these terms in contract language Okay, well we're moving right along. We're gonna go to new business There's nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Code and Regulation Committee. I have ten items. Item number one, an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from R1 Single Family Residential Zoning District to I2 General Industrial Zoning District at 402 to 528 Martin Road. 33 31 and 33 33 Foley Street 4x X to 5 17 Berry Road 4x X to 440 Berry Road 3213 32 X X and 32 15 Blair Street 3306 and 33 12 Blair Street 315 Kennan Road and 33 19 Wow Street for River Sanitation Authority Are the applicants number two? In ordinance approving a special use permit for religious assembly and associated activities, a variation to reduce the required front yard setback along Preston Street from 25 feet to 15 feet, and a variation to reduce the required front yard setback along Waveland Avenue from 25 feet to 15 feet in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 602 South Pierpont Avenue and 7 XX Waveland Avenue. Number three. An ordinance approving a license for the sale of liquor by the drink Class E in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 5494 East State Street, Jose Chavez, Mexico Classical Grill. Number four, an ordinance approving the continued operation under a Class A license for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area under new ownership pursuant to an 80% stock purchase in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District. At 6860 Spring Creek Road, Laura Renner Josephs of Barbados. Number five, an ordinance approving a license for the sale of beer and wine by the drink class NGWB. In conjunction with a restaurant and an outdoor seating area in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1710 World Street. Number three, Stacey Knight, Kevin Knight, feed the positive for Lydia's Cafe. Item 6 and ordinance approving the continued operation under a class a license for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar video gaming terminals outdoor seating area and the continued sale of packaged liquor under a class PKG in conjunction with a bar video gaming terminals and outdoor seating area pursuant to a 100% stock purchase and a c3 general commercial zoning district at 2401 and 2402 Latham Street Latham top is the applicant Item number seven an ordinance approving a license for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 320 North Mulford Street BP gas station is the applicant item eight an ordinance approving a license for the sale of packaged liquor class PKG in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 320 North Mulford Road another BP gas station again item number nine in ordinance approving the amendments to the city of rockford annexation policy and item 10 in ordinance approving the amendments to the city of rockford code of ordinances section 17-1 weed control and section 17-2 weed cutting and liens i place these items before you excellent thank you uh 10 items before us is there any discussion on those items Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to ask the Alderman of the Ward about number seven, the 320 North Mulford. I noticed that he voted a no for that on this last one. I just wanted to know the reasoning why. Alderman Beach. Did you hear the question? No, I was reading my... No worries. Alderman Wilkins asked... you have any concerns over 320 North Mulford no okay thank you thank you is there any further discussion none okay clerk will you please call the roll Durkee logan timber frost Torino printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach in onus Meeks McNeely Items 1 through 7, 13 ayes. Item 8, 12 ayes, 1 no, 9 and 10, 13 ayes. Thank you. Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the first addendum to the intergovernmental agreement for lease of fairgrounds Park day care center between head start in the Rockford Park District The addendum provides the city some protection of federal interest and gives the park district the right to review and approve any major projects at the Pace Center at fairgrounds Number two is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreements for City State Railroad agreement for the railway highway grade crossing improvements at Sandy Hollow and Illinois Railway and Railway railroad tracks the agreement outlines the funding of the estimated five hundred and thirty three thousand two hundred and sixty four dollar and twenty two cents project the funding of the project will be 90% federal and 10% to the city the city's portion we paid for using motor fuel taxes I place these two matters up you for ordinance approval. Thank you. Is there any questions older woman McNeely? Thank you I wanted to ask this before I forgot I The city why is it that the city is paying 10% and it's the railroad They're not paying director Saunders Alderman McNeely. This is this the majority of this funding is coming from the ICC So the Illinois Commerce Commission through the grade crossing protection funds and Believe we originally anticipated covering a much larger percentage of this project So we were able to tap into those great crossing protection funds So it's just a it's funding that we have access to to be able to improve these crossings. Thank you Any other discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? turkey Logoman timber frost Torino Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenones, Meeks, McNeely. 13 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favour say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.