Okay, we will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Tuesday, September 8th, 2020. We have started, we've already done the invocation and the Pledge of Allegiance, so we will move to the roll call. Oliver Durkee. Here. Toomber. Here. Frost. Here. Kirby. Here. Irvin. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Here.
 Hanley, McNeely, Shirely. 12 present. Excellent, so we have a quorum this evening. Next, we will go to our acceptance of the journal. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on July 20th, 2020? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelley.
 Here. Hoffman. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. 12 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on July 27, 2020? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion inside council chambers or online, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Here. Thunberg. Aye.
 Aye. Ross? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 3, 2020? We have a motion, we have a second. Seeing no discussion inside Council chambers or online, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Warren? Aye.
 Frost? Aye. Herbie? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Love-Eyes?
 Thank you. Item passes or is approved or accepted. Next is proclamations. We have no proclamations this evening. Before I get to petitions and communications, just want to make a note for those here or those watching this at home. We have aldermen who are present here at City Council Chambers and also those who are joining us virtually because due to COVID-19, we don't find it to be prudent or responsible to require all council members at this time to be at City Council.
 Next, we'll go to petitions and communications. We'll go to planning and development. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. One item, or I'm sorry, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a development agreement with 304 North Main LLC, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 The second item is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, City Traffic Engineer, regarding the Rockford Bikeway Implementation Study, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on September 9, 2020, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on September 28th.
 2020 I have the ZBA's agenda for the meeting to be held on September 15th 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on September 28 2020 I have the liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on September 15 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on
 September 28th 2020 and I have the memorandum from Martin bloom project manager for permits and special events regarding the upcoming special event or low-speed autocross all four of these will be referred to codes and regs your honor thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel alderman frost
 Thank you, your honor. There's one item which is a memorandum from Jamie rot water superintendent regarding the IEP a revolving loan fund Application approval and authorizing ordinance. This will be referred to finance and personnel committee. Thank you. Thank you Next up we're going to go to appointments laid over It's really my honor to present to you a
 The appointment of Jonathan Logum in to return a second Ward alderman and before I ask for a motion in a second I would just like to state first and foremost I'm just really pleased to see that your home safe and sound And that you're joining Your lovely amazing wife and children safe and sound Second I think there's probably no better time that we could have Jonathan join us he is
 From his regular day job to being a teacher to going off to serve our country and now coming back to city council, all of it's about service to people. And when you look at the items that are before us, if it's a global pandemic, if it's our budgetary constraints.
 if it's civil unrest and calls for reform it's ultimately all about serving people and so we're fortunate i believe in my opinion to have you back on council chambers during these difficult times but also tremendous opportunities for us as a city so uh with that i'd ask if there's a motion to approve jonathan logeman a second word all the way second we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion here at council chambers
 Is there any discussion online seeing no discussion clerk? Could you please call the roll? jerky Toomer gross hervey Thompson kelly. Aye hoffman rose beach quinones hanley mcneely shirely 12 ice may be the only time he gets a unanimous vote, but we'll give it to him so
 Mr. Meyer has been practicing this all weekend, and he gets to provide you your oath. So if you would join him, Mr. Logeman. And there's a microphone for you. Just make sure you raise your hand. He's had a tendency not to have people do that.
 I solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office, and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Second Ward Waldron, of the City of Rockford, Illinois, of the City of Rockford, Illinois, according to the best of my ability. I want to present this leg in honor of
 all rockford in the city of rockford special not the second board the folks at the second board we got some of the dust from the deserts of afghanistan here but um this flag was flown on cl wire on the basis of the city of rockford so yeah i am very thankful for the support uh myself i received from people in my family did so mayor um there's a flag from afghanistan for the city of rockford appreciate it thank you i'm gonna make sure
 Thank you, Alderman Logerman. What an honor. For all citizens of Rockford, we'll make sure we find an appropriate home for it. Next up, we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll go to planning and development. Alderman Rose. We have one item, the proposed modifications to the CDBG COVID-19 microenterprise loan program. That's it. Thank you.
 Is there any discussion here at Council Chambers about that program? Is there any discussion online about that program? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes.
 Thank you. That item passes. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Shirely. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval of establishing a handicap parking on the east side of Wyman Street from 185 feet north of Chestnut Street to 205 feet north of Chestnut Street, thus repealing the existing official car parking restriction in that area.
 Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of special use permit for a mural on a building in the C2 Zoning District at 1325 7th Street subject to conditions. Number three, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's advisory board.
 Approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, bar and grill, video gaming and outdoor seating area in a C4 zoning district at 211 Elm Street. Subject to conditions. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the amendment to the vacation ordinance 1968-175-0 for a portion of Gardiner Avenue located east of rural Oak Shopping Center.
 and the legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances, Your Honor. Place those up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. So we have four items before you. Is there any discussion on the four items before you here at City Council? No discussion here. Is there discussion online? Seeing no discussion online, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. So those four items are approved. Next up, we will go to Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 uh first the committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of six million three hundred and forty five thousand one hundred and sixty three dollars and thirty four cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee held on august 24 2020. number two was an approval of an ordinance pertaining to the local cure program the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i place these two items up for vote thank you so we have uh two items before you is there any discussion on those two items
 No discussion here at Council Chambers. Is there any discussion on the line? Seeing no discussion on the line, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes.
 thank you those items are approved next we'll go to motions and resolutions we don't have anything under planning and development nor do we have anything under code and regulation so we'll move to finance and personnel alderman frost thank you your honor number one is an award a bid for the 2020 commercial demolition bid to n-track group of loves park in the amount of 53 340 the funding source is the community development block grant fund number two is a partnership with zion development
 For Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Section 319, Nonpoint Source Pollution Control Financial Assistance
 program grant for the keith creek watershed improvement plan number three is an award of contract addendum for the head start transportation services the first student of naperville for an amount not to not to exceed 700 000 the contract duration is august 1 2020 through june 5 2021. the funding sources the department of health and human services office of head start
 Place those three items before you for both. Thank you. There's three items before us Is there any discussion here at council chambers seeing no discussion here at council chambers? Is there a discussion online seeing no discussion online? You know, there is discussion online alderman Hervey floor is yours
 Yes, thank you. Just wondered if there are any contingencies in the transportation agreement with first student in the event that population drops off due to COVID or anything of that sort, not whether they close it, but just if we lose three quarters of the students because these are little ones. Director Parham.
 uh yes alderman hervey that was actually um the purpose of renegotiating this contract in general was based on a reduction in the number of students who were enrolled and then also including um a contingency for the um in the event that school actually closed again but that is why the contract was reduced in the first place to account for that
 Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. Any other discussion either here or online? Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 13 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items are approved. Next, we'll go to new business planning and development alderman rose. Just one item and ordinance approving the modifications to the CDBG COVID-19 micro enterprise loan program. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion here at council floor seeing none here at council floor director Meyer? Is there any discussion online? We almost had it, but now you pulled it back. No. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Logum in timber frost Herbie hi Thompson Kelly hi Hoffman Rose I Beach you know nice Hanley McNeely
 Charelli 13 eyes Excellent. So the item passes next we'll go to code and regulation alderman Shirely. Thank your honor I got four ordinances. The first is an ordinance establishing handicap parking on the east side of Wyman Street from 185 feet north of Chestnut Street to 205 feet north of Chestnut Street thus repealing the existing official car parking restriction in that area and
 Number two is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a mural on a building in a C2 zoning district at 1325 7th Street. Number three is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, bar and grill, video gaming, and outdoor seating area in a C4 zoning district at 211 Elm Street.
 And number four is an ordinance approving the amendment for the vacation ordinance 1968-175-0 for a portion of Gardner Avenue located east of Rural Oak Shopping Center. On item number four, Your Honor, I move to suspend rule 15.
 So we have a motion and a second to suspend rule 15 on item 8b4. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion here inside council chambers on that rule suspension vote? Seeing no discussion here inside council, there's none on mine either. Clerk, could you please call the roll? And this vote is solely for the suspension of rule 15. Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonburton. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes. All right, so rule 15, suspending on item four. Is there any discussion on the four items before you here inside council chambers? No discussion inside council chambers. Is there a discussion online? Seeing no discussion online, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke? Logerman?
 Toomer frost Herbie hi Thompson Kelly hi Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's Hanley McNeely Shirely 13 eyes thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost thank you one item is an ordinance approving the local cure program
 I place that I'm up for vote. Thank you. Is there any discussion on that one item before council here at council chambers? Seeing no discussion here at council chambers, is there a discussion online? Seeing no discussion online, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Quinones. Thank you, I'm sorry. Hanley. McNeely. Aye.
 Shirely, 13 ayes. Thank you. Next up we have officers reports. I have three items. First and foremost, did not know it took Jonathan Logerman to come back so that we can have a pretty quick council meeting, so thank you for that. Second, on a much sadder note, our community lost Chuck Pro Rock last week.
 Chuck was just a really a tremendous community advocate and made a dynamic duo with his wonderful wife, Marsha. He was a longtime attorney who worked for a period of years in the state's attorney's office and really just a.
 Someone who was filled with a lot of Rockford pride and often I don't know if there was any event Regarding the arts that you would not see Chuck or Marcia at and just really a big loss for our community second item is we had a
 a major fire last week at Metro Christian Church, not far from here, and built in 1869. So a tremendous loss from the structural and historic perspective, but a huge thank you to the fire department from the beginning with the telecommunicators to the firefighters on the scene doing a tremendous job.
 to the investigation that took place thereafter, that fire and the other fires that evening to
 Bring it ultimately an arrest for arson for those three fires that were set in such short order was really remarkable on all fronts. So a big thank you to you, Chief Erickson, and to your entire team for the work that you did. And I would also say crowd control was also a part of that event because without having any events downtown like 4th of July, it was like a blast.
 A whole new downtown, seeing people just flood the streets. But on a very serious note, great job to you, Chief, and the rest of your team. With that, I'll open it up to officers' reports. First here inside council chambers, Alderman Rose and then Alderman Tunberg.
 A few items, just wanted to say welcome back to Jonathan and say it's good to see a fresh face back here. But two other items, one was I wanted to say thank you to NAMI and the support that they gave to Westside Rockford at last week's.
 State Health Board meeting with on Mercy Health They they just did a fantastic job of getting advocates to speak in front of the State Health Board. I believe there were 40 speakers 36 of them were in opposition to Them shutting down their mental health ward, but I also wanted to just recognize that
 you know some of the employees at mercy actually stood up and and invoiced their opposition and i think it takes a lot of courage uh for someone who works at an organization to kind of come out and say um you know this isn't right this isn't uh we're
 where we should be going as a community organization. And I want to recognize those employees that have done that because putting their livelihood at risk, risking their job to come forward and do something like that, I think it says a lot about their character. So I wanted to recognize them.
 And then the third item was just for community overall along the West End, put in your calendars October 4th, we're doing the Mel Anderson Slow Roll, which is a biking event. It's going to include a whole slew of different groups, including the city of Rockford, police and fire. I believe Jeremy Carter is going to be out there talking about the 10-year bike plan.
 It's at Northwest Community Center, October 4th from 3 to 6 p.m. Northwest Community Center is a part of that work with United Way and Northwest Neighbors Organization. And there's more organizations involved. I don't know them all offhand, but I'm just really excited for this event because I think it brings people together and it shows that we have some awesome assets over on the west side as well.
 Thank you. Alderman Thunberg? Thank you, Mayor. Let me start out by the 815 Choose Civility Take the Pledge. I pledge to conduct myself in a way that is honest, respectful, considerate, and kind, even toward those with whom I disagree. We have a tough guy in the third ward. Mr. Tough Guy decides to go up to elderly women while they're having coffee in the morning at their kitchen table.
 8 in the morning specifically and choose to walk up onto their private property and yell through their open windows expletives vile language Because he simply degree disagrees with her political sign in her front yard. So You know, mr. Tough guy might you know take some solace that She took her sign down won't put it back up as he is
 gleefully walked down the street with his dog past one of our other neighbors happens to be in our neighborhood mayor unfortunately he gleefully walked by the front door of a neighbor's ring doorbell we got him on camera so mr. tough guy I know who you are not by name but I know what you look like I know what dog you walk I would
 you know as as maybe he does take some solace too that she was left uh absolutely terrified in tears was just absolutely horrified at what happened but uh left her act absolutely in shambles um so i would like to advise mr tough guy next time he feels so compelled to hit elderly
 women in our neighborhood to pay a visit over to my house, I would much enjoy a conversation man-to-man in that with that and I have a strong will to Stand up for our elderly and in our neighborhood in the third ward and so I just want to put everyone on that and
 on that alert that we have Mr. Tough Guy in town. So keep an eye out for him. Thanks. Thank you. Other, Alderman Durkee and then Alderman Logeman. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to comment and voice some concerns about this latest enforcement procedure that was issued by the Winnebago County Health Department.
 Although I believe in, you know, obviously as a physician, believe in safety and eradicating this crazy pandemic and disease. What troubles me, though, is that in the course of doing this, we've seen people start to overstep authority and erode freedoms without what I consider a due process. And so I read through this document that they put out September 3rd,
 where they're logging any complaint against, you know, restaurant businesses. And I guess they're encouraging citizen complaints, and they log them all, and then they run out and try to catch the, you know, the restaurant. I know they're catching people doing this, and they've shut down a restaurant because somebody had their mask too low a couple weeks ago.
 Felly, rwy'n cael ymwneud â pheth o bwysig nawr oherwydd nawr maen nhw'n mynd drwy'r broses cymhwysedd hwn ac yn y pen draw mae'n cael nodws i'w ddysgwyl, ac yna maen nhw'n arwain diogelu diogelu rheolaeth pandemig iechyd cyhoeddus a fydd yn cael ei gyflawni gan bersonel o lefel rheolaeth Cyffredinol y Gadeiryddion Cymru sydd ddim yn rhan o'r isbectiwn o'r entitîd.
 ac mae'n rhaid i chi ddod i'r llaw 200 i'w ddod i'r llen, hyd yn oed os ydych chi, rwy'n credu nad yw'n cael arwain ar hyn, felly rydych chi'n mynd drwy'r broses hwn ac yna maen nhw'n siarad am isio adroddiad closiol o dan y Ddeddf Iechyd Cyhoedd. Nawr, fe wnes i ddod i fyny'r statwg o'r
 Mae'r statud yng Nghymru yn yr hyn y gallai'r Adran Gwerthfawrog ei wneud. Nid wyf yn awdur. Mae gennym llawer o bobl yn ystafell ac efallai y byddwn yn cael... Mae'n rhai o'r bobl, byddwn yn cael llawer o syniadau. Ond chi'n gwybod, bod clodi busnes yn cymryd. Rydych chi'n anfon pobl i fyw yno sydd angen y swydd ac mae'n arfer yn diwydiant sy'n drostynyddio. Mae gennym adran gofal sydd ddim yn gwybod sut i roi cynnig i mewn.
 Mae'r rheolau yn gyfranogol. Mae'r broses o ddysgu cynlluniau i ddiogelu y busnes yn yn ymdrin a'n amgylcheddol. Ac am ryw fath, maen nhw'n meddwl, os ydych chi'n adael llawr yn agored yn y restaurant, byddwch chi'n cael eich llawr wedi'i ddysgu a byddwch chi'n marw o gofnod ysgog. Felly dydw i ddim yn cael fy mhryder. Yr hyn sy'n fy anffurfi yw nad ydw i wedi cael fy mhryder o ran cyd-destun
 a'r cyfrifoldeb yn ein Gweithdy Chyffordd. Mae'n dod ar draws yn fwy cymrydol ac yn debyg i ddim yn ffrindiau busnes. Ac mae'n edrych fel y maen nhw'n cymryd awdurdod yma, nad ydyn nhw'n cael eu hannu. Mae'r statwt yn dweud, os ydynt yn mynd i gosodi busnes, ac os ydynt yn ei gyflawni, y byddant yn rhaid eu dod â'r gosodiad hwnnw i swyddfa,
 o'r 48 awr, sy'n golygu ymgyrch y Llywodraeth Caerfyrddaeth. Felly dwi ddim yn gwybod lle maen nhw'n... Dwi ddim yn gwybod lle maen nhw'n cymryd yr awdurdod hwn ac mae'n edrych fel y maen nhw'n gwneud amgylch y statwt y ffordd hon. Mae gen i lawer o bryderon am yr ardal gwreig o beth yw cymhlethad a beth yw'r peth nad yw'n cymhlethad. Erioed gyda, fel y dywedais, erioed gyda rhai o'r adroddiadau adeiladu, maen nhw'n ymddangos i gael anodd i fod yn gyfyn
 Roeddwn i eisiau ysgrifennu fy nesafrwydd am yr hyn y maen nhw'n ei wneud gyda busnesau, ond byddwn i'n cymryd y Gweithlu Llywodraeth i ddarllen statud yng Nghymru. Yn ddiddorol, pan fyddwn i'n codi'r adnoddau yma o'r wefan a hyd yn oed y Gwledydd o'r Illinoi, gallaf ddim ffeindio unrhyw beth, os ydw i'n gweithiwr busnes, gallaf ddim ffeindio unrhyw beth yn gyffredinol o ran ble fyddaf neu beidio â chymhwyso.
 Mae'n ymddangos fel pe bydden nhw'n dod allan ar gyfer ymweld gyda'r cyfnod cyffredinol, ac os ydych chi'n cael eich masg yn croced, neu nad ydych chi wedi sbrinio'r cwnerthu 5 gwaith yn yr awr ac yn unig wedi sbrinio'n 4, rydyn ni'n mynd i'ch llwyddo. Felly roeddwn i eisiau ystyried yr sylw hwnnw a chyfathrebu ar yr Adran Gwerth. Diolch, Brif Weinidog. Diolch. A phosibl arall? Yng nghaelodau cyngor, Alderman McNeilley.
 Thank you mayor and certainly I understand Understand alderman Durkee's concern however, I think maybe we can have the health department come here and offer some answers So that people that are watching and listening to this tonight will have the correct answers To some of those questions so they don't walk away from this meeting thinking that
 The health department is not doing their job. We certainly can see if we can get dr Martella or a member of her board to come to our next meeting At the beginning of this because we had some questions about their data I they never they never came so I don't I don't know why they didn't back then either So but I don't like I said, I'm a little troubled by it. I
 I'm sure they'll come and I think going back I could be wrong. Dr. Durkee, but I thought it was they responded in writing But I could be wrong. Yeah alderman mcneely any further report want people to be confused or afraid Or or uncertain. Thank you. Thanks. Uh any other reports here in council chambers? alderman logeman i'm so sorry. Sorry, uh real quick. I just wanted to acknowledge the
 I was sorry to hear about the passing, obviously, a couple months ago of our friend Alderman Beck. I was saddened that I couldn't be a part of any of the services there because I know he was a dear friend to all of us.
 And he just embodied the real true spirit of Rockford. And looking forward, Alderwoman Hanley, to working with you. And then finally, just to acknowledge the fantastic work of Alderman Gasparini, who
 In my absence, he brought great credit upon himself, great credit to the Second Ward, great credit to the City of Rockford, and I can't thank him enough for the excellent work that he did to support the Second Ward, to support Rockford, and all of you here too. So that's all, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Is there comments on mine? Alderman Hervey? Your Honor, a couple points. One, I want to ditto...
 Alderman Rose in his thanks for the people who have supported individuals who are concerned about the quality of
 and the consistency of health care in the city of Rockford. NAMI, there were several other organizations and people who came out. I could not be there. I still can't do a bunch of public things yet. But still, just having the support was very, very important. Okay.
 One of the things I do want to work on over the next year or so, shortly before Mercy Health made its grand entrance into the city of Rockford, the law relating to hospital closures was changed.
 And no longer do you have to go through the Health Facilities and Services Review Board and petition for certain types of closures. I guess the mental health division or units, you do. But in the state of Illinois, and I may be oversimplifying it, but I don't think so, you can close a hospital and there is no closure.
 No petition for that. Hospitals occupy a very special place in our society. They are given special protections, obviously major tax breaks, and
 And I just believe that statute, we need to take a look at the timing of that statute. So I will be asking for anybody that wants to help support that. I'll have to work by phone for maybe another month, six weeks. But I do want to go after that for the next year because it has truly weakened the power that poor and –
 disenfranchised communities have to retain health services in their areas. And if all our healthcare providers start going after the healthy and the wealthy, we're going to be in deep trouble in, in many of our cities. I want to welcome back Jonathan Lozerman and give a second thanks to, to Tony Gasparini for the work that he did filling in. And speaking of Jonathan remember,
 remind people school is back in session as of, is it tomorrow or today? I can't remember. Um, so please watch out for students, um, on the bus corners, um, walking back and forth, especially at the end of the school day, they're excited and running around. Um, so, so please, uh, let's take care, slow down, uh, in particular. Um,
 One thing I want to ask of the mayor and our city staff, I know we're doing some work to make sure that people fill out their census forms and get back with those. I believe there's a major event coming up this weekend on the 12th. I'm going to ask if Mr. Rory or the mayor can talk about that when I'm finished here. But I also want to ask if we can do something similar for voting to get out –
 accurate voting information. I'm already hearing rumors, I've gotten a couple of calls, that certain polling places are going to be closed because we don't have enough
 people to staff the polling places. I know I have heard that on the news about other cities and other states, but I do believe people are getting mixed up because I've not heard of any polling places closing in Rockford. So if maybe at the next meeting, if we could give voters some assurances and
 and maybe get out some voting info just about what's going to be going on. The rumor is or the info is that they're going to reduce them because so many people are voting by mail. And I just don't believe that's true. So I would ask if the mayor or someone could maybe get someone from the –
 board of elections to maybe come in or put something out over the airwaves and online so people know what's fact and what's not and lastly i would did all the mayor's comments uh regarding chuck prorock um and our condolences to his wife marcia mueller and others they were
 absolutely fantastic assets to the city. And Chuck was just a really nice person. I don't know any other way to say it. Always helpful, always extending a hand. I don't think he looked at or cared what your political affiliation was. He was just one of those few and rare things, just an all-around good person, and he truly will be missed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. So a couple of quick things. One to note regarding election and polling locations, I've been checking in pretty regularly with the Rockford Board of Elections board, and as of just last week, they are getting really still strong response from people
 Uh the volunteers that they depend on so heavily. I have not heard of any location that would be cut Due to mail-ins. I have not heard any of that information, but I will make sure that we Communicate with roford board of elections and get some of those communications to you But most importantly out to the public as well and I can tell you there is an event
 This weekend at Zamuto's they're hosting event from 3 p.m. To 4 30 p.m. That's Saturday September 12th at Zamuto's They'll be giving away free granita census workers will be there to help people fill out the census and
 Alderman Frost is already writing down free granita over at Zamuto's. But he's already completed the census. But it'll be a wonderful event to highlight a really great local business and also help us get the word out. I will just be upfront and say there are large swaths of our community
 in a number of wards in our city, third war parts of the third Ward, parts of 13 parts of 17 parts of five parts of six that really need to turn out better for the census. So anything that you can do through your networks to help communicate that and I would say all alderman to communicate this. We only have a couple of weeks left.
 It literally takes citizens five to six minutes to complete this. It's the number one thing they can do to help their community.
 In September and it's five to six minutes. They go to my 2020 census.gov Every person that fills it out. It's one thousand five hundred sixty dollars for a ten year period That's fifteen thousand over fifteen thousand dollars that our community gets for critical core services If they don't complete it, we still have to provide those services Please urge anyone that you know to complete that census Alderman McNeely had one more item
 Thank you. I was just going to say that I did read that the board of the election the city of Rockford does need polling judges, so Individuals out there that have done polling in the past Election judge in the past or if you've never done it, please contact them because they do need you. Thanks Thank you. Any other alderman often? Oh
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted you to repeat that September 12th. 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. over at Zemudo's. Thank you so much. Is there any other officers' reports online? I believe Alderman Thompson-Kelly was online. Yes, I do, Your Honor. Thank you. I'd like to report to the Alderman the first time in over 25 years we will not be having a senior luncheon this year.
 I know you guys are very disappointed, but the decision was made that we think it's best that we don't, given the circumstances, expose our seniors to a public luncheon like that. So we will not be having a senior luncheon, but save your money because we'll probably have a luncheon or something in the future. Certainly. And Alderman Thompson-Kelly, did you have any other questions?
 REPORTS? YES, THAT THERE IS GOING TO BE THREE WARDS, THREE PRECINCTS IN THE 7TH WARD THAT WILL BE OPENING AT NORTHWEST COMMUNITY CENTER. WE ARE GOING TO HAVE THREE PRECINCTS GOING BACK TO THE 7TH WARD FOR THIS ELECTION PERIOD. AND I WANT TO THANK THE ELECTION STAFF THAT'S BEEN REALLY WONDERFUL TO WORK WITH.
 Thank you. Any other items? One more. I'm waiting for it. I know you're missing one. Don't forget the Alderman Roundtable discussion will be September the 10th, 15th, and 17th from 5.30 to 8 p.m. at District 1, which is 1045 West State Street. It's going to be the common topics discussion
 from the listening session with the panel, including individuals that have been working in the community and want to be a part of the solutions in the community. So the mayor and city council members at the time
 If your schedule permits, I would greatly appreciate your help. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman, one last question for you, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, is for the listening sessions, understanding who the panel includes and understanding the number of topics may draw attention from a variety of citizens. Are you streaming these sessions? No. No.
 But if you want staff to do that, we'll be more than happy to. Awesome. Okay. Now you still want me to do it? With that, is there a motion to adjourn, please? Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion inside council chambers? None. None online. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Okay. Hogan. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Brown. Aye.
 Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Have a good night. Stay. Have a wonderful rest of your week. Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website at www.webex.com.