Let's see who am I going to pick tonight. We'll choose Alderman Kevin Frost tonight to be mayor pro tem. Second. It's a motion and second. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? The ayes have it. Alderman Frost. We call the order. Tonight, for invocation, we have Chaplain Kenneth. Let's pray. Father in heaven, as we come before you tonight, we thank you for this another opportunity to come into your presence.
 But most of all, Lord, tonight we ask that you'd come and your presence be available here. And, Lord, the city council will be able to depend upon your guidance for the things that are needed for this city. We pray, Lord, that you'd touch each one of them, give them the wisdom and the knowledge they need to make the right decisions. And, Lord, we'd also want to ask your blessing upon our police force.
 Our fire departments, those who protect us from harm and danger, we just pray that you keep your protective hand upon them and all things that are said and done. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. And now if we could have a motion for the acceptance of the journals from August 17th and August 30th. I'm sorry. Clerk, can you call the roll? McNamara? Here. Frost? Here. Purvey? Here. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Here.
 Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. It's 11, Your Honor. Sir, now if we could have a motion for the acceptance of the journals for both August 17 and August 31, 2015. Is there a public hearing? Oh, I'm sorry. All those in favor? Any opposed? Thank you. The journal's been accepted. Moving to the next item of public hearing.
 Next time is public participation. First, we have Prophet Yusuf.
 And he will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. What I want to speak about tonight, stopping the pipeline to prison for women and girls of color. A crisis is brewing and having a dramatic impact in our homes and our communities. Between 1980 and 2010, women were the fastest growing population of prisoners. Girls made up the fastest growing segment of the juvenile justice system. Women and girls of color being incarcerated at higher rates than ever.
 But they are not committing more violent crimes. Instead, more and more women and girls of color are being arrested for committing nonviolent crimes like truancy, running away, and substance abuse. These behaviors are often ways to cope with or escape from bad homes, violent relationships, or forced prostitution. Unfortunately, our current system rarely springs for sex trafficking, trauma, and abuse. As a result, our
 girls and women of color are being punished and incarcerated for their experience of sexual and physical abuse. Far too many people in the United States have directly felt the impact of the dramatic rise in the incarceration of women and girls of color. Every African American in the United States should write their congressman to tell them to help the thousands of women and girls of color in our criminal justice system.
 Early this summer, human rights projects for girls joined the Georgetown Law Center on poverty and inequality and a missed foundation for women to create a comprehensive report detailing how our girls of color are being arrested,
 incarcerated as a result of abuse. The authors of this study found that in California as many as 81% of girls in our juvenile justice system were victims of sexual or physical abuse. Although these girls are victims of serious trauma, our system fails to treat the trauma and acts as if the girl are just bad girls who should be
 punished for acting out. Studies show that abuse continues to play a major role for adult women who are incarcerated. Some estimate, states that 92% of all women in California prison have been battered and abused in their lifetime. Sexual abuse in particular wrecks havoc on girls, and women's lives often leads to incarceration. A history of sexual abuse is one of the main predictors of whether a girl will be in detention, and it is the key
 predicted of whether a girl would end up back behind bars once she is released from juvenile detention. Child sex trafficking is a form of child abuse, but when poor girls of color
 I didn't see anything but you had about 10 seconds left. For sex, they are arrested for prostitution. The FBI reports that black girls make up 59% of prostitution. Related arrests under the age of 18 in the United States. There should be no such thing as a child prostitute in the United States. Criminalization is the last thing a victim of such terrible sexual abuse needs. Every black person in the United States should stand up and speak up about the criminal justice system
 are treating our girls and women of color and say we are not going to take this garbage anymore. We want justice or else. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Next we have Roland Posca. Thank you. Let's see, last week I asked why not give everyone a loan? Why not give it a try? Well, I see no reason, there is no reason, why people can't get a loan. With
 life could be so much better. And the money is there. Abraham Lincoln found it. It's not something that isn't there. It's already been done. It can be done again. It just takes somebody to research what Abraham Lincoln did. It's going to take about five years to get everybody educated enough to understand that it has to be done, and it will be done.
 The money is there. You just have to learn how Abraham Lincoln found it and used it. Thank you. Thank you. And lastly, we have Mr. Toby Holland. Since the airing of my video of a prostitute on my corner, Broadway and Parmalee, I have seen zero prostitutes in a week at that location.
 Apparently, word has gotten out on the street that prostitutes will not be tolerated on my corner, at least for the time being. I've shown my tape to several officers and of course they know her by name. I'd like to thank WTVO Channel 17 and Lauren Langer for airing my video. I'd also like to thank all of the people that have stopped me this past week and are as disgusted and appalled at what goes on in our neighborhoods.
 I urge everyone to pick up a camera and tell the prostitute to move on. I will not be silent. I will be heard. And on a final note, the president of our neighborhood watch group, Boyd Glover, lost a daughter several days ago. And five days after that, he lost a son. Tomorrow is granted to no one, and every life comes with a death sentence. Thank you. Thank you.
 Moving on to petitions and communications. Dr. Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three, four items. The first is a referral. It's a memo from Marcy Leach, Engineering Operations Manager. This is for a stormwater master plan resolution of support and it's referred to Planning and Development Committee. Second is a memorandum from Laka, Kiria Vaughn, sorry.
 Assistant City Attorney for a proposed development agreement with Rockford Art Guild for an art scene display in City Hall for Fall 2015, Spring 2016 and Fall 2016. This will be referred to Planning Development. A memorandum from David Sidney, Comprehensive Planning and Design.
 Manager, for consideration of a development agreement between the City of Rockford and Alpine Bank Company for the construction of a new full-service retail bank near the southeast corner of North Main and Auburn Streets.
 which is 1401 North Main Street, Rockford, Illinois. This is referred to planned development. Lastly, a preliminary development agreement with Hanley Lofts, LLC, regarding vault repairs at 301 South Main Street in Rockford. All four of these will be referred to planning development. Thank you. Alden Schreier. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items tonight. First is the traffic condition agenda for the meeting of 2015. I think we've got 100 special events. I hope you can answer.
 through the state's 15th anniversary of the 7th year of the annual Rockford Gold Archery Award. Saturday, October 10th, the Golden West will have noticed the sale of single parcels at 349 Thank you. Alderman Beck? Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. The first is a referral memo from George Davis, Executive Director of Human Services for an annual agreement between the City of Rockford, Human Services, and Rockford Township to provide emergency rental funding.
 Next is a memorandum from Marcy Leach for consent decree for environmental enforcement. Next is a memorandum from Matt Vittner, deputy director of public works and city engineering regarding intergovernmental agreement amendments with RMTD for Rockford regional multimodal transportation center.
 And finally, I have a memo from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, and Early Head Start Child Care Grant for approval to submit applications for funds. These four items I will refer to finance and personnel. Thank you. Next is Roman Noodle, four proclamations. If I could first call up Xavier Whitford. The first proclamation is proclaiming the week of September 6th through the 12th.
 To be yellow-ribbon youth suicide awareness and prevention, we can rock for it. Whereas suicide is the tenth leading cause of all deaths in the United States, and the third leading cause of death among individuals between the ages of 15 and 24. And whereas youth suicide is the fastest growing killer of youth today, and kills three to six times more than homicide.
 And whereas the issue of youth suicide and how to prevent it is of extreme importance and must be recognized as an immediate need for awareness and prevention. And whereas the stigma associated with mental illness and suicide works against suicide prevention by discouraging persons at risk from seeking life-saving help. And whereas statistics show that awareness, education, and action do save lives.
 Heightened awareness and education will encourage communities to develop strategies to prevent suicides. And whereas the yellow ribbon is recognized internationally as a symbol for the awareness and prevention of youth suicide,
 Now therefore I, Kevin Frost, on behalf of Larry Morrissey, as the Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of September 6th through 12th, 2015 to be Yellow Ribbon Youth Suicide Awareness and Prevention Week in Rockford, and urge all citizens to work to prevent suicide, wear a yellow ribbon, and to raise awareness and tolerance around all people affected by this tragedy. Good evening.
 There is a perception amongst the general public that suicide isn't something that touches the broad community. In reality, it is an issue for all individuals from any walk of life, and Rockford community is no different. In 2014, suicide took lives of 49 individuals in Winnebago County alone, my 19-year-old son Tommy being one of them.
 So far in 2015, we have lost 23 lives by suicide in Winnebago County. My son Tommy was always smiling. He was smart, an excellent soccer player, funny, caring, and really handsome. But none of those things stopped him from becoming depressed and ultimately taking his own life. Suicide is heavily linked to depression. The prime factor is hopelessness. Though it's not actually a feeling, hopelessness is when you experience and believe that nothing's ever going to get better.
 This experience is hard for us to imagine because we have never experienced it our own. Some statistics I want to share with you tonight. There is one death by suicide in the U.S. every 13 minutes. Suicide takes the lives of almost 40,000 people a year. 15% are clinically depressed, die by suicide.
 The strongest risk factor for suicide is depression. Suicide is the third leading cause of death for 15 to 24 year old Americans, and since 2010 there have been 31 deaths by that age group, 15 to 24, in Winnebago County.
 Remember, when someone is suicidal, sometimes they can't think of anything but how they feel right now. Next week, even tomorrow, it's too hard for them to think of. The only feeling is the awareness of what they feel in that moment. They don't choose to feel this way. It's an illness just like diabetes and cancer.
 So why are we not more compassionate and empathetic to that type of illness? When we speak up as a community, we break down barriers, we improve understanding, we raise expectations, and we create opportunities to work together to improve mental health, treatment, and prevent suicide. I'd like to inform you guys all of the few events that are coming up for suicide prevention in the next couple weeks.
 Vintage 501 is donating 20% of their proceeds for all their sales this Thursday, September 10th, which is National Suicide Prevention Day. The money will be raised and used to support teen groups in our community that are, for teens that are struggling with depression, anxiety, and other, other, other, other, other
 sorry, emotional and mental struggles within the community in connection with Group Hope, and also to pay for educational training for mental health, first aid, and support families affected by suicide through the Ray of Hope support group in our community.
 Jammin' to Beat the Blues is an event on October 2nd at the Monotee C Country Club with dinner and music by Harlan Jefferson. Proceeds for that will go to the Rockford Rescue Mission to benefit Pitney Place for Child and Adolescent Depression. To register you can go to the Illinois Counseling Association event page. We hope that you join in the fight against suicide in our community in supporting these events and many others. Thank you for allowing me to speak tonight.
 Our second proclamation, accepting the voice of Brian Peterson and his son, Elliot Peterson. This is a proclamation concerning Blood Cancer Awareness Month in Rockford. Whereas blood cancers currently afflict more than 1 million Americans, with an estimated 140,000 new cases diagnosed each year, and whereas leukemia, lymphoma, and melanoma will kill an estimated people in the United States this year,
 And whereas the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, through voluntary contributions, is dedicated to finding cures for these diseases through research efforts and the support for those that suffer from them. And whereas each year the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society's Light the Night Walk is held in nearly 200 cities around the country and raises funds for research and education, and whereas Rockford's Light the Night Walk will take place on September 28th and proceeds will
 I'm sorry, provide patient support services, advocacy for life-saving treatments, and the most promising cancer research anywhere. Now, therefore, I, Kevin Frost, on behalf of Larry Morrissey, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of September 2015 to be Blood Cancer Awareness Month in Rockford, Illinois, and urge all citizens to recognize and support the dedication and commitment to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society provides to our community. Thank you.
 for window 5 is new committee reports will be suspended Luke if you could come up for a sec this is Luke's last week with us his last day is on Friday he's been a great intern and we have a proclamation for you
 Whereas Luke Miller, a local student attending the Northwestern University, has worked as a summer 2015 intern in the office of the mayor for the city of Rockford, successfully performing a variety of tasks supporting city staff in the areas of communications, events, and historical research. And whereas Luke Miller has been an enthusiastic and engaged scholar and advocate of Rockford's rich history and ongoing renaissance,
 And, whereas Luke Miller has created and launched Rockford Proud, a community-based Facebook page that features interesting and unique facts and tidbits of varying subjects that make Rockford great and its residents proud of past, present, and upcoming accomplishments,
 And whereas Rockford Proud in a two-month time frame has garnered nearly 700 likes and achieved an audience reach of more than 30,000 people across more than 15 states and 45 countries, now therefore I, Kimberly Bruce, on behalf of Lawrence J. Morrissey as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 8, 2015 to be Rockford Proud Day.
 Well, thank you. I've enjoyed my time immensely here at the city. It's amazing the stuff that both you have to put up with and the stuff that you've accomplished. My page is not, it's completely from my own will. It was not from, no one from the city asked me to do it. It's not part of the city. It's just something that I thought, I'm pretty proud of this city.
 But there was more media about it, so I made my own page. And so it's gotten some traction. So if you want to like it or anything, you can. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next, we have the report of the committees. Alderman Shirely. Recommend sustaining the Zonin Board of Appeals approval of a variation to increase the fence height from four feet to six feet in the front yard along Hancock Street.
 residential zoning district at 1735 camp avenue number three the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals for approval of a special use permit to reestablish a non conforming use to allow an antique store in the rear of the building at 503 wealthy avenue and 2410 Jackson Street number four the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of
 approval of a variation to reduce the required parking spaces from 28 parking spaces to 19 parking spaces for a medical clinic at 7525 Blairmore Drive. All those items will be referred to the legal director. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the final plat number two of Brookside Hills subdivision. Items number six, seven, eight, nine, 10, and 11 are all traffic-related items.
 I move to suspend the rules on all those items your honor. Thank you. These will be up for vote items one through 11. These can be used for voice vote. All those in favor say aye. No. This matter is passed one through 11. Thank you your honor. You placed those items up for passage. We just did. We're suspending those. I would place items one through 11 up for passage by voice vote. Yes. All those in favor.
 No, it's a matter of fact. Thank you. Thank you. I'll move back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $4,617,247.15 and the next is approval of the award of the sale of property for private... I'm sorry to interrupt you but numbers two and three will have to be laid over due to the attempts tonight.
 So those need a super majority, I'm assuming then? All right. So then I will move on to item number three, which is recommending approval for the award of sale of property at 200 North Johnston, Thendex Laird as well. Okay. So those three items we'll lay over. And then from the Finance Committee today that were passed out of committee and then we'll come to the next one. Did you have a question? All right. I'll read these items in that were approved from Finance Personnel Committee in the meeting previous to the City Council meeting.
 First is a committee report providing for the issuance of municipal bonds for the purpose of funding municipal parking facility restoration. Next is an intergovernmental agreement among the city, Winnebago County and RAVE
 The rave authority providing for restoration, maintenance and operation of certain public parking. And next is the intergovernmental agreement between the city and Winnebago County for the use of municipal parking spaces. I would place, I would ask for suspension rules on those three items. All those in favor of suspending rules on those items. We need a second first. All those in favor of suspending rules on those items? Nikki aye. Aye. No.
 I would place those up for passage. So we have number one which is the committee recommendation for the vouchers. No, those three items are, oh okay, so we vote on one and then the other. Correct. And then number two would be the committee report regarding the issuance of municipal bonds. And number three would be the intergovernmental agreement between the county, the city and RAVE. And number four would be the intergovernmental agreement between the city and the county for the use of the municipal parking spaces. That requires that right?
 So that would require a roll call from both of them. All right, well, we have items one through four. We take a roll call. Good. We look alike. . Otto. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Ellier. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Okay, so we have 11 ayes on number one and 10 on the remainder, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, Ordinance Six, which is unfinished business. We are planning and developing
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items under Roman numeral 6A1 and 2. They sort of go hand in hand. Number one, the committee recommends approval for the request for a substantial amendment to the HUD 2015 Annual Plan.
 Number two, committee recommends approval of the application to request section 108 loan guarantee funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to create an economic and community development loan fund in the amount of $6,500,000 and substantial amendment to the HUD 2015 annual plan. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and I'd like to place those up for
 Are there any questions, comments? Thank you for allowing me to speak. On the 108 loan, the committee that's going to be put in place for this application process, will the alderman get to voice who they would like and vote on the members of that committee?
 Yes, we will come back to the alderman to vote on the number of people. I mean, not the number of people. We suggest five, but it could be more, and who the professionals are that you want in the lending field. In the application, it lists out what ones the consultant is recommending. Yes, Alderman. One other follow-up question regarding the...
 Since there's a number of projects that are put in place, I was wondering if the alderman could get an update on two of the main projects, the Trek Hotel and the Gorman Hotel for the Amarok building, at a point here in the near future, over the next two or three weeks, so that we can know where they are in the process.
 With the loan program, those two properties, if you're talking about specifically the application that they'll put in if they want to apply for that Section 108 loan program, they will, at the time that it's approved by HUD, submit applications that will be reviewed by city staff and also with the ND consultant.
 a lot committee but at the time that we get the actual loan agreements you will have a chance to review those at that time also
 Thank you for allowing me to speak. I wasn't clear. My apologies. Outside of this, if we could get an update on both of those projects, not related to this vote, just I would like an update. I haven't heard from the folks in a while, and I know they've both been making a lot of progress and would like to hear from them. And I'd also urge my fellow colleagues to support this. In our previous development agreements that we've approved,
 with large majority of this one away from him was in several of them and I think it's a thoughtful that we follow through on those obligations thank you my question
 to the projects are very familiar obviously the trek hotel I know the developer local Gorman a lot more knowledge I have a lot of questions with regard to the cliff breakers project I don't know the entity I know there have been management issues with regard to the hotel in the past
 I mean I want to see it redeveloped but we have a substantial risk on this loan and I guess I have nothing to support or vote on with regard to confidence in the management team what's going to be different now than it was in the past.
 what's the marketing plan I nothing and I think we're making a pretty big commitment here I'm not sure what their stake in is in the long what their other other funding sources are I understand that had approved it but
 my discomfort is is that I feel like I'm kind of swimming in the dark on this one and I really want to see more about the cliff breakers management structure financing and and future development
 The cliff breakers project was actually a direct application to HUD. It's not part of the loan program, but there are under new
 management from previously and there we have been approved for the application but we will come to City Council as was stated previously to review the both agreements between the city and HUD and also between the city and cliff breakers with City Council for approval
 part what my follow up is I think if that's coming in the future that's fine but then I'm not sure I'm voting on 6 and a half million now we're going to be paying interest on it
 allocated and if that's not the case then I still want to see something on cliff breakers if they've already been approved by HUD it just seems like the cart is a little bit before the horse I don't want to get it in two weeks and say well here approve this that's my only issue the six and a half million is only the long pool program it's not the cliff breakers portion of the project
 I'm sorry and you had another so it's not dedicated the six and a half million is not dedicated to those three projects that are already on the books correct and with the six and a half million what we wouldn't be drawing it down all at once but we we would be doing is getting authority kind of like a line of credit so at the time that is drawn down is when everything starts I guess just one more piece the three projects that we have before us
 total more than 6,500,000, correct? Mr. Chairman, so there's two different sets of issues happening here. Cliff Breakers is separate from the loan pool. The 6.5 million represents the balance of our 108 loan capacity. That is gauged towards our total grant amount on an annual basis because they wanted the
 HUD came to us and said, look, we want you guys to shorten the span of time that it takes a borrower to get to a loan closing. And by doing this grant, this loan pool, you can do that. That conversation is separate from the cliff breakers conversation which has been ongoing for nearly a year now. And HUD has been going through its process. No matter what, these loan packages have to get approved by HUD.
 one way or the other before they come back to city council for approval. We have our own ability to judge whether it's a credit worthy risk or not at that point in time. And if we feel that a loan is credit worthy, we move forward. If we feel it isn't credit worthy or some other issue with the loan, we don't move forward. As Jovita mentioned, on each one of these loan packages, there are two agreements. One with HUD where we're clarifying that we're guaranteeing the loan.
 and one with the borrower where we set up our own agreement separate and apart from the load from HUD related to our guarantee. And so each of these projects will be judged by HUD under their underwriting criteria and then by the City of Rockford as to whether the risk is appropriate or not. That's what's happened in the past with these and you may lose it through all the evolutions.
 The loan pool is slightly different because HUD came to us and said let's get the rest of your capacity up and out. In order to expedite the borrowers, we do a loan package and then their path to a loan is a little briefer. That was the confusion at least on my part because we had always done these on approval of projects was my understanding. Now we're approving this line of credit of six months.
 million 500,000 that they would we would then have the authority to determine even if HUD approves an application we can still say no right we are necessary party to these transactions
 They may find another sponsor under a HUD program, but under the 108 City of Rockford capacity, they've got to get an agreement done with us, as well as get through the approval process at HUD. And our cap is 10 million, roughly? I'm going to have trouble coming up with our cap, but it's gauged on our CDBG, or our grant pool on an annual basis, and I think that it's in the 10 million dollar plus range.
 Maybe Jovita has the vision. Yeah, that's correct. In 2015, for example, our CDBG entitlement amount was $2,059,278. So we're allowed five times that amount, which is $10,296,000. But we have to subtract from that any other Section 108 loans that we may have out there. Okay. Thank you.
 Oh, yeah, I think so be the answer to the question. If I could ask Patrick Hayes to clarify something. You spoke that the city of Rockford guarantees a loan. I think they indirectly guarantee the loan. The funds that guarantee the loan flow from the CDBG budget, not necessarily from the city of Rockford budget per se. It's a nuance, I know.
 but I believe that that's where the ultimate underwriting comes from. Let me know. Go ahead, Joanne. If the loan was to default, per se, those funds for that payment that needs to be made, HUD would take right off the top of our CDBG entitlement funding for the next year's funding.
 just a couple other follows just under the section 108 agreement all the applications to HUD and to the well not to the city but to HUD are basically boilerplate and I believe the cliff breakers loan application identifies some of those partners the reason why that the funding is substantially less than the cost of the project that's done deliberately
 The project manager, the project directors, whoever they are, must come up with their own, even though they're a private entity, must come up with their own funds to the extent that some of these funds are actually personally, people are personally liable. So if you have a company and you want to take Section 108 funding out, you have to provide, in addition to your ability to perform, your personal assets can be attached.
 to if you default so there are a number of layers that will that the default process will go through before the city CDBG funding can be attached is that a question or statement that's a statement yeah and that's correct I guess it is all the reason sorry I'm sorry
 I guess that's one of the concerns I have is what kind of input we have to what those layers of protection are. Whether the personal guarantees are going to be attached to corporate and how many corporations as such.
 or whether in addition to that or any other assets personal assets so i have a problem with the fact that we are not privy per se to determine what that criteria is yes there's going to be a committee of five but once that committee five is put in place they're the ones that are going to bring those recommendations back to us as i understand it now let me go one step further
 The Community Block Grant funds are funds that we have to help develop our community. And so even though a default doesn't necessarily come out of our general fund, it comes off the top of what we would be given. Already, we've got one debt service that was presented even today for a meeting that we had.
 of $69,380 that's half paid through, so we can take that amount of money and multiply it by eight more years. That's funds that's not coming to this community to help develop, put people to work, et cetera, that came as a risk, and we picked it up. I'm not saying that, but as we start looking at projects that go up into the millions of dollars, we
 I am very, very concerned, especially when we have to be the guarantor, if you will, in order to make it happen, that we don't have more direct input into what's going to happen and when it's going to happen and who's going to get it. So I just have to say that. I just don't know why. Maybe that's the old-fashioned way of thinking. But, boy, if I've got to guarantee it, put my name on it, baby, I want to have some direct input to say yes or no whether or not they're even going to come forward. Thank you, sir.
 The criteria for funding and collateral set by HUD, it's not willy-nilly. The loan to value ratio is 80%. Actually these funds are a very small portion of these projects by design because HUD wants the developer to lay out themselves in order to perform on their project.
 So in the guidelines in the HUD application description of the funding program, the lender has to jump through several hoops to satisfy their ability to pay their assets and all that, and they're set. They're not negotiable. I appreciate that explanation, Alderman Dirkke, but my concern is this. HUD standards might be different than ours.
 And they can go through that process and HUD can come down and look at it and say this is what we recommend, but maybe our level of tolerance is higher than theirs. Now that's what I'm saying, when it comes down from them, they can certainly approve and we think that whatever it might be is okay to go forward, but what happens if we don't feel that way? If we don't feel there's enough guarantee or something, where do we fit into it once they've made their determination?
 Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Hayes on this matter. Different information and I just had a question for you. Do you know if you know whether or not HUD and the city on these 108 loans can require, for instance if it involves a real estate deal with an LLC in the corporate structure,
 Can it require the folks that are members of the LSU to actually personally guarantee the loan by having the members sign a personal guarantee for the length of the term of the loan? I'll just use the most recent example we have of a very successful 108 loan. MegaFab, an entity that operates the former W.A. Whitney site came in and borrowed money
 A 108 loan, a considerable loan, I believe it was a $2 million loan to start with in that range was made. Those borrowers had to have a personal guarantee for the first five years of a loan. We are in the last year, I believe, of the loan repayment period. The final payment of some $270,000 or so will be made this year and that loan will be paid off in full.
 So, I can't tell you that the personal guarantee under HUD's guidelines would be required for the entire period of a loan. It's generally a period to where the asset is collateralized to the point where the risk of default has diminished and that's a fairly common element
 the financial markets for personal guarantees. Whether the guarantee is from an individual or from a corporate entity, what's important is that the entity providing the guarantee has a financial wherewithal to make good on it. And so HUD might demand of the cliff breaker principles some period of a personal guarantee. I wouldn't be surprised if that's the case. And the city would benefit by that personal guarantee and may accept that.
 I don't think we have previously required additional personal guarantees beyond what HUD has required in the loan.
 I don't know whether that's prohibited or promoted under HUD's guidelines, but we can look into that. What will come to us after HUD has approved the loan is the package so that we can analyze it and determine whether we want to approve it as is or seek some other terms in our agreement with the developer or the borrower.
 that satisfies our interests as an organization. And by the way, this group that gets together and helps us judge this stuff has certain qualifications and but it's always going to be the judgment of this group, the city council, the city of Rockford that approves a loan agreement under the one-way program.
 not HUD demanding that we approve it, not the borrower demanding terms. We'll have you folks, the elected officials that represent the residents of the city of Rockford, we'll have that final approval. Thank you. I guess my only question is, Bob, was it involved in LLC or was it the manufacturing corporation? No.
 The corporate entity was the borrower but the guarantees came from individuals that were involved in that entity. And so I think that what I just ask council to understand is it doesn't matter if the guarantee comes from an individual or some other entity as long as that entity is involved
 individual or entity has the financial wherewithal to make good so those are those are real important issues generally their personal guarantees but there it could be a corporate guarantee or some other form of guarantee thank you then I like to just follow the assets question where are multiple sources of funding need to take place for a particular project where in that process
 does that 108 fall? Does it fall after all of the other funding is put in place and it's the last one, does it fall in the middle, does it fall at the beginning? How does that work with that 108? Just like with our CDBG entitlement funds with those programs and with the Section 108, the other funding will have to be, you know,
 look back and make sure that it is in place before section 108 goes in so there will be a review to make sure that those funds are there Mr. Chavez if I could further eliminate it is not uncommon in a loan package for the city's guarantee the HUD 108 loan to take a subordinate position to conventional financing so in the W.A. Whitney loan that we just
 approved a refinancing mechanism a year ago. I don't know if you recall, but this came through city council, where we basically resubrogated our debt to the bank financing that was in place. And that all took place because they switched banks.
 to when they refinance their project after being in at a number of years they considered paying off the CDB the 108 loan in total they determine that they would leave the loan in place so the city council took action to resubrogate our debt and we looked at that very carefully and there was a couple different discussions about where exactly we should wind up but it is not unusual for
 for us to take a position that recognize it that there might be a priority of a larger lender, a larger portion of the equity coming in for the transaction to have a superior position to the 108 debt.
 both HUD and the city have taken that position in the past and so we might in the future. I don't know what right now sitting here what these packages look like but you can understand that prime lenders who have more in the loan than government subsidized debt generally ask the government subsidized debt to be subordinate to their direct lending. Thank you. Chair Greg Musil My concern with them
 I just sort of analogize this to some of the decisions we've made with chips I don't think I would this reminds me of a little bit we're taking
 city money or guaranteed money or whatever you want to call it and we're taking a risk on the development project and that doesn't bother me so much as I think we made some real bad decisions on some of those in the past and as we look back there are some provisions that I believe with mega-fab we went into that with eyes wide open when we resubordinated that debt the company is strong they're doing well Whitney was
 pretty strong I'm manufacturing and we took that risk I'm just saying with hotels some of them being new and with cliff breakers having gone through several iterations of distress I think we need to take a real hard look at this and make sure that we're not going to wind up where we did with some of our tips where
 we are going to be subordinated. This is a very small percentage of the project as a whole if I'm gauging correctly what they're going to have to spend to redevelop that site and the hotel. And I know they're already doing some of the work.
 So I just want to make sure when we do have an agreement with them that to the extent that we can, if there's a default or an insolvency, that we have some position to be able to recoup some of the city's money and we're not left holding the bag like we have been with so many of the TIF projects where people spend the money up front on planning and consulting and attorney's fees and architect's drawings and then it just goes kaput.
 and they really don't spend any of their other funds and we're the ones who are out of a significant portion and we have to pull it from our general fund and forego other projects. So that's my concern. All I'm saying is, you know, vet it carefully and we need to have the information, full information to vet these projects. So thanks.
 item number six a items one and two service number four a and five I understand four i and six seven how many is seven four to seven next roman numeral seven unfinished business words laid over the planning and development committee sorry that item a one will be laid over
 There's an appointment, a number of eight, an appointment of Mr. Robert Willoughby to the Winnebago County Health Department for a three-year term. And this matter is offered home tonight. Does it require a voice vote? Voice vote is added. Thank you. All those in favor of this appointment, Mr. Willoughby, indicate by aye. No. This matter passes. Thank you.
 Before we get the motion of resolutions, I do have an officer's report handed to me concerning the 2016 Annual Action Plan public hearings. This week, the City of Rockford Community and Economic Development Department will host public hearings to present the 2016 Draft Annual Plan updates for 2015 through 2019 Consulting Plan.
 The 2016 Annual Action Plan is for three federal formula programs, the first being the Community Development Block Grant , the Home Investment Partnerships Program , and the Emergency Solutions Grants Program . The overall goal of these programs is to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing, a sustainable living environment, and expanding economic opportunities principally for low and moderate income persons.
 The first public hearing will take place at 6 p.m. on Thursday, September 10th, in the auditorium of the Rockford Public Library located at 215 North Wyman Street. For those who cannot attend the first hearing, a second hearing will be held the following day at 1 p.m. on Friday, September 11th at Katie's Cup located at 5027th Street. Both sessions will cover the same information. Interested participants only need to attend one session. Thank you. Any other officers' reports?
 sure sure thank you I'm I just like to point out we have some a new city employee here behind me is miss John Bradford she's started today with the city she'll be the city council clerk I'm sure we'll get to know her very well thank you John we all welcome the Jones
 next Roman rule nine motions and resolutions all of Turkey I'm sorry please still go officers from absolutely I just wanted to let the alderman know that I'm probably believe be at the next city council meeting bringing forth something under petitions and communications reflective of some of the concepts that we brought to bear when we look at our
 sort of our philosophical approaches to public housing. There was a lot of good points raised as far as how they would apply to best practices. And as we look at public housing in general, it would be kind of nice that we had a lens to vet some of these projects to. For instance, Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly was curious about the ratio.
 of public housing units to subsidized public housing units to non-subsidized public housing units? What's the ratio of people living in subsidized housing versus non? How many of these folks are coming from out of town? So a series of information gathering questions as well as looking at HUD best practices.
 How many units per acre do we want to see how many units per development do we want to see where would we like them seeing best based upon best practices so I'll I will craft something did not want the alderman to be caught by surprise and Mr. Cagnone is not here so he will be caught by surprise.
 So just to bear that in mind, I think it's worth doing to create some kind of lens that's objective, that's based on best practices that we can employ in the future. I know the city already has something along those lines. If we can dig that out and dust it off and take a look.
 Yes, sir. Under Roman numeral IXA, number one in four parts, the committee recommends approving the application for the Blight Reduction Program through the Illinois Housing Development Authority and I place that item up for passage. Are there any questions or comments? Aye. This matter passes. Under IXB, Code and Regulation Committee.
 Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under 9B, number one, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County to transfer part of 6200 Baxter Road from the City of Winnebago for the right-of-way expansion for the sum of $100. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of
 for the special event permit for the sausage fast schedule for September 20th 2015 from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 100 South Main Street number three the committee recommends approval of the special event permit for the best data alley walk schedule for Saturday September 12 2015 from 830 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Beth Seder Covenant Church 2101 East State Street
 Excuse me. And number four, the committee recommends approval for the special event permit and SP liquor permit for the Rocktoberfest scheduled for September 27, 2015 from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 1710 Rural Street. Place these items up for passage. Thank you. Any questions? Because of the transfer of property between governments, it's only 10 votes required, but it does require item B1 requires the affirmative vote of 10 of the 11. Okay.
 thank you we just want to say hi there's one through four is there a question I'm number two just for my own could you tell me how many events this person has had in 2015 he's had four so there's going to be four of them
 I was just going to say that he did apply for the three block parties this summer. However, they only had the one block party due to their scheduling conflicts. They only ended up having one of the three events. So this one here will be his fourth event of the summer. This is his fourth actual that he's had? Correct. And he still can have the other, could he also still have the other three?
 No, they've passed the date already. We'd have to take it through the council process again to amend that if he was going to call it his block party. But he could, what I'm asking, he is scheduled for four block parties, so the dates for three of those have passed, correct? Correct. Can he reapply to put new dates on those under that? It's my understanding he can because of the current special festival zone area that he's in. Thank you.
 any further questions we should start the roll call Murphy aye McNamara aye Ross aye Kirby Beach aye Aye Number 2 and 11 I'm going to leave you with all four of these matters passed Thank you Next is the Finance and Personnel Committee Yes sir I'll be back Thank you Item number one is the recommendation for the approval of the award of contract for City Hall HVAC
 to PNC Equipment for 230, I'm sorry, for annual payments of $230,927 at an interest rate of 2.659% for a total cost of $1,746,637.10. Item two recommends the approval for the award of bid for City Hall HVAC Replacement Mechanical Inc. of Freeport, Illinois for $1,512,718.
 Next is recommending the approval of the award of bid for garage door services to Raynard Door and Barclay Door, both of Loves Park, for an annual estimated value of $38,000.
 Next is approval for the award of bid for the fire department, stations 1, 8, and 10 for sprinkler systems. To automatic fire systems of Brockford for their bid of $137,478. Next is the recommending approval for the award of bid to Water Works Supplies and Materials to Water Products Company of Aurora.
 Illinois for $49,217.10. To J.D. Foreman of Lake Barrington, Illinois for $6,921,000. To H.D. Waterworks of Bella Deer for $762,602.12. To Power Seal Pipeline Products of Wichita, Texas for $15,503.37. And to Ferguson Waterworks of DeKalb, Illinois for $117,819.81.
 Next is recommending approval for the award of bid for shop drive water main replacement to contract group of those park for their
 Bid of $431,037.40. Next, recommend approval of the award of bid for citywide sidewalk and ADA repairs. Number five, to Miranda Concrete of Michosinee Park for their bid of $42,700. Next is approval of the award of the sole source contract for fire training props to Bull X of Albany, New York in the amount of $34,871.
 Next is the recommended approval of the resolution to take bids for City Hall security camera systems. Next is recommended approval of the resolution authorizing the Central Services Manager to execute a contract for electric supply for all city accounts except street lighting electricity with Constellation for up to a three-year term at rates refreshed on this Thursday.
 And then next is the approval for the city-state agreement amendment for the local agency agreement for federal participation for Rockton and Huster, I'm sorry, Rockton and Custer, and recommend directing IDOT to award the bid for the North Rockton Avenue and Custer Avenue intersection improvements at a cost of $425,841.45. The city's portion will be $137,841.45.
 I have two additional items from the Finance and Personnel Committee, but that will require rereading so I would recommend we go ahead and approve or vote on these 11 and then I'll read those two in. So items are, I move for suspension of rules on items 1 through 11. All in favor give an aye. Aye. May I place them at the passers? So for now we're taking items 1 through. Correct. Are there any questions? Murphy? Aye. McEwen? Aye.
 No 1. Kirby. Connell. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Scherrilli. We have 10 ayes on number 1 and 11 on the Remain rule. These matters 1 through 11 all pass.
 Thank you, your honor. Then from our earlier meeting before city council of the finance and personnel committee, we passed two items out of that which would require you to reread them so they have been read twice. First is the award of bid for citywide street repairs group number seven to William Charles
 for their bid of $433,519.46, funding sources and sales tax. And next is the awarded bid for restoration of municipal parking facility to J. Gill and Company with Walker Restoration Consultants in the amount of $6,200,000, the funding sources and bond proceeds. And I would ask for suspension of rules on those two items. In favor indicate by aye. Aye. Opposed? The rules are still in effect. Slate them after passage. So we have the bond.
 The awards have been for the Citywide Street Repairers Group number 7, William Charles, in the amount of $433,590. And the second one is for the award of bid for the restoration of the Instant Parking Facility to Jay Hill with Walker Restoration Results in the amount of $6.2 million. Mr. Friar, we're all up. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. It's the, it's the, William Charles and the parking deck. Odo? Newberg? Beach?
 I think both these matters pass thank you that's it yeah we had a new business I guess we can skip to the code regulation committee thank you under new business from a numeral
 Number one is the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance, Section 17-2, weed cutting liens. Number two is the approval for a variation for a fence height at 1735 Camp Avenue. Number three is an approval of special use permit for nonconforming use for an antique store at 503 Wealthy Avenue and 2410 Jackson Street.
 Is there approval of a variation for 28 parking spaces at 7525 Blair Moore Drive, number 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are all traffic related ordinance is. I place those items up for passage. I move to suspend the rules on all those items. Second. All those in favor indicate by aye. Aye.
 Now I place those items up for passage. Thank you. Are there any questions on any of the ordinance under Code and Regulation Committee? Alderman McEmery. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I would ask my colleagues to support item number two. The residents at this address came to
 to me and asked me about this and as I mentioned, pretty much the same discussion about two or three weeks ago when we last had this up, they actually went to each one of their adjoining neighbors and actually went well beyond that to see if they had any concerns. They then had all of them sign a statement saying that they were in favor of it and it was submitted to the ZBA so I'd ask for your support on item B2. Anybody else? Mr. Koloval?
 items one through ten thank you next item is personnel thank you we have the three items again that came out of our finance committee
 prior to the city council meeting. First is the report providing for the issuance of municipal bonds for the purpose of funding municipal parking facility restoration. Next is the intergovernmental agreement among the city, Winnebago County and Rave Authority providing for restoration, maintenance and operation of certain public parking. And finally, the intergovernmental agreement between the city and Winnebago County for the use of municipal parking spaces. And I ask for suspension of rules on those three items.
 All those in favor, suspend the rules and indicate by aye. Aye. No, the rules are suspended. Thank you, and I would place them up for passage. Are there any questions regarding these three items? If not, please call the roll. Aye. Aye. These matters will all be stated. Motion to adjourn. Second. Thank you. This meeting is adjourned. Aye. Yeah, I know. I didn't mean to drop it. No.