All those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Motion carried. So, we'll start with, call this meeting to order and take the roll call, or the invocation, okay, the invocation and pledge of allegiance first. We have Chaplain Dan Herman of the Old Stone Church from Rockton for the invocation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
 Would you bow your heads and hearts please? Eternal God, give her life and love. We gather this evening to do the work of the city which we love. It's a great calling to be able to help to shape and define the future of such a large and diverse population and the obstacles before us can be overwhelming and so we ask your blessing. We're all good people in this room, different in talents and ideas and so we ask that you bless our gathering that we come to common agreements and we serve always the community at large and help to make this a great place.
 Bless our city elected officials and their task, our police chief O'Shea and fire chief Bergstrom, all the men and women who serve and protect us through their leadership. And in all things, O Lord, grant us your blessings on this night. Amen. Of the United States of America, a republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice. Clerk, call the roll, please. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Okay, we have a quorum. Acceptance of the journal? It's been moved and seconded. There's four journal proceedings here we're accepting. And all in favor say aye. Okay. Journal's been accepted. And we have three public speakers tonight. We'll start with Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, it says the steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, how to prevent crime by using my system.
 the power of patrolling the area by managing by walking around and the power of being present in that area. If you use my system, you can reduce crime in Rockford in 90 days. The worst beat, I've been studying this, the worst beat in Rockford is beat 6. It has a 13-month average of 687.8%. The second worst beat is beat 4. It has a 13-month average 587.4. The third worst beat is
 central control which is beat 5, we have a 13 month average 559.3. If an error is really bad, use my extreme reaction force. If it's mild,
 a crime error, use my quick reaction force. If you give me that gentleman right there, that policeman right there that was in the United States Army, Auburn Beach, Mr. Davis, Mr. Jim Ryan and 24 minutes, what a walkie talkie. I could reduce this crime in Rockford in 90 days. I'm sick and tired of kids telling me profit.
 Oh, we here is crime. Did they have this when you was? I said, no. When you got 18 years old, you was an armed man in the Marine Corps. And, oh, I didn't have no daddy. I'm your daddy. I'm your mom. Whatever you didn't have, that's what I am, and you're going to do what I tell you to do. Thank you for my speech. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Thank you.
 Several days ago, around 10.30 at night, I heard eight gunshots. I did not call it in as I was unsure of the direction of fire. I found out it was one block over on 10th Street. Two houses were hit, one across the street from the other, and just three houses down from the soon-to-be District 2 police station. Of course, the gangbanger house, which was probably the intended target, was not hit.
 Did you listen to Hillary Clinocchio's most recent speech? Over four minutes of coughing, she says she's allergic to Donald Trump. Haha, the more obvious reason is that she is allergic to telling the truth.
 Speaking of Hillary Clinocchio, last week here in these chambers, I was approached by City Attorney Patrick Hayes. Mr. Hayes warned me that there would be dire consequences if I were to bring Hillary Clinocchio into chambers again during my speech. In other words, I get in trouble for being hit by a golf club. I told Attorney Hayes,
 If you try to stop me or interrupt me, you will be violating my First Amendment right. First Amendment, Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press or the right of the people to peacefully assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. So, City Attorney Patrick Hayes, if Congress can't do it, you certainly can't.
 Anyway, I told Mr. Hayes that I was done talking to him and that he should step away, and I sat down. So what do you think happened? Mr. Hayes stood over me trying to argue his point. He just didn't get it.
 I told him again I was done talking to him. Just before he huffed away, he said that we could have a private meeting in his office where we could discuss the situation. No, Mr. Hayes, not on your turf and not in private. If a meeting were to occur, I would prefer out in public, in front of TV cameras and an audience of civil rights attorneys.
 Mr. Hayes, if you want to violate my civil rights, I suggest that you, Chuck Sweeney, and that golf-wielding nutjob have a meeting in your office. Maybe between the three of you, you can come up with a way to violate my freedom of speech. For until then, I will not be silent. I will be heard.
 Finally, if this city council is serious about saving taxpayers any amount of money on the budget, they would stop paying former retired city attorney Schultz a salary of $150,000 a year. Oh, I forgot that'll never happen. He knows where all of the skeletons are buried. Thank you. Okay, our next speaker is John Brantley.
 Good evening, all the women and citizens of Rockville, Illinois. This is part four from last week, Proverbs 27. With all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention. Faithful employees or volunteers, those who work in the streets and in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard and help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success.
 be sure that in all your worrying and planning and organizing you don't forget the people who are helping you the most chuck sweeney ended uh with the words saying clown car commentary of rockford city council stated i have complained about this before but to norvell the people who show up at first at city hall to get on the speak of this are available those who hop
 or one of the two cloud car the circle account car and the preachy cloud car what gives you the right to call someone a clown mr chuck swimming because i'm definitely not one yes residents of river city you should be able to speak up at your city council meeting you also to be allowed to comment at committee meetings where the real work is done currently you are
 are you are however could commit should be able to speak about she would be in this specific item that the evening agenda well the church when you have you checked the ratings for city hall council meeting you will see that they have grown up in the past four years since I've been speaking
 Plus, what's going on around the country also affects what's going on right here in Rockford. As a precinct committeeman, we are supposed to report to the audience and let them know what our concerns are for the peoples in the community and for the community to be able to know what's going on in the City Hall Council meeting.
 also they have been trying when I've been asked personally if I wouldn't mind giving up my spot at City Hall and I have. What happened in Ferguson and other parts of the country we do not want that to happen here. This is not a black challenge this is an American challenge. Of course all life matter but when black life matter too we would be outraged when homicide, arrest, imprisonment, school suspension, expulsion,
 graduation rate, unemployment, high infant mortality rate, and childhood poverty occur disproportionately to black Americans. As a country, the world awaits our leadership and expects us, who have always rise to a challenge, to face the conditions and fix it. Nothing we do outside of our country will impact our reputation and engineer respect from other countries as much as our ability to take care of our people
 in this nothing part of america just like they moved the public aid office from the west side of rockwood and to the east side of rockford we did not find out about it until it was too late just this past week we was at the ethnic parade i had over 48 kids in the afternoon parade this past uh yesterday we was in the labor day parade i had not only black hispanic white i had two families that's from turkey that was marching with us in the parade we had a
 a banner with renewal attorney point only with fairgrounds of name on it i have a fairgrounds kids in that and with the fairgrounds banner we had a banner with transform rockford only the kids that used to live in fairgrounds but now live elsewhere with the transform rockford banner what we don't have is people make a lot of promises say they gonna help us but they don't help us i'm gonna do this with or without you we've been leading the bus and the minivan for the past
 Three years. Different organizations, different churches say they're going to come through. They have not yet to come through. Don't make promises. Don't say you're going to help me and don't help me. We was promised by an organization that was going to meet us yesterday at Fairgrounds at the picnic when we had 68 kids waiting for book bags. That organization that promised that was going to bring us some book bags to give us a little
 give to the kids didn't show up. Them kids looked at me, and I'm looking at each and every one of y'all. This is going out across the city, and there's also other people just watching what we're doing. Either you're here to help us, or you're not going to help us. Don't make promises and say you're going to do something, and don't do it.
 and black lives do matter, but the only way that's going to change is if we step up to the plate and give them something to do. Them kids that were flipping and jumping, if they wasn't flipping and doing Jesse White, uh, uh, uh, alibatic thing, they would have been in the streets robbing, stealing, killing, or on drugs. We need to get them away from here. I'm sorry, Mr. Brantley, you're a couple minutes over. Okay, thank you. See you next week, thank you. All right, petitions and communications. We have Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you. Councilman, the second order of report for the Plano Park is LLC, based in 20 South Madison, to the Leavening Center, 307, 1 1 3, results will be. Okay, thank you. Adam Schiarelli. For Haskell Avenue, the second is a memorandum from the legal department regarding annexations.
 The third is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, the Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events, which include Rocktoberfest and the Miracle Mile Rock and Bowl Car Show. The fourth item is the Traffic Commission agenda that will be held on September 14, 2016, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Rights Committee on September 26th.
 The fifth item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, the Assistant Operations Manager regarding the right-of-way alley vacation request at 220 South Madison Street. And the sixth and final is a memorandum from the legal department regarding honorary street name changes. All those items will be referred to the Codes and Rights Committee, Your Honor. Okay, thank you. And for finance and personnel is Alderman Gatchas. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Memorandum from the legal director for a formal grant funding request from Rosenkranz for support of the downtown triage center in the amount of $100,000.
 I have a memorandum from the legal director regarding intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Illinois Environmental Protection Agency to establish a long-term household hazardous waste collection facility. A memorandum from Matt Vintner, interim director of city engineer regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation District for the West Jefferson Street sewer rehabilitation. A memorandum from Joanne Lewis, head start director regarding early head start
 child care non-federal share waiver request. Any memorandum from Carrie Eklund, Interim Finance Director, regarding extension of the line of credit agreement with PNC Bank? I'll be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Okay, thank you. Alderman Frost. I see on the online version versus the one that I have in front of me that there are items on there, for instance, the roast grants issue that I don't see. All of my guests just read it in, but I don't see them posted or presented anywhere. Any other items?
 I don't have them either on my online. Huh? Oh, yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. So referrals are generally on our agendas if the referral material is submitted in a timely fashion to the city.
 the administration to get up in time to post with the agenda. But it's not required under our rules that a referral be on the agenda. And so that's why it's not out in the materials. It was only today when staff was directed to prepare the referral
 to be able to take this up next week if we were prepared to do so at the committees. These items need to be referred before they're heard in committee. So it's often the case that referral matters are not on the agenda, and they may not even be on the CRIBs that are presented because of the pace of operations. And there's not a rule requiring that right now, and I would –
 discourage adopting one because stuff moves quick enough around here. The purpose of the referral is to do just what we did tonight. Here's a matter that we want to put on our agendas in the future. We have control over when it goes on the agenda. We work that out with the committee chairs. And if you have issues with the matter, I'm happy to discuss it with you, as would the city administrator. Thank you. I could just follow up that. My only concern is if I presume this one that was placed on our desk was actually prepared today.
 If it was prepared today, it would be more helpful if we had all of them on there instead of just some of them. I noticed that under the planning and development, there was one that actually was added to it, number two, the memorandum from Mark Williams, that one seemed to make it, but the other one did not. I guess my request is if we're going to take the time to make an amended document that be placed on our chair.
 be amended and inclusive. So my staff prepares those cribs during the business day on Monday. I was directed to prepare that memo at 515 today. So I apologize it's not on the crib, and I would indicate that there will be times when we comply with the council's rules about
 putting the council on notice with a referral, if that happens at the meeting, we do it often. And I can't point to other outcomes like that today, but it occurs quite regularly, as the committee chairs would tell you. Thank you. Okay, so on to Alderman Hervey. Would you like to share your comments with the rest of us? Do you?
 Does anyone have any more comments on that or should we move along to proclamations? I'm sorry, Alderman Newberg. Thank you. Just if Alderman Goetsches was given a copy to read, is that another copy could have been made and put on our desk? Right. Thank you. Attorney Hayes. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, my name is Hays and staff.
 You know, I think part of what bothered people with this one is we read so much about it in the newspaper and probably expected to have something since there tended or appeared to be an ask or a demand from the city and other units of government and other people. I kind of anticipated coming here tonight and having something.
 already presented by Rose Krantz because the newspaper certainly seemed to have it and other people certainly seemed to have it. So I think that's the part that bothered me. But my whispering concern was in no way directed toward our legal staff or any of our other staff because apparently you don't have it either. So thank you. All right. We've got a couple of proclamations tonight. First one is...
 I guess I'll just read this in as it's stated. Whereas suicide is the 10th leading cause of all deaths in the United States and the second leading cause of death among individuals between the ages of 15 and 24, whereas youth suicide is the fastest growing killer of youth today and kills three to six times more than homicide, whereas suicide claims 49 lives. I'm sorry, the gentleman. I'm sorry, what? Do you want me to stand up? I think maybe to come up. Get them up.
 Do we have Xavier Whitford here to accept this proclamation? Suicide is claimed to be 49 lives in 2014 and 37 lives in 2015 in Winnebago County. Where is the issue of youth suicide and how to prevent it? Is it of extreme importance and must be recognized as an immediate need for awareness and prevention?
 Whereas the stigma associated with mental illness and suicide works against suicide prevention by discouraging persons at risk from seeking life-saving help, and whereas statistics show that awareness, education, action do save lives, heightened awareness and education will encourage communities to develop strategies to prevent suicides. And whereas the yellow ribbon is recognized internationally as the symbol for awareness and prevention of youth suicide,
 Therefore, I, Karen Elly, representing Mayor Larry Morrissey, do hereby proclaim the week of September 5th through September 11th to be Yellow Ribbon Youth Suicide Awareness and Prevention Week in Rockford and urge all citizens to work to prevent suicide, wear a yellow ribbon and to raise awareness and tolerance around all people affected by this tragedy. Would you like to say a few words?
 There is a perception amongst the general public that suicide is something that does not touch the broad community. In reality, it's an issue for individuals from any walk of life and the Rockford community is no different. Let me share with you some local Winnebago County statistics. In 2014, suicide took the lives of 49 individuals, my 19-year-old son Tommy being one of them.
 In 2015, 37 lives were lost as a result of suicide. So far, in 2016, 35 lives have been lost to suicide. In the past 26 weeks, we have lost 26 lives. That's one life a week, seven of which are between the ages of 10 and 24 years old. On average, we lose six individuals between those ages in a year as a result of suicide in our community.
 From each life that's lost in our community around the world, there are family members, friends, and schools that are greatly affected. Some national statistics are there is one death by suicide in the U.S. every 13 minutes. The strongest risk factor for suicide is depression, where 15% who are clinically depressed die by suicide. And suicide is the second leading cause of death for 15 to 24-year-olds in America.
 This is affecting our community greatly. It was recently reported that a study by the Winnebago County Mental Health Advisory Committee says mental health disorders have moved from critical situation to an emergency situation in our county. And even more recently, as we all know, Rosecrans' board voted to terminate its mental health triage program because funding is not available.
 Again, let me remind you that mental health and suicide are closely related. We have to speak up as a community and break down barriers, improve understanding, raise expectations and create opportunities and funding to improve mental health treatment and prevent suicide.
 The Tommy Corral Memorial Foundation established for our son, along with organizations like Shatter Our Silence, NAMI, and Mental Health Association of Rock River Valley, are all working to educate, support, and provide resources in our community, but we can't do it alone. What can you do? Help find ways to secure funding for mental health crisis response services, and start treating mental health with as much importance as physical health and education.
 I'd like to invite you all to support suicide prevention this week by wearing your yellow ribbons and your pin. Also come join us at a couple local restaurants to raise awareness and funds to help our effort. This Thursday, September 8th, Vintage at 501 and Blue Line are donating 20% of their proceeds to our foundation. The money raised will be used to help create meeting space and materials for local teen support groups in our community for teens struggling with depression, anxiety, and other emotional and mental struggles.
 in connection with Group Hope, and also pays for education training for mental health first aid in our community. We hope that you'll join us in this fight against suicide in our community and support mental health treatment. Thank you. And next we have Hispanic Heritage Month from September 15th through October 15th, and I believe we have some familiar faces to bring up. Hi, thank you. Yeah, you can go up there. Oh, my God, I love you.
 And you can kind of see the cameras there, so if you can stand up, stand up, then I'll be on camera. Okay. Here we go. Very good. Whereas each year the President of the United States proclaims September 15th through October 15th to be Hispanic Heritage Month, and whereas the City of Rockford recognizes the contributions made by persons of Latino descent in this area over the last 100 years, and seeks to join with them in celebrating their culture and achievements,
 And whereas for the last 50 years, Hispanic organizations have carried out their missions to foster progress of Latinos in Rockford in partnership with government, education, business, health, recreational, and cultural institutions. Most recently united together under the umbrella of Coalition of Latino Leaders,
 Now therefore, I, Karen Elliott, for Allerance J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 15th through October 15th to be Hispanic Heritage Month in Rockford and urge all citizens to join me in acknowledging the presence and unique contributions of the Hispanic heritage to our community. Mr. Valdez, would you like to say some words? Of course. Thank you.
 I'd first like to introduce members of the Coalition of Latino Leaders. Armando Cardenas, Ricardo Oceguera, Jesus Medrano, Antonio Ramirez, Antonio Ramirez, the father, and Malika Perez, and Christina Peacock. Did I miss anyone back there? No.
 First of all, thank you once again. Every year we have the proclamation, which is really good. I just want to say a couple of words about the Coalition of Latino Leaders. We're approaching our fifth year. We formed on December 13, 2011, for the purpose of
 bringing together the Latino community and reaching out to other regional leaders to make sure that there's communication and collaboration. And since then, we've had different committees that have been formed, you know, whether it's education committee, business committees, politics, public safety, education, and entertainment.
 So, anyway, and we, aside from meeting monthly, the third Monday of every month, and we've had, you know, typically about 25 to 30 people that attend, which is great, and there's no...
 attendance or anything, people just show up because they want to show up to help communicate. We've also had meetings with other regional leaders. We have meetings like, for instance, public safety. For just about the four and a half years, we've had meetings with the state's attorney, Briscato, definitely with Chief Upperson. We have been having meetings done with Chief O'Shea and, in fact, tomorrow we have a meeting with Chief O'Shea and Sheriff Caruana.
 to make sure that we're all on the same page and we can communicate to the community. So anyway, the other thing I just want to say before I see if somebody else wants to say something is on Hispanic Heritage Month, you know, thank you. I think that says it all. It's really good to show, especially with the growing Latino community. One thing that I, from an education standpoint, because people have been asking, is it Latino or is it Hispanic? Which is it?
 And first, you can ask people, but the actual rule is that if you're from Latin America, any country in Latin America, it's Latino. So that includes Brazil. But if it's Hispanic, it's any Spanish-speaking country, which does not include Brazil but includes Spain. So a Latino does not include Spain.
 Hispanic does not include Brazil. Those are the only two differences. Everybody else, it's interchangeable. And then it depends on region of which, the preference if it's Latino or Hispanic. So a lot of times when we talk, when we speak on different things, we use them interchangeably. Anybody else wanna say a few words? No, just I want to thank the Council
 for the proclamation, and we appreciate everything that you've done for the city. And I want to thank the members of the coalition for all their hard work in attending our meetings. And we're here to help the Latino community socially, economically, and for their betterment. And with your help and our help, we can work together and get things done. Thank you all very much. Is it closed session time? Oh, okay. So can I have a motion to go into closed session?
 Yes, Your Honor. I move to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. Second. It's been moved and seconded to go into closed session to discuss pending litigation matters. Can I get a roll call? Roll call. I'll start Alderman Durkee with planning and development. Second, Your Honor. Under Roman Rule 5.
 One, the Planning and Development Committee report on the amendment to the redevelopment agreement between Rockford Renaissance Development. Ms. Chair, I'd like to hold that over for two weeks. Okay. Roman numeral five, new committee reports, code and regulations. Alderman Shirelli? One through 11, I move to suspend the rules. Second. Thank you.
 Okay, so we need a vote to suspend the rules. All in favor of suspending the rules, say aye. Aye. All right, so rules are suspended. Thank you. I place it for passage 1 through 11. Okay, so for new committee reports, Roman numeral 5B, 1 through 11, up for passage. Rules are suspended. Clerk, would you call the roll? We have a vote.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Would anyone like to comment on these? Alderman Darby. Thank you. Mostly Alderman Nobis, but I'm going to comment on it. There's still a lot of citizens in Ryker. Number five, again, I guess the library sort of has to move to some degree. I think my opinion on this project is pretty well known. The
 I guess we can approve number five as part of a temporary thing, but I still believe that the overall plan needs to be looked at as far as relocate, replacing the library on the river. I've asked the alderman, I don't know if you've gotten a chance to do that, but I encourage you to read things on new urbanism, new ecology, urban ecology,
 new urbanism redevelopment that's going on. Most people, if you walk up and down the river, you wonder why we don't have open river banks. I firmly believe that the best use of that property is a green space with open access to the river.
 They're within the actual city itself, the core of the city. There's many underutilized buildings there. I firmly believe that they can be used and should be used for a library. There's other better locations. I read the Register Star editorial, and I thought it was very thoughtful and
 They did comment that the library should be there because it's a historical location of the library. Well, I sort of get what they're saying, but it's not like the Lincoln-Douglas debates happened there. There's nothing really special about having the library at that site. The library could move and be anywhere. The way buildings can be repurposed now, I believe it can be done. I also know that
 The library did look around the city of Rockford with architects and such and look at, you know, other buildings. But I almost got the impression that it's how my daughter looks at going to a college. She has an idea where she wants to go to college. And I said, well, let's go look at this college. That's fine, Dad, but I'm going to Carroll College.
 That's fine, we can go to Wheaton, I'll look at it, but I'm going to Carroll. You know, Dad, we can look at North Central, but I'm going to Carroll. So as, I'm wondering if the folks who were behind this project basically said, yeah, you can do it here, but it's better to build a new building. Yeah, you can do it there, but it's far better to build a new building. So I don't know, I don't really know what the motivation or the objective is.
 cynically think that somebody's going gaga about building a Taj Mahal on the riverbank that we can all stand there and look at.
 So, you know, I think the West Bank, the west side of the river needs to be open. Certainly when we look at what's going on some of the east aspects of the river that the Park District has kept open should be on the West Bank. And I think doing such would increase walkability, the footprint downtown. I think it further
 promotes new urbanism and new activity downtown. I think it fits, when we look at our maps vital signs plan as well as our own 2020 plan, putting a library there doesn't fit our purposes.
 You know, I would encourage the aldermen to look at the 2020 plan, look at our maps, vital size plan and their design for use and access to the river and truly rethink what we're doing because as I said in the op-ed, you know, once the building's there, it's there. You can't move it. Once the green space is lost, you can't move it. You can't recreate it.
 You can make more building, you can't make more riverfront. And I don't know if you knew, but after we had this hearing the first time on this matter,
 A couple days later in the Chicago Tribune, the Chicago author was writing about how new revitalization is coming down to Chicago because of access to the river. And this is what people are doing. So I don't, like I said, I mean, I suppose they have to go someplace, but overall I'm opposed to the scope
 the general scope, the 40,000 foot view of this plan. Thank you for listening to me again on this. Any further comments? Okay, up for a vote. Roman numeral 5B1 through 11, and this can be a voice vote. So all in favor say aye. Patrick just said that it was a voice vote. Oh, because of suspension rules.
 Is there a roll call? The rules are already suspended. Because they're committee reports, you can accept a roll call vote on the items. A roll call. Oh, I'm sorry. Because I do know that there's a final plat, so we probably ought to take a roll call vote. Sorry. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Good. No, I'm fine with staying on 10 and 11. I'm staying on 5 and 11. I'm staying on 10 and 11. I am. I'm sorry. Aye. Aye.
 No, I'm 10 and 11. Aye. Aye. Thank you. Matters passed. Thank you. Roman numeral 5C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Goetsches. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Items 5, Charlie 1 and 2. Charlie 1, committee recommends approval of vouchers the amount of $7,680,552.28. Item 2, committee recommends approval of intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services Department and Rock River Water Reclamation District for Rock River Water Reclamation District Fund to assist consumers experiencing hardship in meeting their financial obligations. I move these for suspension of rules. Second.
 Okay, it's been moved and seconded to suspend rules. All in favor of suspending rules say aye. Aye. Rules are suspended. Any comments or discussion? Hearing none, clerk, would you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay, matters pass, and we have officers' reports. Any officers' reports this evening? No.
 Attorney Hayes. Thank you. I have one officer's report.
 Luke Miller, our intern for the second summer now, is enjoying his last evening here with us this summer. He'll be returning to Northwestern and killing it at the books like he did last year. We're particularly grateful for Luke because he's been an exceptional talent for us in an intern role now for the second year. So if we could please congratulate him.
 Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Alderman Beach? One, we had a ward meeting last week, and I want to just thank our chief of police and our sheriff.
 Gary Kawano, these two men, as you've seen me write before, just really get it. We had a great turnout, a little over 145, I think I counted that officially, that was there. And the way they spoke to show the people of the community how they are collaborating back and forth at the greatest level, how they're seeking other levels.
 was a real encouragement to those people that were there, to myself, personally, in this community. So I know you get a lot of thanks and all that, but, Dan, thank you so much. And Gary, I've already expressed my appreciation to him, and I wanted to make that as a public comment.
 Secondly, last week I was going to make an announcement. I didn't because I was sitting as pro tem. I didn't think it would be the right thing to do. But to make it very clear that I am going to be seeking re-election as the Alderman of the 10th Ward, and I thought this would be a place to speak that in front of my friends who I've been with for many years. I really count it a privilege to serve the people. I am passionately in love with Rockford, Illinois. I can make that statement.
 add confession to you, and we're just beginning to turn the corner here. It's been just great. So I just make that public announcement this evening. Thank you, Kylie. Alderman McNamara. I guess I'd ask staff if...
 If we could get a report back on what the status is for the Gorman Amrock building. It's been quiet for now several weeks into months and just as it stands, as it relates to the development agreement where both sides are at hitting our timeframes and also as it relates
 to where Gorman is in their financial commitments, specifically with the EB-5. I know they've been progressing, but I haven't seen or read anything in the last several weeks or even months to get that update. So if all the council members could have an update on that important development, I would appreciate it. Thank you. Alderman Harvey? Thank you.
 Excuse me. I don't remember the exact date because I was ill, but I think it's maybe been about, what, a week and a half that a child was shot while in its parent's car here in Rockford. I think it was a one-year-old. Was that last Thursday? An infant sitting in a parent's car.
 I really don't care what the parent was doing. I care about what the person was doing who shot the doggone gun. And the fact that I had not had 1,000, no, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000 people standing up screaming scares the dickens out of me. If we're becoming that desensitized to violence in Rockford. And it bothered me because I got totally desensitized to gunshots to the point where I didn't flinch.
 No matter how close it was to my house, I didn't wake up, I didn't hit the floor, I didn't flinch. I got used to it probably about six years after I came back to Rockford. But there's something seriously wrong, including with me, that I was not screaming at the top of my lungs that someone shot a one-year-old child and doesn't seem to have any conscience about it.
 I would ask that all of our clergy, all of our organizations, all of our people who are running around talking about whose lives matter. I support a lot of the movements that are out there now, but if you really want to say that something matters, nothing comes before the life of a child, especially one that's hit by errant gunshots because people believe that it's okay to take your disputes anywhere.
 A really nice club, I went to the grand opening for On the Rocks when they opened.
 Great guys. I thought gee, this is going to be great. Finally people have a place to go where they can be safe, have good food, sit in a nice environment. And what do we have? They're losing their liquor license or may be in danger of losing it. I don't know. They may have said, you know what, enough. I'm tired of trying to do something for this community. Again, gunshots, gunfire. People take their disputes out into the street.
 When we were kids, my mother would make us go down to Washington Park. If we were fighting with each other, they would make us go down there and duke it out with nobody looking except the parents. And you know what? That was no fun. So we didn't do it anymore. But people are taking their disputes and their firearms out into the public.
 and shooting innocent people, including our children. I still think about little Tanya Hooks sitting on her couch watching our television when she was shot. I think about little Demarcus Hanson lying in his bed at his grandmother's house when he was shot. Again, errant guns. What do the people say? We didn't intend to kill the child. Nobody gives a damn. You still did.
 So I'm asking that all of us in the community, I'm not sure how we do it yet, but we get up and say enough, and we go after the guns, we go after the people with the guns, and we get them out of our city. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Two things I'd like to remind the 7th and the 9th Ward that next Tuesday night at 6 p.m. at Good Shepherd Church will be our Northwest United Neighborhood meeting. And also, I want...
 The child was, that was in my ward. I was down there within five minutes of when the call went out. Didn't realize, sorry Chief, that I was in a crime scene. Ooh, that's just like on TV. But I want to remind people of something. I'm not against guns. I'm not a member of the NRA, whatever. We have to remember that 98% of these guns that are being used are illegal.
 They're illegal. I want people to stop saying we've got to take the guns off the street. I want people to start saying, I'm going to turn in an illegal gun. Every shot that was fired in Rockford, Illinois within the last month, within the last year, that was fired by an illegal gun,
 Mother knows, father knows, grandma, grandpa, aunts, uncles, start turning in these guns to the police. Sorry, Chief, because I know you can take care of them because you get rid of them. But that's what we have to do. It's not a case, no one is safe in Rockford.
 You can't say you're 100% safe no matter where you live, but until the citizens of Rockford start standing up and saying, I don't want these shootings in my neighborhood, I don't want them in Rockford, until we start helping the police by calling in shots fired, illegal guns, it's not going to clear up. Thank you very much. Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 There's an important community idea exchange which will be Thursday, September the 8th from 530 to 7pm at Clem, 2715 South Main Street. The Rockford Police Department and the Winnebago County Sheriff's Department along with Transfer in Rockford is holding a public community idea exchange. Please come out and share your ideas on how to make Rockford a safe community.
 On a personal note, you know, if you've gone to meeting after meeting after meeting, it's a meeting held and then nothing is done. I'd like to see a follow-up and a continuation of how we're going to combat the crime in this community. The police department is extending their hands to the community. I think the community needs to extend their hand to them.
 There's a lot of things that can be done on all sides to make it a safer community, to make it a safer place. And I will urge the residents of this community to stand up and give in and support a lot of initiatives that things are going on.
 I commend Orchard Neighborhood Group when they had their sit-in. I think that was a show of encouragement and a show of that they're supporting the fact that they are tired of violent crimes in this community. We have a wonderful community. If we can get a handle on our violent crimes, we will be the first century community. We don't need transforming completely in order to be there. Thank you. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Ms. Dixon.
 I'd like a question and answer if I could. With the amount of the ash trees that are coming down throughout the entire city and the county and the park district, with the disease that's going on in the right of ways, we're taking so many trees down, but there's a lot of residents that have them on their own private property that's becoming a blight for these homes because they just don't have the resources to take these trees down. There's certain areas of my ward, there's three to five trees on each person, a lot that an owner owns that just cannot get these trees down.
 and I receive calls constantly. Is there a way that the city could assist in getting some type of grants or some federal grants or state grants or anything that could help alleviate the burden on the taxpayer and the property owner because
 is taking them down off the right of way is beautiful and it's working greatly, having a great impact in the neighborhoods, but then in their own personal yards, they got these huge massive ash trees that are dead. That they don't have the funds to take them down. So just wondering if there's any assistance or anything that we can do to help the residents.
 That's a good question. I have a similar problem in my ward. A lot of unoccupied houses also with trees that are in danger of falling onto occupied houses. Could staff address that?
 It's becoming more and more evident, particularly since our forces have done an excellent job in terms of eliminating the ash trees and the public right-of-way, but we're seeing more and more on private property and many that are either endangering the public way, which we have an ordinance that addresses that. But there's a couple of things that I've been talking with some staff about. One is, is there a way that we can do a group
 bid purchase where we can try to write down the cost of cutting the tree down.
 The second thing is, is there a way that we could work with a financial institution to spread the costs and maybe apply it to our water bill over a period of time that would make it affordable for a homeowner? Because some of these trees, you know, cost upwards of three, four, five, six thousand dollars. I'm glad to hear that, but you're at least working on a plan because I get calls weekly from residents about, you know, they just don't have the funds to take these big trees down in their yards.
 And it's becoming an issue with a lot of the neighbors having to look at these awful-looking dead trees and worried about them falling on their next-door neighbor's houses. Thank you. Okay, further officers' reports.
 It would be possible to start a program to have illegal guns turned in with no questions asked and ask the community help with either a gift certificate or something like that to give to have some of these guns come off our streets. A particular agency about the gun turn in.
 We're working on it, looking into it. Don't know about the reward part of it, but we're looking into gun turn-ins, the no questions asked type of thing. So something we're currently considering. Further officer reports? Okay, on to unfinished business. Code and regulation?
 Alderman Shrelle. Rule 7B1, we have a committee recommend sustaining the Traffic Commission for an approval to establish no parking at any time restriction on the west side of Madison Street from Lafayette Avenue to 150 feet north of Lafayette Avenue. I believe we're going to have an amendment to this, Your Honor, a friendly amendment. Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 friendly amendment to this as Alderman Chiarelli mentioned. This was originally posed as 150 feet requested. The issue here is when you're coming out of the Riverview Ice House and you're looking left it's difficult to see down the street if cars are parked all the way up to the entrance and exit. We've reviewed it and I spoke with staff about it and I'd like to review
 One other thing, that 150 feet really cuts out all the parking in front of that entire building, which I think is a poor thing to do as we look to gain more parking spots in that area. So I'd ask to add a friendly amendment that would read, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish no parking any time
 a restriction on the west side of Madison Street from Lafayette Avenue to forty feet north of Lafayette Avenue.
 Just to reduce it from 150 to 40. I've spoken with staff and also spoke with the folks who put forward this to the Traffic Commission. A second that amendment. Okay. It's been moved and seconded to change 150 feet north of Lafayette Avenue to 40 feet north of Lafayette Avenue.
 All in favor of that change, say aye. Aye. All right. So the change is approved. And I guess everyone all in favor then of sustaining the traffic commission's no parking any time, 40 feet on Madison Street, 40 feet north of Lafayette Avenue, say aye. Aye.
 I'm sorry. Did you want to say something? Yes, I'd like to know if this is for every day of the week or is there an exception for the weekends, Saturday, Sunday? My understanding is that it is every day of the week. Alderman Newberg? Thank you. I am part of the.
 The reason behind this was that it's for 100% of the time due to the amount of traffic that they have on that corner. Going down to 40 feet would still give a good enough view to somebody that's going to be pulling across or out into traffic. 150 feet is the whole length of it, but it would be for 100% of the time.
 Okay, thank you. All right, so motion passed, and we'll go on to Roman numeral VIII, Motions and Resolutions. Alderman Durkee. Roman numeral VIII,
 A, one and two, we have two resolutions. Number one, authorizing the mayor to sign the certificate of consistency with a consolidated plan for the continuum of care application. And the second, a resolution regarding a partial reduction of permit fees for the greater Rockford Airport Authority MRO facility. Place these up for passage. Discussion? Alderman Beach. Before we address the motor turkey, we should vote on that friendly amendment.
 of that 40-foot friendly amendment. We took two votes. I thought we voted on the amendment, and then... No. Two voice votes. I stand corrected. Okay, so up for passage or up for discussion, Roman numeral 8A...
 Resolution authorizing the mayor to sign the certificate of consistency with a consolidated plan for the continuum of care application. And 8A2 resolution regarding partial reduction of the permit fees for the Greater Rockford Airport Authority MRO facility. Is there any discussion?
 I know that this is not on the agenda or crib, and resolutions typically don't require suspension of rules, but item A2, because of the timing of the request from the airport, was not referred to the city council prior to being presented, so it requires a suspension of rule 15. Thank you. It's been moved and seconded to suspend the rules. All in favor of doing so say aye. Rules are suspended. Any further discussion? No.
 Hearing none, let's place these two things up for a vote, and it requires a roll call. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay, so it passes.
 And to Roman numeral 8B, Code and Regulation, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. 8B1 is a request to revise chapter 16 of the Rockford Code of Ordinances to eliminate zone parking enforcement. Number 2 is 1115 6th Avenue settlement of property damage claim against Golden Agers.
 and number three is the resolution for settlement of tartaglia versus the city of rockford case number two zero one four l one two five and the amount of fifteen thousand dollars i placed those up for passage your honor okay is there any discussion alderman beach number b1 attorney so the uh resolution came in um and there's some code provisions that are suggested
 by way of adoption under new business ordinances. And I'll check and see whether the sunset's on there or not. Thank you. Thank you. I actually have a question about two. I'm sorry, I don't know. I'm curious because it's in my ward. I know a steel fire station that burned down.
 What are the details of that? In terms of the settlement agreement, the insurance proceeds have been paid to the Golden Agers. They rented that building from the city of Rockford, which, as you mentioned, is a complete loss.
 Goldenagers has in hand a full value. The demolition costs have been paid by the carrier. There's $358,000 in hand of Goldenagers. They're going to pay the city $350,000 of that to satisfy their obligation of maintenance of the property. So the city then will move forward. There were some issues related to the property that we may need to take care of in a limited fashion because it's expensive.
 It's a level lot now, but there are some issues about how we might finish that off, and we're going to look for an alternative. But at this point, we're going to settle the matter with Golden Agers under their lease for the $350,000 that they've offered. They're going to maintain the additional proceeds, a little over $8,000, to compensate them for their lost goods that were in the facility. Okay. Any further discussion? Hearing none, we'll vote on...
 8, B, 1, 2, and 3. And does this need a roll call? Okay. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Item number 1, 12 ayes, 1 no.
 All right, matters passed. Roman numeral 8C, financing personnel. Alderman Gatchos. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to read in item 8, Charlie 1 through 8. Item 1, award of bid for demolitions to the Northern Illinois Service Company for $98,732 and award of bid for water treatment chemicals to Alexander Chemicals.
 for a value of $137,000 and Karis Corporation for an estimated value of $88,000. Award of contract for taxes and lease for three fire SUVs and a truck to PNC Equipment Finance at Columbus, Ohio for a lease rate of 1.482% for four years.
 Award of contract tax exempt leased for an end loader PNC equipment finance of Columbus at a rate of 1.792% for seven years. Award of joint purchasing contract GeoPolice Station furniture to Atmosphere Commercial Interiors of Rockford for $800,000. It's a not to exceed amount.
 Change order number one, bridge and roadway removals and repairs to Sosha and Sons of Rockford, Illinois for an additional $33,500 and a new not to exceed total of $895,043.21. Change order number one, citywide street repairs group five, the TCI concrete of Rockford for an additional $70,000 and new not to exceed total of $1,190,487.14.
 And award a bid Citywide Street Repairs Group 7 arterials to Rock Road Companies of Janesville, Wisconsin for their bid of $1,456,704.27. Place these items up for passage. Okay. Any discussion? All right. Hearing none, up for passage Roman numeral 8C, number 1 through 8. And I assume we need a roll call. If I could, please call the roll. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Resolution to establish membership of a committee, a vice chair position, and committee name change. I put that up for passage. Any discussion? Hearing none. Voice vote? All in favor? Aye. Aye. Matters passed. Number nine, new business ordinances. Got A, planning and development. Alderman Durkee? Aye.
 That item has been held out. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, it has. Okay. Roman numeral 9B, Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirelli. Roman numeral 9B, 1 through 9. I move to suspend the rules. Second. I move to suspend rules. All in favor say aye. Aye. Rules are suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those items up for passage. Okay. So this would just be a voice vote on these? Roll call. Is there any discussion?
 We address the resolution on the zoned parking ordinance. There's a question about whether there's a sunset clause.
 There is no sunset clause in the ordinances or the resolution. I'll speak to the staff attorney on the committee to look at the tape and determine why. I think it's our view that we modify parking as we go quite often, but I don't recall specifically, because I'm not the staff attorney on that committee, the discussion. If there's an amendment to be made to sunset this, that's fine. It's a very...
 It's somewhat of a difficult situation, but this was adopted and created years ago. I think the staff recommended that if we wanted to reimplement, we would draft the ordinances differently than they had been and been enforced for years.
 I would recommend rather than a sunset that the aldermen commit to SAF that we review it in a year and then determine where we go because if there's a sunset and it automatically triggers, we won't have the opportunity to correct the limitations that were in the ordinance previously, and I feel that that would be appropriate. I'm happy to accept any direction of the city council. I just wanted to share those thoughts. And I don't know why sunset, if that was the object of the committee, that it's not in there. I'll need to speak to the staff attorney on that.
 Thank you, Attorney Hayes. Alderman Newberg. My mind has gone blank. Yes, I was at that meeting, and when we brought that up, it was brought up by the committee and voted in that there would be, in 12 months, be a re-evaluation of that. That's right. Thank you. So, up for vote, Roman numeral 9B, 1 through 9, rules have been suspended, further discussion, Alderman Beach. Thank you.
 That's amended to 40 feet, not 150. That's right. I'm sure staff had that in their title. Further discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you. I would like to know from the city attorney if what the committee did as established by, as stated by Alderman Newberg is acceptable to him.
 Certainly, if there's a motion to make the amendment to sunset it in a year, we'll make those notes and that will be what happens. If there isn't a motion to do so at this time, it will go without the sunset clause. So we're happy to do whatever the aldermen want to do tonight. Thank you. So then, Madam Chair, this is not the motion.
 sunset as stated by the committee. So I would make a motion to add a sunset clause. Friendly motion? Yes. There hasn't been a second, so Alderman Harvey. I just wondered, Alderman Newman, because I don't recall, was it to sunset? Which to me implies that the ordinance dies unless there's a specific vote to retain it versus an evaluation in 12 months.
 If I may, it was not when the sunset was parking and that there was no, they did not want to put a sunset and I could not back a sunset. Yeah, I don't like the idea of a sunset. So it would be up to us to ask staff in a year's time or to ask them now just to give us an evaluation in a year's time?
 Okay, Alderman Shilley? That's what was discussed at the committee level. Okay. And I believe that's what was understood, that the staff would reevaluate this item in one year. Okay, so staff, will staff give us an evaluation in one year? Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Okay. Okay, so we've got up for a vote, it's Roman numeral IX, B, I through IX.
 Right. Right? Okay. And that we need the clerk to call the roll. No on four, abstain on eight. No on eight, stand on... I'm sorry, Alderman Katchos. I apologize. I just pleased to go by abstention on item four. I voted in error. I'm abstaining on item four. Thompson, Kelly, aye. Newberg, aye. Aye. No on eight, aye. Aye. Thank you. Item one, abstain on item three.
 Matters to pass. And now we have Roman numeral 9C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Getzis. Governor, I have an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services Department and Rock River Water Reclamation District for funds to assist consumers experiencing hardship in meeting their financial obligations, and I move for suspension of rules. It's been moved and seconded to suspend the rules. All in favor of suspending the rules, say aye. Aye. Rules have been suspended. Seconded.
 Is there a discussion? Hearing none, item 9C1 is up for passage. Does this require roll call? Yes, clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. Okay, matter passes. Motion to adjourn.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor of adjourning, say aye. Aye. We are adjourned.