I'm very good at doing things. Yes. I've got those two chatting. You can get started. Don't hold us up. Chance isn't ready yet either. I like standing here. I should stay here the whole time. Mm-hmm, you should. Every time somebody asks you a question, I just bring the advice of counsel and run into it. You've got to do this. I'll be looking on. I'm particularly inclined to call this a job. Ready? All right. All right. Got it. Ready, Chance? We need to call to order the meeting, the Rainier City Council meeting of Tuesday, September 3rd. We need a motion to appoint Alderman Rose as Mayor Pro Tem. So moved. Second. The motion is second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed say nay. Motion passes. Thank you, Nick. We'll get started with an invocation and a pledge of allegiance. And we'll start with the invocation from Pastor Violet Joniker. School prayer. I have brought my son Lincoln and my daughter Imogene to pray with us. So let us pray. Dear God, thank you for all the kids in Rockford and especially the kids starting a new year of school. We ask your blessing upon them, their teachers, paraprofessionals, school administrators, bus drivers, maintenance staff, substitute teachers, and everyone who makes our education system possible. Our prayer tonight is that as our elected officials make decisions, they would be thinking of our littlest Rockfordians and working together to build the kind of community kids deserve to grow up in. May all children be blessed with everything they need to learn, enough to eat, safe homes and caring grown-ups, and a city that supports their dreams. Amen. Amen. Clerk, what do you do at the roll call? Durkee. Logeman. Here. Tunberg. Tarina. Here. Prunty Wilkins Rose present Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 12 present. All right We will go on to the acceptance of the journal item 1 the journal proceeding for the City Council meeting held on July 22nd 2024 is there a motion all those in favor say aye opposed item passes all Item two is the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on August 12, 2024. All those in favor say aye. Opposed? All right, that item passes. We'll move to proclamations, and we'll get started with two of them. So I'll just use this mic. Um, the 1st proclamation is a proclamation declaring September 8th, 2024 to be Calvin Park Boulevard Association day in the city of Rockford, Illinois with those. People accepting, I believe that 1 is. Sue and Paul Christianson and Logan trauma please come up test test. All right, well, we'll get started with the proclamation. Whereas 2024 marks the 40th anniversary of the establishment of Kelvin Park Boulevard Association and honors the almost 100 year history of this unique and exemplary neighborhood. And whereas the Kelvin Park Association consisting of 60 households overlooking Kelvin Park and its volunteer board of officers and block captains partners with the Rockford Park District to maintain this jewel of public space. And whereas through dues, grants, and gifts, Kelvin Park Boulevard Association funds the planning, planting, and beautification of this public park with its expansive green space, trees, colorful flower beds, and native grasses, and earns with seasonal plantings. and whereas Kelton Park Boulevard Association considers neighborhood an action verb and does neighborhood by making memories through many activities and traditions such as an annual block party, movie nights, pumpkin carving, luminaria, holocausts, holiday party, and horse-drawn carriage rides and other events. And whereas over the past century, Kelvin Park Boulevard residents have included many leaders of industry, company founders, and those with successful careers in medicine, law, education, the trades, etc. all who give generously in support of the arts and other projects so important to the rich history and fabric of the Rockford community. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 8, 2024 to be Kelvin Park Boulevard Association Day. Do you guys want to say anything? Well, first of all, I don't – I'm the president of the Calvin Park Boulevard Association, and I will take this opportunity that I don't get very often to say thank you to all our public servants, those sitting here, the police chief and the fire department and all the city services that give up your time and devotion to making this the place we love to call home. Calvin Park Boulevard is a place that we proudly call our home and Rockford our city. through various means the city the mayor the council public services departments have provided calvin park boulevard residents the opportunity to make this place a wonderful place to live and we thank you for that and i will only echo the portions of the invocation that uh that the city is what makes us possible, makes the neighborhoods possible in this town. We especially appreciate also the community engagement committee or the engagement department, as well as Public Works, who goes out of their way in an unseen way to help our neighborhoods thrive. Thank you very much. And we also want to especially say thank you to Alderman Frank Beach, who is our get it done man in our neighborhood and the city. So thank you, Frank. And thank you to all of you. Our next proclamation, would Jamie from Mosaic come up? Congratulations. I'll go ahead and read this off. So this proclamation is from Mosaic. It says, whereas the week of September 8, 2024, has been designated as National Direct Support Professional Recognition Week in order to celebrate and recognize professionals who provide support to millions of individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. And whereas this celebration recognizes the dedication and vital role of direct support professionals in enhancing the lives and protecting the well-being of individuals with disabilities of all ages. And whereas the community plays a role in lifting up direct support professionals as integral in supporting the needs of people with disabilities and their families through service systems across the United States. and whereas proper recognition is given to those who directly help people with disabilities gain full access to housing, employment, and the recreation activities which help create productive and satisfying lives and to live as independent as possible. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of September 8, 2024, to be Direct Support Professional Recognition Week. I'll hand it over to you. Thank you so much. My name is Linda Wenmacher and I'm the executive director of Mosaic and Rockford. And a very long time ago, I started out as one of those direct support professionals. Today, I'm proud to be part of this community along with the 75 people that we support in a variety of settings in many different wards throughout this city. Our group homes, our apartment buildings, and our adult foster care homes thrive in this city because of the council members and the community that supports us. And for that, we are so grateful. Thank you. Give them a round of applause. Thank you so much for all you do. Thank you. All right, we'll move to petitions and communications. We'll start with Planning and Development Committee. Thank You your honor we have one item item number one is memorandum from Tim Hinkins Interim public works director regarding authorization for a grant application and award acceptance for the HUD community project funding for us 20 Illinois to planning an environmental linkage referred to planning and development committee Thank You alderman Wilkins next is our code and regulation committee. I Thank you. We have two items. A memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 1216 North Johnson Avenue, referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two is the Traffic Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on September 11, 2024. And meetings from that meeting for consideration at Code and Regulation Committee meeting on September 23, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Tarina. And finally, Finance and Personnel Committee. Six items from Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number one, memorandum from Police Chief Carlo Redd regarding the approval of the Memorandum of Understanding with Winnebago County for the 2021 Burn Justice Assistance Grant, referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number two, memorandum from Police Chief Carlo Redd regarding the approval of the Memorandum of Understanding with Winnebago County for the 2022 Burn Justice Assistance Grant. for the Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number three, memorandum from Police Chief Carla Rudd regarding the approval of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Winnebago County for the 2023 Byrne Justice Assistance Grant for the Finance and Personnel. Item number four, memorandum from police lieutenant richard gambini regarding the consideration of acceptance of the illinois attorney general's office organized retail crime fiscal year 25 grand award referred to the finance and personnel committee item number five memorandum from finance director carrie hagerty regarding the 2023 budget surplus uh This matter is referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number six, memorandum from Finance Director Kerry Hagerty regarding a gaming tax revenue policy to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Logeman. We'll then move to public speakers. Just so our public speakers are aware, you will have three minutes. When you hear the buzzer, you will be asked to stop speaking after those three minutes.
 Okay.
 Our first public speaker is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Nightshake. Good evening to all the persons that are citizens of Rockford, but most of all, the people that are watching us today. I want to take this time out to thank all the individuals that called in Rockford Housing Authority about my van getting towed and getting on housing authority case. Housing authority rectified that situation. But I'm also speaking on, we're forming a coalition. This coalition is going to consist of me and Tommy Ninks. The reason why we formed this coalition is last week my son was arrested driving by being black. They was at a funeral on a Wednesday, and while they was at that funeral the police was there. The police followed them to the graveyard. When they left the graveyard, instead of him pulling over, he ran from the police. And then when they called him, they said he had a gun on him. He didn't have a gun, but yet they posted on the internet that he had a gun. I was in court from 1.30 to 4 o'clock listening to the different cases and listening to the state's attorney. Our coalition, the reason why we formed this coalition, is to have this weekend another youth had got shot. So instead of sitting by waiting for the Peace and Justice Center or waiting for these fly-by-night organizations to stop the violence that's going on in the streets, we're going to form this coalition with these common names. We're also getting, um, Gina Meeks, the Alderman Person there, we got three different churches that's going to be a part of this coalition. We even got a security firm that's going to be security for us there. What we're going to do, we're going to gather up all these youth that's in this one clique, meet with them. After we meet with this clique, we're going to meet with the adversary of the clique who they're going up against. And we're not just meeting to be meeting. We're meeting to come up with a resolution. And like I always say, unless you walk a mile in our shoe, you don't know what we've been through. The people that are in our coalition, if you don't have a doctorate or a Ph.D. in these streets, you're just an educated fool. And they are not going to listen to no bourgeoisie decepticon that got on the shirt and tie and talking proper. No. But they will listen to Brother John. They will listen to Tommy Neese. We've got people that's going to be on our coalition that the people that they – All the parents I've talked to is overwhelmed and enthused about us doing this. It's sad when the parents tell me they have to keep their kid in the house because their kid is afraid to go outside because they're not only afraid of the clique they're going up against, but they're also afraid because they've got a zero on their back with the 5-0. I'm also asking Colin Reed, the chief of police, that our coalition want to seriously have a meet with their gang unit. And when we meet with their gang unit, we're not just meeting to be meeting. We need to talk about a resolution. Those youth, stop it. Those youth that don't want to cooperate, those youth that don't want to put their guns away, then I'm with 5-0 about putting them away. We are going to bring a ceasefire. I haven't done this since 1970. I'm the last of the original Nandinka warriors in the bandage of the Black Panther Party. And we are going to bring a ceasefire here to this community. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Carrie Phipps. Hello, I am Carrie Phipps. I brought a petition with over 1,000 signatures from the community for financial transparency and stricter code enforcement from Carly Rice, from Ms. Carly's. We are asking for the immediate closure of Ms. Carly's. First and foremost, she is operating illegally with no permit and doing it flagrantly. She is showing no respect for the law, city, or citizens. She hasn't followed the SUP given generously to her since the day it was granted. It was never enforced, so she feels emboldened to do whatever she wants. This is showing other organizations that permits don't matter and won't be enforced. Ms. Carley's is not a registered nonprofit, which she continues to lie about. They are under investigation by the Attorney General and told not to solicit. However, she continues to almost daily with no consequences. Ms. Carly has not been transparent with the millions of dollars she has raised. Taxes have been misrepresented. No reconciliation of expenses and no audit in any year done. There are no social workers, counselors, or licensed professionals employed and on-site. Ms. Carley doesn't work with other organizations and degrades them. She thinks she's the only place that can help, which is dangerous. Poverty porn is something this organization does constantly. In one instance, she filmed a long-time volunteer having a seizure on the ground in front of his coworkers, some crying, and she posted it on Facebook. They show pictures of very vulnerable people and children, all for clicks on social media and money donations. It's disgusting and wrong to exploit these people. Thank you. Our next speaker is Beth Hoer. Thank you. It's Hoyer, but it looks like you are, so that's okay. I'm used to that. Hi. Thank you for allowing me to be here, and thank you for all that you do for our city. As I stand here before, it's great news. I'm going to brag about one of my students. I'm a teacher of 44 years. I'm a music director and currently at Auburn High School in the CAPA program. There's a young man named DeAndre Hemby. We call him Dre. He's the drummer in Teddy Swim's band. And if you all are, you probably have heard his main song, The Lose Control, which is the number one chart on Billboard. She was my student in 2013. This is our daughter by choice, Hannah Haven, who is going to read a note written from his mother who is in Atlanta so could not be here tonight. She'll be here obviously for the performance. They're coming to Hard Rock September 20th. My request, I'm going to put out a proclamation, but I'm requesting if there's any other a way that you can advise me or help me make a celebration for Dre when he comes to town. It's his choice. They were set to go to Pittsburgh along with Aerosmith. As we know, or if you're following music at all, Steve Tyler had a problem with his voice. He's done. So Dre stepped in and said, I want to go home. Let me bring back to Rockford. This is a young man as he is climbing that stairway to stardom, he never, I have numerous interviews that he always states, I'm from Rockford, Illinois. Love the town. Started to play there. And then he went to Atlanta. He played with gospel groups. He played wherever he could, and here he arrived with this band who is now 70th in the world. They just came back from their second world tour, and now they're touring across the United States. And Dre said, I'm going to come home. So if there's something we can do just to say thank you to this young man. We've had Fred VanVleet, and he's acknowledged this guy works just as hard, and he's done it. So thank you. Hannah's going to just mention. Hello again. DeAndre was my classmate in Auburn High School 2013. I'm here to speak on Delia, his mother's behalf. She said to the members of Rockford City Council, thank you so much for your consideration in this proclamation of DeAndre Hemby. DeAndre was gifted to grow up in Rockford and attend Auburn School. DeAndre's musical ability was discovered at a very early age and as his mother I would get multiple calls from his teachers at Westview and Barber schools Letting me know that he broke all the pencils as he used them to play drums on his desk His music teachers at Auburn High School helped develop his skills even more. Thank you to miss Beth Hoyer for supporting DeAndre's gift. I Rockford will always be home for DeAndre, and when he tours the world, people ask him where he's from. He does not say Chicago. He says with pride, I am from Rockford, Illinois. I'm so glad Teddy Swims is coming to the Hard Rock Casino because it gives DeAndre the opportunity to bring it home. Thank you again for your consideration. Thank you. Our next speaker is Dale Costello. Is Dale present? Okay. So we will go to our next speaker, which is Prophet Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 19th chapter, the 21st, it says, Listen to advice and accept an instruction, and in the end you will be wise. What I want to speak about tonight, why veterans commit suicide. There are 15 reasons, and I have the solution to solve this problem in the United States. The first cause is hopelessness. The second cause is despair. Hopelessness and despair is the mother of suicide. The third cause is relationship problems. The fourth cause is drug addiction. The fifth cause is alcohol addiction. The sixth cause is mental illness. The seventh cause is unemployment. The eighth cause is financial problems. The ninth cause is homelessness. The tenth cause is health problems. The eleventh cause is poverty. The twelfth cause is legal trouble. The thirteenth cause is sleep deprivation. The fourteenth cause is battery. We have too many deployments in a combat zone. The 15 calls veterans who have guns in their home that are loaded and not put in a safe. A 2010 study of the Israelites Defense Force found that suicide dropped by 50%. When in 2006, troops were banned from the then common practice of bringing their rifles home at the end of the day. And more than 60% of United States veterans commit suicide at home with a personally owned firearm. Veterans experience a mental health crisis. I want you to call the Veterans Crisis Line. It's open 24 hours a day, seven days a week at 1-800-273-8255 and select option one for a veteran staff. I was in the Navy 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, 15 seconds. I did three tours in that hell hole. in Vietnam. I want to, I didn't want to tell my great niece who retired from the Air Force with 20 years of service, Donna and Benita Hervey and my good friend Mayor Morrissey this for a long time. And I'm gonna get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday to my good friends, happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. That was under time, good job. All right, we'll go ahead and move to the new committee reports. under planning and development committee. Recommends approval of the funding agreement with Southwest ideas for today and tomorrow, Swift, in the amount of $30,000 of TIF funding through the Barbara Coleman TIF district to support their 2024 work plan. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item two committee recommends approval of the agreement with Rockford area habitat for humanity for the 2024 critical home repair program in the amount of $250,000 the funding source is the American Rescue Plan the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank You alderwoman Wilkins any questions or comments on items one and two see none clerk. Would you call the roll? All right, Terina Prenti Wilkins Rose. Hi Arios all right Bailey Bonnie hi 12 eyes. All right those items pass We'll move to item B, which is code and regulation committee I We have six items for our committee. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the request for an honorary street name change on Foster Avenue from Green Street to Elm Street, renaming the street Iser Tilson Way. This request is being made in honor of Iser Tilson, who was a resident of Rockford for 62 years and who lived to be 108 years old. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a church and church-related uses in an R3 multifamily residential zoning district at 6219 Forest Hills Road. Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends sustaining the zoning work of appeals approval for a special use permit for body art services and a C3 general commercial zoning district at 44 xx 2430 Manchester Drive suite g1 subject to condition for legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number for the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for the modification of special use permit 0 5 3 dash 2 2 for the installation of expansion and of a solar farm in the light, excuse me, in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 4747 Harrison Avenue. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends the sending the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit, a planned unit development for a youth community center with meeting rooms and youth social activities with a future gymnasium and a C2 limited commercial zoning district and I-1 Light Industrial District at 2501 Charles Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, item six, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for the modification of special use permits 06796 and 05898 to build a new equipment storage facility for the storage of vehicles, tree maintenance equipment, and trailers in a C-2 limited commercial in R-1 single-family residential zoning districts, At 2603 Kilburn Avenue subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you Thank you Alderman Torino any questions or concerns on items one through six under Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Staff facility so the to allow for additional indoor storage I But it's stormed. It's indoor storage for vehicles and other equipment associated with the business The existing the business is in existence already And they're expanding um to the west is my understanding, but they they've been in existence for several years Both with outdoor storage as well as indoor storage As a tree care business. Thank you other other questions Seeing none clerk would you call the roll jerky? Hi Logum in no one one tumor Karina fronty Wilkins Rose Beach Barrios all right Meeks. Ah Bailey Bonnie all right item number one 11 eyes one no items two through six 12 eyes All right, we'll move to finance and personnel committee. All right Two items before Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $7,778,677.69 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on August 26, 2024. Final item number two committee recommends approval of the wage increases for non-union employees of the Health and Human Services Department that are 100% funded from the federal head start grant effective April 1 2024 and August 12 2024 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank You alderman Logum in Two items there one and two are there any questions on those two items? See none Clark. Would you call the roll? Jerky hi Logum in timber Terina I fronty Wilkins hi Rose hi Beach Barrios all right Meeks. I Bailey 12 eyes all right those items pass will move to unfinished business under committee reports laid over with Planning and Development Committee Thank You honor Item 1, committee recommends approval of the residential neighborhood sign program in the amount of $100,000 to assist residential neighborhoods and neighborhood groups in developing signage to create brand identity and pride for their neighborhood. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Also, your honor I move to amend the committee report recommending approval of the residential neighborhood sign program to state as follows All program applications submittals and final designs shall be subject to final approval of the alderman of the ward Alright so that item is amended and seconded any Questions or comments on the amendment see none will vote on the amendment first and then the item clerk Logum in Serena I fronty all right Wilkins I rose I Beach Mario's all right Meeks I Bailey funny all right full guys. All right the amendment passes though now we'll vote on the full Item any questions on the full item CNN clerk? I on a no on B I we're just we're just on uh item one for planning and development um i'm sorry i thought she went into it logan hi timber hi terena hi frunty all right wilkins hi bros hi beach hi barrios all right Meeks? Aye. Bailey? Aye. Bonnie? Aye. 12 ayes. All right, so that item passes as amended. We'll move to item B under Code and Regulation Committee. Committee recommends approval of a special use permit for a planned unit development for 29 multifamily residential units in our three multifamily residential zoning district at 310 Ardell Avenue Thus reversing the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance All right, so we have item B one up for vote any Questions or comments on that item see none clerk turkey. No, I'm B. I Logoman Timber no, Terina Prunty no Wilkins. I rose Beach. No Barrios no Meeks. I Bailey Bonnie no the vote was five eyes seven nose right item doesn't pass Under item C. There are there's no items for finance and personnel committee. So we'll move to officers reports Any officers reports tonight alderman Thunberg and then we'll go to Alderwoman punts pronte in Terena that I want to thank everyone for their organization for the Jamie Cox Memorial ride We had about 300 motorcycles Thank you for everyone who put that together his honor also to neighborhood standards and Jessica Anderson they have been on my I Speed dial to say the least so thank you to everyone at neighborhood standards and for helping out the city. Thank you Thank You alderman, Toonberg. I will go to alderwoman Prunty Sure alderwoman Torino. Thank you. I mean I The only thing that's in my inbox right now is hard rock. Like, I can't not say anything about it because they just there was there was an exceptional week last week for our city and just these grand openings and celebrations. And I drove past today. It was a full parking lot midday. Just I just wanted to congratulate Gino. Thank you. and every single person on their team that was like a tremendous, Dan Fisher, from Dan Fisher, Gino, all these individuals that have just put, Rick Niels, I keep naming people that come to my head, but there's so many people involved in the creation from legislators to investors, city council, everyone involved in making this. casino what it is. It's really exciting. It's just the residents are so happy. People are just excited that there's something to do, something new, something fresh. And it really offers a lot of variety from art and memorabilia to if you wanna have some cocktails, a good dinner, gamble, entertainment. I mean it really offers something for everybody. So I'm just so excited about that. So I just wanted to acknowledge everyone and their exceptional work to make that, to bring a world class facility to Rockford is really amazing. So congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. We're going to go to Alderman Wilkins and then we'll go to Alderman Bailey. Thank you, Your Honor. On August 24th, the third annual back-to-school bash was held along Kent Street, and I'd just like to personally thank everyone that attended, everyone that had anything to do with the planning. It was a great turnout. We did exactly what we intended to do, which was provide the community with resources and supplies that were needed. So I just wanted to say a big shout-out to the community and everyone that made the event possible. It was great. Thank you. Thank you Alderman Bailey. Yeah, I want to thank the Department of Public Works for cleaning up an area where Park Fest was held this Sunday it was a great event had over 2,000 people and I Wish we see more of these events on the west side in our community. Thank you. Thank you Alderwoman Prenti. Are you ready? Okay I did want a second Alderwoman Torrinas Mention of the hard rock. I think it's really important to note that Not many cities our size actually have a hard rock I in fact, maybe a handful. I don't know. I don't know that number but I Like she said, I think there's a little bit of something there for everyone. If you're interested in historic memorabilia, it's like a little miniature museum. If you're interested in entertainment, you know music especially they probably have something there for you if if they don't i would recommend you contacting them they probably will look at that um there's also um the work that they do and it was really interesting to see in the presentation last week from the seminal tribe the community giving that Hard Rock does. And so I would encourage stakeholders in our community if they are in need to reach out to them, they are very much minded in giving back. And I think that one of the key ways that they are giving back is through that Rockford Promise Scholarship that we have here in our great city and one of the examples of how to fund education here in a city like ours. It's just such an amazing thing. It was great to be a part of last week with the governor and the mayor and the county board members and aldermen there. And it's just, I think, also a testament of what happens when government works together And what can happen there with that? So I think alderwoman Meeks had an item to mention. Thank you I agree with you both a hundred percent. I just I kind of have a comment or a question That I hope someone can answer after this is all done. I don't understand Why we are continuing to vote no for developments such as residential developments I do understand that There was a housing study that made it very clear in the city of rockford that we need an excessive amount of housing And it just feels like we keep presenting opportunities to bring housing to the community and it keeps getting rejected So I just don't quite understand what the meaning of Originally the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation for denial for us to reverse it and then ultimately deny it again So I'm just I'm just confused and I hope that someone who's on the opposing side can share some details that I must have Not paid attention to or noticed prior. Thank you so much any other officers reports All right, seeing none. Well, we'll move forward with most motions and resolutions under planning and development committee. I I HAVE TWO ITEMS. ITEM ONE, COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL AND AUTHORIZATION FOR THE APPLICATION AND ACCEPTANCE IF AWARDED OF THE FLOOD HAZARD MITIGATION PROGRAM GRANT BY THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES. THE APPLICATION SEEKS FUNDS TO PURCHASE SIX PROPERTIES IN THE KEITH CREE CORRIDOR. THE PROJECT IS EXPECTED TO TAKE 18 MONTHS AT A COST OF $1,590,000. and $179. The application seeks 100% grant reimbursement. Item 2, committee recommends approval and authorization for the application and acceptance, if awarded, of the 2024 USDA Forest Service Urban and Community Forestry Grant in the amount of up to $500,000. The grant provides funding assistance to improve urban forests within disadvantaged areas of communities. The funding source is the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service allocation from the Inflation Reduction Act administered by the Morton Arbitorium. The grant comes as a $0 cost match with a grant term expiration of approximately three years from the date of award. Thank you for reading in those two items. Are there any questions on those? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. On number one, when we divide six into that million five, It's about two hundred and some thousand dollars each. Is that what we're purchasing the properties for or are there acquisition costs? Connected with that or is there something else that goes along with that money? Yeah, yeah, that's that's all in so it would be acquisition and then the cost of demolishing and restoring that property to Grass or whatever we would restore it to and any relocation costs that would be be if any there's residents living in that building okay well i appreciate that the committee reported says to purchase sex properties and so i guess that's all wrapped up into it then right yeah this is very similar uh the same program we did with the strip mall along charles street 23 23 thank you very much any other questions on items one and two seeing none clerk turkey all right Logan in timber Tarina I front II all right Wilkins are rose Beach Barrios all right Meeks. Hi Bailey 12 eyes all right all the other woman Hoffman must be very happy with that first one getting passed I know she's big on that, but we'll move to item B, which is code and regulation committee seven. Oh, oh I'm sorry. We don't have anything for Code and Regs for that one, so we'll move to finance and business. Seven items for finance and personnel. Item number one, committee recommends the approval of the award of bid, citywide weed abatement, to ANA Lawn Care, Emily Garcia-Madrano, AP Sullivan's Landscaping, J.J. Paris Incorporated, Maricela Rodriguez, Olive Rockford, Illinois. Thank you. and HR Landscape Services of Belvedere, Illinois, and the estimated annual amount of $185,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI are considered at renewal only. The funding source is the Construction Services Operating Budget. Item number two, the committee recommends the approval of the award of bid, Indoor Range Floor to Paramount Decorating of Bartlett, Illinois, and the amount of $41,600. The funding source is the Police Department Operating Budget. item number three the committee recommends the approval of the award of joint purchasing agreement network infrastructure equipment to smart wave technologies of alpharetta georgia in the estimated amount of 750 000 the contract duration is one year with two possible one-year extension options the funding source is the information technology fund item number four the committee recommends the approval of the award of non-competitive contract automated meter reading endpoint and software maintenance replacement repair and upgrades updates to itron incorporated of dallas texas yes me and a lot of $35,000 based on unit pricing the contract duration is through December 31st 2024 with three possible one-year extension options annual price adjustments CTI consider that contract renewal only the funding sources the water fund budget item number five the committee recommends the approval of the award of non-competitive contract for 2024 police vehicles to Anderson Dodge Jeep of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $155,000 funding sources the police drug asset forfeiture account a Item number six. The committee recommends the approval of the award of non-competitive contracts, six flock safety Condor PTZ cameras with LTE service to Flock Group Incorporated, Flock Safety of Atlanta, Georgia, in the amount of $95,500. The contract duration is a 54-month initial term. The contract includes Flock Safety Professional Services and electrical implementation. The funding source is the Project Safe Neighborhood 2022 grant. And finally, item number seven. Finally, item number seven, the committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of community services block grant from Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity in the amount of $1,090,062. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from January 1st, 2025 to December 31st, 2025. The grant award, if awarded, will provide funds to use for developing and implementing programs to assist low-income Illinois residents in working towards family stabilization and self-sufficiency in furtherance of this purpose. thank you alderman logeman we have seven items on the floor are there any questions we'll start with alderwoman meeks thank you so much um item number two um can uh chief red can you tell me where the indoor range is located that's what i thought thank you so much you're welcome all i needed to know thank you alderman tumberk thank you uh This would be to Chief Redd as well. Do we know what the approximate balance is now in the drug asset forfeiture fund? That's something I would have to talk to you about. All right. We'll do that. Thanks. And just one other one for Chief Redd. For item six, the funding source is Project Safe Neighborhood 2022 grant. Could you tell us a little bit more about that grant or what that entails? Is it just a – WHERE DID WE GET THE GRANT? WHAT IS THE INFORMATION ON THAT? So it's a grant out there exactly what it is, Project Safe Neighborhoods, where we work to help improve, you know, reduce the crime in the neighborhoods, and we work with other partners around that as well. And it's a grant that we can purchase things like cameras or other types of technologies through? It does allow us the ability to do that, yes. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Other questions? Yes. All right, seeing none, clerk, would you call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. Aye. 12 ayes. all right we'll move the new business under ordinances and we'll start with planning and development committee thank your honor item one is an ordinance approving the funding agreement with southwest ideas for today and tomorrow swift in the amount of thirty thousand dollars of tiff funding through the barbara coleman tiff district to support their 2024 work plan And or excuse me item 2 is an ordinance approving the agreement with the rock for area habitat for humanity for the 2024 critical home repair program and the amount of 250,000 dollars. The funding sources, the American rescue plan at item 3. An ordinance approving the residential neighborhood sign program and the amount of $100,000 to assist residential neighborhoods and neighborhood groups and developing and Developing signage to create brand identity and pride in their neighborhood the funding sources the American rescue plan budget So we have three items any questions on those three items see none clerk. Would you call the roll turkey? Logoman tuber Serena Prenti Wilkins are rose. All right each I Mario's all right Meeks, Bonnie 12 eyes and those items pass will go to code and regulation committee. Thank you runner I had number one in ordinance approving the request for an honorary street name change on Foster Avenue from Green Street to Elm Street Renaming the street Iser Tilson way this request is being made in honor of Iser Tilson who was a resident of Rockford for 62 years And who lived to be 108 years old? number two in ordinance approving a special use permit for a church and church related uses in an r3 multi-family residential zoning district at 6219 forest hills road number three in ordinance approving a special use permit for body art services in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 44xx and 4430 manchester drive suite g1 Number four in ordinance approving the modification of special use permit zero five three Dash to two for the installation and expansion of a solar farm and an I one light industrial zoning district 747 Harrison Avenue Number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for a youth community center with meeting rooms and youth social activities with a future gymnasium in a C2 limited commercial zoning district and I1 light industrial district at 2501 Charles Street. And lastly, item six, an ordinance approving the modification of special use permits 067-96 and 058-98 to build a new equipment storage facility for the storage of vehicles, tree maintenance equipment, Trailers and a c2 libanic commercial and our one single-family residential zoning districts at 2603 Kilburn Avenue Thank you. All right. We have six items up any questions on those seeing none clerk turkey. Hi Logamon To berg Terina I printed Wilkins I rose I beach Barrios all right Meeks. I Bailey funny no on one eye on the remainder Toonberg Item number 110 eyes to nose items 2 through 6 12 eyes All right those items passed we got one final thing on the docket under finance and personnel committee. I Uh, finance personnel, one item and ordinance approving the wage increases for non unit employees of the health and human services department that are 100% funded by the federal head start grant effective April 1st, 2024 and August 12th, 2024. We have 1 item any questions or concerns on that item? Seeing none clerk, would you call a roll? Locaman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Crunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Bailey? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 12 ayes. That item passes. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. All those in favor say aye.