you're calling it to be, and I thank you that everything is in place. Lord, every person has been put here for such a time as this, and I pray that you just pull out everything that's in the inside of them that you have called them to do on this day, in Jesus' name. In the name of Jesus, the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit, amen.
 We have four public speakers tonight and one special guest. We'll go with the four public speakers first. A reminder that each speaker has three minutes to speak. And our first public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Oh, before you speak, Prophet Yusuf, I made an error. I need the clerk to please call the roll. Jerky. Logerman. Jerky.
 Thunberg? Yes. Frost? Yes. Furby? Yes. Irvins? Yes. Thompson-Kelly? Hoffman? Yes. Rose? Yes. Beach? Yes. Quinones? Yes. McNeely? Yes. Shirelli? Yes. 13th President. Thank you. We have a quorum, and our first public speaker will be Prophet Yusuf.
 Ladies and gentlemen, it's in the book of Philippians, the fourth chapter, the 13th verse. It says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthened me. What I want to speak about tonight, they say they don't have any African-Americans who are talented in Rockford. That's a lie.
 I'm going to name 42 African-American people who are very talented tonight. Number one, Mr. George Davis. Number two, Ms. Charisse Hunter, Director of Human Resources. Number three, Ms. Sheila, who works in the legal department. Number four, Ms. Alderman Linda McNeely. Five, Alderman Ann Thompson. Six, Alderman Benita Herbie. Seven, State Representative Chuck Jefferson. Eight, State Representative Letitia Wallace. Nine, Community Actors.
 Lisa Jackson, 10, Community Actors Faye Mohammed, 11, Community Actors John Bradley, 12, Lieutenant Joe Givens, Rockford Police Department, also a veteran of the United States Air Force, 13, Collar Red, Rockford Police Department, 14, Mr. Kenan Davis, Police Department, also a veteran of the United States State, 15, Judge Jabra, 16, Judge Gulley, 17, Judge Hyde-Rodgers, 18, Mike Williams, head of Rockford River Train, also a veteran of the United States Air Force,
 Mr. Fred Williams Jr., weatherman, United States Air Force. Twenty, alderman, Victory Bell, also a businessman. Twenty-one, Reverend Shelby, community activist. Twenty-two, Mrs. Charles Shripton, motivation speaker. Twenty-three, Apostle Melvin Brown, a community activist. Twenty-four, his wife, Providence Sheila Brown, a community activist. Twenty-five, Brother Yacola, minister, community activist, Nation of Israel. Twenty-six, Brother Henry, minister, community activist, Nation of Israel. Twenty-seven, Brother William, community activist, Nation of Israel. Twenty-eight.
 Brother Jeremiah Community staff 29 Brother Brian School teacher 30 Miss Chris Reedy School teacher 31 Miss Dorothy Hill On her downtown shoes 32 Her sister Francine Who works with her 33 Miss Alma Maypray Who cooked the best chicken I know 34 Her daughter Kim Who baked
 the best cake I know. 35, Ms. Flossie Hoare, Minister and Community Act. 36, Ms. Diane Ryder, Community Act. 37, Garland Brown, Decorated Vietnam Veteran. 38, Mr. Curly Thompson, Decorated Vietnam Veteran. 39, L.C. Wilson, Veteran of the United States Navy, County Board Member. 40, Ms. Lena McCants, Veteran of the United States Navy, Community Act. 41, Reverend Errol Dawson, Community Act. 42, I saved the best for last, me, prof. Uso, retired...
 I'm a retired, decorated Vietnam veteran of the United States Navy. I did 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, 15 seconds. I did three tours in Vietnam. I'm a proud, dedicated River Rider, a community athlete, a retired schoolteacher, a retired truck driver. I'm a gentleman of the highway, a knight of the road, Mayor McNamara, you got all
 All of this talent in Rockford, what are you going to do with it? I'm glad you're here tonight, Alderman Linda McNeely. I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. I think you named several of my favorite people. Our next public speaker is the Reverend Derek Sheldon.
 Revelation chapter 12. Rock is an evil city. And there was war. Nope. And the great dragon, verse 9, 10, 11, and 12, just parts of it. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world. He was cast out into the earth and his angels were cast out with him. Now has come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ.
 The devil's come down. He knoweth what he hath but a short time. I think what we had in Rockford was a de facto containment policy, economically, socially, and politically, against black people. Containment policy. 50 years. And listen to this. Black people make up 13.1% of the population of Winnebago County. This is a 2017 document. And in that Auschwitz Injustice Center, 44.7% of the inmates are black.
 That jail down there full of black people, black kids especially, males particularly, containment. It's some filthy white men in this city. Their souls are dripping with black blood, innocent black blood. Ain't no way they can meet Jesus. No way. There's some filthy white men in this city. They come up out of the sewer. They so evil. Now these are, listen, containment. Do you know how many innocent black kids they done destroyed?
 I'm trying to get my son. They railroaded my son. He's in prison now. I'm going to fight you now until I die. I'm trying to get. He sent me so they've got this policy. I told the chief. They send you a thing and you go down and get his property. I went and got his property. Me and my son like twins.
 And you know what, he said, Daddy, my license and stuff was in my phone. My license and my Social Security card. So I didn't pay no attention. I didn't care nothing about no phones. I go back down there and say, y'all got his license. Do y'all know they won't give me my son's license and Social Security card? I told the chief. I told Mr. Rose, Alderman Rose. I still pay the vellus, so I got an attorney. I ain't filling out no more papers. I know it's retaliation.
 That's against the law, y'all. His license and his Social Security card. You believe that? What, are you going to put blood on it somewhere and set him up? Containment policy. They done lost and raped and murdered so many black kids. It's a disgrace. Some of these white men are devils. That's what they are. Not every one of them. It's the person. The Lord don't care nothing about the color of your race. Thank the Lord Jesus for his blood. Next part of the speech.
 The next public speaker will be Mr. John Tack-Brandley. That's a first. I'm giving it a last.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our aldermen and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 17, verses 27 and 28 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. First, it's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure that you pause to think and listen so that when you do speak,
 you have something important to say. What does it profit my brother if someone say he have faith but does not have work? Can faith save him? Does also faith by itself it does not have work, it's dead. But someone would say you have faith and I have work. Show me your faith without your work and I will show you my faith by my work. President Donald Trump.
 I don't know what I want to say about him, but I'm going to drop on down. Earlier this week, Trump sided with congressional Democrats to bungle Hurricane Harvey relief, a three-month debit limit increase, and a three-month continuing resolution to keep the government funded. The decision pitied Trump against leaders of his own party who wanted a longer extension on debit ceiling.
 Also, I want to take this time out to remember this day, September 11th. The attack of 9-1-1 was a serious, full-coordinated terrorist attack by Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda on the United States on the morning of Tuesday, September 11th. The attack killed 2,996 people.
 It wounded over 6,000 of us and caused at least $10 billion in infractitude and property damage. So where are we going from here? We were at the Rockford Police Department open house for District 1 September 6th at 1 p.m.,
 uh with people there was people from different churches organizations business surrounding the community what i did not see was no one from rockland housing authority staff or residents for fairground housing area i talked with the chief of police the superintendent the
 of the uh... of the police department for housing authority and the deputy chief of police about setting up a meeting to bring the residents from fairgrounds and some staff members from housing we will have a special tour and a meeting i talked with a lot of residents in fairgrounds and the surrounding area they have a deep mistrust of the police department we must find a way to work together and live together as god is my witness
 We will have that meeting and one day soon. They also expressed the sad fact that so many different organizations and people have come into Fairgrounds making false promises, playing on their high ship by going out, getting government money, raising funds, and getting communities to give them funds. After they get the funds, they come in and feed us some hot dogs and chicken. Then we don't see them no more.
 We are not pests that you just treat us by giving us some food, thinking that we're going to follow behind you afterwards. We have politicians who campaign or hold positions in government, like the mayor and the Winnebago County Board and others in the surrounding community that's elected to get our votes. But then, that was three minutes. I'll be back. Next week. Our next public speaker is Mr. Jim Phelps.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, City Council. Great neighbors make great neighborhoods, and great neighborhoods make great communities. I think we all agree on that, correct? And something that we're striving for. There's a little bit of Swedish history I just found out this week. In 1853, the first wave of Swedish immigrants stopped right off of here near Kishwalking and forth.
 and they were met with absolutely nothing. They ended up camping that summer, and half of them died of cholera. And who came to the rescue of these immigrants? The Americans, the Americans that lived here in the area. They fed them, clothed them, and nursed the remaining back to health. You know, I'm calling before you because Midtown District just had an ethnic parade and festival. And keep note of some of these words like ethnic.
 I'm a little disappointed in my fellow Midtownites. On two occasions, day 11 after the event and day 12 after the event, two separate Midtownites came. We had conversations, and the conversations revolved around a business called Boracua, which is a Puerto Rican barbershop two doors down from me. The first person told me that
 He didn't think that they were a legitimate legal business and they didn't have the proper licensing. I can tell you they do. I walked in and I checked. It's on the wall and they did a very nice job of the rental they're using. The second person was a little more disturbing and I lost my temper. But he said he didn't like this ghetto business.
 there. And of course, I noticed around this table here we have multiple flags. We have the Mexican flag, I believe we have an Irish flag, a Swedish flag and so on. This is a community of immigrants, is it not? And on top of this,
 That's the ghetto. It's always been a ghetto. It's been a ghetto since 1853 when the Swedes first came here. What's a ghetto? It's predominantly a neighborhood of people who come to an area and that's where they live and settle. For six and a half generations, it's a predominantly Swedish neighborhood. That's been slowly changing over the last two generations.
 But to have Americans, Puerto Ricans, who have been natural born citizens of this country since 1899 attacked really disturbed me. Because guess what? Any one of those persons, because they're natural born, could be our president, unlike Arnold Schwarzenegger. So we have some serious problems when we mouth things like community and ethnicity and multiculturalism one day a year and the other 364 days a year.
 were terrible to our fellow travelers. So I'm making this my personal pledge to my community that anytime I see these kind of injustices, I'm going to step up. But I want this... Thank you. I want this body to know that this is intolerable. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Phelps. Before we move on, obviously with today being
 9, 11, 16 years ago, I think most of us woke up on a typical quiet day, and that day turned into one of the darkest days that I certainly can remember and that our country can remember. I just want to ask that we take a moment of silence to think about the first responders and all those who lost their lives, but also the first responders in our lives here today and especially even here in our community.
 really humble me by the amount of bravery and courage that they show on a day-to-day basis and that they continue to show, and also the dedication that their family members, who often don't, in my opinion, get the recognition that they should, who kind of allow these first responders to be part of our family, to help and serve and protect us and put their lives on the line to, again, protect us. So I'd ask that we take a moment of silence, and then we have a special guest with us today. Thank you.
 Thank you. And as I mentioned, we definitely have a special guest. We have Mrs. Jody Beach, who is here, who's a talented musician, overall fantastic person, and daughter of Alderman Frank Beach, who is here to sing God Bless America for us. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.
 While the storm clouds gather Far across the sea Let us pledge allegiance To a land that's free Let us all
 be grateful for a land so fair as we lift our voices in a solemn prayer God bless America
 land that I love stand beside her and guide her
 Through the night with the light from above. From the mountains to the prairies, to the oceans, white with foam, go.
 God bless America, my home sweet home. Would you all stand and sing this verse with me one more time? God bless America, land that I love. Stand beside her.
 her through the night with the light from above from the mountains to the prairies to
 White with foam God bless America My home sweet home God bless America My home sweet home
 America God bless America God bless you Thank you So we could start every meeting like that
 Unfortunately, I have to turn to thank you, Jody, for that beautiful, beautiful rendition. Unfortunately, I have to call on Alderman Shirelli now. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Unfortunately, I have a motion to make here. I move to convene in closed session this evening to discuss pending litigation matters. Thank you.
 Do I have a second? Second. Clerk, may you please call the roll? Bogeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 13-9. Thank you. Berkey. Aye. Bogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Junones, McNeely, Shirely. 13 present. Wonderful. Can I get a motion to adjourn? Second. There was a little hesitation there. I was like, come on. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed say aye. All right. Have a good evening. We'll start with codes and regulations.