Father God, in the mighty name of Jesus, we thank you, Lord, for our city. We thank you for our mayor. We thank you for the city officials. And, Lord, we ask your grace to be upon this meeting. Bless us like only you can. Let us do things in excellency. We can't do nothing without you, and we thank you for it now. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Congratulations to the flag of the United States of America.
 All right. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for, was there a second? Second.
 So we have a motion and a second to approve the general proceedings for the city council meeting held on September 4th, 2018. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up we have a couple of proclamations. The first proclamation we have is for Circle of Wellness Week. And if Layla McQueen, owner of Circle Wellness, is here.
 Thanks so much for being here. Yes, thanks for having me. So we'll have the TV right there. Whereas Circle of Wellness is celebrating 10 years of service to our community, offering affordable, reliable, and alternative health care. And whereas Circle of Wellness is proud of the high level of wellness they provide and strives to continue to add services as they are identified and proven to excel in the industry. Thank you.
 And whereas services available at Circle of Wellness include medical massage, rehabilitation, chiropractic care, nutrition, acupuncture, and reflexology, just to name a few.
 And whereas a combination of services provided and the dedicated staff at Circle Wellness continues to improve the quality of life of the residents of our community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of September 17th, 2018 to be Circle of Wellness Week. Would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 I would just like to say I'm very proud to be part of the Rockford community and have grown over the past 10 years We've gone we're up to almost 30 employees now. We hope to open up more locations to provide Services and jobs to the Rockford area. I am a native and
 of Rockford and we're also having our 10 year anniversary tomorrow, so from 10 to six, there'll be over 40 vendors, so we're also trying to raise awareness for other companies in Rockford and then also our causes.
 Brock they're a family out of Roscoe where their son has been diagnosed with Batten's disease and so we're trying to raise money for that to get him a cure it's a very rare disease but it's tomorrow from 10 to 6 in the back of Fairview Plaza
 It is 3626 East State Street, Rockford. So if you know where Chuck E. Cheese is at, we're in that building in the parking lot behind. You had me at Chuck E. Cheese. I definitely know where that's at. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Next up, we have U.S. Constitution Week. And if Alice Uphouse is here from the National Daughters of the American Revolution. How are you? You're going to want to face right.
 Whereas the Constitution of the United States of America, the guardian of our liberties, embodies the principles of limited government and a republic dedicated to rule by law. And whereas September 17, 2018 marks the 231st anniversary of the framing of the Constitution of the United States of America by the Constitution Convention.
 Whereas, it is fitting and proper to accord official recognition to this magnificent document and its memorable anniversary, and to the patriotic celebrations which will commemorate the occasion.
 And whereas public law 915 guarantees the issuing of a proclamation each year by the President of the United States of America designating September 17th through September 23rd as U.S. Constitution Week. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the days of September 17th through September 23rd, 2018, to be U.S. Constitution Week. Would you like to share a few words, Alice? Yes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I do have something that I would like to share. This is for you. Now your honor has the correct information of the quiz that I gave each of you. Have fun. You can give it all back to his honor with the correct answers and you'll be graded later. And post it on social media.
 Thank you for understanding the value of Constitution Week. That little quiz that I gave each of you is kind of fun. Thank you again for considering and welcoming me here this evening, and have fun with your quiz. Thank you for all the work you do in our community. Thank you, Alice. Oh, you'll see those. Just follow me on Facebook or Twitter.
 Next up, we have Deaf Awareness Month, accepting this Eric Brown of RAMP and maybe some others. All right. I'm going to hand that to you. All right, so this is exciting. All right.
 Whereas deafness is the third most common disability in the world, and whereas 16% of people in Winnebago County alone experience hearing loss, and whereas deaf people in Rockford have formed a community and regularly hold events throughout the area,
 And whereas the deaf community in Rockford has a strong desire to eliminate the barriers that are dividing them from the rest of society through educating hearing people on deaf culture and the barriers they face. And whereas the purpose of Deaf Awareness Month is to increase public awareness of deaf issues, people, and culture.
 And whereas, activities and events throughout Deaf Awareness Month encourage individuals to come together as one whole community for educational events and celebration. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of September 2018 to be Deaf Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words with us?
 I wanted to thank you for giving us the opportunity, and we wanted to present this T-shirt for you. We are honored to have your help working in the Deaf community and partnering with us here in the Rockford community. Thank you, sir.
 Well, you know, just as an FYI for folks, we are doing a training tomorrow at the Center for Sight and Hearing on effective communication. One of the issues that we run into a lot is folks from the deaf community not receiving effective communication when they go out into the community. So we're actually doing a training in partnership with the center tomorrow if there's anybody that's available. It starts at 9 a.m. If you know people from the medical community that need that type of training, you can put them in touch with us at RAMP and we can get it for them.
 Thank you. Can we get a photo? Of course. Thank you. Next up is petitions and communications, and we have Alderman Rose for Planning and Development Committee. I'm sorry. Take your time. Is this petitions and communications? Yes, sir. Okay. Yep. We have three petitions.
 For Planning and Development Committee, a memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager regarding a development agreement for Swedish American Hospital. At 1401 East State Street referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 We also have a memorandum from Glenn Trommels, Information Technology Director regarding WINGES Intergovernmental Agreement, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And then finally, a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed development agreement with Rock Valley
 Rockford Local Development Corporation for the advancement of Coleman Village Phase 1. The agreement provides a framework of roles and responsibilities for implementing the Advanced Manufacturing and Technology Center, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Okay, we had two others, I'm sorry, I went out of order.
 Memorandum for Matthew Simpson, Economic Development and Diversity Procurement Coordinator, regarding Rockford Community Partners Work Plan and Progress Reports for the Miracle Mile and Neighborhood Network, referred to Planning and Development. And then finally, number two, it should have been a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding an MPO Cooperative Agreement, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you alderman rose next up. We have alderman shirely for codes and regulation Thank your honor versus his only Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on September 18 2018 in the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on September 24th 2018
 And next is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on September 18th, 2018. And the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on September 24th, 2018.
 The third is a memorandum from Kelly Nopes, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Illinois Tollway Authority for maintenance at the I-90 Gateway entrance at East Day Street. All three will be referred to Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Shirely. Next up we have Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have five tonight. The first one is a memorandum from Assistant Deputy Chief Doug Pan regarding acceptance of the STEP grant fiscal year 2019.
 from the Illinois Department of Transportation. Next is a memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia, manager of the Mayor's Office of Domestic Violence and Human Trafficking Prevention, regarding the acceptance of the grant award for the Department of Justice Office of Violence Against Women, Women's Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program Grant. Next we have a memorandum from George Davis, Executive Director of Human Services, regarding an in-kind waiver request for portion of the non-federal share requirement under the Early Head Start
 child care grant and then we have the memorandum from Kelly Noakes engineering operations manager Regarding a development agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford City market for utility utility Utility relocation for the indoor market and then finally we have a memorandum from Cherise hunter human resources director Recommending change to health plan structure for non representative employees and retirees. I refer these to finance and personnel. Thank you. I
 Next up we have public speakers. I'll remind our public speakers that each will have three minutes this evening. Our first public speaker is Prophet Yusef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the third chapter, 13 to the 14th verse, it says, Blesses the man who finds wisdom, the man who gains understanding, for she is more profitable than silver and yields better returns than gold.
 What I want to speak about tonight, the three Ts to economic development that I invented. The key to understanding the new economic geography of creativity and its effect on economic outcomes lies in what I call the three Ts of economic development. The first T is technology, the second T is talent, the third T is tolerance, to attract
 people, a place must have all three of these T's to generate innovation and stimulate economic growth. There are several explanations for regional growth. The conventional farm-driven view held by mayors and economic development professionals is that regional growth comes from attracting companies or building clusters of industry. Then there is the social captive theory which views economic growth as a product of social togetherness, trust, and community
 The human capital theory advanced by economists Robert Lucas and Edward Glaser says that
 that concentration of educated people drive regional growth. Each of these views makes sense. A place for more industry, more community togetherness, and more educated people is likely to grow faster than a place with less. But I believe my three T's of creative capital theory does an even better job. I found out by research that regional economic growth is a power by creative people who prefer places that are diverse, tolerant, and open to new ideas. Diversity increases the odds that a place will attract different types of creative people
 with different skills and I place with diverse mixes of creative people, I'm more likely to generate new combinations. Furthermore, diversity and concentration work together to speed the flow of knowledge. Greater and more diverse concentration of creative capital in turn lead to a higher rates of innovation, high technology business for me, job creation, economic growth. I found out a long time ago that regional economies benefit from the location of a diverse set of firms and this, I found out the role of diversity of both firms, both
 firms and people in power and innovation and city growth. I saw great cities are places where people from virtually any background are welcome to turn their energy and ideas into innovation and wealth. I think it's important for a place to have low entry barriers, for people that is to be a place where newcomers are welcome quickly into all sorts of social and economic arrangements. Such places gain a creative advantage. They are likely to attract greater numbers of talented and creative people, the sort of people who power innovation and economic... If you use my three systems,
 Rockford would become a world-class city in one year, six months, 22 days, one hour, 10 minutes, and 15 seconds. Thank you for allowing me. And we're having a job fair tomorrow. I want you to pass that out. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the men and all the women of Rockford, Illinois, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 What does it profit a brother if someone say he have faith but does not have work? Can faith save him? Does also faith by itself it does not have work, it is dead. But someone would say, you have faith and I have work. Show me your faith without your work and I will show you my faith by my work. You believe that there is one God you would do well. Even the demons believe and tremble. But do you want to know, oh foolish man, that faith without work is dead?
 Was not Abraham our father justified by working when he offered Isaac? This is a very important election year. The power of the precinct committee cannot be underestimated. Now is the time that we see who really cares about us and are they only running to get our vote then after the election is over, will they still be there?
 for us. This year, I will not be used to help you get in office. Then once you're in office, you want to just kick us to the curb. That's why a lot of people do not like to vote, for they feel they vote does not matter. At least seventy-four people were shot
 And one of the most violent weekends this year in Chicago spurred by a seven-hour period early Sunday morning when 41 people were shot. Between 3 p.m. Friday and 6 a.m. Monday morning, 12 people were killed and 62 wounded, according to the Tribune. This age span from 11 to 62 years old, and most of these shots were attacked on the south and west side.
 We made history this weekend. What a great day with the youth from Ordon Key housing area, Fairgrounds housing area, and most of all Concord housing area, being at the event that was put on by Washington Park Community Center, having their 60th year of being in the community. Today, we dance,
 We ate, we had fun together. Most of all, there was no violence. We came with 47 of our new Turning Point program youth and adults from Fairgrounds housing area, Ordon Keyes housing area, plus 815 diversity with dancers from Fairgrounds, Ordon Keyes housing area and the surrounding community. That's love. A few years ago, you could not have two or three different youth and adults
 from different housing areas coming together in peace. Thank Jesus for the love you have given me. Thanks for our van drivers from the Pride District, Renewal Turning Point program, and our van that helped this day. I only want to talk about what we are doing in the community. You can see Renewal Turning Point have a strong relationship in the community. We can work together if you really care about our city. As one would ask me, Brother John, we cannot stop you.
 However, we can work together. I say why not? This past month, here are a few things that we have done. We have been in court just about every week. We have families that have been evicted. We got them reinstated. We have homeless youth re-engaged with domestic violence. And I'm gonna pause for a minute for engaging domestic violence. Jennifer, she's having her memorial this here Thursday at 11 o'clock at...
 at the Salvation Army, and the families on both sides we're working with to try to bring some healing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have new committee reports under Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beckman.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items tonight. First is the approval of the vouchers in the amount of $4,918,063.54. Next is the committee recommends approving the office offer for purchase and sale for a city-owned vacant lot located at 1326 Chestnut Street for the amount of $1,000 from Jim Thale. Next is recommending approve
 approving the offer for purchase and sale for a city-owned vacant lot located at 715 Bluefield Street for the amount of $1,000 from Jim Thale and the last one is recommending approval of an intergovernmental agreement between The city of Rockford in the Rockford Park District for the renewal of a lease Fairgrounds Park daycare center for head start operations and I place these items up for patch passage. I
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. So there are four items before us. Is there any discussion on the four items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Aye on one through three, and I was staying on four. Chiarelli. Aye.
 13 eyes and one two and three and item number four twelve eyes one of stain Thank you those items passed next up we have officers reports and just one that if you weren't made aware some sad news that Miss Marin Maisie passed away who? is a Rockford native was a Incredibly well sought-after Broadway star and also a
 was a co-chair, an honorary co-chair to the campaign to rebuild and bring back to life the Coronado Theater that raised nearly $20 million in our committee and just wanted to make all of you aware of that sad news. So I'll turn this over to all of you. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to give a big thanks out to Sharefest and Transform Rockford for the South Main Board Up.
 Surprising how, I'm not going to say it was a little bit because I know it was hard work to do it. But a seemingly small thing like covering up dilapidated windows,
 painting a door can just raise the profile of an area. So I want to thank them and all the volunteers who came out. We're going to try. A number of people called and said they were working, and I understand. But everything, there's a lot that goes on on weekends too. So we are going to try to have one over a weekend and maybe do some painting on some others.
 and a couple of people asked about the blank windows we're going to put some of the south main corridor plan street skates street skates on easels and put those in the window so we will have some some visions for the future of south main there also thank you thank you alderman hoffman
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to remind everybody that this Wednesday from 11 to 1, we will be having another wide vote meeting. This one will be at Orton Keyes.
 It is sponsored by Beautiful Beginnings, AAUW, League of Women Voters, and Rockford Housing. And the one we had last week was so inspirational. Young men came from our workforce development program, and they sat there just mesmerized over the whole thing, watching.
 people that were candidates speaking to them. And two of the young men, when they left, said we're going to go get more people to come to the next one, so let's hope so. But we appeared, oh, there was another young man too that said that he was also going to round up more young people to come and learn how to vote and why to vote.
 The other thing that happened is Beautiful Beginnings has started a school for kids that have dropped out or for some reason can't attend school right now and they can't get into Roosevelt.
 And one of the things she did was bring them over to learn about voting. And it was really interesting watching those kids. They got so excited. They had to have their pictures taken with every single candidate. They really thought you would have loved it. It was so great. So you're invited to come 11 to 1 on Wednesday. Thank you. Alderman Rose.
 Yeah, I just wanted to recognize the efforts of the Irish Marching Society. They had a fundraiser yesterday at the Hope and Anchor. And I know that they are active in our community and along with many other ethnic organizations. And their event was really welcoming to a lot of people. And it's something that I hope that they continue that work with, so. Thank you. There was a hand raised over here, Alderman Quinones or Beach?
 I'd like to remind the community to put it on their calendar, in case I forget next week, that the Rockford Police Department is going to have their trunk retreat at 501 7th Street on Monday, October 29th from 6 to 8. So that'll get a head start to bring the kids out there. Thank you. Other officer reports? Seeing none, we'll move on to appointments laid over.
 Appointment to Community Action Agency Board, John Tack Brantley, to replace Cindy Green. Term will expire April of 2021. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Locaman. Aye. Toomer. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Urbans. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. Aye.
 10 ayes, 3 noes. Excellent. Item passes. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. Under financing personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Five items. The first is the award of non-competitive bid for consulting, planning, and technical assistance to the Family Justice Center Alliance, a program of alliance for Hope International for a contract amount of $62,352.00.
 The next is a word of bid for Heath Street and Weldon Street Water Main Replacement to N-Track Group in the amount of $310,678.20.
 Next is the award of bid for South Main Street parking lots to Stenstrom excavation in the amount of two hundred and seventy three thousand seven hundred fifty eight dollars next is the award of engineering agreement for Coleman village environmental and structural design to fair Graham in the amount of forty two thousand dollars and then finally the 2018 Edward Byrne justice
 I'm sorry, Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, application for the police department. And I place these five up for passage. And then I believe we have a sixth item. Oh, yeah. It's not on my agenda, but okay. Thank you.
 We have the award of bid for 2018 demolition group one to Northern Illinois service for $37,195 and Rodman services for $33,283 for a total award of $70,478 for the properties listed on the bid tabulation. So I placed these six items up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Beck. And that one item was the one that went through finance and personnel just prior to this council meeting.
 Is there any discussion on the six items before you alderman hervey? Uh, two questions your honor the first item number one Uh, I noticed the funding sources public donations and fundraising has the entire amount Been raised already or will the city be? um extending that and then Recouping it later a full amount's been raised been raised and then on number
 Number five, the JAG award for the police department. Are all of our agencies on the same radio type or frequency in terms of going dark or is Winnebago County broadcasting and we're keeping ours dark?
 Chief O'Shea, could you respond to that? So the sheriff just went to what you're referring to as dark encryption. The sheriff is now encrypted as well. We're on the Starcom system, if you will, and all the frequencies are encrypted.
 and we can crosstalk on their channels and our channels so all the officers can hear. We also have the state police and all the other agencies have our encryption for our radio frequencies. Okay. And with this new batch of radios, where does that place us in terms of being up to technological strength in that with the radios?
 So our system's up to snuff for being technologically cutting edge. The grant is used to purchase new portable radios, the ones the officers wear on their hips, as the ones they currently have are no longer serviceable and they're out of date. We're replacing them with new ones, so this grant replaces them every year. We use it to buy new radios. What I was asking is, do we have 50% replaced, 70%? Where are we in getting that done? Okay.
 I don't know off the top of my head, but I can get you the numbers for sure. Okay, because the question becomes how long is it going to take if we keep looking at the grants? Because we've been using the grant for, I think, at least three years to buy the radios. But if we've got 300 officers and we're only getting 25, I don't know what the number is, a year. The question becomes do we need to just budget and jump and get all of our radios so that they're all.
 Up to snuff. You don't have to say that in front of Chief O'Shea, you know. I want something, so yes, I do. Okay. We will follow up. That's a great question. We'll follow up with the amount that we have already equipped. Any other questions on the six items before you? Alderman Quinones. Yes, I'd like to know, could somebody give me on South Main Street how many parking lots they're talking about? Mr. Stockman?
 Alderman, there are two parking lots involved in this particular project. One is next door to the Texas Lounge, if you're familiar with that area. The other one is on the southeast quadrant of South Main and what is Rock Street that turns into Kent Street once it connects with South Main. Those are the two lots that are being refurbished in this project. Any other questions regarding the six items before you?
 Seeing no questions, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Furby. Aye. Urbans. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Veach. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. Those six items passed. Next up, we have new business, finance and personnel. Alderman Beck.
 Guess finance personnel is gonna do all the heavy lifting tonight. So All right, so we have five items first as an ordinance offering approving the offer for purchase and sale for a city-owned lot Located at 1326 Chestnut Street for the amount of $1,000 next is an ordinance approving the offer for purchase and sale for a city-owned vacant lot and
 at 715 Bluefield Street for the amount of $1,000. Next, we have an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District for the renewal of a lease of Fairgrounds Park Daycare Center for Head Start operations. Then we have an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of, I'm not sure if there's a dollar amount here on my agenda, but it's no number after it. Yeah, thank you.
 So, ordinance authorizing providing for the issue of a not to exceed $3,500,000 general obligation refunding bonds
 Series 2018 a and not to exceed 12 million dollars taxable general obligation refunding bonds series 2018 C of the city for the purpose of refunding certain previously issued and outstanding general obligation bonds another city payable from such revenue source prescribing the details of said bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same providing for the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and
 and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof and then the fifth item five is an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of not to exceed five million five hundred thousand dollars general obligation refunding bonds for the waterworks system alternate revenue source series twenty eighteen b of the city for the purpose of refunding certain previously issued gender general obligation bonds of city of the city
 payable from such revenue source prescribing the details of said bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same and for the collection segregation and application of the water work system revenues to pay said bonds providing for the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof now having read all that we're only going to be voting on items one through three tonight and
 We're gonna lay these items four and five over to give alderman a chance to digest That information before we vote on it at the next council meeting Are you gonna make a motion and have a second for the layover? Wonderful. Thank you. We have a motion a second. They'll automatically be laid over so you now have my sheet So there's three items before us this evening. Is there any discussion? We need to vote on the layover or is that automatic? It's automatic. Okay, and is there any discussion on the three items that you have before you? I
 Anyone want me to have alderman back repeat items four and five that were laid over? Okay, so we have three items clerk Would you please call the roll jerky? logan tumor frost Herbie Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back. I am one and two abstain on three Shirely. I
 items 1 and 2 13 eyes item number three 12 eyes one of state excellent is there a motion to adjourn thank you i don't think it's 6 30. is there any discussion on the motion in the second before us seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye aye those opposed have a wonderful night joe