good evening we will call to order the city of rockford special city council meeting for monday september 11th 2023 clerk could you please call the roll turkey logeman tunberg frost terena prenti wilkins hoffman rose beach marios bailey bonnie 13 present Thank you. We have two items before us this evening. The appointment is laid over until after October 5, 2023. So we'll go to motions and resolutions and go to Finance and Personnel Committee with Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an approval of the acceptance of the Continuum of Care Planning New Jubilee Permanent System. Support of housing grant from HUD in the amount of one hundred and forty thousand nine hundred and seventy six dollars It does require a twenty five percent cost match of thirty five thousand two hundred forty four dollars in the grant term is from October 1 2023 to September 30 2024. Thank you. We have items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? No, I'm sorry. I didn't remember to Was the acceptance of the continuum of care planning grant from HUD in the amount of sixty one thousand three hundred eight seven dollars The grant does not require a cost management terms from December 1 20 23 to November 30 Now we have two items before us is there any discussion on either of those two items clerk Could you please call the roll jerky Logan in timber frost? Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman and Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. 13 ayes. Excellent. Just before we adjourn, is there any alderman who has a report? Alderman Bonnie. Only that it's already been pointed out to me that I failed to give a location for Bento and Ball. This is 3206 South Alpine on the east side. It's between Harrison and Sandy Hollow. Thank you. Alderman to work I would like to offer my condolences to alderman bonnie for the hard loss on Saturday From the Southern Illinois University Saluki's putting the hurt on the Northern Illinois University Huskies, so I know Administrator Cagnone was there to as well as myself to watch the victorious win in DeKalb on Saturday So thank you mayor Alderman Bonnie and then Alderman Beach. Apparently the alderman from the third ward has not yet read the memo from the legal director. Ouch. Alderman Beach. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to say that the people at New American Theater was appreciative of your... proclamation that was read there by Richard Rather director and the audience received it well so I want to thank you again for taking time to put that together and make it available to the Rufford artists itself I wish I could have been there thank you Alderman Wilkins you have uh There you go. Sorry. I was just going to echo what Alderman Beach just stated, but I definitely wanted to thank him and his daughter for inviting us all out there. Me and a few of my family members, we did attend and it was funny and it was relatable and just definitely entertaining. The entire cast was perfect. So I just wanted to thank them all for inviting us. Thank you. Alderman. Sorry. Alderman Wilkins, you have other items? Sorry. I wanted to congratulate the Rockford Lightning on a job well done on their game on Saturday. Even though they came a few points shy of a win, they did an awesome job on that court out there. They gave it their all coming back from a 20-point deficit. It was definitely exciting, and it was exciting to see so many people come out and support them. So I hope to see more from them in the future. Me as well. Alderman Prunty, and now I'll come back to Alderman Bonney. Okay. Thank you. I just wanted to, first of all, apologize to Pastor Sanji and the House of God Church on Brook Road. I failed to mention this at the last officer's report, so I thank you for the opportunity to say it. I just wanted to thank them for their 815 day of service. um... contributions to riverdoll they gave away hoodies, socks and over three hundred school supplies that included pencils, markers and hand sanitizer uh... they also gave eighteen children uh... the eighteen children who played basketball um... school supplies and book bags and lunch gift cards to mcdonald's so they were The church wants to thank us for, excuse me, the organization wants to thank us for the Forward for Fun money, but I also want to congratulate them and thank them for their 815 dance service. Did you as well have something open up in your award on Friday? I was like, what's it known you to do? Yes, and congratulations also to Brookrow United Methodist Church on the opening of the Brookrow Community Center. And thank you so much for reminding me and thank everyone who came out. I just think that it's just going to be a wonderful contribution to the Sixth Ward. And I hope everybody will utilize the services and the technology. take advantage of the opportunities that they are they wish to provide thank you alderman uh bonnie thank you sorry to take a third bite at the apple but i forgot something else um or i guess we're all forgetful tonight um i wanted to take a moment to congratulate uh manny salgado who's the organizer of tamale fest which um moved this year to the 14th ward from the 10th ward If I don't know if anyone has never been it's a great event. It is he draws a Amazing crowd estimated at 9,000 people this year Many of them are from not only out of the area out of the area but out of state I'm told two families had from out of state were facing their family reunions in Rockford around tamale fest and I believe the mayor presented a proclamation declaring Saturday Manny Salgado Day, and I was honored to be able to present the Tamale Fest Latina Woman of the Year Award. And it's just a great event, and if you haven't been, I encourage you to go next year. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman and Alderman Prunty. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say thank you to everybody that helped us with the multicultural efforts festival that we have. This is the first time we've tried something like that, and I was surprised at the reaction. We have people now writing to us asking that we do it again and that they be included. These are all the little groups that don't have big groups that support them, like the Filipino group that came and danced in the beginning. One of the most interesting things was the dancers from Paolo, Jordan, Iraq, the Palestinians danced with the Mexican little boys. And they all got out there and had the greatest time. And everybody was amazed watching everybody join in. And then they went out and got people from the crowd. And pretty soon everybody with knees. could dance and if you want to know what I mean, look at Mustafa's Facebook page. The dancing is incredible, but you better have good knees when you do it. So the young kids got to do it, but they've asked that we keep it up. So I've turned it over to a promoter and we are gonna, if we get money next year, I'll contribute. but he wants to take off with it and bring in more groups because they are emailing him now that they want to join, like the Laotians and all the little groups that don't have big support. They want to come and show who they are. So it's going to be a real neighborhood thing with the smaller groups, not any of the big festivals like Polish Fest and all of that, but they all want to have their half hour, their hour, to present to the community who they are. So thank you. ALTER MOMENT FRONTIER. I WAS JUST GOING TO ALSO FORGIVE ME FOR BEING FORGIFTFUL, BUT I WAS GOING TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE EIGHTH WARD FESTIVAL. I DID GET A CHANCE TO GO AFTER A DAY WITH HABITAT FOR HUMANITY AND MY SURROYTY SISTERS, SO I CAME ALONG AT THE END. I DID GET A CHANCE TO HEAR SOME FABULOUS MUSIC AS WELL AS and make a car for veterans. So thank you Alderman Hoffman for, yes I did, for your efforts and your team did a wonderful job. I just wanted to add last count and I think it's gone up from here was about 80 cards made for our veterans going out to the nursing homes. And I think your children signed two of them, didn't they? They did. Olympia and Maliki certainly enjoyed that opportunity and also enjoyed the whole car ride there. I was talking to them about veterans and to speak with Mr. Davis, they were awestruck by them. So it was great. Thank you. We appreciate what they did for our veterans. Thank you. Other reports? No? Motion to adjourn. We have a motion, we have a second. Alderman Wilkins, any other comments? Not tonight? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Have a good night.