Monday September 14th 2020 clerk could you please call the roll here logan here thunberg here frost hervey for alderman hervey here alderman thompson kelly here hoffman here rose quinones hanley mcneely shirely 12 present excellent we have a quorum we'll move to motions and resolutions
 We're going to move to motions and resolutions and we'll go to Alderman Frost when he's ready. Take your time, we'll just wait for you. No one has anything else to do tonight, we're good. So we're, I'm sorry Dan, honestly it was more my fault than yours. So we are on motions and resolutions under finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Sorry for my lack of diligence. Number one, an award of bid for citywide sidewalk and ADA repair package number 3-2020 to Norwest Construction in Blacktop of South Beloit for an amount of $88,599.19. The project is estimated to be completed by October 30, 2020 in the funding sources sales tax.
 Number two, an award of bid for citywide sidewalk and ADA repair package number four, 2020 to Norwest Construction in Blacktop or South Beloit in the amount of $66,984.63. The project is estimated to also be completed by October 30, 2020. The funding source is sales tax. I place these two matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. We have two items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Seeing no discussion inside, is there any discussion online? No.
 Yes, Your Honor. I have a question. Alderman Thompson-Telly. Alderman Thompson-Telly, go ahead. The question is for staff. Is that one contract? Why didn't we break that down into smaller contracts so Rockford contractors can utilize it?
 Director Saunders. Thank you mayor yes that 88,000 is one contract and Alderman Thompson Kelly I know in the in the past staff has tried to program smaller contracts so that smaller contractors can bid on them I know that our staff right now is is working to kind of finalize our sidewalk programs for the year I'd be more than happy to follow back up with you and see if we have any of those smaller contracts program to go out still yet this construction season
 thank you i appreciate it thank you is there any other uh questions online none uh clerk could you please call the roll durkee logan toonberg frost hervey aye irvin thompson kelly aye hoffman rose quinones hanley mcneely shirely 13 eyes excellent so that item passes uh
 We have officers reports. The only item I have is just to remind all aldermen as well as the community that there are roundtable discussions taking place Tuesday and Thursday evening at 5.30 p.m. over at District 1 on West State Street. So I'll turn you over to those inside council chambers if they have any officers reports. Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 I just wanted to acknowledge and congratulate Rockford, hopefully future great NFL player, James Robinson. You may remember he was here, I think four years ago, he's a Rockford Lutheran grad. And I think they came in third in football that year. He went on and graduated or
 played at ISU for the last four years and was undrafted, and the Jacksonville Jaguars picked him up, and due to some issues on their team, he was the starting running back yesterday and broke a record. And I just wanted to say that's quite an accomplishment for a young man from Rockford, and we wish him well. Thank you. No doubt. Great guy. Alderman Hoffman.
 thank you mayor i would just really like to thank alderman and thompson kelly for putting together those roundtable meetings i can't believe all the information i got from just sitting there that night it was really a good conversation and i look forward to tomorrow night wonderful thank you other uh alderman rose
 Real quick, just wanted to mention again the Mel Anderson Slow Roll coming up October 4th from 3 to 6 PM. It's an event for families who want to get involved in biking or just want to get out on a Sunday stroll with their youngsters. There are going to be bike giveaways, free food. I know the mayor's coming. He's going to talk a little bit about some of the improvements going on. It's hosted, we've got a ton of sponsors.
 A lot of people have come together behind this idea of having these kind of Westside community events. The City of Rockford Traffic Division with Jeremy Carter, iBike Rockford, the Northwest Community Center, Northwest Neighbors Group, Rockford Fire, Rockford Park District, Rockford Police Department, Swedish American Hospital, and the United Way are just a few of the partners. So we're really excited for those bike giveaways.
 bike helmet giveaways as well. So we're excited. And it will obviously have masks and, you know, PPE in regards to COVID. But we're very excited about this event. Yeah, definitely. Thank you and all the organizers for putting that on. Other officers' reports inside council chambers? Mr. Meyer, is there reports online? Yes. I have something. Alderman Thompson-Kelley?
 Yes, sir. First of all, Your Honor, thank you very much for participating in the roundtable discussion. It was very successful with staff and the police department with the questions that we've had. I'm sure we'll have a larger crowd than we had that evening, but we did reach our 50 individuals in the room that we could take.
 I also want to make a comment, and I know Vaughn's Furniture staff is listening to the City Council meeting because we've had a serious problem with the signage that I have spoken with you, Your Honor, about and legal about in looking at the businesses and trying to keep the businesses afloat.
 and evidently staff didn't get the memo that we are working with, not just the businesses downtown or east side, the businesses on the west side as well. And I'm very disturbed at what has taken place the last couple of days. And I think I will be calling you, Your Honor, by the time you get off that podium and get home. I'll look forward to your call. Other reports online? Seeing none, is there a motion to adjourn?
 We have a motion by Alderman Rose, a second by Alderman Quinonez. Any discussion at council? Any discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Berkey. Logerman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinonez. Hanley. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. We're adjourned. Have a great night.
 Beep.