I would like to call to order the City Council meeting for July the 6th, 2023. Kara, would you please call the roll? Turd? Hertzberg? I'm here, Kara. Sorry. Thank you. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Burnham? Here. Bunch? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor, would you join me in a pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business, we have a service recognition for Councilman Sonia Harvey. Sonia, would you meet me up front? Okay.
 Well, it's a moment that... Don't you cry now. Because if you do, I will. But...
 the award the award reads presented to sonia harvey and recognition for your commitment to the citizens of the city of federal arkansas from 2019 to 2023 with sincere appreciation for your dedicated services council member on the federal city council that's what the plaque says now i have a few remarks to make
 Now Sonia and I go back a ways to the time that we did Federal Forward for the very first time. And Sonia was in charge of the Federal Forward Creative Economy Action Group and did a wonderful job. And over the years I've found Sonia to be loyal, kind, honest person, a huge supporter of the arts, and could always be counted on to fight for the equality
 equity for people. Son, you've been an absolute joy to work with and everybody appreciates your service. You will be missed by the people that you serve. You will be missed by this City Council and you will be missed personally by me. So Sonia, this
 just a small token of the years of service that you have committed to this city. Thank you ever so much, and we wish you well. Thank you.
 Don't worry, I didn't write anything. I just want to say it's been a joy and an honor and a pleasure to work with each of you, council members and staff and the public, attorney and city clerk. It's just been amazing and I've learned so much. The city of Fayetteville is in very good hands.
 And I have no doubt that somebody from Ward 1 that's going to do an amazing job is going to have an opportunity for the leadership role. So I just am very grateful for the opportunity. And I only have one question for you, Mayor. Can I keep my parking pass for infinity?
 I love you all very, very much, and I'll miss you a whole lot. And I'm going to be working behind the scenes, so I'm not going to be a stranger. Thank you. Thank you. All right. The next order of business is a monthly financial report from Paul Becker.
 Thank You Baron consul this report is for the month of May 2023 so that's period five of the 2023 fiscal period general fund did well we were up seven percent sales tax compared to budget franchise fees were up about nine percent they're doing very well at this point in time expect them to level off a little bit going forward though alcohol beverages
 Taxes were up 19%, so they were very, very strong for the first five months. Building permits were up 15%. We did have some downs. The charges for services were down roughly 2%.
 Court fees and fines were up for the period. Remember, they had been down for the last couple of years, so they're coming back a bit. Miscellaneous revenue was down, but all in all, we were up roughly 7.3 percent to the budget for the general fund for the first five months of the year, so that's doing very well at this point in time.
 street fund is leveling off it's about uh about two percent over the budget at this point in time remember street fund had been doing uh very well for the last couple of years uh that was led by the state half cent uh sales tax and also by the wholesale tax act which was up for the period so all in all the street fund was up about two percent compared to the budget
 Parking was actually down about 2% for fines. It was up for fees roughly 3%, so it netted about 1% or essentially pretty flat for the period. So parking is holding its own at this point in time compared to budget.
 HMR taxes were up 11% for the first four months, so they're doing very well. Water and sewer, water was up about 2%, sewer was down a little bit. All in all, water and sewer is pretty flat, about the 1, 1.5% over the budget projection at this point in time. Recycling and trash collection.
 That was down for the period. It was down about 4% compared to the, for the projections for the budget for the first five months. But remember that the transfer station was down for an extended period of time, so we can't expect the, to hit the budget with the transfer station being down for that period of time where we were doing renovation. However, I'm not concerned in the long term on recycling and trash collection.
 Airport itself, airport is the flights and the sales are down about 15%, 14, 15%, which is pretty consistent with what air traffic is doing on an expanded national basis at this point in time. So we're down compared to the budget at this point in time. We're still profitable, however.
 So revenues are exceeding expenditures at this point in time, but it's something we'll keep an eye on going forward. Like I said, the entire traffic has been down on a national basis for airports throughout the United States and the state of Arkansas. So I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Paul, on this? Am I good? Okay. Okay.
 All right, let's go on to the nominating committee report from the committee chair. Mike, I believe you have this. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. The nominating committee was comprised of Councilwoman Harvey as one of her last acts as a councilwoman, Councilperson Turk, and Bunch as well.
 For the Animal Services Advisory Board, we're recommending the names of Paige Summers and Erin Eng for a term to end in June of 2026. For the Community Development and Assistance Program Advisory Board, we're recommending Kathy Spigarelli for a term to end December of 2026. For the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals,
 we're recommending Ryan Harding for a term to end in March of 2028. For the Environmental Action Committee, we're recommending Vicki Spencer and Margaret Britton for a term to end in June of 2026.
 For the Fayetteville Arts Council, we're recommending Lakeisha Edwards and Abigail Hill for a term to end in June of 2026. For the Historic District Commission, we're recommending Meredith Mahan for a term to end June of 2026. And for the Walton Arts Center Council, we're recommending Joel Frund and Mark Kinyon for terms to end in June of 2026.
 The Housing Authority Board of Commissioners keep Fayetteville beautiful and the urban forestry advisory board all have Vacancies with no names recommended as no one applied at this quarter and with that those are our recommendations To the council mr. Mayor, okay? I will
 entertain a motion and second to approve the nominating committee's nominations i'll make a motion we accept the uh nominating committee report second all right care would you please any final comments all right care would you please call the road yes herzberg jones yes moore yes yes yes yes
 Okay, and then mr. Mayor one final item and that is you had appointed me to replace council person Harvey and to join councilwoman bunch as your appointee to the Advertising and promotion committee of July 1. Okay, we need a motion to second. Do we need a motion in a second for that? Are we good or do we All right
 And there we go. All right. Now we'll move on to consent, Jim. Number one, approval of the June 6, 2023 and June 20, 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize a contract with Evans Construction and Remodeling LLC in the amount of $9,000 for labor and materials for the Police Department substation foundations and Svab located in the replacement parking deck.
 number three a resolution to approve and adopt a vision zero policy in the city of federal number four a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of four thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars recognizing donation revenue to the police department support of the youth citizens police academy i will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as in second as red so moved second
 we have a motion saying to accept consent agenda as read care which please call the way turk yes jones yes moore yes yes yes yes okay thank you all let's go on the unfinished business
 all right number one an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition rzn 2023-014 located southeast of dead horse mountain road and golf farm road in ward one for approximately 112.98 acres from r.a residential agricultural and rsf4 residential single family four units per acre subject to a bill of assurance to nc neighborhood conservation cs community services and r.a residential agricultural
 this was excuse me left on the first reading i will obtain a motion to go to the second read so moved second motion second to go to the second meeting care would you please call the room church yes jones yes moore yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to rezone that property, it is granted a rezoning petition RZN 2023-014 located southeast of Dead Horse Mountain Road and Gulf Farm Road in Ward 1 for approximately 112.98 acres from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to NC Neighborhood Conservation, CS Community Services, and RA Residential Agricultural subject to a bill of assurance.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. I don't have any new information on the request as far as beyond what was provided in the staff memo that went out with the final agenda, but I did want to cover the bills of assurance to make sure it was understood what the applicant has put before the council for consideration.
 In graphical terms or spatial terms, the bill of assurance includes two parts, two bills of assurance really. One piece is intended to apply only to the portion proposed to be rezoned to NC neighborhood conservation. That's the majority of the property and what you see shown here in green. The proposal or the bill of assurance rather limits development on the property to 350 lots.
 The second piece, which focuses on the smaller piece of the rezoning request, the portion proposed to re-rezone the CS community services just closer to the intersection of Dead Horse Mountain Road and Gough Farm.
 is a bit more extensive in its scope. It limits development on that area to 50 single family lots and also prohibits development of multifamily dwellings, gas stations and drive-thru restaurants and also includes a guarantee that five acres of that land will be reserved for commercial development into the future.
 with despite the submittal of the bills of assurance and with the staff's previous considerations and those infrastructure items we described in the memo sent out last week staffs recommendation continues to be one of denial the Planning Commission which considered the request without the bills of assurances in support of it as a reminder that was by a vote of five to four we have received some additional public comment since the item I believe a lot of several of those were forwarded to the planning or the City Council but if you didn't have a chance to consider those
 One piece in particular was about drainage concerns towards Pumpkin Ridge, which was an address that was noted in the memo that the resident did not express opposition to this request, but wanted some assurance that this development would not impact their property or heighten their issues.
 Other pieces of public comment were both in support and against it describing broad, long range planning document issues, but also specific local development issues. With that, I'm happy to answer any questions the council has and there's also members of the city's public works department and utilities department if you have detailed questions about what was shared last week, thank you.
 And Mayor Robert Rhodes is here as a representative for the applicant. Yes, would the applicant like to speak for the counsel? You have ten minutes. Hi, my name is Robert Rhodes with the law firm of Hall Estill, and by now you have probably seen the couple of submissions that I sent you, a letter with some attachments as well as a response to one of the emails. So I'm not going to go into that, and instead we've got with me, right behind me, is the
 is Taylor Johnson, who's manager of the golf course, and I want him to say a couple words to you. And then we also have Mark Marcus back there. He's gonna say some things. And if any questions come, we have our engineer, Blake Jorgensen. So with that, I'm gonna turn it over to Taylor Johnson. Thank you.
 Hello everyone, as Robert said I'm Taylor. I'm the general manager at Stonebridge Meadows Golf Club. I've been there for just about 10 years now, so I've had a good opportunity to get to know the neighbors and the close community that's out there. We were able to actually host a meeting, I think it was last week, to encourage neighbors to come out and voice concerns. Obviously we wanted to be there to answer any questions,
 and just give our point of view and hopefully they can relate to that. I feel like that went well, but obviously I'm sure you'll hear some comments. We've been serving the community for over 25 years now. As I said, I've been there for 10 of them. Over those 10 years we've seen immense growth. I would say especially in the last few years it's really multiplied.
 Not only that, the amount of play, but the amount of people that have already moved out to our area has increased substantially. The new builds that are already south of this have already had an effect on the golf course, which we see as positive as well. But we also want to be able to serve those people. So obviously we want this to be rezoned so that it'll actually enable us to do that better, bigger and better.
 The golf course is great for our city. We're very close. A lot of people use it. I feel like we're a staple in this town. And the zoning will help the golf course serve the city even more. So with that in mind, I do appreciate your time tonight. Good evening, Council. I'm Mark Marquis with Riverwood Homes. I just wanted to speak on, not quite as tall as he is, just wanted to speak on a couple things. As Taylor noted a minute ago, we had a community meeting
 last week and just wanted to really see what the neighborhood bothered them so much. And naturally it was primarily about flooding that had been done prior to the golf course being built, subdivisions that were built that didn't have good grading plans. But I told them, and we have our engineers working on the studies as well.
 While this is going to be a new development, it's not going to impact those neighborhoods. Everything that this neighborhood, the new neighborhood will have will be retained and released in a controlled environment into the creek. Doesn't get pumpkin hollow, doesn't get cherry hills. So this isn't going to be impactful on that. You know, I've been doing this for 30 plus years in this community.
 have built thousands of homes that are all, 75% of them would be deemed affordable in Fayetteville. We've never had a subdivision that just walked through. There's always been concerns whether it's traffic, whether it's water or sewer, schools, that's just the nature of the growth and we understand that. There has been comments made that, you know, this
 subdivision while we are trying to really provide affordable, we're also providing some homes targeted for seniors as well as a whole mixed use. This is one of the rarest opportunities that we've ever been involved in where we can bring something that allows everybody to enjoy this type of community. The golf, the pools, the restaurants. Typically those type of golf amenities
 the homes are much higher priced. Not only are we going to try to bring affordable housing in there, but I think you guys have seen something that Robert sent out that we're calling the Riverwood Homes Hometown Hero Program. That's going to be earmarked for at least 100 homes. That's almost 350,000 or up to that.
 to give back to what we deem our hometown heroes, up to 1% of the sales price. And that's over and above any other incentive that we might be offering. So it's not going to be tied to something. We want our teachers, our firemen, our EMTs, our city staff to be able to live out there if they want. With that, I'm just going to close unless you have any questions for me.
 Okay, what questions does the council have for the staff or for the applicants? Robert, you have about five more minutes if you want to add something. I'm sorry. May I take that five minutes? You may. I only need about three, Mayor. All right. Okay. I'm just going to hit a few high points. Good for golf.
 And it's good for Fayetteville. I haven't golfed in I don't know how long, but I do like the fact that there's a public course, it's a championship public course that anyone can use. So I think that's good for Fayetteville. And I think at one point we were talking, oh gosh,
 many reiterations of this rezoning maybe seven or eight years ago, or maybe five years ago, we were talking about maybe the golf course was in its demise. Well, it's not. I mean, it's solid. And so that's one point. Second point is with the two bills of insurance in place,
 It's only 216 additional homes more than what we're entitled to right now under the current zoning. Only 42 more acres. 92 acres will stay RA. This is something that I think is kind of important. I've always tried to emphasize this in the past.
 We have a developer and a golf course owner that listens. They listen to staff when staff asks for stuff about density issues and about will there be really retail there? And you've got two bills of assurance that are solid. They're enforceable in court and they're not just, they hit pretty much most of the things that staff put in their report.
 We were asked after the last meeting to hold a meeting with the neighbors, even though we had been meeting with the neighbors periodically, but we held a meeting. And it was publicized on the website, and as you can already tell, you've heard a report on that. I attended. I would say that everyone walked away from that meeting knowing that this was a pretty solid organization that was getting ready to start.
 build this project if indeed rezoning goes through and that it generally was pleasing to them. I know some people have indicated, you know, with the infrastructure, things get built if this project goes forward, but the city will have to assume the maintenance on utilities,
 And I'd ask you, what about the 800 homes that were recently okayed in four different subdivisions that are a mile away from this? Do we want to push our teachers and our cops and our firemen and our city staffers to neighborhood towns where we still have to provide them services? I mean, it seems like we have water agreements and other agreements with some of these other smaller towns. Yes.
 Some would say that this is a choice between affordable homes or the less stress of 134 estate homes. It is not. It's not just that choice. This is affordable homes with this full package that we've described. And it's a pretty good package. It's 55 plus community.
 that people can, you know, that we've already talked about. It's affordable homes. It's diversity. It's a number of really, really positive things. And I hope that's enough to earn your vote. We stand ready for questions. Thank you for your time. Now, do we have any questions? Yes, Scott.
 Mr. Rhodes, a quick question. It might be one that the developer can answer. As we stand here today, you're allowed 134 homes as the zoning applies. Is that correct? That's right. And if we approve this rezoning, then we've got a potential of –
 200 more plus more obviously the economics of that spreads that dollar amount of those homes out a little bit. What is the range of price that you're you project for the potential new development versus what you would be allowed to do now?
 So on that preliminary plat, we have about 100 plus homes earmarked from what we call our cottages, 275,000 to 350,000 presently. We have about another 100 homes earmarked for the 55 plus community. We expect those to go start in the mid 300s to probably 450, 500. And then the manor homes, which we presently have in the community that go from 1,700 to
 2,100 square feet. They start right now at about 350,000 go to 475 and then I think we only have about 30 estates that are going to be 2,400 plus square feet and they'll probably start around a half million and go on up depending on the lot size in the home. And to make the economics work as as the property sets today what would be
 price ranges of those. So July 22nd, the Planning Commission last year approved a preliminary plat for the 53 acres, which is 134 lots. Those would all have to be over 450, probably 500,000 at the starting price just because of the size of the lots. None of them are, I think most of them are over 70 foot wide. So it's going to totally rule out the opportunity to bring in some under $300,000 homes.
 OK, thank you. Yeah, Andre. Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. I did have the opportunity and the great pleasure to attend the meeting that they're referencing. It was a really good crowd, and it was really hot. Nonetheless, I think we walked to, I think, I walked away with a sense of that there was some enlightenment and almost I feel as if that there is a balance that
 the developers and the neighbors were able to understand exactly what's going to happen. And I really appreciate that collaboration. However, Jonathan, I do have a couple of questions. The city staff, even with the new information, they still denied it, right? We recommend denial of it, yes. Okay. And the...
 Planning Commission the vote was five to four to afford it to City Council recommending approval Okay, and that's that's even with the bear. It's it's correct I'm not sure what you mean. There are no variances if you're referring to the bills of the right. I'm sorry. Yes. Yes Yeah, those were not provided to the Planning Commission They were comfortable five of the nine were comfortable with the request as it was on its face just without a bill of assurance Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you Anybody else?
 Okay, well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber tonight? Hi, I'm Weston Wilkerson. I live at 3225 East Gulf Farm Road.
 I want to thank everyone for the opportunity to speak. I spoke at the last City Council meeting on June 20th, in addition to having emailed all the members of the Council prior to that meeting asking for them to deny this request to change the zoning. However, between multiple conversations with representatives associated with this project and the community meeting, commitments have been made to reduce housing density and limit the community services areas capacity, which are now supported by the bills of insurance.
 and I now support the proposal. My family enjoys the privacy and semi-rural setting now, but we knew when we moved on to Gulf Farm Road the development nearby was inevitable. Additionally, Taylor Johnson has taken a great deal of his own time to educate me on the history of this area and some of the prior developments that have been proposed, which would have been, in my words, not his, alarming,
 And as I said at the last meeting, the golf course is and continues to be a good and welcome neighbor and I appreciate their willingness to engage, educate, and share. In that light, I ask why not this proposal? If you accept that development is inevitable, the scope and the density align, the scope and the density of this project align with the other developments around the golf course,
 and the nature of the joint venture allows the creation of a community-focused space, and the project would, when finished, complete a cohesive community around and even inside the golf course. My remaining reluctance is due to the infrastructure, which is my understanding is beyond the scope of the rezoning proposal, the developer, and the golf course. I don't, simply don't know what the city's expectations are for this area or will be.
 Will additional development yield infrastructure improvements which are now needed by forcing the city's hand? Will the city continue to allow further development on Deadhorse Mountain Road and Black Oak without addressing the shortcomings of existing city services? I don't know what came first, the chicken or the egg, but I do know that there's support needed now, especially around the roads and bridges.
 Fayetteville has spent a decade trying to get on to every top ten list of best places to live, has achieved that status during that time I moved here. However, at least in southeast Fayetteville, I have not personally seen the same energy to provide the necessary, but albeit more boring projects, such as widening roads and increasing water and sewage capacity.
 However, developments continue in this area, as was just mentioned, on Dead Horse Mountain Road and on Black Oak. Additionally, while welcoming to me and my family, this growth has come at the expense of the less privileged residents of Fayetteville who have been here much longer than me by increasing the minimum threshold to secure safe and affordable housing. I'm here tonight to express my support of the rezoning, my gratitude to all who have taken the time to educate me over the past month.
 and to express my hope that regardless of the decision that it rendered, that the city of Fayetteville will tackle the challenge of supporting infrastructure and affordable housing with the same zeal with which it promoted itself to be a top ten best place to live. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? My name is Max Lemons. I live off of Dead Horse Mountain Road. I just want to say I'm in support of the rezoning. I think it would be nice to have...
 you know, some commercial restaurants and stuff to be in that area. I also think it'd be great to have some improvements to the golf course as well. And I'm also in support of the affordable housing. That's all I got. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hi, everyone. I also have softened my approach or my outlook on this from two to three weeks ago, but I do still have quite a few concerns.
 My name is Gary Ficicello, and we moved into the original home of the area, the Goff home, right across from the clubhouse. And when my wife and I moved here six and a half years ago from Southern California, we experienced quite a different atmosphere than what is happening right now.
 With all due respect to affordable housing concerns, all it takes is a cursory look coming up Huntsville and 15th to see where massive amounts of homes are being built. Now, while I'm softening my outlook on this, I also believe that.
 If you look at the perspective here of the cottages of 1,300 to 1,700 square feet, those are the majority. Those are the bulk of the homes being built up there. I imagine, and I'm not professing to be an expert in doing comps on homes, but I believe that that's not going to help at all in the comps of the existing homes in the area.
 I have the privilege of living in one of the Sloanbrook homes that were built by Mr. Marquez. In that area, when we bought, we haven't been there for three years, but in the two years that we lived there, I was visited by the police three times. Once because my car had been broken into, twice because other homes had been broken into, and also at the same time to warn me that my garage door was open.
 Now when you have a community like that, it becomes very desirable for crime. And I know that because I experienced it. So what I would like to know is has there been a crime impact study on the possibility of shoving that many homes in such a great environment for crime? It really is. I mean, it just is. I plan on going to the police department and hopefully getting one from them.
 but I didn't have time, I'm sorry. Also the financial burden, is it gonna be tossed on for all the infrastructure? Will that be imposed on the taxpayers for that? Because there's gonna be massive amounts of infrastructure. We all know that. They've even talked about drainage into the existing stream that runs behind our home. And when I owned two pieces of property before this, across on the other side
 And we were held to pretty high standards because of the 100-year floodplain zone. Well, they allowed building to go on and gave them hardship variances. On the last rainstorm that we had, the heavy one, the water came up and was above the pylons for those two of the three structures that had just been built. So I don't know how they gave them a hardship. They were supposed to have riparian walls built. The contractor wasn't held to that.
 So unfortunately the water came up and it was up above their pylons that were holding up their back decks. So I wonder about that. Also in the Sloanbrook area, the grading was not done up to par. So in heavy rains, people had floods coming through their backyards. So I'd like to make sure that that's done.
 And you know that people don't have to go through that problem because it was unfixable. They couldn't do it. They put drainage in down so those rivers ran through their backyards into drainage. Also, there was a commitment by the builder to build a park with, and this is in Sloanbrook, with bike trails and places for kids to play and everything. Well, it's been five years now and that still hasn't been done.
 So what assurances do we have from the contractor that all these amenities that he's talking about are ever going to get done? They weren't then. We never saw them. I drove by the other day. Still hasn't been done. So I'd like to know if this is going to be done, why there has to be so much affordable housing, as they call it, and why can't we have around the country club much more states that bring up the property value? I think it's wonderful that we're going to have that.
 you know, active living facility and housing. That's wonderful. That's absolutely wonderful. And I'm not against maybe some of the time. I know it's my time, but thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, who do we have on Zoom? Susan? No one has their hand raised on this item, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Mayor Jordan, this is a hard one. I've received a lot of information from the neighborhood, from the neighbors, and I really appreciate it. And my concern with city staff not supporting it, that's also...
 that's a big concern as well however leaving the meeting I do feel that the perspective has changed and as they said tonight I think a lot of their hearts have been softened however there are still some concerns so it's it's difficult because we are experiencing as we all know a housing crisis and but at this point I
 I believe that I can support this. I'm leaning toward supporting this and especially
 with the city continuing to work with the neighborhood as it relates to fixing what we can as quickly as possible because those concerns are legitimate. And when we think about infrastructure, when there are things that we can address, there are things that we can fix as a city, I want to make that our top priority. And so, Mayor Jordan, I do look for, I'm inclined to supporting this.
 Okay, what else we got? What discussion would we like to have? What action? Oh, we'll take Scott. Go ahead. Okay I just want to thank you. Mr. Mayor. I want to confirm that really it's only the number of lots that's contained in the bill of assurance that home prices or any other form of cost sharing or commitments to anything being developed are
 is really outside the purview and unenforceable by the city. And so while I'm open and interested in this project, we've heard so many times from our city attorney that the only thing that's enforceable is what's in that bill of assurance itself. And so I'm saying this to remind myself as much as anyone else. Thank you. Okay. Scott?
 Jonathan, one of the concerns I think staff had was water and sewer. And has that fear or concern been alleviated with the developer plan?
 I think it's too soon to be able to answer that question. It is a good one though. I worked to summarize the utility department's comments in the memo I provided, but the crux of it is there are adequate water connections in the area. The adjoining subdivisions all have water stov outs. It's a standard practice with development so that this property can connect to those in at least four places.
 The more difficult question to answer is regarding sewer service. And that's kind of in two parts. One because several of the lift stations in the area either need maintenance or repairs or they're at capacity. And also because at this point in a development consideration at a very high level that we're at the rezoning point still, we don't know.
 what impacts it may have. The utility department performs analyses on our existing stormwater or sanitary sewer, excuse me, system for its capacity, but it's for existing capacity to serve existing development. We do not, as a part of that, use public money in those analyses to determine what we can accommodate from private development. So at this point, we do not have that information. I know the applicant shared that his,
 engineer or intended engineer record for the project is here. I don't know if they've gotten to that level of review or not. I know that utility staff has not had that to consider, though. But once we get to that development and analysis by the city staff, it would be the developer's responsibility to bring the sewer to his development up to standards. Is that correct?
 That's correct. I think to Council Member Whedeker's point, there is always an opportunity for an applicant to request a cost share from the city, especially if it has larger system benefits. If this area is at capacity and it would benefit from having some additional room for growth, that can be an opportunity. But again, that's further down the line. That typically comes after development entitlement, at which point it's brought forward to Council for you all's consideration.
 Thank you. Sarah. I appreciate all the collaboration and conversation that's happened within the community. This council has gone on retreat. We've had some really tough conversations and we have more ahead of us.
 We have identified that one of the biggest goals that we want to achieve in the city is to create more housing. We definitely, I think there was conversation about, you know, is that at the peril or is that at the expense of other things? And so I don't think that those, that we're negating that there are potentially other issues and that's been brought forward with city staff with due diligence, which I appreciate.
 My concern is around, you know, there are already several hundred additional homes that have been coming in that are, you know, helping to strain some of the infrastructure. And there are these additional over 100 homes that could be built on this existing project. And so when I look at.
 the potential of the infrastructure improvements that have to happen and I think about the numbers that we're waiting to come up in the city about the inventory levels that we have across different AMI levels and what kind of housing is needed we're anticipating that there's going to be some tremendous gaps that are going to be really difficult for us to close in the city and there aren't going to be a lot of pieces of property in the city of Fayetteville that are going to be
 this available and this large to really solve for that. We're finding that with very, you know, odd shaped lots and things like that, we're getting quite creative. And so I think we have to keep our thinking cap on and be creative in this property too. And for that reason, I mean, I've really, I've lost sleep on this. I've done a lot of homework. I feel like, and that's responsibility because we also talked a lot about, you know, sprawl and not straining our resources to the edge of town. We have to be good stewards of your taxpayer money.
 And my family lives on a very small fixed income, so I'm right there with you. And I feel very responsible to that. And so really for that reason, I think that we shouldn't consider a bill of assurance to cap the number. I think that we are going to have to address if we move forward with this project, we are going to have to improve infrastructure.
 And I think over time, you know, we're not always going to be able to rely on the type of revenue streams that we've had. We have to plan for those rainy days. We need the housing for individuals, so we help our community to be able to achieve that first home ownership that folks want so much, to be able to help people to age in place with the senior homes potentially.
 And then ultimately we have that sustainability of being able to afford because we are going to have to address things over time in that area. And so I'd like to open up that thought to my fellow council members to really consider that this has some solid for us with things that we really have been saying are incredibly important for us, but to think about sustaining the possible infrastructure funding that's going to be needed with additional taxpayers in this area. Okay.
 I have a question for Jonathan. So I'm taking notes there. So Jonathan, can you kind of sum up, when we're talking about the infrastructure in the area, can you kind of sum up some of the concerns that people have?
 A lot of people have mentioned flooding and the bridge and the road. Remind us again about how the road level is and that sort of thing. I'm not sure what I'm trying to say here.
 Certainly, I think you're referring to the bridge that crosses Dead Horse Mountain Road across the West Fork of the White River. Yes, that was about 20 years ago the bridge began being considered for rebuilding. I don't think it was quite a one-lane bridge, but it was very narrow, it was very aged and in poor condition, and at that time RDoT, using federal money, began considering rebuilding
 that and a few other projects in the city. Ultimately, with the city's guidance and participation, it was determined that that bridge be a priority for improvement by RDoT with federal money.
 One of the items that had to be sacrificed as a part of it for funding purposes was that the entirety of the bridge and its approaches could not be raised above flood levels. With the money that was available at the time, only the bridge itself could be brought above the level that would flood. Anything else?
 would be beyond the funding that was available. So that was a decision that was very deliberately and considered by the, I think it was the streets committee at the time with the understanding that the bridge improvements could be made with this federal and state money that was available, but there still may be periodic flooding which has been documented and observed over the approaches to the bridge, which do extend out to a considerable distance, especially to the south as you approach Goff Farm Road. Does that answer your question?
 Yes, it does. It does. That was what I was trying to remember about the level of the road and the bridge. So they got the funding for the bridge only. Correct. I was on that committee. Yeah. You know, I have real concerns. This is very difficult because, you know, we need the housing, but I also know that this area, that road is, it's inadequate.
 But I also understand that we don't usually build roads to nowhere. We have, you know, often development is what drives our improvement sometimes. So I don't know. This is a challenging one. Thank you. Scott. So Jonathan, on the property as it sits there today, if they put the 100, I believe it's 135 or whatever it was, homes on there.
 they would not be required with that development to alter the approaches to that bridge for flooding there with that development.
 That's correct and it gets into more of a legal framework consideration of development when staff is tasked with evaluating a project and the impacts it may have. We have to weigh the proportional scale of a project with the proportional scale of any infrastructure that may be required. So maybe that
 if it was determined that this project correctly would have to compensate for those approaches not being high enough, it's very unlikely even at 350 units and possibly even at 900 units that it could pay for that improvement. And so if it was even necessary or deemed the best
 the priority improvement in the area, it's likely that the city would take an assessment for it, which we would have to, we take in and we have five years to use to make the improvements ourselves or with the state or any other body. But again, even that improvement would be weighed against other considerations in the area, whether it's the addition of sidewalks or the addition of stormwater infrastructure along Deadhorse or Gulf Farm or working on offsite drainage issues
 or upgrading or improving the lift stations that would be serving this property. So there's always a basket of infrastructure improvements that have to be considered and weighed against each other as far as what a project can appropriately bear when it's done in Fayetteville. I would say as my fellow council member that is brilliant in these kinds of things, Mr. Whitaker has said many times, we're in the stage of where all the good pieces of property have been developed.
 Everything we develop going forward is probably going to be tough. We're going to have some issues. This is no different. This has got some areas of significant concern. And I don't know if...
 I'm pleased to hear the developer and community's involvement. I think this is about the third or fourth piece of property that we've had a lot of back and forth with the community and neighbors and the developers, and they've been able to, even though they don't all get what they want, they seem to understand that we've come to a...
 somewhat common ground and and they they are getting more comfortable of the situation so i don't know if it's would be wise to even though i don't want to i don't know if it'd be wise to hold this on the second reading and maybe give a couple more weeks to get everybody a little more comfortable um you know with the situation because it is it it is a very tricky piece of property and uh
 It's a great piece of property, but it's got some hurdles that need to be jumped that I think we'd probably get there with some discussion, but I don't know that we're ready to go. If we hold this, my question is what, and Jonathan, I guess this is a question for you, what could possibly change? I mean, what could any new information, I mean, what else could we, what else would we need to?
 I guess, is there any new information or is there anything else that the developers can do or the neighbors? I mean, what else would be necessary to do?
 to help us make, I guess, an informed decision. That's a good question. I think from staff's perspective, we depend on the council for you all to solicit any new information or additional information you may need. Alternatively or additionally, it may be that you all have expressed adequate concerns for the applicant to be able to consider their request in the intervening two weeks and make changes. So I don't know if any changes are needed.
 I don't know how firm you all are in your positions or where you all are, but if it is the council's intent to leave it with the understanding that more information will come to light, I think it would be appreciated if that was made very clear what you all's expectations are from either staff or the applicant. Susan? Yeah, we have Council Member Turk with her hand raised. Okay, go ahead, Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Yes, I have. I think two weeks ago I really requested to find out about choke points from the concerns that many of the neighbors had expressed where flooding concerns were happening. And if it was in the packet, I'm sorry I missed that. So that would be a piece of information I'd really like to be able to see. And then the infrastructure cost issue.
 I believe that there are other areas in town where affordable housing could be built with less infrastructure requirements, but I don't have all of that information in front of me. So, for example, how many more lift stations would need to be built to handle that kind of capacity that has been identified in the bill of assurance?
 So I still have a lot of remaining questions and would probably be in favor of holding it another two weeks. But, yeah.
 I can also vote on it tonight, but I definitely have some serious concerns about the water, the flooding, and also about the infrastructure needs to bring that up to a reasonable level. And it's outside of the mayor's box. It's not in a tier two or tier three center. There's a lot of things that the planning commission has identified or people that are familiar with
 planning that have identified that are really outside of our main goals that we have had for many years so those are those are my concerns thank you yeah I have a question a couple of questions here now Jonathan about the existing lift stations would new lift stations be required
 for this or are the existing lift stations at capacity? I know some need repairs. If I may, I'd like to defer to Tim Nyhan, the director of the utility department, to comment on that. I think that the information that was shared with the council in advance of this meeting is that it does appear that, well, let me pull up the image as he comes up so that he can point to something as he speaks to you all. Thank you, Tim.
 Hey Jonathan, you have that picture. Okay, so as Jonathan explained the water service is feasible for this skill development There's four connection points and as it gets phased in it'd be decided how many connections need to be done You talk about the lift stations when Jonathan was talking about what the proportional responsibility is for each development and
 we do that kind of analysis that's why when you look at this picture you have in the beginning you have four lift stations that are going to lift stations that's identified as number one and that's because as things develop the appropriate lift station was built for that size of development and it just grows from there so um
 On lift station number one, it also, after that, it flows through lift station number two, and finally through lift station number three. So it's a sequential number of lift stations. So station one is limited on flow right now. Currently, it may be able to handle a few dozen more homes, and that's about it. So there would need to be some upgrades on that with the pumps. Yes.
 generators, electric systems, possibly including a complete reconstruction of the lift stations. It's just too early in the game right now to know exactly what would be needed there. Now downstream from that lift station, the force main is 8 inch diameter main and probably does have the ability to support the higher flows if the station number one was upgraded.
 You know detailed engineering design would need to be necessary to confirm that As you go downstream the 80s gravity sewer that flows into station two Depending on what the slope is would be at capacity with the 350 unit proposal There are already other flows on this line. And so it would very likely need to be up size if you any further and
 Station 2 was upgraded in recent years. It has more capacity than station 1, but it's unclear if upgrades will be necessary to any of the lines going into it. Like I said, we need further engineering design to perform that. The 12-inch force main downstream of the station would likely be adequate even if the pumps were upsized at that station.
 Now station number three is located on Armstrong, next to the Town Branch Bridge. That is likely a lift station that would be responsible for the city of Fayetteville. It's pretty far removed from this development that we're talking about. Right now it does have wet weather issues, which increases the flow sometimes as much as 10 times more than what the normal dry weather flow is.
 Analysis on this by the city would need to be smoke testing of what comes into the lift station to determine what would need to be do, whether we need to increase the station capacity or really work diligently on I&I infiltration that's coming into the lift station. So that's basically the synopsis of the lift stations out in that area.
 Okay, thank you. That's all I have. Thank you.
 That's very thorough. Yeah, Mike, go ahead. Thank you. You know, I think it's real important that, you know, we look at these lift stations. And also, I love the way you lined it out, what goes downhill on these lift stations here. But that's all I have. Thank you very much. I have one more question for you, Jonathan. Can you tell us where, Theresa brought up a question about the,
 the tier two, the tier centers. Where are the nearest tier centers for this area? That is a good question. I believe the nearest one is a two tier, a tier two center at the intersection of Crossover and Huntsville Road. So just to the northwest about, that's about one mile. About a mile, okay. All right, thank you. Thank you, Mayor. And so for Tim, it looks like
 from the map that we would be simply potentially upgrading some existing lift stations and lines but not having to build a new lift station. Does that sound about correct? Well on face value, like I said, without any intricate engineering design, it looks like you're correct that we could upgrade existing lift stations without having to add more.
 honestly speaking, wouldn't want to add anymore if we didn't have to. Yeah, yeah, which is, thank you. For me,
 One of my major concerns was, gee, if the developer is required to build a new lift station, then we inherit it and have to maintain it. But this defeats that whole line of reasoning because we're already maintaining those lift stations as is. That would not be a new negative impact on taxpayers in the city of Fayetteville. So if there was the upgrade.
 Well, we would already be maintaining something that's already there. This is one of those projects that I admit, like some of the rest of you, that I would like to comfortably and easily say no to. But I feel like the team proposing it has done a very admirable job of trying to analyze the tradeoffs.
 they're they're appropriate in their approach they're detailed in the information they're providing and I feel like that they're responsibly approaching us with this request and so they make it very challenging because it is not an easy one to simply say it's black and white so thank you Tim for that information councilmember Turk has her hand raised me okay good
 Thank you, Mayor. Tim, could you come back to the podium, please? I have another question. Could you kind of estimate, I mean, I know this, you know, you haven't done a thorough analysis and you just identified a couple of at capacity issues, but typically what does an upgrade to a lift station and adding additional capacity cost?
 well that is a tricky question uh you know if you just break it down to to upgrade a pump uh a sewage pump is going to cost you anywhere from 50 to 75 thousand dollars a piece
 Upgrading the generator is gonna cost you 100 to $200,000 a piece. Electrical, the way electrical is right now, I can't even estimate that, it's out of this world, probably four times higher than what it used to be. But you're running the engineering design, but you're gonna spend 250,000 to half a million, maybe just upsizing a smaller lift station.
 And that's clearly a guess.
 Thank you. I also have an additional question. The item number three or the area number three that you identified next to the town branch, could you talk about if that's on your list for improvement? You talked about it having some flood issues and I assume intrusion issues. Is that on the current CIP list?
 It has infiltration and inflow issues as most lift stations do. It's not on our immediate list. We do pumping tests of all our lift stations every year to get a handle on where they're at. This was the lift station that recently had the city car wash attached to it where we did that infrastructure work there. The key thing there on this lift station is to look with smoke testing and that type of thing
 basin analysis to see if we can find some of the source of infiltration. That's what's causing the capacity issues right now. And if this development was approved, would that move up on your list in terms of smoke testing and trying to determine where this infiltration was coming from?
 Certainly the smoke testing is on our list. If we saw where the development was occurring and these upgrades were being undertaken on these lift stations that are upstream, then we would certainly be looking at this a lot closer at that point in time. Okay, thanks so much for answering all my questions. I appreciate it. You're welcome. And Tim, one more. Sure. Just so we're clear, or I'm clear, I think you said pump station one
 or lift station one would have to be upgraded. Whether you did this project or you did a couple dozen homes, it would have to be it's near capacity now. The one level is number one could handle a few dozen homes and that would be it. And number two would need to be upgraded.
 Number two has been upgraded in the force main Downstream of it is 12 inch which is probably held the capacity but the lines in between wanted to have to be looked at Okay, I think I understood you to say that number three Needs a basically it's got issues and that was far enough away from the project that that was pretty much city and
 That's the way I'm looking at it currently, yes. Okay. And of the one and two, the upgrades that would be required for this particular project, that would be the developer's responsibility? I think it would be the developer's responsibility, yes. Okay. Thank you. Mayor Jordan, I think I'm in favor of holding it for two weeks.
 I would like the residents, the neighborhood, I would like if they could possibly just if even having another meeting to kind of if they feel that it's necessary perhaps if there are any other questions because it's really hard especially with the city staff not supporting this. It makes it difficult.
 And I feel comfortable with, I mean, I can definitely vote tonight, but I just, I feel as if that if we waited too, I don't want to rush this.
 And Council Member Turk did have some questions and concerns, and I would like for if those questions and concerns, if they could be addressed over the next two weeks, that would really help my decision. And I really believe that this is information that the residents need to know as well. So I'm certainly in favor of holding this at least two weeks.
 because I want to make an informed decision and I do appreciate the collaboration and all of the concerns that the neighbors have expressed and I really appreciate being part of the meeting. However, I want to make, I'm hoping that we can,
 hold this for at least two weeks and then those concerns, we can address those questions and make a more informed decision. Jonathan, would you remind us again what Teresa had brought up?
 Certainly, and I appreciate you bringing that up because it did include some of that information in the memo and it'd be helpful for me to understand what beyond what I provided may be useful. So let me pull that up just a slide. Because I'm all for holding this.
 But I want to be clear for staff and everyone else what we're holding it for. Other than just we are uncomfortable with making a decision. Thank you. Thank you. So these images are taken from that memo. I think my understanding of the request from the council was to better understand geographically where the drainage concerns had been filed, whether it's from specific property owners on this request or previous requests that the city has received.
 And there's five properties identified there. And all of which are in a separate sub basin from this property. They all drain to the same place, but they don't drain to each other, if that makes sense.
 So the first, the image on the left shows where those properties are and the image on the right shows very generally the topographic slope from those areas to the protected stream that's in between them, which flows ultimately north to Crescent Lake and then from there to the West Fork of the White River. So if additional information is needed, further clarity would be helpful so that we can make sure we have that for the council. Council Member Tark has her hand raised again, Mayor. Okay, go ahead, Theresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Jonathan, for providing this. Could you explain the slide on the right or the picture on the right again? I'm sorry, I had a hard time understanding that.
 Yes, the one on the right. That was indicated to show the flow directions from these two properties and that's based on a topography of the area. The subdivision to the east drains to that protected stream and then a portion of the area proposed for rezoning also drains to that area but they don't drain to each other. They drain to that stream that runs through the golf course in between them which ultimately passes under Gough Farm Road into Crescent Lake.
 Okay, maybe I did not communicate my request very well last week. This is very helpful. But, you know, the neighbors had really talked about how certain areas flood, roads flood, and they're not able to get out of the neighborhood or they have to go through neighborhoods when flooding events occur. And this information is super, but I was also hoping for that additional information.
 so again we could better understand where the choke points are are there are there ways to remediate that and if so how much how much effort would that be and those those kinds of things because adding you know adding another 350 homes is quite a bit if you have two if you have rural problems and when flooding occurs and
 these kinds of choke points. So that was my request two weeks ago, and I apologize if I wasn't very clear about it. Thank you. I think that two weeks ago when we initially saw this, there was no one that spoke in favor of it. As a matter of fact, it was very clear opposition. But tonight, after the meeting,
 the neighbors meeting with the developer. We have for sure one individual that came forward that was against it last week or two weeks ago and now is in favor of it. We've got one neighbor that was adamantly opposed to it and has softened his stance, not necessarily for it, but has softened his stance and
 And I hate to delay it, but I do think two weeks gives the developer a chance to maybe again meet with the neighbors, meet with city staff to see if we can put some salve on it to make it a little easier.
 Because again, this is a tricky, tricky piece of property. And I think it would behoove all of us to take a step back, give a couple more weeks to make sure that we are doing it the right way and get everybody on board. Because in two weeks, we went from all opposition to neighbors softening their stance and coming around to the ideal of the development. So I think if we get a couple more weeks, we may be surprised. So, yeah.
 So do we just hold hold it on this reading? Yeah, you want to hold it on this reading? We'll just help. And we've got we've got a clear path of what information we want to get and what we hope to find in two weeks. Yes, and I will ask Chris Brown to bring us a little information on the drainage issues that we're seeing out there, which is considerable. Thank you, Mayor Jordan, because that that is a huge concern. Thank you for that.
 If I may ask just one quick question, this might be either for you, Mayor, or the City Attorney. Would this be a simple majority? There's six council members tonight, or does it require five votes, in which case, in fairness, it would make, if I was the applicant, I would want the delay to have a seventh council person, because if two people are hesitant, they're not benefiting from a full bench of council members tonight.
 Yes, to pass a resolution or ordinance like this requires five affirmative votes, even though we have your one short on council members. In fact, too short because I think Holly has not been able to sign in. So, to actually pass a resolution or ordinance like this would still require five affirmative votes, which means you've lost two council members and you've still got to get five. So it wouldn't be five to four. It could be five to two.
 So that makes it a much more difficult job for an applicant, any applicant, that wants to get a resolution or ordinance passed. We asked the applicants over the years if we want to hold it. Okay, we'll just hold it. Just leave it on, too. Just hold it. If you don't, you don't. Okay. So we'll leave it right here. All right. Let's move along to new business.
 Number one, a resolution to call a special election on November the 14th, 2023, to fill a vacancy in the office of the city council member for Ward 1, position 1 of the city of Kent. Well, Mayor, it sounds funny that you have a resolution that's already presupposing what you're going to do, but our legislative system, you have to put a resolution in in order to get the item before the council.
 So really the first thing that should come before the council, the first thing that you need to do, and I stated this in my memo to you accompanying this, is you need to make a decision about whether or not the council will appoint a city council member or will they call a special election.
 This is an interior motion, just like a motion to table, which means it can be decided by the number of individual, number of council members, members of the council that are here and participating. So because Holly has not been able to sign in, I think, I'm afraid she's flying and that's makes it difficult, I think maybe to participate in the meeting. Then there are really only seven persons.
 I mean, yeah, seven persons, including the mayor. Including the mayor. Four persons. Including the mayor. Yeah. Because we have two council members, one gone for quite a while, and then one that is just in the air. So at least seven so that the initial motion would only require four votes, one way or the other, to just make the decision about whether or not you're going to call an election or appoint a council member. And that should be your first order of business.
 And once you have done that, I have two resolutions already proposed. One of them was the one that the Mayor read, but I also have one prepared if you wanted to appoint a council member. So I'm just trying to say if that's your decision, I'm not trying to take that decision away from you. Whatever the motion is and whoever prevails on that, then that will be the resolution you'll be looking at. But then at that point, it will take five votes still to pass that resolution.
 Even though there is something in the actual statute that sets all this out that would allow us not to have to count our missing council member who
 not sitting but it doesn't allow you to discount someone who is an elected council member but not here so that would leave us at eight and half of it or to get a majority out of eight you still have to have five so the initial motion I'll make it really easy the initial motion you can win with four but for the resolution either resolution you'll need five affirmative votes
 Okay. So we need five either way. To pass either resolution you would need five. Okay. But on this very first thing we need four? It's just that's not a resolution or an ordinance. It's just a motion. To do a special election that takes four. One of the council members needs to make that you make a motion to either appoint or to call a special election. Mm-hmm. I
 Mr. Mayor? Okay, go right ahead. Okay. I think that it is, given the length of time that is left on the former council member Harvey's term, I think it is very important that we let the citizens of Ward 1 have their say and that we have a special election.
 So I would like to make a motion that we move forward with withholding a special election. I second that motion. I have had members from Ward 1 reach out to me, and they agree that this is about letting democracy speak. And to echo your statement, you know, Sonia has, Councilmember Harvey had like maybe three and a half,
 Years left and that's it's quite a while. So I'm definitely supporting having a special election It's very important that we allow our citizens To to vote and to have a voice in democracy. So I think so. I appreciate you making that motion. Okay
 Now, Mr. Mayor, when we vote, one thing I would like for Kit to do is to kind of outline the, you know, when someone has to sign, I'm losing my words tonight, sign up to their petition, what the process is. I think it's a very short time period. It's like a couple of weeks, isn't it? And then also, I'd like some clarification on once we have the special election, is the person...
 appointed immediately or do we wait till the first of the year or stuff like that? So and we can do that after we okay Let's go let's look at calling a special election first state law controls all the timing on that and
 There's only a two-week period in order to gather petition signatures. That's the same thing as if you're running because there's only about a two-week period when you want to run for city council and with not a special election, just in the general election, that you're allowed to collect signatures during that two-week period. So that's the same basic thing we have here, a two-week period which would begin, um, in
 July 11th that way there'd be some time for somebody to get their petitions together but the petitions as Kara can probably tell you also are basically what's required by the Secretary of State and statutes so the petitions foreign petitions are available for anybody that would want to run you all have filled them out in the past
 And as have I. So they're very standard and it just is something that anybody that's going to be on the council and run for election is going to fill out these petitions. Of course, they are limited to people in Ward 1. Nobody outside of Ward 1 would be able to sign the petition. It has to be Ward 1 only.
 What I had here is that the petition for candidacy shall begin on July 11th and end at noon on July 25th, which is two weeks later. And when all the official petitions from municipal candidates shall be provided to the Washington County Clerk's Office. So they're not actually turned into our office. They're turned into Washington County Clerk. They have that's where all the records, the voting records are. So they'll check the signatures.
 And at that point then, the ballot position drawing would be conducted on or before August 1st at the place, time, and date selected by the Washington County Election Commission. And of course, they're the ones that control the whole election, you know, prepare the ballot.
 Usually the ballot is sent to my office, but it's pretty standard. And, you know, whatever the election commission wants, that's what they'll do and they'll handle the election. And the election would be on November 14th of 2023, pursuant to state statute. That's the only date that's available to us. So one more thing, Kit. If we do have this election on November 14th,
 and there's not a runoff, because there could be a runoff, if there's a whole bunch of people, there could always be a runoff. But after either that election or the resolution through a runoff, when does the person take office?
 Basically, that person would be taking office virtually immediately. They'll have to get sworn in, but beyond that, they really take office immediately. But it's not like with a regular election where you get sworn in in January? Thank you. Just shove them right on in there. Get them in there. Right on in there. Q, so there are only, and help me with this, there are only two times during the year that we can hold a special election, and that's March and November, right?
 now that's correct the law just changed when i actually started looking at this back in june 1st there were four times but as it worked out we couldn't they also had an august time but that we wouldn't have enough time you got to have 70 days before the election to have it done we couldn't do that so november was the only time then and it's still the only time so let's just say and
 hypothetically, if something were to happen to one of us, God forbid, but let's, how would that look? Or would we, as far as a quorum or a, how would that work? If, let's say it's just, if something just out of the blue, just something happened, how would that impact? Would it, would the same thing apply or is it based on exceptions? No, exactly the same rules would apply.
 However, if we lost another member, we would then at that point, we would only have six council members elected. The mayor would be the seventh member of the council, but then the resolution, that particular resolution, no others, but that particular resolution would be able to pass with four. Okay. Thank you, Kit.
 Yes, Sarah. If we, if a special election is supported tonight, even if it's not, one thing I would like to say is that we all need to be really conscientious about coming to meetings. And it's not just agenda and city council meeting, it's also our subcommittee meetings. Because like on, you know, I served on several subcommittees with Sonya.
 And so it leaves that very short. And if you don't, you know, if there are issues that you have at your subcommittee that need to be voted on to forward to city council and we don't have a quorum, then it can't go to council and it just makes a mess. Being short-handed is hard. And also it puts a lot of burden on DeAndre because now he's the warden. You're Mr. Ward One now.
 It's by yourself. And so even though we all work for everyone in the city of Fayetteville, we, you know, the Andre is going to bear the burden of that. So it's going to be challenging.
 I'm sorry to interrupt Mr. Mayor, I believe we have a vote now. Well, do you want to take public comment? Well, you don't have to do nothing, but you're going to have a vote here.
 Your rules don't say you have to take it. It's more like it's an internal motion, so it's really up to the council whether they want to have public comment or not. So what do you think? I would like public comment just in case if there's someone from Ward 1 here. I would like for a Ward 1 resident, well, anyone, but particularly since Ward 1 voters will be participating in this election, I think it would make sense if they would be willing to participate.
 To give them an opportunity to speak there Jordan. Okay, I'm not opposed to public comment But does it does it is it better serve that they can comment after they know the direction that I?
 resolution goes. Well, I mean, the only thing they can comment on right now, do you agree with an election or do you? Yeah, this is really the big decision right here. Unless you decided to appoint, then that'd be another really big decision. But if you decide to call a special election, basically what I have written in the resolution, that's what we have to do. So I'm just wanting to know what your pleasure is here, because I don't want to watch folks calling me tomorrow and saying we'd like to have spoken to the councilman. Okay.
 All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Let me tell you what your topic is. I don't need no campaign speeches here tonight. Let's just start with that.
 Now, it's whether you agree with an election or you'd rather see us appoint somebody. And that's your topic, and I'm going to hold you to that. All right. Now, who would like to be first? All righty then. Okay, Bob. It seems like you all are on board, so I don't know if I need to say anything. But Bob Stafford, Ward 1, 527 South Sherman Avenue.
 right near 15th and Huntsville Road, which I personally love. It's a great part of town. I have great neighbors and everything. I'm encouraged by the motion and the enthusiastic multiple seconds it got. I fully support a special election with a full three-plus years term left. I think it's vital that the citizens and voters of Ward 1 have a say in who represents them on the city council.
 The idea that this position will be filled with only one vote representing Ward 1, if you're to do an appointment, I think would be a big disservice to the voters and residents of Ward 1. Ward 1 is a distinct and special ward, and we're a ward of the working class, artists and artisans,
 award of the house list and those on the lesser end of income and opportunity. And it's imperative that we have full agency in who's going to represent if I believe. An appointment, I don't believe does any favors for the voters. And I don't believe it does any favors for the appointee. I, it, without a, without a strong campaign and,
 multiple voices in the room. We can't have a discussion, we can't have a discussion about the issues. It's just kind of, you know, put to the side. That's pretty much all to say. I won't campaign, but I am interested.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive in Ward 4. I'm not a Ward 1 resident, but since you all work for all of us, I figured I would offer a couple of words. I firmly believe that it is possible for you to appoint a phenomenal, fantastic City Councilmember, but I hope that Councilmember Bunch learned your lesson last time.
 And it was me. You may not have been here that night, actually. I was not here. I was on vacation and we didn't have Zoom. That was well-timed vacation because Bob is right. It doesn't particularly do any favors for the appointee. I think Fayetteville has shown that they would prefer to vote on their representatives. And so I hope you will call an election. But since you will be running a person short through a period with
 what's likely to have a bunch of housing questions, a budget cycle that could potentially be decided with a vacant seat. I hope that the rest of you will take extra care to consider the interests in housing, the arts, equity that Sonja would have represented on behalf of the voters when you make decisions in her absence. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Who do you have on Zoom?
 No one on Zoom has their hand raised. Okay. All right. We have a motion and a second. Teresa, do you have anything? I'm sorry. I don't want to leave you out. You're fine, Mr. Mayor. I have nothing other than to cast my vote. Okay. Okay. Cool. Anybody got anything else? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Jones? Yes. Brown?
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes.
 let's move on to number no so now we have the resolution oh before the council that was the vote to decide what you're doing but we still need to vote on the resolution and it was the one that the mayor read the title of and i read a lot of the body is for to call a special election on november 14th okay so do we have to make a motion to call it i guess i would like a motion to pass the resolution yeah a motion to pass a resolution for a special called election on november 14th
 Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to call the special election on November the 14th. Correct? Okay. Any comments on that? All right. Caravans, please call the vote. Turd? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. All right. All right. Let's move on to number two.
 a resolution to approve the federal heritage and historic preservation plan uh brit thank you mayor good evening council i am very excited to be bringing your recommendation from both of our historic commissions to you all this evening on the city's first heritage and historic preservation plan mr kirk you might have to assist me where's that
 While he's getting my PowerPoint up, I'll be talking about a little plan background, the plan content, five goals for historic preservation in Fayetteville, our action items and plan implementation, what we'll do moving forward, and then make some acknowledgments. And so if you'll go two slides forward for me.
 Thank you. So this does come exactly from our city plan 2040. You'll get to hear about this a lot. But that guiding document does kind of lay out what staff's work is, and that includes our historic preservation plan. So we have an objective under goal one, encourage historic preservation and adaptive reuse of buildings. And we have a few benchmarks.
 One of them being seek funding to complete a citywide community preservation plan. We'll go ahead and check that box. We've also got a couple more work to preserve the historic character and integrity of neighborhoods with multiple approaches and then also utilize the historic district commission to educate the public on tax credits, design standards, etc. And those are captured in our action items in our plan.
 And so there's a lot of content in this plan. If you don't have time for a degree in historic preservation, just read this book. But it starts with an executive summary if you want to get the short version of it. There's a lot of content about historic preservation and that comes from guidelines from the National Park Service as well as guidance from the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program. And that's how we got the grant funding to do this project.
 Next slide. Our consultant, Stantec Consulting Services, provided a program evaluation. They looked at how we do historic preservation today, the administration of that, and where we have opportunities for improvement. So a lot of our action items are focused on improving our existing historic preservation work. A lot of that is website content, GIS mapping, and other tools that you may not expect we use for historic preservation, but really come in handy.
 Next slide. We've also got a chapter on public engagement. It turns out Fayetteville is very supportive of historic preservation generally. We had really supportive responses to our survey.
 We started working with the community last September, so it's taken several months for us to get here, but generally we've had very high support for historic preservation, including some specifics that you'll see highlighted in the action items. Residents generally want more historic properties to be identified. People like it when I tell them stories about historic places in Fayetteville. Residents are also opposed to the demolition of historic properties in many cases, and we just want more information about our unique history.
 Next slide. And so I'll get to the fun part, the strategic plan. So this is where we have our five goals for historic preservation in Fayetteville as well as 52 action items that we'll be undertaking for the next five to ten years. So you shouldn't see me back on something like this for about a decade or so because it'll take us quite a bit of time to get this work done, but we are excited to be underway. And I'll highlight those five goals here on the next slide.
 One is to strengthen the preservation program through efficient adjustments to the program's administration, so that's working on what we have now. Encourage compatible development that prioritizes historic preservation. Identify and protect historic properties by utilizing historic resources for surveys and designations to identify and protect historic resources for future generations.
 That just means we have a lot of fun survey work to do to see where all of these historic properties are. Four, provide learning opportunities for the community about historic preservation and Fayetteville's unique history. And five, promote diversity, equity, and inclusion and protect cultural heritage.
 So next slide. We are here at the farmers market. My colleague Sherry Marie Smith and I want to thank Sherry now for her work to engage our community in this plan and in this planning process. You see a lot of colorful dots. People were really excited to tell us what they thought we should prioritize in the action items.
 And I'll actually be talking to the Historic District Commission and the Black Heritage Preservation Commission about those priorities in the next couple of weeks as they meet this month. And so we are already, thankfully, next slide, underway on seven of those action items. And so two of those you'll see me coming back to you in the next two weeks on. The Historic District Commission is recommending adjustments to their ordinance based on our learnings from this process and recommendations from the state office and how we can make some improvements to align with their goals.
 So you see here that work to make some adjustments to their ordinance, then also to continue the city's historic preservation work on properties like the Woolsey Farmstead and Apple Warehouse. I know we have a lot of people who have put work into Woolsey in particular and are excited to see results from that.
 We also want to continue to award exceptional examples of preservation through the Preservation Awards Program. We just gave those out in May and it was really, really fun. Or sorry, in June, and it was quite fun. Work with the Black Heritage Preservation Commission and community to develop a list of threatened historical sites associated with black heritage and identify ways to support their preservation, including black ownership. And the council, I believe, has something coming back to them in September.
 related to that item. Support the designation of black historical markers. We unveiled the Nelson Hackett marker in June this year, and we're very excited to have that on the Fayetteville Square. And then lastly, support Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage in securing historical black sites. Consider assisting the organization with historic preservation activities and National Register of Historic Places designation if desired.
 So we've got a lot of work underway, but a lot more to do. And so finally our plan webpage is going to transition to a more permanent home for our historic preservation plan so that the community has access to that. We have worked a lot to get the document in all of its draft forms out to the community and I've not received any additional comments on it since we posted this final version. The Historic District Commission and Black Heritage Preservation Commission did not get any comments either. And so hopefully we've captured all of those edits from our community and
 and are ready to get this going. And so I'll close with some acknowledgements. This project was made possible by a grant through the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Arkansas Historic Preservation Program, and Division of Arkansas Heritage. And I particularly want to thank Ian Montgomery with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program for his work to assist us in getting this project through. He'll be working with us toward the end of this month to get all of our documentation submitted so we can get our $50,000 reimbursement check.
 back, which is going to be really wonderful. I want to thank you, council, for your support for this project, including the request for grant funding that we got from the state, and then also our historic district commissioners and our black heritage preservation commissioners who have been meeting on this monthly for over a year now. And then also Stantec Consulting Services and McDew Preservation who worked with us in our community to make this happen. And so with that, council, I'm happy to take any questions that you might have.
 And if you want to see where the action items are, they start on page 80. BRITTANY WELSHEA- What questions do we have? BRITTANY WELSHEA- I don't have any questions. I would like to say, Brittan, thank you and your team and volunteers and everybody who's worked on this. We certainly appreciate it. Thank you so much. BRITTANY WELSHEA- Thank you, sir. CHRISTIE WOODFORD- Councilmember Turk has a comment. BRITTANY WELSHEA- OK. Yep.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I really want to congratulate this entire team. I mean, Britton, you shepherded this. You had the leadership. You and Sherry worked with Arkansas Historic Preservation Program. You worked with the Historic District Commission, the Black Preservation and Heritage Commission, and all of our residents. I reread
 the report yesterday. It is outstanding. It's thorough. It's insightful in so many different ways. There's so much history that you've included in there and then your action items. So I just want to really commend all the effort that you all and Stantec have put into this. It's really actually great reading, whether you're a historic nut or not. So thank you so much.
 I can't say enough good things about this. Thank you, Council Member Turk. That's very kind. Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 who you have on zoom no one on zoom okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council we have a motion in a second right to pass do we have that if we don't let's get that going there you go I would like to motion that make the motion that we passed historic preservation story preservation resolution there's a lot of words but I would like to make the motion I'd like to second it yeah any final comments from the council written as a fabulous job on this
 Really, really well done. And the whole team that worked on it, they were, I mean, really good people. We tried for years to get this off the ground, but when we got Brenton, we got it off the ground. So thank you. Thank you very much. All right. If nothing else, Kara, would you please call the roll? Turk. Turk.
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. All right. Well, that's real good. Thank you, counsel, very much.
 Let's move along to number three, a resolution to approve change order number one to the construction manager at-risk contract with Crossland Heavy Contractors for the Lake Federal Softball Renovation Project in the amount of $2,702,903 to establish a guaranteed maximum price for construction in the amount of $2,702,903 to approve project agency contract.
 in the amount of $93,500 and to prove the budget's adjustment, this is 2019 Park Improvement Bond Project. Oh, Chris. I'm substituting for Byron. He's at the beach, so you can thank him for me being here. This is a contract for improvements to Lake Fayetteville. It includes improvements to field and site drainage, stormwater infrastructure, new fencing, dugouts,
 bleachers, artificial turf infields, and accessibility improvements. Crossland Heavy Contractors is our contractor for this project. They provided the guaranteed maximum price of $2.7 million. We also have the $93,500 contingency.
 They've been working with us during the pre-construction phase, helping us with pricing and finishing the design. They've been a good partner so far. They've done several projects with us in the past. I've been very impressed with their work, meeting budgets and schedules.
 Looking forward to starting this project with them. The project will start immediately since we can get the contracts together and all the paperwork in order. And actually, I should say that the demo by the city has already begun. So we're making preparations for them to begin work. And the work is planned to be completed by February 2024. So we'll be able to use the fields in the spring. I can answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Chris?
 anything okay everybody good all right then let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic okay do you have anybody on zone no sir okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 This is a resolution. Any motion and a second? I would move to approve the resolution for the change order for the softball fields at Lake Fayetteville. Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Yeah, Andre? Oh, you've got some. Sorry. No, no, that's okay. Just didn't want to miss anybody. All right. No final comments. I don't care what you call it. Harry? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, moving along to number four. An ordinance to amend 118.01 applicability of the Federal City Code to reduce the citywide density cap for short-term rentals to $475,000 and to declare an emergency. Yes.
 Whereas the Development Services Department has issued 392 licenses for Type 2 short-term rentals, 341 of which contribute to the current 2% citywide cap because they are not located in zoning districts that permit hotel and motel uses by right.
 And whereas the City Council Ordinance Review Committee has recommended that the citywide density cap for Type 2 short-term rentals be reduced from 2% of all dwelling units to a set cap of 475, and recommends that all Type 2 short-term rentals be counted toward that cap. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals the introductory paragraph of subsection E16 and subsection E16A in section 118.01 applicability of the Fayetteville City Code and enacts replacement language as follows quote subsection 16 density for type 2 short-term rentals a citywide density cap of 475 dwelling units
 may be type 2 rentals. A conditional use permit may not permit subsection A more type 2 short-term rentals than what is allowed by the citywide density cap."
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because reducing the number of available short-term rental permits in the City of Fayetteville is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Okay, Holly's not here. No, sir, she's not. Okay, Jonathan, you want to take Paul here? Mayor, I'm happy to give the background and summary of the proposal, but of course, I'd like to defer to the Ordnance Review Committee attendees on their perspective of it.
 Again, Jonathan Kerrith, Development Services Department. I believe this is the first amendment we've seen to the short-term rental ordinance this year. So as a very brief overview, I'll be using a few acronyms and terms that I try to avoid defining every time I say them. So an STR is a short-term rental. When people say Airbnb or VRBO, those are platforms. Those are not, that doesn't encapsulate necessarily what this activity is, short-term rentals. They can be used on any number of platforms.
 Fayetteville defines that as any dwelling that's being rented for a period of less than 30 days. If anything else is a long-term rental, think of a house, apartment, whatever it may be. A CUP is a conditional use permit. Those represent special permissions granted with planning commission approval for certain activities designated by zoning district, and they typically come with particular conditions of approval that the council has become familiar with over the last few short-term rental conditional use permit appeals.
 Type 1 and Type 2 short-term rentals are how the City of Fayetteville defines and distinguishes between classes of short-term rentals. Type 1s are those where the primary use of the property remains a full-time resident. They must be occupied by a resident at least nine months out of the year for it to qualify as a Type 1. Those are generally allowed by right, citywide, regardless of zoning district, and there's no limitation on how many of those are allowed to exist in the city.
 Type 2 short-term rentals, however, are defined as not being occupied by permanent residents. They are listed as full-time short-term rentals and they do require a conditional use permit in residential zoning districts citywide.
 With that in mind, and stepping back about a month, the ordinance review committee met on June 7th of this year. There were a few items on the agenda following the most recent state legislative session, which considered but ultimately did not adopt a new bill or state statute on the topic.
 The main topics were the city's existing adopted cap for short-term rentals, better ways or more consideration for how the city can enforce our short-term rental ordinance, and also concerns about the concentration of short-term rentals in given areas and how that may be having negative effects on residents' or home values.
 At the meeting and before the meeting and after the meeting, there has been some public comment that has been across the spectrum. Before the meeting, it came serendipitously right after a city council meeting where appeals were heard. So there were several residents that wrote to council expressing support for consideration of these agenda items and curtailing the ability to operate short-term rentals in Fayetteville or to limit their concentration so as not to be a nuisance.
 At the meeting, there was at least one resident who expressed some very specific ideas that they had. And I believe the short-term or the ordinance review committee will be taking that back up in the near term.
 And more recently, I think several council members but not staff has received comments specifically from hosts of short terminals operators with concerns about the negative effects this may have on their property values or benefit to the community to provide this atypical or unconventional housing type that is becoming more common in cities nationwide.
 with that said the amendment that mr williams just read off has two main pieces to it that i want to hit on one is to change how our city-wide cap is applied currently short type 2 short-term rentals that are in zoning districts that allow hotels and motels do not contribute to our city-wide cap what's proposed is to remove that exemption so all type 2 short-term rentals will apply to the city-wide cap so that's the first part of the ordinance
 And what that means in numerical terms today is we will go from 342 that contribute towards a cap to 394, which segues directly to the second piece of the proposed ordinance, which
 amend or reduce the citywide cap. As the cap is currently written and adopted in code, it allows for a 2% of housing units in the city to be used as type two short-term rentals. And that 2% is as defined by the American Community Survey.
 Currently, that means 894 units citywide. As written in the ordinance that the council is considering tonight, that would be reduced to 475. Again, in effect terms, that would mean there are 394 type 2 short-term rentals licensed that would contribute towards that 475 available permits.
 As far as the software update, that has been a topic of conversation after the council approved a resolution to go into contract with a third party enforcement group. We did endure some delays with the cyber security incident the city experienced, but IT has been very diligent in getting their contract finalized, which was finalized today. I want to express appreciation to Keith Macedo for prioritizing that coming out of a lot of the work he had to do over the last month.
 The next step is that the city will be providing parcel level data to Granicus, the organization that they'll provide them the service. And then they'll have a six to eight week go live time period when they'll be able to provide us specific information and specific properties.
 Moving forward, and this is again speaking on behalf of the Ordinance Review Committee, but I'd encourage them to speak for themselves. They did clarify or emphasize that this ordinance amendment is intended to be the first part of potentially two or more amendments being brought forward with future consideration prioritizing the concentration of short-term rentals in Fayetteville and what alternative
 or new metrics may be provided to ensure that they're more dispersed and not concentrated in certain neighborhoods or certain parts of town where either they've proven a nuisance or they're having a detrimental effect on property values.
 The second piece is to evaluate resources and opportunities for enforcement. It's been a consistent theme as we've discussed short-term rentals in Fayetteville that there are several hundred ever since we began discussing this that are operating without any sort of licensing or permitting and how to ensure those properties are brought into compliance where possible.
 If nothing else for the life safety considerations and the inspections that our building safety group do to make sure they're equipped with smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors and windows and bedrooms so people can get out with them. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions and thank you. Okay. Ordinance review since always not here. I'd like to hear from you all.
 on the absence of council member hershberger i'd like to kind of explain how we came up to that number uh and certainly uh if my memory starts deviating from what you recall uh councilman moore please help me out here but um as we stand here today if we with this ordinance we would take our short-term rental number to the active number would be 394. um
 We had basically a situation where we had some folks that wanted to cap the number where we are and some folks that wanted to take it over 500. Considering the fact that the ordinance has been in place for two years, two plus years now, and considering that on average we do about 50 permit requests a year,
 If we took those numbers into consideration, by doing the cap at $475,000 and doing a compromise amongst everybody involved, it basically gives the community, in essence, a year and a half of growth if we take our average numbers of what we've been doing in the past.
 So we felt like that was a good compromise. I want to be clear, though, because I think there's been some misinformation sent out there by some parties. This has zero effect on short-term rentals, top two short-term rentals that are presently permitted properly. It has zero effect. We're not shutting you down. This is anything that's not permitted presently.
 would fall under this guideline. So that's how we came up with it. And Council Member Moore, you can certainly add to it if you'd like. No, I mean, I confirm that that definitely outlines it. And I also want to say thank you, Jonathan, because I think that really kind of has exactly our intention is that the hope is to go back and to have additional conversation and ordinance review to look at. We do know that there's an enforcement mechanism that needs to be addressed as well as,
 looking at density because one of the chief things that we've heard from community in regard to operating type twos today is that their saturation level in some parts of our community has been disruptive to those neighborhoods and so we want to be mindful of that and we've had some suggestions and so definitely would encourage the public to weigh in on that as well and to assist us on that to make sure that we keep the integrity of our neighborhoods and
 and kind of balance property rights with the need to also be able to have livability throughout our community. Okay. Well, where do we begin? Who wants to sit? Okay. All right.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please please give us your name and address those present in the chamber bill i'll speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this that's in the chat i have to bring this i can stay on topic
 My name is Jamie Caffey. I'm with Coho B&B Properties. And I am here to represent us as a property management company, but also our property owners and the industry as a whole. SDRs are a vital part of the tourism economy and the local community. Not only do we as property managers pay our taxes for our properties, but also the guests don't just sit passively within these homes, right? They're out in the community, they're spending money and further generating value.
 local economic impact through attending local events, buying in stores, and sitting in restaurants and bars. Tourism is the second largest industry in Arkansas and is continuing to grow. And STRs are now an expected accommodation.
 It's an option that tourists are looking for when they travel to any area and placing a hard cap on that number does not allow for that, for the number of SDRs to continue to grow as the community and as the tourism economy continues to grow. And so we are not in favor of the cap and not, um...
 do not believe that it's going to accomplish what we're trying to achieve. And finally, what I want to mention is that we have 47 properties that we manage within Fayetteville and the owners of our properties just in June alone 149th is what they booked. These are not properties that they forget about, that they just come in, they buy and use it as an investment and never think about. They are properties that they are personally invested in and we believe that this
 This is a place where they bring their family, their friends to stay and experience Fayetteville and this type of amendment to the ordinance is going to ultimately have a negative impact on current property owners but also any future property owners. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening. My name is Billy cook. I live at 1151 East Shepherd Lane. I would urge you to support this ordinance I think it's this yet another step in the right direction The significant rises and rise in rents year-over-year in the city can be contributed to a variety of causes But the growth of short-term rentals is one of them. I
 Our already constrained housing market has unfortunately been further squeezed by short-term rentals. This has left a startling number of people who have been financially burdened or outright displaced from their neighborhoods or driven out by rising rents. I would urge the council to side with low-income people and with renters and with the thousands of people who also will be shut out from visiting and living in our communities in the future.
 I do not believe that short-term rentals are a danger by design, but their spread has certainly been to the overall detriment of many in our community. I think that the City Council has the ability and the will now to take a very important step in mitigating and intervening in this crisis, and I look forward to seeing you all vote yes. Thank you.
 Hello again. Kyle Smith and I would support this measure. I appreciate short-term rentals and their goal of supporting hospitality and tourism. I appreciate the revenue to generate. In a perfect world, they would be just fine. If we have a functioning housing market and
 Short-term rentals would fit into that and play a role. But when we're in a housing crisis with a housing shortage, demand outpacing our construction for well over a decade, we don't have a healthy housing market, and so we have to address the situation that we're in.
 I don't think it goes far enough. I would set a lower cap. I guess when the sunset clause comes up in December You'll have an opportunity to set a real low cap But but that's maybe going too far The thing to remember here is is that the houses that are being used as short-term rentals The people who have invested in those they will still own the property. They will still be able to rent those properties They just might have to rent them for more than 30 days. So
 They might have to turn them into homes and put them back into circulation in our housing market. And for a little while, that might provide a boost while we continue to build enough housing for our growing population. And someday, hopefully, we will have that healthy market that they can come back to operating in with fewer restrictions.
 As a city council, one of your purposes is to safeguard the health, safety, and general welfare of the City of Fayetteville, and maintaining a healthy housing market is a major part of that. People are not safe or healthy when they don't have access to affordable housing. And so I hope that you will reduce the cap now, consider reducing it later. If we find that the cap doesn't grow with the population,
 you're amending it now you can amend the cap again anytime you need to um you have that authority um so i hope that you'll take this action tonight thanks thank you who else would like to address us hello hello my name is linus force at 1322 west cleveland street
 Rents have been rising quickly here in Fayetteville and many of my peers and coworkers have been moving out of the city into other parts of NWA to save money for things like starting a family and deposits on homes, that kind of thing. I can always have privilege in that I have a well-paying job and roommates I can trust that help keep Fayetteville affordable enough for me because I love this city, but rent prices are currently not sustainable. This is a supply and demand issue and short-term rentals are exacerbating the supply side of the issue.
 Limiting the citywide density cap on these short-term rentals is not the be-all, end-all for taking strain off of Fayetteville renters, but it's a major step that the City Council can make that would alleviate some of the strain as more properties are built in the future, preventing short-term rentals from eating up hundreds of those new properties under current limits. As City Councilmember Brown said earlier, we need to keep our long-term residents at work here in the city to keep things funded. These permanent residents will always provide much more revenue by living here than tourists
 Thank you. Hi, my name is Logan Humphrey and I am the owner of Coho B&B Properties. I live at 2119 West Lauren Circle in Fayetteville. I started this company in 2018 with one property, my personal apartment here in Fayetteville. I rented the apartment out so that I could get through grad school.
 and moved out on the weekends with the landlord's permission. From there, a lot of people approached me, started asking me for help with their properties. We've since grown the company since 2018 to managing 140 properties in northwest Arkansas, many of which 49, as Jamie mentioned earlier, are located in Fayetteville. Our properties in Fayetteville are licensed
 We are a professional management company. My company also employs 60 local Northwest Arkansas employees, including housekeepers, maintenance technicians, guest service representatives to help people come and travel to Northwest Arkansas. Thank you.
 From the beginning when this ordinance was first considered, I see many new faces that are working on this now, we've had an involvement in helping shape the way that the ordinance is drafted so that we can protect short-term rentals opportunities to operate, but also provide a fair and reasonable opportunity for housing to increase.
 With that, the 2% cap was put in place because I had said that the city of Fayetteville really can't ever sustain, in my opinion, I don't have a hard amount of data here, more than about 2% of the housing stock to be short-term rentals.
 What happens is, and we've seen this over the past two years, once a property owner purchases a property to operate as a short-term rental, they start to rent it out and they start to see a wait. This doesn't necessarily make as much money as a lot of the hype is about in the news media about people making millions on short-term rental ownership.
 Most properties in northwest Arkansas, you can make a pretty reasonable profit on short-term rentals that's comparable to long-term rentals. Most of our homeowners, as Jamie mentioned earlier, in the month of June alone, 49 homes, there were 140 nights that our homeowners of Fayetteville stayed in their house here in town. That's from data from our calendar property management software. They come and they enjoy their property and they rent it out to help pay for their bills.
 So one of the things that I wanted to bring up in the main point of contention I have with this ordinance is that I really believe, and I sent out an email to everybody before here, I don't know if you had a chance to see it, but that this ordinance is really putting the cart before the horse. The problem is there's 830 properties that are operating as short-term rentals in Fayetteville, which is around the 2% cap. However, as the data shows, 369 properties are only licensed type 2 short-term rentals.
 So there's a large gap. About half of the properties that are operating as short-term rentals are not licensed. The main problem with this is people don't know. I actually missed the Planning Commission meeting because I just happened to... or the council, the planning where you talked about this ordinance review, because I just happened to not know about it. So that means that there's over 300 or 400 property owners that don't know that their property is operating illegally.
 What I think that's the best solution, and this is coming from someone that's a short-term mental supporter, is to start enforcement.
 It's starting requiring people to get licensed or shut down the properties. What this does is this actually solves the problem, which is there's a lot of properties that are out there that are not ran professionally. They are unlicensed. And it gives them the opportunity to apply for their license within the cap that's in place right now. Or they're denied and then there's some enforcement or fine procedure set up so that they would not be able to operate.
 this would actually stop the problem that a lot of people are talking about, which is an oversupply, and reduces a lot of these properties that are not licensed.
 Overall, I think that this ordinance, this amendment to the ordinance should not be passed. And the reason why it shouldn't be passed is because there's already procedures that are in place, according to what Jonathan Kurtz said earlier, to help us to reduce these bad apples, so to speak. People that are not managing their property professionally.
 they're not operating legally, and to either convert them to long-term rentals or to get licensed. And so I'm more than happy to support in this in any way possible. I keep obviously thinking about this every single day, and I know that there's many things that you all are considering every day that's outside of this. Our team is also happy to support through this process. Feel free to respond to my email or reach out for anything you might need. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello, my name is Jordan Russell and I'm the business developer for Coho B&B properties. My job is to work with homeowners that are coming into the city looking to use their property as a short-term rental. A main part of my job is to make sure these owners understand how to make their properties safe.
 provide the best guest experience for the folks staying at their properties. And so having someone like me to help them through that process, I think ultimately makes it safer, the entire process safer for everyone, the guests included, and everyone in the community as well. But I just kind of want to echo what Logan said, the biggest concern here is that I think
 lowering the cap is not going to accomplish what you guys think it's going to unless before that you can figure out how to actually enforce the regulations that are currently in place. Like Logan said, there are 830 current short-term rentals in the City of Fayetteville right now and only less than half of those are actually licensed. So what you're doing if you're lowering the cap is essentially and not enforcing the regulations currently in place is again essentially saying that the
 If you don't go through the process, you can just do it illegally. Nothing's going to happen to you. And it doesn't give people an incentive to actually go through the process, have a professional manager, make sure their property is safe, provide the best guest experience. I think it actually causes a health and safety issue if those regulations aren't in place because there's so many unlicensed properties that...
 aren't checked on, they're not regulated in any way, shape or form that could potentially be unhealthy to the community or to the residents. And so again, I just want to say before we start lowering caps and things like that, I think we need to figure out how we're going to actually enforce the regulations because if they're not enforced, this does nothing. It just gives people more incentive to not go through the process and to not even try because there's so many out there that they
 never went through it. Like I said, they don't even know about it. And they don't even know about it because no one's enforcing it, no one's reaching out to them or anything like that. I just
 So, yeah, I wish you guys would kind of consider just enforcing the regulations before really thinking about lowering the market cap, because I do think enforcing the regulations will actually solve the problem that you guys are looking to solve. First of all, it's going to get a lot of the unlicensed properties out, but it's also going to actually create a barrier to entry. And a lot of people, investors per se, aren't going to want to really go through that process or maybe want to do something else. So I think it's really going to help.
 you know, the entire situation, if we can just actually enforce the regulations and not necessarily lower the cap. Thanks so much. Thank you. Who else wants to address this? Hello, I'm Alexandra Paulson. I live at 1151 East Shepherd Lane.
 I came to Fayetteville as a student in 2018. I've lived here ever since. I stayed here because I love the city. But I've also dealt with trying to find housing in this city and know how hard it is. We are in a housing emergency. It is very, like we are one of the hardest cities in the country to find housing in, at least like among cities our size for sure. Rent is going up by double digit percentages every year. It is a crisis. And
 Yeah, and definitely like lowering the capital and I support this ordinance because lowering the capital and short term rentals will
 allow us to have more of those units available for long-term residents as well. Definitely Fayetteville, one of our important things here is tourism, but tourism is important, but we have the tourism we have because of the people who live and work here. And if the artists are getting priced up, students are getting priced out, what is that going to do to our tourism economy in that sense?
 Also, we are not, we would not be the first city in the state to implement something like this. Like just a few weeks ago, Little Rock implemented its own cap on short-term rentals for similar reasons. Their cap was 500, which compared to population is much stricter than our cap would be. And also the other thing is I think this ordinance, the approach this ordinance takes it only
 it only limits rentals that are being used full-time for short-term rentals. So homeowners renting out their property for a vacation, those are not affected. So there would still be lots of availability for people to stay during peak tourist season. So that is, yeah. Thank you so much. I hope you vote yes. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Who do you have on Zoom?
 Mayor, I don't currently see anyone with their hands raised. What? I don't currently see anyone with their hands raised, Mayor. I'm having technical difficulty. Oh, okay. All right. Let's bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. And what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? Sarah. It's my understanding that we are going to
 that when we have this company that we just finalized the
 They're going to help us get an idea about the unlicensed STRs and that we're just a little bit behind because we had a technical breach there, but that we will be reinforcing or, excuse me, enforcing and being more strict on the unlicensed STRs.
 It's not the cart before the horse. It's going to come together, I think. That's my understanding from ordinance review and it's all going to kind of come together. It's just been delayed just a little bit. Is that everybody else's idea? Okay. All right. So I want to make that clear. Thank you. Ken, I wanted to ask.
 legal injunction, I guess, that Bella Vista has had for their policy that they put in place. How do you envision that potentially affecting this issue here? I don't really see it affecting us at this point in time. It's just a preliminary injunction. Sometimes the plaintiffs hit the city pretty fast with that, and the city doesn't have too much chance to respond until they have a hearing on it.
 And so then the judge issues that and it's not a ruling on the merits, but it just is an injunction for a short period of time. I haven't read the Bella Vista's ordinance that does that. You know, we've had ours in place for quite a while now. We also have protection with the sunset clause, which can defeat a lot of actions that would try to be coming against us.
 And with everything being still in flux, it might be that when it comes up to the time for the sunset clause, it'll be up to the council to decide whether or not to let it expire or to renew the ordinance or to renew the ordinance with the sunset clause.
 I think a conservative recommendation would be you continue with a new sunset clause so that you still have that in your back pocket in case something happens. But I think we're in pretty good shape and we'll wait and see. I mean, I could be surprised tomorrow with a suit or something, but I don't anticipate that. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 My way of thinking and and having been as an observer at ordinance review I want to thank the council members that participated that that Last several sessions regarding short-term rentals. God bless you guys I view this is not impacting as councilmember Berna said anyone who's Legally obtained their license. They are completely unimpacted and in essence
 it only potentially impacts people that are illegally operating without their license. And I know that, you know, we like to paint the picture that there are
 big boys and big girls and they are doing well enough in life to own more than one property and have one they permanently rent out. And it just begs a little bit of credulity that they wouldn't think that they might need to check with the local jurisdiction if you're that successful and that sophisticated of a person.
 And so if we had been doing this six months, I might feel differently, but given that it's longer than two years, given that it's been in the local paper, that it's been on the front page, I don't feel a whole lot of compassion for people that I presume in operating illegally or not
 providing the sales and HMR tax to the residents of Fayetteville that they ought to be providing. So I commend the people that are the professional management companies that actually collect that tax and forward it. I trust them to be doing that
 And they should be beating the bushes because they know the address and the owners of the other 400 property owners that are operating illegally and are their warm market and potential clientele. So I think that the Ordinance Review Committee reasonably said we've got a year and a half for people to continue to get licenses.
 The 2% from the research that I did was relatively arbitrarily selected by the group at that time and adopted by the council at that time, and I do agree that the city council could choose to increase this threshold any time that it felt that the market warranted it
 that action. And so I just want to commend the Ordinance Review Committee for their work on this. I think it's rational, I think it's reasonable, I think it moves the ball forward. And in closing, I don't think it's an either or, I think it's a both and, as Councilwoman Bunch said, that we absolutely have been saying we needed assistance with enforcement for quite some time. And I really believe that we're gonna get a handle on that here in the next few months. Thank you.
 I have a question on the back of this. It says the density cap at 475 and to declare an emergency. So what does that mean?
 Usually we have an emergency clause, but it just says declare an emergency. Yes, the emergency clause is Section 2. I did not draft this. I didn't realize initially that it was going to be an emergency, but it's up to the city council to determine whether or not they believe that imposing the density cap
 immediately is necessary, and that's certainly up to City Council's decision. Now, I will say at this point, we only have six City Council members attending this meeting, so all City Council members would have to approve the emergency clause or it will not be approved.
 Okay, so an emergency clause, which is, this is, should be, should say an emergency clause or something. Normally when I draft it, I would say emergency clause and then I say what it is. But, you know, we ran into those computer issues and I think so we're not, not, we're still catching back up from that. So if we have an emergency clause, when does it go, when would this go into effect?
 Basically as soon as Mayor Jordan signs it after it is passed. Okay, so quickly. Okay. If we don't have an emergency clause but it passes, is that where it's like 30 days down the road or something? Actually 31 days is what we have. 31 days, okay. All right, thank you. I just didn't, I just wanted to make sure I understood what the emergency was. So, thank you. Oh, DeAndre. All right. Sorry, your lights were off.
 Did you say that all six of us will have to agree? Yes. The mayor is not allowed to vote on an emergency clause. That's back to amendment seven. That was the amendment that allows referendums of ordinances and stuff. And so the executive is not allowed to vote on that. So every city council member present, well, it can't be like five to one or six. Five to one, it loses.
 i'm sorry five to one it loses okay so it has to be unanimous correct that's right thank you thank you i move we pass the resolution second wait a minute this is an ordinance and need to suspend the rules we we need to yeah we need to oh i'm i'm sorry i move we um go to the second reading of the ordinance second motion is saying to go to the second week coverage please call her yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In ordinance to amend section 11801 applicability of the Fayetteville City Code to reduce the citywide density cap for short-term rentals for 2475 and to declare an emergency. I'll make a motion that we go to the third reading. That's right. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the vote?
 Tert? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In Ordinance of Amend, Section 118.01, Affordability of the Faithful City Code to Reduce the Citywide Density Cap for Short-Term Rentals to 475 and to Declare an Emergency. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Sir? Nope. Anybody? Okay. Okay.
 Carriage, please call the roll. Turf? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. So the ordinance passed, but now they need a separate vote according to the Constitution, like we always do, to pass the emergency clause.
 Now we need a motion and a second. I make the motion that we pass the emergency clause? Yeah. Second. I have a motion and second to pass the emergency clause. Carriage, please call the roll. Turd? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. So the Merchant Clause passed also. Okay. That concludes our visit. Do we have any announcements? No, sir. Yes, Karen. Just as a reminder, you can pick up a packet from the city clerk's office that talks about if you're interested in running for public office and provides some great information on filing times as well as what is allowed and what is not allowed. I'm going for seven myself. I'll get the rules down.
 All right. We are adjourned.