I want to call the City Council meeting of July the 7th, 2015 to order. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmer. Mouture. Present. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in presiding to pledge allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America.
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the...
 Advertising and Promotion Commission's Appointment Report. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes. The nominating committee would like to recommend Robert Rhodes for one unexpired term ending 331.17 to the Advertising and Promotion Commission. I'll entertain a motion to do so. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to appoint Robert Rhodes. Any discussion on that? No.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. Thanks for the business. Now it's the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the June 16, 2015 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to award RFP 15-05 and authorize a contract challenger team wear for the purchase of youth soccer uniforms in the amount of $12.15 plus tax per uniform for the fall 2015 and spring 2016 seasons, with an option to renew for the fall 2016 and spring 2017 seasons. Number three.
 Resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $1,726 and increasing the retail expense budget. Number four, a resolution to approve federal police department policies 22.2.8, military policy.
 Activations, 22.3, secondary employment, 41.1.1 patrol, and 61.4.3 towed vehicles. Number five, resolution to award bid number 15-35 to authorize a contract with TriStar Contractors LLC in the amount of...
 $252,500 for construction services, the airport terminal apron rehabilitation project to approve change order number one to the contract with TriStar Contractors LLC in the amount of $197,500 to increase certain quantities of concrete repair to prove a 5% project tendency to accept a
 9010 grant from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics in the amount of four hundred seventy thousand seven hundred dollars and to approve budget adjustment
 6. McClellan Consulting Engineers Agreement, a resolution to approve Supplemental Agreement No. 1 to the contract McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated, in the amount of $164,480.71 for additional engineering services associated with the rehabilitation of the historic Maple Street and Lafayette Street bridges into approved budget adjustments.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve tax order number three with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center for the design and construction of a stream restoration project on an unnamed tributary of Cato Springs Branch near the southern boundary of the regional park and for a feasibility analysis of the removal of an existing dam on the West Fork of the White River. And number eight, a resolution to authorize a contract with College Regents
 Marketplace, Federal LLC, in the amount of $186,202.50 for payment of the cost associated with the installation of a traffic signal at College Avenue and Sonic Drive and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. Motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Letourneau. Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business. Mayor. Yes. Hope. Before we move on, I know we have staff here for the last item of new business, and I was just going to recommend that we move the last item of new business to the first item of new business so that staff could go home.
 Well, we can do that. Well, let's get through the... Usually staff goes ahead and stays, and we let the citizens speak first on their items, but this is your agenda, and you all can arrange the agenda as you see fit. So entertain as a motion. Yes, it is. We have a second. I'll second the motion. Okay. What discussion do we have on this? Any? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Loutere. No. Okay. All right. I assume we're moving this to the front of the new business. We've still got you. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. All right. Let's go back to unfinished business. Number one, an order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5044 for approximately 16.02 acres located at
 4065 East Huntsville Road from RPZD 08-3071, Residential Plan Zoning District, Bridgedale Plaza to RSF 7, Residential Single Family, 7 units per acre, NS Neighborhood Services, and CS Community Services. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Get to that sheet. Sorry. Sorry, am I blocking you? No. Okay.
 Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in Rezoning Petition RZN 15-5044, approximately 16 acres located at 4065 East Huntsville Road from RPZD 8-3071, Residential Plan Zoning District, Bridgedale Plaza.
 to residential single family seven units per acre neighborhood services and community services okay andrew what we got i have no additional information on this i'll be happy to answer any questions the council may have or questions we have in the council on this but good all right public comment on this okay
 evening I am Glenda Patterson I live at 11 0 6 st. Andrews Urkel it is a part of the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision the community there's been much discussion on this topic this project this time and is in the past and I'd like to point out the salient points there is even though our numbers are
 Fewer this time, there is still strong opposition to rezoning the area, as there was when this came up several years ago. The salient points are there is poor egress from the Stonebridge community. Even in normal weather, in climate where they hit, it's even worse.
 This project would add additional congestion to an area that is already congested. The egress from the subdivision onto Highway 16.
 and be very problematic. And if you look at where the river meadows entrance is, it's right next to the Highway 16 bridge that crosses the west fork of the White River. So you're adding at the current density, which is also too great, another 80 to 160 vehicles that will try to cross two lanes of traffic to turn west
 on Highway 16 and have to contend with traffic moving eastward coming across the bridge. And the traffic speed at that time is usually about 45 to 50 miles an hour. So it will not be easy, and it will only make things worse. Additionally, we...
 We have had bad weather recently and the Dead Horse Mountain Road has also been hard to pass and the bridge on that side has been closed due to
 flooding so overall the area is not good the community services and the personal services that are supposed to be added to this project are really not necessary between one and five miles from the Stonebridge community all the services that could possibly be added at that spot are already in place
 I ask you not to discount the lone voice in the wilderness, and I ask that you not rezone this area. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. All right. Any other public comment on this issue? Yes. Clint McDonald, 1385 South Roberts Road, the developer. I just wanted to point out a couple of things of concern I've heard from people about the ingress, egress. And during this development, we would provide ingress, egress
 On the north side onto Highway 16 and then on the south side of this development There's already a stub out pinnacle drive that will provide ingress egress on the south side and also we're providing an ingress egress on the west side onto River Meadows and
 And then also during the development, we will provide a stub out into undeveloped land to the east for future development so we can connect to Roberts Road. So three new existing in-grass, e-grass and one future. And the residents of this development have no need to use River Meadows when the houses are out there off the highway and will have their own entrance to the subdivision.
 And then also I know it's on RSF 7, but we plan to have no more than 57 lots in there, which puts that down to 4.7 lots per acre, which is basically almost what the adjacent subdivision has. So that's all I really have. Any questions for the developer? Thank you. Anyone else like to address us on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. We're on the third and final reading. Is there any final comments from the council? Yes, John.
 I'd just like to point out one of the comments made in this discussion was we don't need additional services because these services are available within a short distance down the road. In my way of thinking, there's no person on the face of the planet that can determine when a business is needed and when a business is not needed. That is strictly a marketplace function. Perhaps businesses that go in here and services that go in here will duplicate other services, but perhaps they do it better and cheaper.
 It would be a deprivation of service to the public to say a business is not needed. Let the best man or woman win that competition. Competition is what protects we consumers all across this country. I cannot go along with the fact that someone would state additional services are not needed.
 We need all of our services. We need stiff and robust competition to ensure that we consumers are getting the best quality service or product at the lowest possible price. Thank you. Thank you, John. Any other comments? Yes, sir. I've really struggled with this one because on one hand I take the recommendations of staff and the planning commission very seriously.
 And I do feel that this use is, or the proposed zoning is compatible with adjacent land uses. However, I'm really, you know, we saw in the last rezoning request in this neighborhood,
 lot of pictures of flooding some pretty intense flooding and so I'm very concerned about the storm water especially with it that close to the White River, you know when we start talking about that degree of density and Impervious service area surface area that close to the river. It's very concerning So I I guess I would like to hear from some of the other council members what you're thinking because I'm really torn on this one Okay, what are the final comments? Yeah
 I've also struggled with this one quite a bit and ultimately I think I'm gonna vote against it and not because it's a bad proposal as a whole so let me try and explain my nuance a little number one I think that we've got a huge gap in the zoning designations that we offer between neighborhood services and community services I don't think community services is appropriate for an edge development like this I think a little bit more modern and scale would be appropriate
 but community services isn't it. Not because of the uses community services allows, but because of the scale it allows. That's my first concern. But really my main concern is everybody out there knows that traffic on this stretch of road is a nightmare.
 And it's become a nightmare because of developments like those that are already out there and like it's proposed and like it's happening further down the road. And I agree with staff's determination that this development would not have an appreciable impact if it were rezoned on that traffic nightmare. But on the other hand, I think if you're going to try and fix a solution or fix a problem in the first step,
 And a solution is to stop doing what you've been doing that created the problem. And that's development on the edge at low density. It forces everybody onto one street to get in and out of town for essential services. So until we're ready to start treating this road as if it was an urban street in the middle of neighborhoods and not a highway that everybody needs to use to get in and out of the city,
 Don't see that problem getting any better and I'm not willing to make it worse by encouraging more development on it Yeah, the come yes. I certainly Concur with what alderman Petty said and that's what I've been looking at as I've reviewed how I would consider this proposal as we move forward Again, it's not a compatibility issue at this point but we do have a nightmare and there's a safety issue already out there and until there is appropriate and
 accommodation of the traffic and the management of traffic in this area. I think that safety is a real concern and a concern that's been expressed overtly and often by the individuals that live in this area. I think the individuals are looking forward to development but they understand better than anyone else as they come and go during the high traffic times of the day
 the continued problems that we have and we have not stepped forward to handle this traffic issue in advance of this zoning change. Also, I worry about the, as Sarah mentioned, I worry about the management of the stormwater runoff. We mentioned this before in another zoning discussion that we had with the current amount of water that's been rushing into the West Fork of the White River at that area. It's more evident.
 than ever that we have conditions that could impair the waterway that is already on the edge of an impairment and we need to be sure that we have the storm bank preservation in order.
 before we offer more drainage into this area. Sediment is a real big issue in this area, and washing and sedimentation and impervious surfaces is going to add to the concern that I have as we try to manage the water in the West Fork of the Wyatt River. So due to the safety concerns and due to the stormwater management,
 At this point, I cannot support this as it's written, but I think that there is certainly the opportunity as we move into the future to look at the way that we handle the management of the traffic, the management of the stormwater, and looking at a correct zoning to manage these issues in order to allow the development of this property
 in a way that's appropriate for the expanse. I also understand the need for a free market, but the free market also has to be considerate of the long-term cost, and I see the long-term cost of safety and stormwater management as applicable to this zoning, so I will not be supporting it.
 Okay, yes Stella. Yes mayor. I I agree With what I've what I've been hearing. I've struggled with this as well and I agree with with Mr. Latour we need to allow folks to To build and develop but I Especially during this last campaign. I was out there watching that traffic and it is unbelievable and I just don't feel like I'm
 I can allow more development until we have made sure we have that traffic somewhat under control. And when we get the construction finished and all, I think it will be helpful. But at this point in time, that traffic on that particular area is just more than we ought to ask our citizens to bear. Okay. Yes, Chuck? Yes.
 I'd like to respond to some of the concerns. If you think traffic is bad on Highway 16, try going down Weddington Road during the high traffic times of the day. That argument can be used to shut down construction all over our city. Of course traffic is bad at the high drive times of the day. That's why I try to arrive at my office before the 8 o'clock drive and I try to go home after the 6 o'clock drive. People can plan around traffic. I'm not saying that traffic is a problem we should ignore.
 But if there's a traffic problem, I don't view that as a private problem caused by development. I view that as a failure of government not keeping the infrastructure up with the development. So we have to see things from that perspective, too. And I realize it's not the city's responsibility to expand from two lanes to four lanes or six lanes. That's more of a state function. But to shut down construction because traffic is bad, I question that.
 and I would ask my fellow county alderman men and women to consider that. Number two, safety. We're always concerned about safety. Anytime there are more people, safety will probably be deleteriously affected, but our city is growing for good cause. This is a good place to live. We like what's here. Drainage. Drainage is simply an engineering equation. Our engineers, our city engineers, private engineers should be able to fix drainage problems.
 We have drainage problems there now. We have drainage problems in my ward out in West Fayetteville. But those things can be fixed. That's not an insurmountable problem. Impervious surfaces, I realize that could cause deleterious drainage into the White River. We can put in retention ponds. People do that all the time to stop that runoff and let the water soak into the ground. There are ways to address these problems.
 and we can ask the developer to come up with a plan to address each one of these concerns. And he or she should be able to do that. So I wouldn't see any real reason to stop the development. Al? I too have been torn on this rezoning. I respect a lot of the opinions that came from the Planning Commission and also staff's recommendation of approval.
 What I'm looking at though is the part that I don't see as something that's prudent for this area is the RFS 7 and the neighborhood services. The community services aspect of this though, I could see that as adding a viable resource to the community in that area so that they could have an actual walkable neighborhood. So I would like to see us remove the community services from the two other segments of the rezoning request and approve the community services and not the neighborhood services in RSF 7.
 Okay, let me get this. So you're going to make a motion to approve community services and do away with neighborhood services, is that correct? And take off the RSF-7. That would be my motion. Okay. Is there a second on that? It dies for lack of a second. All right. Okay. What other comments do we have?
 All right, Sarah. I guess I would like to say that I am, I like where you're headed with that, Alan, and I am open to seeing some other development scenarios. I don't think that this is the right one for this parcel at this time. So, you know, I don't even,
 Even though I think I, well, I'm definitely going to vote against it at this point, I do hope that we see an alternate, less dense proposal come forward. Okay. Adele? That's exactly what I was going to say. Just because this doesn't get passed doesn't mean that we don't want any development to happen there because we know that some development will happen. So we hope that there will be other scenarios brought forward. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 Yes, Matthew. I'll also underscore that and I also want to say, you know, with enough money and enough time you engineer your way out of any problem, but it's a lot cheaper if you see it coming to avoid it in the first place. Okay. Mr. Mayor, you might ask the developer if he would like to, instead of having a final decision tonight, have the city council table this so he might be able to get with planning and come back with something that might be more acceptable.
 It'd be up to him. Of course, he can ask for up or down vote. He certainly can be entitled to that, but maybe he would like to take this opportunity to see if he can work out something a little bit more with planning. Yes, we'd like to do that. I'm going to retable it for the next meeting. Second. We have a motion and a second to table it for two weeks. Correct? All right. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. Number two. Thank you all. Number two. A resolution to award a contract the amount of X to Contractor Incorporated for the construction of the Maple Street Lafayette Bridge Rehab
 Approve a project contingency of X or 5% thereof and approve a budget adjustment Where are we with Chris Brown has this Chris? I seen there in the audience Reluctantly coming forward. Yes, come up happy Chris As you all know we received bids for this project And we did not receive a bid that we could award it was higher than the amount certified by quite a bit and
 So we've been meeting with the consultant this week working on a game plan to look at revising the scope contacting some additional contractors and doing some other things to Get this out for bid and hopefully come back to you with a with a bid that you can award to a contractor so we can Move forward with the project, but I think we're requesting that this be tabled indefinitely
 I mean we'll we'll come back when we have been ready. Move that I have a motion to say I believe that and discussion on that. We've been reading to try and figure something out center which police call the wrong. Yes, right, yes, are yes, and yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay, move along to new business.
 i read the news authorized sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry you're right you're right you're right i forgot forgot forgot yeah it's a little slider there for y'all all right um first order business night on new business would be c5 that's moved to number one an order system in chapter nine two animals of the fed of the federal city code to provide protection for the animals from being confined in enclosed vehicles in the extreme temperatures and to prohibit
 Deceptive acts and misrepresentations regarding the origin of animals turned into the federal animal shelter and to make other technical revisions.
 Whereas the city should protect animals confined in vehicles during periods of extreme temperatures, and whereas the Fayetteville Animal Shelter staff have experienced a large number of people attempting to turn in animals to the shelter who are not Fayetteville residents or who found the animal outside of the Fayetteville city limits, which creates an undue burden on shelter resources and makes reunification much more difficult.
 And whereas additional revisions to this section to clarify procedures regarding microchipping, redemption of animals, spaying and neutering, and penalties for violations of this section will provide clarity to staff and Fayetteville residents and also improve the efficiency of the animal services program. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby annex Section 92.02 of the Fayetteville City Code as follows.
 Section 9202G, no person shall, one, confine an animal in an unattended and enclosed vehicle where the outside temperature is 70 degrees Fahrenheit or greater, and the interior of the vehicle is not provided with conditioned air or adequate ventilation to maintain an internal temperature of 100 degrees Fahrenheit or less. Two, confine an animal in an unattended vehicle where the outside temperature is 30 degrees Fahrenheit or less,
 and the interior of the vehicle is not provided with heated air to maintain an internal temperature of at least 30 degrees Fahrenheit. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enact Section 92.42 of the Fayetteville Code as follows. Section 92.42, deceptive acts and misrepresentations prohibited. Thank you.
 A. No person shall obtain possession or custody of any domestic animal for or on behalf of the owner thereof for the purpose of avoiding payment of fees or penalties imposed upon the owner by this Chapter. Subsection B. No person shall intentionally misrepresent his or her residency to the personnel of the Fayetteville Animal Shelter and see no person shall intentionally make any misrepresentation regarding the origin of an animal being presented to the Fayetteville Animal Shelter.
 and section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fairlawn Arkansas hereby amends section 92.23b, section 92.24a, section 92.24d, and section 92.99a as shown on exhibit A attached to the made a part hereof. This was brought forward by the Animal Services Division. I think Justine is here to explain it to us. Yes, Justine. Good evening, Mayor and Council.
 So I'm just going to walk you through kind of what we're thinking about here. I do want to say that since last agenda session, we were able to call a special meeting of the Animal Services Advisory Board. Last night we read through all of these and they did unanimously endorse them as written.
 The first section that we're proposing to amend, 92.23 , basically concerns the impounding of dogs or cats when they're found running at large. A lot of this has to do with replacing some of the language that was left over when we switched to mandatory microchipping a couple years ago. There was some overlooked language regarding city licenses which we don't have any longer, so that's a housekeeping issue. The main substantive change would be to,
 reduce the holding period of animals that come in with a registered microchip from 10 days to 7 days. The thought process behind that is we are open 6 days a week, our officers work 7 days a week, we're very proactive in trying to reunite
 pets with owners that especially if we have a starting place if we have a microchip that's been registered even if the initial contact information is no longer good we have ways to look up and see if they still have water service for the city if we can contact them leave a door hanger at their existing address
 Also send a certified letter so we continually make proactive efforts to reunite these animals with their homes We just find that most animals when they're reclaimed and we do have a very high redemption rate, especially for dogs in our city Usually happens within the first 72 hours five days Maybe after about five days the chances of that animal being reunited really drop and mainly we see it an issue when a
 The owner maybe knows their animal is there, and they're just not coming. So we're kind of stuck holding that animal in limbo for 10 days before we can go ahead and move it up for adoption. So it's...
 just a way to kind of move those animals through our system a little bit faster, still allowing seven full days for them to come and reclaim their animal. One concern that was brought up is if the owner's out of town and they can't get back within the seven-day period, of course if we have contact with an owner and we know that you're coming for your pet, we're not going to adopt it out to somebody else. I mean we're not going to hold it for months on end, but if we know you're coming we're definitely going to work with work with you.
 um to use our professional discretion to to be able to do that so um and then
 The second proposed amendment is also just changing another section of code to reflect that change from 10 to 7 days. The next one involves striking a portion of language about issuing vouchers for spay-neuter services. We are lucky enough to have our own veterinarian on staff, so we do all our own surgeries in-house. We haven't issued vouchers in probably 10 years, so that's really not needed anymore.
 The other proposed amendment is under the penalties for any citation that we would write. We'd have a minimum penalty of $50. There is no minimum right now. We did run this, of course, through the city attorney and the prosecuting attorney's office, and they were on board with that. There is still a limit, an upper limit, that was already established in the ordinance. This is just adding a minimum of $50.
 And then our two new sections, the one that seems to be getting the most attention is about confining your animal to a hot car. The reason behind this was we had a case last year where we were called out to a puppy that was left in a car in the sun. We have a little gadget that can take the internal temperature of a car. The lowest place that we took, the lowest temperature that we got in that car was about 108 degrees.
 up to about 112. The people were actually inside eating a sandwich in a restaurant while their dog was in the car. So, and when we explained to them the situation and the gravity of it, they weren't really understanding. So that's why we wrote that citation. When it got to court, their attorney argued that because under the specific ordinance that we cited them under, there wasn't any provision for this particular thing that
 They hadn't done anything wrong and there was no lasting damage to the puppy and the judge agreed with them. So that was kind of a call for us to be like, well, maybe we need to address this specifically so that we have this. When it's warranted, we can write a ticket. I think a lot of people have been a little bit confused because I think 70 degrees is kind of the temperature that they hear. 70 degrees is not that hot. If it's you're in the shade, the wind is blowing, it's not that bad.
 So I think it's important to note that, you know, it has to be at least 100 degrees or more in the internal temperature of your car for us to even be able to write a citation.
 We are very much on educating and responding and helping our citizens. We want people to see our animal control officers, see our animal control trucks, and ask for help if they need it, feel comfortable approaching us. So we're never wanting to penalize somebody unless we really do feel like it's warranted. A lot of times when we respond to these situations, the people, very apologetic, or say they didn't realize how long they've been gone, we're able to kind of talk to them about our concerns and maybe warn them if we feel like we need to and move on with our lives.
 The temperature guidelines that we reached were based on just research that other places have done. A lot of other cities have enacted similar ordinances. And, of course, our shelter veterinarian kind of reviewed our guidelines. So that's that. And then lastly, the deceptive acts and misrepresentations prohibited. It's based on one that the City of Lowell did last year.
 They had just had a lot of issues. They're kind of between Rogers and Springdale. They have a very small facility and they had a lot of people coming from all over trying to bring animals to them and then fibbing about where they had come from.
 we are so lucky to have such a supportive community and administration that everybody wants to bring us their animals which is great um except that we can't accept every animal we have a duty to the animals that we're funded by fable tax dollars to care for those animals first and that's where our responsibility lies um so it's not that we don't want to help everybody it's just that's not our scope and our mission we're here
 Fayetteville citizens. So when we have people bringing in animals from other cities, even other counties, I had a dog from Pea Ridge the other day that showed up. I had turned it away and we always point people in the direction of the correct place to go, but they called back later that evening when it was just one animal control officer and fibbed about where they'd found the dog and so we ended up with the dog, which fortunately we were able to find the owner thanks to social media, but
 Things like that just really greatly reduce the chances of that animal ever being reunited with their actual home, which is what we always hoped to have happen. So that and then also the situation where, say, my dog has been picked up running loose three or four times, so my impound fee is quite high, so I decide instead to have my friend go and adopt my dog back for $60 instead of paying my $200 fine. That's something we also wanted to avoid.
 Those are pretty much our changes in a nutshell, which like I said, we did manage to get the advisory board together and go over them last night, and they did support them as presented. Okay. What questions do we have? Yes, John. Straighten me out. I have a couple of concerns. Okay.
 How do you determine the residence of a dog or a cat? Do they tell you? It depends. So basically this particular ordinance would talk about the residency of the person. So usually we ask for a photo ID. I understand a lot of times maybe you've moved, maybe your address is still in Springdale but you live in Fayetteville. We just ask that you bring a piece of mail that says, hey I live here. That's if you're turning over an animal that you own.
 So it's your pet. Now if you have a stray, honestly a lot of times we just have to take you at your word. We don't have any special lie detector. I wish we did sometimes, but we don't. These cases usually pop up because of social media. Social media or Craigslist or something like that. Our staff is really proactive about getting on there, seeing if we can find these postings for people that have either lost their pet or found a pet. A lot of times people will just say,
 Hey, I found this. This is exactly what happened with the Pea Ridge dog. Actually they told me they found it in Pea Ridge. They'd also posted on the local, we have a local lost and found pets of Northwest Arkansas page that there's a ton of traffic. And they had posted, you know, this dog was found in Pea Ridge. And so there it is. I mean, you know, so does that help?
 That helps. Okay. So we're still dependent on the word of the person bringing the dog in. So if someone finds a stray dog in Fayetteville, you really don't know unless the dog has a microchip
 where the dog, what city he's really from. Right, exactly. I mean, we just take people at their word. And, I mean, sometimes if it looks a little shifty, we may ask some extra questions. But at the end of the day, I can't make you tell the truth. So you can do what you want to do. It's part of it. I have another question. The 70-degree number and the 100-degree number, Mm-hmm.
 So I can't leave my dog in my vehicle, my animal, my cat, my hamster, whatever. How about my fish? Is that okay? No. The water would be cooler. Okay. I can't leave my animal in the car if the ambient temperature is 70 degrees or higher. But you won't write a citation unless the internal temperature is 100 degrees or higher?
 It's a... Have I got that straight? It has to be at least 70 degrees for us to respond. Okay. And then in order for us to write a citation, it would have to be 100 degrees. So if we go out, if it's 75 degrees and your car is parked in the shade, your windows are rolled down, we take the internal temperature, it's maybe 78, that's not going to warrant a citation. So we only get a citation if our...
 temperature inside the car is 100 degrees or more? Yes. Okay, so that's really what we've got to look at. Yes. Okay. Well, actually, it's a two-part test. It could be more than 100 in there with the way this is written. It has to be also at least 70 outside, so it could be 69 outside, and you park in the middle of a wide lot with no shade, and your sunroof is open, and it gets more than 100 degrees in there. You can't write a citation until it hits 70 outside the way this is written. Okay, so that makes it more lenient for the
 Pet owner. Pet owner. Okay. I still find it inconsistent. You're reducing the number of days I have to claim my pet from 10 to 7, but you maintain that you really want to reunite the pet with its original owner. When I go on vacation, I usually am gone for more than seven days. So if my neighborhood friend who's watching my dogs lets them loose and I don't know about it, my dog's just gone when I get back, right? I guess it depends on how long you've been gone. Ten days. Ten days.
 Yeah, if you're gone 10 days, then yes, that could feasibly happen. I'll just be honest with you. We see about 2,500 animals a year, and that just doesn't really happen, what we end up with repeatedly. And that's the only reason we would bring this forward. I would never bring it forward if I didn't think that.
 that it was something that was actually going to aid us in our services. We just find that they sit there longer. It means we're paying to care for them longer. It means that those animals, sometimes they don't handle the shelter environment as well. Ten days is a long time to sit in a holding place.
 kept in our like for dogs especially they're kept in a separate back building so they're really only getting interaction with about one person who feeds and takes care of them but they're not getting really any outside time hardly mainly because they're not our property yet so we have to be extra careful with them that we don't lose them again because that can happen if we take them out to our dog park area so we have to be really careful with those animals and
 I think it is important to stress that we are very proactive in this. I mean, it's definitely something where we're calling every number you have listed. We're checking everything we can. We don't just sit back and kind of wait for you to call us or wait until you show up and have that happen.
 Unless your pet is highly desirable, I doubt that we would be able to adopt it out before you got back from vacation. Unless you took a grand tour of Europe, in which case you're really mad at whoever you asked to watch your pet, but they didn't look at your pet. Well, I want to go on record now. I think you made a statement. If we know you're coming, we'll hold your pet. I'm coming if you get my dogs. Got it. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Justine, if...
 By the way, thank you for getting an Animal Services Board meeting together to review this. I really appreciate that. So when you're looking at that and the situation John mentioned, if someone was out of the country and it was going to be another 10 days.
 until they were able to get back, would the Pets in Crisis program kick in so that the shelter could hold onto that animal? Absolutely, I think that's actually a really good scenario. I mean, theoretically we would prefer that if you had a friend that could come and get them and take care of them until you got back, or maybe if you wanted to board them in a private facility, because I mean, the shelter's not the best place to be housing your pet, but absolutely, I mean, that's what that program is for. For those that don't know, we do have a Pets in Crisis program. It's kind of a stop gap for people that are having a major crisis.
 Usually it's for domestic abuse, temporary homelessness, some other kind of emergency situation. It's not just free boarding when you go on vacation, but in this particular instance, you know, if you simply had no other options, then yes, that would be a good example of that. Any other questions? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Michael Collins, 1625 North Giles Road.
 I just want to say I adopted a dog from the Fayetteville shelter, and they're great. I'm pro-dog. I love it. But I do have a couple concerns. One of them is if a tenant owes $200 on the pet and can send his neighbor to go get it for $50 and can't do that anymore, they might opt just to let it get euthanized. I don't know if that's the best option either. There might be some kind of an arbitration process for fines that bring it down to a more reasonable level. But just a thought.
 The other question, Mr. Mayor, is it still legal to abort children in this city? As far as I know, yeah. It is, okay. So, the abortion is the termination of a living human that has not been born yet deemed a fetus, right? You know, Mr. Collins, we're talking about animal services here, and you're getting off on abortion. Well, I'm pro-person, I'm pro-dog, I'm just curious if we have laws to protect an animal,
 but we don't have laws to protect a human where our priorities might be as a city. I mean, we're destroying living humans, right? They're deemed fetuses. What if I perceive my pet to be livestock? Would it not then be a pet? Would I be legally able to keep it in the car or what? Mr. Collins, stay with the animal services ordinance. Okay. Well, that's just my question. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 Anyone else? Okay, let's bring it back to the council. Yes. Mr. Mayor, I've been looking at this quite extensively since we talked about it at agenda session and worked with the city attorney to prepare some amendments. One was going to be regarding the holding period, but I think since the Pets in Crisis program could kick in if someone were going on vacation that I want to just not
 touch on that. The only thing that I would like to change, and I'll offer this as an amendment, the word destroy and destroyed is used in several sections of 92.23 and 92.24 .
 That's very old wording from Animal Services' perspective and it should just be changed, in my opinion, to the word euthanized, which is what it actually is. So my motion would be to change those words and their appropriate tenses to the word euthanized. And this has been passed out to the City Council through email with a new Section 4. So your amendment is to add Section 4. And I'll let me read that so that even though I think you've already all received it.
 Section 4 would say that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the terms destroy or destroyed to euthanize or euthanized where they occur in section 9204b, 92.23b and 92.24a and I think they're also shown on the exhibit that was provided.
 the motion to change the holding time. The motion is not in motion. The motion is not in motion. The motion is not in motion. And highlighted there. But the other highlighted material which would have changed the holding time is not your motion at this point in time. No, it is not. Okay. So it would only be to change, in fact, those portions of exhibit A that talk about euthanized now. From the word destroyed, euthanized.
 This is a Ward 4 amendment. Okay. What public discussion do we have on the amendment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Any further discussion? Okay. Saunders, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Giddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. Now that it has been amended, I still need to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. Okay.
 All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Latour? No.
 In Orders to Amend Chapter 92, Animals of the Fayetteville City Code, to provide protection for animals from being confined in enclosed vehicles in extreme temperatures, to prohibit deceptive acts and misrepresentations regarding the origin of animals turned into the Fayetteville Animal Shelter, and to make other technical revisions. We suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, please come. Can we comment on this?
 We have a, yes, I suppose you can. Sure. Okay. I mean, are we going to pass it all tonight? Is there some hurry? Not for me. I'm just saying we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading, which will have to either be voted on or withdrawn, if I understand the rules correctly. Well, we have a motion and we have a second, so we should have some discussion on that motion, right? We could certainly. Oh, certainly, John. Okay. Okay. Good. Good. Good. I don't like for.
 I mean, the law provides that we have three readings. Sure. And normally that's three separate city council meetings, so that's a six-week process. It gives people time to learn about what we're doing, to express an opinion, et cetera. I don't see the need to pass it all in one sitting. So I would urge my alderman and women, fellow alderman and women, to let's take our time and let's do it the right way.
 I understand if there was some emergency, if we had testimony that dogs are dying all over the place because they're in hot cars, we might have some urgency to it, but I don't think we've had that testimony. So I'd like to see us take our time and give people in our town time enough to digest what we're doing. Okay. Well, would the council member like to withdraw the motion to take it to the third and final reading? Okay.
 No, no, no, I you know, we're expecting over a hundred degree weather this next week And I think we need all the tools we can to keep animals in our community safe. Okay All right. We have motion second to go to the third and final ring. Sandra. Would you please call the roll? Yes, right. Yes Marsh. Yes Yes No, no
 Mayor there are five votes for two against you may vote I'll vote in favor of it an ordinance amend chapter 92 animals of the Fayetteville City Code to provide protection for animals from being confined and enclosed vehicles in extreme temperatures to prohibit deceptive acts and Misrepresentations regarding the origin of animals turned into the Fayetteville animal shelter and to make other technical revisions. Okay final comments
 Yes, sir. Well, I just appreciate all the work that Animal Services staff did on this ordinance. And I think it is urgent that we do pass this because the how many calls do we hear on this per year? I can't remember. It was in the. It ran about 50 so this year. That was as of last week. So I think it's about 50. So I think it's about 50.
 So I'm guessing those were mostly in July and August. So I think that it is more urgent and not something that should be waited on in this case. So thank you all again for putting this together and working so hard on it. Okay. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Heddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. No. Okay. All right. Moving along to new business further, I have...
 Number one, a resolution authorizing a contract with Evans Construction and Remodeling LLC in the amount of $24,855 for community development block grant rehabilitation of an eligible residence located at 3295 West Old Farmington Road. Good evening, Mayor, Council, Yolanda Fields, Community Resources Director. We're bringing forward this specific item that is under our CDBG housing program.
 Our CDBG housing program is available to individuals that live in the city limits of Fayetteville, that own their own home, that have lived in their home for at least a year. I also want to let you know that we make every effort possible to provide information about our program to the community.
 We have a quarterly newsletter that we put out. Right now we have 24 hard copy sites because a lot of the folks that we work with do not have access to computers. We also provide our newsletter to eight city facilities because of course employees are also eligible for the program. We also have events during the year, as a matter of fact July 17th we will be having our CDBG in the park.
 where we provide free lunch for folks to come out, talk to us about our programs. We also invite nonprofits to provide information to the community. We also do our festival, which is the first Thursday in September. We put on, we're celebrating the many different cultures of the Ozarks.
 and we provide an opportunity for folks to come out and perform. There's no charge. We also provide a venue for, again, non-profits to provide information. We provide information about our programs. The university is very involved. We find that this is a great opportunity for individuals coming to Fayetteville to begin to participate in the community. A lot of students feel that they shouldn't be a part of events.
 Well, we want them to know that, yes, they need to be a part of our events. We also go to the university. We are there for the off-campus living fairs in the spring and the fall. We are there for Razor Bash. We are there this year. We started going to orientation sessions. That is an hour a day during the month of June.
 We provide information on all our programs. We provide information on the city of Fayetteville. We want students to know that when it's time for them to move off campus, that they are welcome and that they have the tools to become an active and compliant member of the city. I am wondering if we have any questions, because I think there were specific questions about the program. Yes, sir. Yes, John.
 Last Tuesday at agenda session, you did not present this issue. A young man presented this issue to us. Yes. So I'm to take it that there are, how many people work with you in this program? In community development, I have three full-time and one part-time temporary. Okay. So one of the programs are these block grants where you choose an individual to? Well, an individual applies. Applies, okay. And if they are eligible, there is not a choosing. Okay.
 If they are eligible and they meet all the criteria, then we will work on their home. It's not a contest. It's a contest.
 Suppose there are ten people that are qualified and they all apply. How do you distinguish between the ten? Who gets the money? They will all be served. The challenge that we have right now is finding contractors to do the work. It's not not having the money to do the work, it's finding contractors. So individuals apply. We look to make sure that they qualify. We look at their home to determine if we can actually do the work within our program budget.
 and we do the work. So if 10 people apply and 10 people are qualified, you make sure those... We are going to get everybody there. Now, if we have to push them over to next year, because usually weather or if we don't get the bid, they will get the work done. And where does the money come from to fund this activity? This money comes from HUD. HUD? Yes. That's Housing and Urban Development? Yes, sir. A U.S. agency? Yes. So these are federal tax dollars? Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Mm-hm. That's interesting. Yes, and it's a program established to assist low to moderate income individuals. It is now in its almost 41st year of existence. And it helps a lot of people. And honestly, I will tell you that this program enables the affordable housing stock in the city of Fayetteville to be maintained. Because a lot of the individuals that we assist, if there wasn't somebody there to help them maintain their home,
 they wouldn't have a place to live and guess what they wouldn't be shopping they wouldn't be buying gas they wouldn't be providing that income to the city so so it's a it's a circle it's a circle and we're very proud to be a part of it i'm glad you're very proud to be a part of it when you listed the qualifications you said they have to own their own home they had to do so for at least a year
 And you didn't list an income qualification. Oh, of course. I presume there's some kind of income limit you can earn? Yes, there are. Okay. For one individual, it's $32,900. Okay. For this particular contract that we have here, we have a family of six, and they cannot exceed $54,500. And this family meets that criteria. Okay.
 And everything that we do on these projects, we meet all of our purchasing requirements. We have one individual, we kind of split up the duties. So there's never, I don't want anybody to ever be put in a position where somebody is saying, you chose or you showed favoritism. That is not what we are here to do. We are here to assist. I'm very glad to hear that, thank you. Do you have any other questions? Any other questions for Yolanda on this? Okay, all right.
 Do we have any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I'd like to make a motion to pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mayor. Yes, John. I'm philosophically opposed to spending federal tax dollars on a local level. Those tax dollars came from somewhere. They didn't come out of thin air. They came from working people who are paying their tax bill. They came from Social Security taxes. They came to things that go into our federal budget. I find it difficult.
 unpleasant to think that this system, we're part of the system that's taking dollars from other places and injecting them here. I understand the philosophy, I understand the thinking because if we don't get it, somebody else will, so we need to get ours. But that just perpetuates an 18 trillion dollar debt that our country's in. I'd rather see everyone, medium income, high income, low-income, people working and being productive than
 and generating the income they need to provide housing and food, shelter and clothing for their children and their families. But I realize that's difficult because we impose on them a very high tax burden. And one of the highest burdens is the FICA rate, Social Security tax. I understand we don't control that. We're not going to vote on that here. But this is all part of that system, and I find that unpleasant to think about. I'd rather see us not be a part of that system. Okay. Yes, Your Honor.
 I just want to make one point clear. A lot of the folks that we work with, they do work. They do have jobs. They just don't make enough to take care of the needs that they have. OK. What other final comments do we have to council on this? Anything? OK. We have a motion and a second. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. No. OK. Number two.
 In Ordinance to the Wage, the requirements to form competitive bidding and approve a 36-month contract with WebTech Wireless Incorporated for fleet management tracking services in the amount of $50,444 plus applicable sales taxes and shipping costs. Kip. Whereas the implementation of fleet management tracking services will allow the Transportation Division to increase productivity while meeting the needs of the city and the citizens more effectively and efficiently. Kip.
 And whereas after staff contacted several tracking service providers, it was determined that Webtech Wireless Incorporated is the only company with the ability to provide certain features required to meet the city's needs, including real-time monitoring of vehicles. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Feb. Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a 36-month contract with WebTech Wireless Incorporated for software service and maintenance in the amount of $50,440 plus applicable sales taxes and shipping costs. A copy of the agreement is attached to this ordinance and made a part hereof. Chair?
 good evening mayor council as kid just read that pretty much sums up the entire part of this we looked at several systems this was the only one after working with purchasing we could not find anybody else that could give us a bid that equaled this and thus it was their suggestion that we go for a bid waiver on that we normally would bid it out
 We feel like this will give us a lot of information as to where our vehicles are, especially in the wintertime when we're trying to respond to the police needs to respond where the more difficult areas in town are to keep clear. It will also allow us to track our sweepers, and at some point in the future, we'll be able to develop a...
 where we can tie it into an app where anyone on their smartphone can tell where we have treated streets. It will change the color of the map from like red is untreated to green is treated, so people will know when they leave their home they can expect, say, Highway 71 or Highway 62 to be cleared on the way to Walmart or get to the grocery store.
 So we feel like this will be a big advantage for us to both improving the safety of our employees and be able to provide assistance in the quickest way possible. So that's pretty much a summation of this. Okay, what questions do we have for Terry on this? Yes, John. No questions to comment. I congratulate you. Thank you for bringing us to the 21st century. Thank you. What public comment do we have on this? So now I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 We suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a 36-month contract with WebTech Wireless Incorporated for fleet management tracking services in the amount of $50,444 plus applicable sales tax and shipping costs.
 With the third and final second the motion saying go to the third and final reading Sondra, which please call the roll long Yes, right. Yes March. Yes Yes Yes, an orange to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a 36 month contract with web tech Wireless incorporated for fleet management tracking services in the amount of fifty thousand four hundred forty four dollars plus ethical sales taxes and shipping costs a
 Any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay, number three. An order is rezoning that property described in zoning petition RZN 15-5075 for approximately 70.70 acres located at the northeast corner of Van Asch and Steel Boulevards from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to C3 Central Commercial. Kitts.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council for the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from C2, third-fair commercial, to C3, central commercial, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here to the main part hereof. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Andrew? Yes, this property is at the northeast corner of Steel Boulevard and Van Ash. It's approximately 18 acres. It has two parcels. I'll zoom over here and Google Earth so you can see this a little more clearly. Here's the yellow place marker here. It's undeveloped.
 Or so a large portion of it is in the floodplain from Mud Creek It's currently zoned c2 through a fair commercial the applicant proposes to rezone the property to c3 Which is central commercial their intent is to develop a multi-family development project here in this area This was discussed at our Planning Commission meeting the Planning Commission Voted in favor of the request and staffs recommending approval of it. There were a couple of planning commissioners that I
 recommended that the zoning be a form-based zoning district instead of the c3 zoning that's proposed
 And one of the reasons staff was in favor of this, we do feel like this is in line with our overall goals of city plan 2030 where you have people that can live, work, and shop in the same areas. So we are very excited to start seeing residential development in the Seaman Business Park area and we feel like the proximity to the trail and the businesses in this area will really help start to create that community we're looking for.
 we probably would have from just an urban design standpoint preferred a form-based district however the council did recently approve a large expanse of zoning to c3 for the uptown project which is just down the street here which is a comparable acreage they're also doing a multi-family project and so we felt like that policy direction from council also influenced our recommendation to you on this so with that i'll be happy to answer any questions you may have
 Okay, what questions do we have for Andrea on this? Yes. What was staff's recommendation on the Uptown project? We did recommend in favor of that one as well. But you didn't have a council policy precedent for that one? That's correct. Any other questions for Andrea on this? Okay. Is the applicant here? Yes. Yes.
 Yes, Mayor. I'm Tom Henley with Craft and Toll, representing Thompson Thrift Development out of Indianapolis. They wanted to be here tonight, but with the weather, they were unable to get here. They do intend on, as Andrew said, I think Andrew's seen some of the conceptual plats that we'll be bringing through. It's, I don't guess, a true form-based development, but there is enough variety in it that I believe it'll,
 you know be looked upon with favor by the by the planning commission um they uh the applicant did uh or our client did also ask that that if council uh saw fit to vote in favor of the rezoning due to the time sensitive nature of the real estate contract that they're in um they did request that you also consider suspending the rules and and doing all three readings for the rezoning tonight okay any questions for the applicant
 Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, right back to the council. What's wishes the council? Emotion is saying to go to the second rating Yes, I actually I wanted Andrew to Talk a little bit about what is the most comparable? I
 form-based zone to what they're asking for and kind of what the differences are between the c3 and that form-based zone Yeah, so probably the most comparable form-based zoning would be cs community services
 and that also allows for a mix of uses would allow multifamily similar to what they're proposing the main difference is under the community services zoning buildings have to be placed up at the street trying to create an urban street edge under the cc3 zoning buildings can be placed as far back from the street as they want in a typical garden style apartment form thank you okay
 I'm sorry, was there something else? I thought I saw somebody. John. I would urge the city council to let's give the applicant what they're asking for, C3. Give them the latitude. They know what's best for their customers, for the people who will be buying these homes. If they build homes and nobody buys them, we won't get what we're trying to achieve, work, live, play, entertain, shop in the same area of town. So leave the applicant, the landowner, the person with the most risk in this deal, the
 the freedom to choose what's best for the market. And I think C3 does that. Okay. There is a motion to suspend the rules and a second on the floor. You're absolutely right. I just wanted to be, just wanted to note to myself. Anything else? All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No.
 Yes. Low chair. Yes. In ordinance rezoning that property is cried in rezoning petition RZN 15-5075 for approximately 17.7 acres located northeast corner of Van Asch and Steele Boulevards from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to C3 Central Commercial. Okay. No question. Chair. In the event this were to, Ms. Franjere, in the event this were to remain C2 and the applicant
 I went for a conditional use permit to do multifamily housing. Would the Planning Commission be able to install conditions on that that would require a form-based form, what am I saying, an urban form? I don't believe so. The only option for multifamily in the C2 is when it's accessory to commercial, so the conditional use is not viable for a completely residential project. Okay, thank you.
 under what was the vote of the planning commission on this it was six two zero i think alder i mean i think uh planning commissioners cook and hoskins are the ones that voted um i i it's in your staff report i don't want to say i i think you're right andrew i couldn't remember it was kind of an odd couple that voted uh i'm not touching that one okay um i move that we suspend the rules go third
 Second. We have a motion and a second. We'll go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. No. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. No. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Mayor, there are five votes for suspending the rules, and you can vote if you wish to. I wish to vote yes. Yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5075 for approximately 17.7 acres located at northeast corner of Van Ash and Seal Boulevards from C2 Third Fair Commercial to C3 Central Commercial.
 Okay, any final comments? I have a final comment. Okay. I would prefer to see a form-based code, but in this situation I think that we can move forward with this development. I'm feeling comfortable about it because of the compatibility with the zoning that we previously did down the street.
 I'm not saying that I'm in love with this and that I embrace it fully, but at this time, I think it is compatible and I would feel confident in moving forward to support this. Okay. Any other? Yes. I'm not comfortable with it not being a form-based zone. I like the general idea of what they're proposing and I would gladly support a form-based rezoning, but I can't support the C3 proposal.
 Okay, anybody else? Yes, Matthew. I just have to agree. I think we made a mistake with the rezoning decision before. I think we lucked out in the fact that the developer chose to exercise the option to do a urban form in their development. Okay. Yes, John. Let me remind us all who has the most risk, the developer, the owner, or
 signs the note or invests his own or her own money into this project. They pay the tax. They pay the insurance. They maintain the property. They take the business risk when they develop it. We have very little at stake here. We should defer to their judgment and not try to prejudge what they will do or won't do. They will do, I believe, what the market demands and what people want in that location. If they do something other than that, they'll fall flat on their faces. They have to do what the market wants.
 And that's the best we can do for the people of Fayetteville. Okay. I'll just be quick. Okay. Of course, we're not gonna change any votes here, but the idea that the city has nothing to lose with development decisions is farcical. Every decision we make, every development that fails is a problem we have to clean up, whether it fails in ten years after it's built or 50 years after it's built. The reason we have zoning, even going back to the 50s, is to protect the city.
 from failed developments. Anything else, Matt? No. I keep it short. Very good. All right. May I respond, Mayor? No, let's not get into that, John. I think we've done enough of this. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. No. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. No. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. Number four.
 An ordinance to approve vacation 15-58-9 submitted by USI engineers properly located at 3215 North Hills Boulevard to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement. Kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions that are not required for corporate purposes. Kit.
 And, whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates and abandon the following utility easements described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance daily duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached and labeled exhibit a shall be filed in office to record of the county and recorded indeed records of the county and Section 3 that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition of approval One any damage or relocation of existing facilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense okey-doke Andrew
 This property is in the southwest portion of the Washington Regional Medical Center campus. They are in the process of getting construction and building permits to do a large expansion for the women's clinic and a parking garage. During their construction review process, they discovered that there's a small sliver of utility easement underneath an edge of where they want to build their building, so they're requesting to vacate that easement. And all of the appropriate utility companies have agreed to vacate the easement.
 And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Andrew on this? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? We've got the proposer here. I don't know if he wants to answer. Oh, yes. Okay. He's happy to sit down. Yes. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the second. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Second.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Latour? Yes. An order to approve VAC 15-5089, submitted by USI Engineers, for property located at 3215 North Hills Boulevard, to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement. I move to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 No discussion? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Wright. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Loutier. Yes. In order to approve VAC 15-5089 submitted by USI Engineers for a property located at 3215 North Hills Boulevard to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement. Final comments? Yes.
 All right. Sondwich, please call the roll. Long. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. What announcements do we have? Mayor, this Thursday, July the 9th, 7 p.m., we have...
 Our next edition of our Gully Park concert series, Barrett Baber. So if you have a feel for some country music, that's this particular concert, Thursday at 7. Friday, July the 10th, is the rescheduled dive-in movies from June 26th.
 This is a title you might actually want to go see. It's Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day. So you might go check that out. It's actually a really good movie. All dive-in movies are offered throughout the summer or free to the public, and they begin at sunset. The dive-in movies are presented by our Fayetteville Parks and Recreation Department in partnership with the Fayetteville Firefighters Association.
 And then we just want to remind citizens that the Walton Arts Center renovation project of the actual Arts Center Hall has begun on Dixon Street. And sidewalk access in this area is going to be affected during construction. Contractors are working with the Walton Arts Center's facility expansion and began installing construction fencing this week.
 and the fencing will be altered as the construction pages progress. During all phases of the construction, the south side of the 400 block of West Dixon, which is actually from Northwest Avenue to North School Street, will have construction fencing adjacent to the sidewalk, and temporary adjustments will be made to ensure that sidewalk remains ADA accessible.
 We want to encourage citizens to be careful and to use the detour sidewalk routes as they visit our entertainment district. Okay. Any other announcements? Yes. I would just, with all the rain we've had and the excessive rate of vegetation growth that we're experiencing, I would encourage everyone to go and take a look at your sidewalks in front of your house or business and trim back any bushes to leave a clear path for people who are out walking.
 And so citizens who are unclear, the cleaning of sidewalks is the responsibility of the property owners adjacent. Okay. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.