I would like to call the City Council meeting of July the 19th, 2022, to order. Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here. Whitaker? Here. Scroggin? Present. Bunch? Here. Here.
 TURK? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone.
 The first order of business we have under announcements is announcement of the completion of the audited 2021 annual comprehensive financial report by Paul Becker. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm happy to report that we have published, completed and published the 2021 annual financial statements of the city.
 In that report, you'll see it was audited by BKD. We received an unqualified opinion. Also, we had a single audit done. A single audit talks about grant compliance with federal government.
 And we had no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in regard to internal control. We also have complied with all the state statutes in regard to state grants that we got last year in 2021. I could go on half the night talking about the results, but I would refer everybody to the website. It's posted on the website, comprehensive annual report.
 And I would refer people who would like to look at it to the MDNA, that's the management report, on pages 13 to 25. And that gives you what we call the management discussion and analysis. It would give us the high points. And anybody with questions could email me, et cetera, and I will be happy to answer any.
 I'm required by statute to let you know that the report has been completed and it is in fact on file. So with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. Is there any comments or questions from the council? Okay. Thank you, Paul. All right. The next order of business is consent agenda. Number one, approval of the July 5th, 2022 City Council Meeting of Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of equipment and furnishings for the new police headquarters building from Wilson Bahamas Interiors and other dealers is authorized by Resolution 97-21 in the amount of $965,009.91 plus any applicable taxes and shipping charges to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number three, a resolution to approve an agreement with On Point Dumpster Rental NWA LLC for the hauling and disposal of solid waste in the city of Fed. Number four, a resolution to approve an agreement with SPO Networks Incorporated for the hauling and disposal of solid waste in the city of Fed. Number five.
 a resolution to award bid number 22-34 and to authorize a contract with Schweitzer Construction Incorporated in the amount of $362,283 for construction of the Wilson Park Trail Bridge Replacement and Promenade Improvements to approve project contingency in the amount of $25,000 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $75,513,868 to appropriate proceeds from the 2022 sales tax and use tax bonds. Number seven, a resolution to authorize the purchase of playground safety servicing equipment
 from Landscape Structures Incorporated for installation at the David Lashley and Hans Parks in the amount of $101,039.75 pursuant to a source well...
 cooperative purchasing contract and to approve project contingency any amount of $10,000 and number eight a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with the Arkansas Air and Military Museum incorporated for property located at Drake field with options to renew for additional three-year terms I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read so moved second we have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda is read care which please call the
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Inion yes Weedekirk yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Kirk yes thank you all now I will open up a public hearing and it will be on a resolution to conduct a public hearing on the proposed ordinance to change or establish water and sewer
 Right. So we will hear from the public. We want to hear from everyone tonight and we will be here till we hear from everyone. So, so Paul, would you like to? I would like to introduce Anna White.
 she headed up the study for black and beach who is our professional group that did this study and she's going to give us a quick presentation hopefully we will clarify how the study is done at this point in time with that anna would you like to present your uh okay you have 10 minutes all right thank you it's my pleasure to be here tonight presenting to you and i will do my best to keep it within the 10 minutes so there's
 When we do a cost of service rate study, there are three steps that we're following. Step one is the revenue requirement. So that's when we're determining how much revenue we need to generate from the rates in order to fund the operating and the capital costs for each of the utilities for water
 The second step is the cost of service. This is where we're allocating those costs to your customer classes in order to determine how much revenue we need to recover from each customer class. The third step then is rate design. So once we know how much revenue we need to recover from each customer class, we design the rate schedule and the rate structure in order to recover it appropriately. So tonight I'm going to focus on step two, cost of service.
 There are two manuals that provide the guidelines for doing a cost of service rate study for water and sewer. For the wastewater utility, it's the Water Environment Federation's manual that's shown there on the slide. The second one is for the water utility. It's called the M1 manual. This is the one that really lays out all of the detail in how you do the cost of service analysis that I'm going to talk about.
 So what's so important about cost of service and why do we stress that and why are we doing a cost of service rate study? The reason is because different customer classes within the community, inside and outside the city, use the systems, the water and wastewater systems, in different ways. And so the cost of service step is how we recognize that there's differences in the different customer classes that you serve.
 So, for example, customers that are located inside the city for water service use all of the components of the water system, the distribution mains, the transmission mains, the pumping stations, the plant, all of those where you purchase water from.
 Customers that are located outside the city don't necessarily use those same assets. For instance, the small mains, the distribution mains within the water system, they don't provide any service to customers outside of the city. So we don't allocate the costs associated with distribution mains to customers outside the city. So the way that we make that recognition that there's differences is through this cost-of-service analysis. The other difference that we...
 that we draw our attention to in this step.
 is your rate structure and what costs are recovered in each of the two components so you have a minimum charge and you have a volume charge cost associated with meter reading billing collection customer service those are recovered through the minimum charge cost associated with how much water is being treated or pumped that's recovered through the volume charge so again we do that cost of service analysis in order to break out those costs to know what cost need to be recovered through what fee next slide
 So the current context for Fayetteville with regards to revenue requirements for the last 11 years across the board increases have been used in order to increase the revenue in order to fund the revenue requirements. Cost of service, the last cost of service study was done 14 years ago.
 The across-the-board increases and because of how long it's been since the last rate study was completed cost of service was completed Your existing rates do not reflect cost of service. You can click on the text box and
 So because of the passage in time, what's happened over those 14 years? Customer characteristics have changed. There's been new customers to the system. Different customer classes have grown at different rates. Water usage, wastewater consumption, the usage per customer has changed over time, and especially with COVID. There's a lot of changes in your customer patterns just due to COVID. Okay.
 The cost allocations have changed. So if we look at your operating costs, maybe the costs associated with the distribution mains went up more than the costs associated with your transmission mains. That makes a difference, again, because customer classes use different parts of the system. Your capital costs have changed. You're investing in different parts of the system now than you did 14 years ago. And so, again, your existing rates do not align with cost of service. Okay, next slide. So how do we do the analysis?
 So what we're going to focus tonight on is what's called the return on investment. This is a key component for the cost of service analysis. So the M1 manual that I mentioned specifies that if a utility provides service to customers outside of the city limits, outside of the city boundary, it is entitled to earn a return
 on those services provided outside of the city because those customers outside the city are not considered owners of the utility. The city and the inside city customers are the owners and are entitled to earn a rate of return on that investment that's been made in the system to serve customers outside the city.
 So why is that? There's three reasons. So first off, the city and the inside city customers have an ownership risk. The city is ultimately responsible for paying all of the costs associated with the system, operating capital, making sure that regulatory compliance requirements are being met, and they own the risk if there's any liabilities or penalties. The second one is financial risk. So the city has to invest in those assets outside the city to serve customers outside the city,
 But if those customers suddenly decide that they're going to go buy water from somewhere else or they're going to build their own treatment plant, then there's just stranded investment out there that the city invested in, put into place, and it's now not generating any revenue. The third is the opportunity risk. So those funds that have been committed for those investments.
 pose a capital and an opportunity cost for the city. The city could invest in those funds somewhere else, but they chose to invest them to build those investments outside the city to serve those customers. So the steps that we use in order to calculate this return on investment. The first one is the rate of return. This is the percentage rate of return.
 The M1 manual specifically lays out the methodology that we use to calculate the rate of return and it's using the weighted average cost of capital. I'm going to walk through that in more detail. So once we know what that percentage rate of return is, then we need to determine the dollar amount of return.
 I'll walk you through that. And then the third step, once we know what that total dollar amount of rate of return is, it's allocated between the customers inside the city and outside the city. And so we'll walk through that. So next slide.
 Okay, so determining the rate of return. So this is the methodology that's laid out in the manual. It's the weighted average cost of capital. What we're taking into account there is the total original cost, less depreciation value of all of the assets that are currently in service in order to provide both water service and wastewater service to all of your customers. So the value of those assets, we look at how much of that –
 and how much outstanding debt there is associated with those assets. And then the remainder then of course is the equity portion of those assets. So the city does not, the utility does not have any outstanding debt associated with water or wastewater. So the value of those assets is 100% equity.
 So, when we do our weighted average cost of capital, what we're taking is the portion that's equity and the debt portion, multiplying both of those by the interest rate on the debt.
 or what we would call a fair rate of return on the equity portion, and that gives us what our initial rate of return would be for customers outside the city. So basically we're just taking into account how much the city has invested in those assets, where that investment is taking place, whether it's through equity or for debt, and calculating what that average cost of capital is. We then add a premium to that amount.
 So the premium is what recognizes that there is a risk associated with providing service to these customers. What that premium number is can
 can vary. The M1 manual does not give any guideline for what that number is. It can be dictated in a contract like it is here. It can be a number that is just what the city feels is a reasonable rate of return to earn from their customers, knowing their customers and what relationship they have with them. That's a number that's an assumption or something that needs to be input. And again, here it's dictated by the contracts that the city has with the wholesale customers.
 So the calculation that I have up here just shows you how we do that math. I do have an example there for water and wastewater, just so you can see, and those are the actual numbers from the study, so you can see how that math is being calculated. So once we know what that percentage rate of return is, and you can see there for water, and what I'm showing here for water it's 7%, for wastewater it's 5.5%.
 So we know now what that percentage rate of return is for the outside city customers. So the next step then, next slide, is to go to the dollars. So the way that the dollar rate of return is calculated, or the return on investment is calculated, we know when we look at the cost for each of the systems, we have operating costs and we have capital costs. The operating costs are the operating costs. They are what they are. What we're talking about here is the capital piece.
 So we take the total cost related to capital, it's debt services, if there's debt service, which there isn't here. So here it's the amount of the annual cash investment that the utility is making into the assets. So basically from rate revenue, each of the utilities... Okay, okay, I'm sorry. Your time is...
 up so mayor I'd like to give them you can make motion make a motion to give her how many more ten ten in more minutes do you think that's or I'm about halfway that's up to y'all then sounds good I'll do ten okay all right thank you
 So we're talking about the capital portion here. So when we talk about the capital portion, what we're referring there is the annual amount that each utility is investing back into the infrastructure or the assets. So the way then that we calculate the dollar amount of return, it's that total, what we look at it, it's the total amount of capital investment.
 Less depreciation and what's remaining is the return. So that's a very simple calculation That's how it's laid out in the m1 manual So that's just how we get that dollar amount of return the next step then is we need to allocate that return to Inside outside customers. I'm going to show you a couple examples though here real quick if we can go to the next slide just to show you the math and what I just walked you through so you can better understand it and
 So this is for the water utility and these are the numbers from the rate study. So what's shown on the left there, we were looking at the cash flow. The cost that we have, we have the operation and maintenance costs, about $18 million. Debt principal, if there was any, there is not, so that's zero. Cash financing of CIP, so the water utility is estimated to...
 invest about four million dollars from rate revenue back into the water system and then there's no debt interest so the total cost about 22 million dollars when we move to what's called the utility basis to recognize that there's customers outside the city all we're doing is just restating those costs a little bit differently so the O&M cost is still O&M it's still about 18 million but we take that 4.3 million of investment back into the system
 and we divide it into depreciation and return. Depreciation is a known number, that's the annual depreciation on the water assets. So the difference between the two, the 1.5 million, is return.
 Again, it's just a calculation to come up with that dollar return. If we go to the next slide, you can see the same information for the wastewater utility. I think the main thing to point out here is how much lower the dollar amount of return is for wastewater than it is for water. For water, it's about $1.5 million. For wastewater, it's $130,000, so much, much smaller.
 the cash investment that's going back into the wastewater system is pretty much equal to depreciation. Whereas on the water side, that cash investment was greater than depreciation. Okay, next slide. Okay, the next step then is to allocate that dollar value back to inside versus outside city customers. So again, the steps that we go through here, so once we know the value of the assets, this is the original cost less depreciation value of the assets,
 we divide that by the units that's how we come up with the unit cost that goes into developing the rate schedule for the unit cost associated with plant investment for inside city and outside city we multiply that by the rate of return for each of the inside and outside customers and that's how we get the dollar amount
 for inside versus outside. And so when you look at the detailed tables, if you look at them in the report, you'll notice that we had return broken out between inside and outside. It was much more heavily allocated to outside city customers. That's because the rate of return for outside city customers is greater than inside city to, again, represent that risk associated with providing those services. All right.
 So then this just shows a little bit more detail here for water. Again, we have O&M, we have depreciation, and we have return, and how we've taken that return component and we've now allocated it between inside and outside city customers. So if you add up now all of the components showing on here, it's still equal to what we originally saw, the operating and the capital cost for water. We're just slowly breaking it down into these pieces that we need in order to develop the rates.
 And then the next slide is the same information for wastewater. So again, we're breaking that return down between inside and outside city. As you can see here, the inside city rate of return, or return dollar value, is actually a negative. And again, that's because we only had $130,000
 return for the wastewater utility we are entitled to earn a return on the outside city customers because it comes out to be greater than the total return it's a negative return for inside city I know that's kind of hard to understand it really is just how the math works but that's also just to recognize that there is a risk associated with the outside city customers and the inside city customers does not have to pay that risk okay
 And the last slide here on this topic. So just to summarize when we talk about return, return on investment, the purpose of that is intended to provide a reasonable return for the equity capital that's used in order to finance those investments, the infrastructure to provide water and sewer service to your customers and to all of your customers.
 The weighted average cost of capital is the generally accepted method outlined in the M1 manual and it serves as a guideline. That's what's important here. It's a guideline for determining that outside city rate of return. What can impact
 that decision on what that outside city rate of return is, city policies, existing contracts that we've recognized, impacts on customers. When I made my presentation to you a couple of weeks ago, one of the things that I talked about were some of the things that we take into consideration when we go into rate design.
 impact on the customers, the rate structure, is it easy to understand, does it send the right message, all of that applies here as well. When we're talking about the rate of return, what it is and how it's applied to the customers. What's outlined in the M1 manual are guidelines that we can follow to get us to a starting point for what those numbers are. They can always be adjusted. Those are just guidelines.
 So then I just want to conclude with the two rate structure tables. These have not changed from the report that we issued or what I showed you when I presented to you a couple of weeks ago.
 These are the proposed rate schedules. This is for water. The next slide is for wastewater. These are based on the cost of service analysis that I just walked through. Again, we were hired to perform the cost of service analysis, and that's what we did following the methodology in the M1 manual. The results of that calculation is what's represented here in the rate. There's always adjustments that can be made. Okay.
 Does council have any questions before we take public comment? Here I have one question. So the rate study that was done 14 years ago was the same methodology used that you use in this rate study? Yes. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Anybody else? Okay, all right. What you've all been waiting for. We will take some public comment now. Everybody has, there's some rules
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, which I don't think we'll have any trouble with that. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? No one on Zoom has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm Heath Cottle. I'm the Mayor of Westport.
 Appreciate you guys making time for me to come back up and speak with you again. I've emailed all of you. I think my council members have emailed most of you. A couple of things I want to point out. Black and Veach, I'm glad we gave them the extra 10 minutes. She pointed out at the end of that that that is a recommendation that those are guidelines for designing rate analysis. I want to point out that
 So we ran the rate analysis for how this is going to impact the city of Westport versus how it's going to impact the city of Fayetteville. And I understand that we're a wholesale customer, and I'm only asking to be treated as such, as a wholesale customer. But given the current status of the rates, the base rate for a Fayetteville resident, water and sewer combined, is $39.87. That's based on 2,000 gallons of usage.
 Currently, for a resident of my city of West Fork, our base rate is $63.49. Now that's because we built our own infrastructure, we took out $10 million worth of bonds to get tied into Fayetteville and we're gracious that you guys took us. Don't get me wrong there. I'm pointing that out to say that we are a wholesale customer. We have our own cost, our own repairs, maintenance, infrastructure that we pay for ourselves. The city of Fayetteville doesn't pay for that.
 Under the proposed rate increase, a Fayetteville citizen's rate is going to go down to $38.25 a month. That's the base rate on 2,000 gallons. A West Fork resident is going to go up to $93.97 a month.
 That's before they turn on the faucet, before they run the dishwasher, any of that. That's our base rate, $93.97. My residents can't absorb that. Our city can't absorb that. In the Black and Beach study, they point out that between your two wholesale customers, West Fork and Elkins, you need $933,000 a year in revenue.
 We're currently providing more than 900. Last year, between the two of us, we provided $965,000 in revenue. Okay, that's before any rate increases. We've already met the revenue needs that are laid out in the report. Just last month, we paid the city of Fayetteville $101,000 for the treatment of our sewer. That's in one month. Now we billed about $55,000.
 That's what we build our customers, 55,000. We turned around and we wrote a check for 101,000. You see where this is going. I told you the last time I was here, we will default, the city of Westport will default somewhere, whether it be at the state level or at the city level. We physically cannot bear the burden of these rates. Now, I pointed out last time that we represent not quite 3% of total volume wastewater. Mayor, you weren't here.
 With the water rates, I'm not here to debate that. A 10% increase after 14 years, sir. We haven't raised ours either. So no bones with water. Sewer is where I'm at. We're proposing a 38% increase on our sewer bills. So...
 Black and Veatch pointed out that these cost analysis, they dive into the different cost centers, but ultimately we're talking about operations and maintenance budget. It's made up of several different cost centers. I kind of highlighted some of the major ones. Maintenance, repairs, expansion, wages, administration, and treatment. The City of West Fork is really only asking for one of those cost centers.
 Treatment, okay, that's the only thing now we are getting some of your mains to get our effluent to the treatment facility I make no bones about that and there's obviously there's overhead cost But essentially the real cost to the city of Fayetteville in treating our sewage is the treatment cost We don't have any idea what it treat cost to treat a thousand gallons of sewage but the city of West Fork is being charged seven dollars and nine cents under under the proposed rates and
 The city of Fayetteville is being charged $4.68 under the proposed rates per thousand gallons. Now we're a wholesale customer as I started out saying last time we get a 32% discount on our water rates over your customers because it's pass-through. I'm asking for a discount on our sewer. I'm asking for a wholesale discount. We are not
 We are not causing cost to the city of Fayetteville system. We're not like, and I'm not picking on Mayor Hinn back there, but we're not Farmington. You guys aren't doing our billing. You're not doing our repairs, maintenance, expansion, that type of thing. You're simply treating our effluent. And agree, we are touching those transmission lines to get it there, but it's...
 at less than 3% volume, total volume. Mayor Cotter, time. I'm sorry. Thank you. And if anyone would like to look at that, I can make that available. Sure, absolutely. Yeah. Sure. All right. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Thank you, Mayor Cotter. Thank you.
 Good evening, Council and Mayor Jordan. My name is Ernie Penn. I'm the mayor at the city of Farmington. And so Heath is exactly correct. Our situation is different than the wholesale customers. So hopefully you received my memo that I sent to all the council members and Mayor Jordan. And so I'm not going to rehash what I've got in here because you can read what's in here. But the thing we talk about risk,
 And I know Black & Veatch does the study and they use certain formats and methodology that they have to do to come up with those rates. Totally understand that. But there's also other factors we have to take in consideration. Number one, the risk factor. We've been joined at the hip for 40 plus years. The city of Farmington has no other options whatsoever.
 We can't go build a sewer plant. We can't go get our water from any other place. So we're together, we're partners. And we've had a great partnership and a great relationship all those 40 plus years. We've had a few blips here and there, but we worked through it and everything's worked out fine. But one of the things that I just, I wanna emphasize is the percentage of usage. And so Farmington is just a minority percentage of the usage here.
 of the water and sewer system. Fayetteville residents are the majority users. And so, I'm sitting here and I'm trying to justify this being a 42 year old, 42 year service banker. And I'm trying to figure out how am I going to pay extra for being a minority user of the system? So I don't really just, I can't really grasp that fact. But the thing as far as risk goes,
 There's no cost available for risk for us. I mean, we're going to be there. I mean, we've got to rely on you for water and sewer.
 Farmington, as far as investments goes, we're talking about your investment, we invested $6.5 million in 2007-2008 according to our contract requirements. And that was to revamp part of that money was to revamp the existing system because it was failing or needed some improvements made, but to also build a new lift station, a new interceptor line, and a new, there's another line we had to build.
 That is being used by not only Farmington citizens, but citizens of Fayetteville also. And so our growth factor is affected by that, but I'm not really going to expound on that. But if you took, you can look on page two, and if you see, like Keith was saying, our rate percentage increase for sewer is going to go up 50%.
 that's huge for the base base rate if we don't turn the faucet on the base rate is going to be up 50 when you go to the volume charge we're going to be paying 83 higher volume charge in the city citizens of Fayetteville so like I said
 I said again, I'm not going to go through this whole deal. I spent two weeks analyzing that report. I'm not a brain surgeon, and I'm not an engineer, and I can't analyze everything, but I know what good common sense tells me. And so that's what I think I've put in here as far as the rate of return. Our contract spells out exactly what our rate of return will be calculated on, and it's based on those bonds.
 The coupon rate of those bonds plus a premium of 1.5%. When you have zero rates on your bonds, you have zero debt.
 the only rate of return you're entitled to is 1.5 percent the way i look at it so that's a simplistic look from my standpoint i'm going to use less than my time so i appreciate your time tonight and like i say just uh this this will give us some some talking points uh talk to mr becker and in our under your city attorney kit williams and we think that we can sit down and have a good negotiation and talk about these recommendations that black and veatch is making but also have some negotiation points based on these factors
 And I thank you tonight. Thank you, Mayor Penn. Who else would like to address this? Okay, then I will bring it back to the council. Now, the city attorney, at the end of the public hearing, the city council needs to pass a resolution that states that we had a public hearing.
 So somebody would like to make a motion in a second for that. Is that correct, Kit? Yes, Mayor, I'd like to do that. We needed to have something in order to have a public hearing according to the Granica system. And so I wrote up a resolution saying we've had a public hearing. We've listened to everybody that wanted to talk. And so now we're going to be moving on to the ordinance after we pass this resolution. But this is only a resolution saying we've had the public hearing. It's not deciding any rates or anything like that.
 So I would like to make a motion that we have had the public hearing and listen to everyone that wanted to speak Okay, we have a motion in a second to pass a resolution saying that we had a public here here Which please call the roll? Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon. Yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes
 Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move on to the next item. An ordinance to amend 51.136 monthly water rates and 151.137 monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates is recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Veach. Um,
 Kip? Well, we're on the first reading, so you want to suspend the rules and go to the second reading? I'm going to entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Yes. Karen, would you please call the roll? I'm sorry. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Yes.
 yes yes in order to amend section 51-51 point 136 monthly sewer rates and 51.1 three seven monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates as recommended by the cost of service study conducted by black and beach okay staff who has that
 i'm sorry mayor what we would like to recommend as this be tabled we've heard some of the comments uh one of the things for the city of farmington is
 The rate study was done pursuant to a contract that was in effect at the time that we began the study. That contract has currently expired, so we have to negotiate a new contract. So we would like to table a study. We would like to have time to meet with Farmington, also look at Black & Veatch, at the entire rate study, and come back to the council. We'd like to table that until the end of the year.
 the first meeting in December, actually, that will give us sufficient time to try to negotiate an agreement, which I think we can successfully do at that time and look at some of the other issues that we've heard. So that's staff's recommendation. And also want to, I want to thank everyone who shared comments during the public hearing on this item. And several people also have emailed comments. And I want to thank all
 emailed us with comments. And it became clear to me that we had more work to do on this item. Our Water and Sewer Committee recommended tabling it. Is that correct, Teresa? Yes, it is, Mayor. And so I'm asking the council also to table this item tonight to allow us more time to make changes. We're going to take our time, and we're going to work this thing out. Okay? And, Rick, will you?
 Well, so what comments or questions do we have in the council? I'm perfectly fine tabling this after public comment. You know, I've got a lot of emails on this and some of the emails don't really make sense. I teach math at the university and we're talking about increasing certain things by percentage
 which to the wholesale customers is a percentage of their total cost. And for the total cost to go more than our percent increase, that doesn't make sense. So either I'm misunderstanding it or some other people are misunderstanding it. I think it's important that everybody involved actually knows what it's going to do to their own residents. So that makes sense. And then obviously we need a contract with Farmington before we come back.
 to this. We got to renegotiate the contract with Armington anyway. But as a math petition, there's definitely been some stuff that's been emailed to me that doesn't make sense and I hope that we can fix that. Do we need a motion to table and then have discussion on the motion?
 Yes, we would, and I would suggest that it is for December 6th, and the reason for that is that not only with Farmington, but maybe with other cities, we might have to be adjusting some of the original...
 contracts we had and then their city councils will have to look at it and agree as well as you and until we get the contracts in place so we know exactly what we're going to be looking at we really can't finish the rate study and its implications and make sure ever all the numbers work and so that's why i thought we probably need until december the 6th on that
 The City Council, of course, if negotiations fly by and we get everything done immediately, well, you can take it back off the table if you want to. But just working and seeing how these contracts go, the last time we had a contract with Farmington, it took months after they had their original agreement to get to the actual contract. So I don't want it to go months if possible, but I know it's going to go many weeks. So I think December 6th is probably a good date to shoot for.
 i move that we table this until december 6th second well let me take just some public comment in case there's somebody out there wants to comment on anything
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, do you have anybody on? No, sir. Does anybody in the chamber want to say anything else? Because we're going to table this on December the 6th. First, 6th, what was it?
 Thank you. Okay. If there's not any public comment, Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Thank you. All right.
 We have an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-021 located at 248 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1.
 for approximately 3.1 acres from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Care which please call the roll.
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Kirk yes
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-021 located at 248 south happy hollow road in ward 1 for approximately 3.1 acres from rsf 4 residential single family four units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the City's Development Services Department. I don't have any new information or updates to the request specifically, but there was a significant amount of public comment that came through for the council today and yesterday. So I don't know what opportunity you've had to review that, so I wanted to just take a brief moment to try to characterize that for you in case you haven't had a chance to read
 There was a mix of comment, predominantly, at least until this afternoon, it was in opposition to the request with quite a few concerns expressed about a desire to see details of the plan. There are concerns about connectivity, which I believe was brought up at the last council meeting that Happy Hollow likely represents the only opportunity to connect to this property for vehicle traffic.
 There's also concerns about Happy Hollow and its width and its current state being too narrow, and that there may be a high rate of accidents. There's also a comment or acknowledgement that the recent calming that was installed on Happy Hollow has helped, but it may not be enough. There was interest in seeing a crosswalk reinstalled, which I believe Chris Brown, the public works director, noted that there's a work order in for that to be done down towards 4th Street, I believe it is.
 There was also more recently this afternoon, one resident of I believe three or four lots to the south who shared a video showing some flooding, which I believe we have queued up if they decide to have that shared tonight.
 And also, there was just a general request that all these issues be addressed before rezoning is approved on the property. As I noted, there was some comment on the other side of the spectrum. There were several pieces of comments submitted in favor of the request this afternoon. Those largely revolved around this representing an ideal location from their perspective for more density and infill and for opportunities for housing.
 And finally, as a reminder, since this will be the third hearing we've had, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission did as well, albeit by a split vote of four to two with one commissioner recusing. And I'm happy to take questions. And Robert Rhodes is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak with counsel?
 Good evening. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill, and I'm representing the petitioner here. As you all probably remember, I gave a full-blown presentation a month ago and then a little tiny presentation two weeks ago, and this one will even be tinier.
 Okay, so just to highlight some things. This property and this petition originally started with RIU, but got neither staff support nor Planning Commission support. He heard them and changed it. And that's why you have neighborhood conservation in front of you. And that is now both supported, as you heard from staff and from the Planning Commission.
 I think there was some concern about density and I think anyone looking at this property can tell you that even though with this rezoning, technically you could put 31 lots, there's absolutely no way, no how anyone's going to put 31 lots on this. As I mentioned in the last two meetings, we believe 16 to 20 is probably what it will
 This is compatible. This is compatible with the property around it currently and it is compatible with the future plans of the city. Again, some of the comments that you heard, one of the ones that resonate with me is that we need more homes and this is an ideal spot to put some more homes.
 There were questions about speed bumps, I think, in two agenda sessions ago. I was surprised when I drove out there, there's five, as you heard, there's five traffic calming devices, I don't mean just one bump, but five different places on that stretch of road. There are things being done, obviously, to make this safe.
 I would agree with staff that this is not going to enhance the dangers in that regard.
 I like the one positive comment that the email that was sent, oh gosh, probably a month ago and in a nutshell that said, hey, we need homes and this is close to a school with public transportation sidewalks and it's a good spot. So with that all said, I would ask you to pass this rezoning and I stand ready, willing and able to answer any questions. Thank you.
 What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? Pretty good. All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? Evelyn Rios Stafford. Okay. Go ahead, Evelyn.
 Okay, thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Evelyn Rios-Stafford, and I live at 527 South Sherman in Ward 1 in Fayetteville. And I live in the neighborhood where this rezoning is going to take place. In fact, the same property owner who wishes to develop this piece of land actually owns a separate piece of land directly behind my house that they are currently developing into...
 And so far they've been a great neighbor and I'm definitely in favor of what they're doing there. And I'm also in favor of this rezoning. And so far they've been a great neighbor and I'm definitely in favor of what they're doing there. And I'm also in favor of this rezoning.
 It is, you know, this is a neighborhood that, you know, I think it's important for density here. It's walking distance. This property from Happy Hollow Elementary School. It's along a RT bus line that runs right up Happy Hollow.
 And the city, it looks like this year is going to complete the sidewalk, they've told us, all the way up Happy Hollow. There's a gap in the sidewalk, but there's going to be a complete sidewalk all the way
 What I've heard, you know, because the applicant owns a property behind me, what I've heard from them is that one of the reasons that they want to do the rezoning over on Happy Hollow is because a lot of land there away from the street is not buildable.
 So, because they can't build on it, what they want to do, it sounds like, is to reduce the lot widths with the new zoning so that they essentially have about the same density that they're allowed anyway under the current zoning. So, in other words, it would increase the number of houses. But it would put them close together and leave some open space on the part of the lot that's
 That's not buildable, which sounds good to me. A couple other things I just wanted to point out this last week. Fayetteville was named the toughest rental market in America to find a rental unit. And the Northwest Arkansas Council also did a report showing that our lack of housing is hurting and starting to have an effect on our quality of life.
 So, you know, I'm definitely in favor of more housing. I'm in favor of more housing in areas that have schools and transit. And this is it. So thank you very much, council. Thank you. Who else? Susan Bishop. Okay. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Hello, this is Susan. I live at 1661 Sandy Drive. I'm very much in favor of this. This has for a long time been an underutilized part of the city, and I'm glad to see property growth and new business and new buildings. This is going to be very good. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else? No one else on Zoom, Mayor. Who else would like to address this in the chamber? I'll speak. Come on up and address yourself. Okay.
 not used to doing this but my name is mike mc and my wife and i have the property at 380 south happy hollow and i did write one of the emails because um the last meeting i got a call at 5 15 from one of the neighbors saying hey could you join the city council meeting tonight and talk about this rezoning ordinance and i did join the meeting but i really felt like i wasn't informed enough to
 to speak up because there's been a lot of work already been done on this. And so I just wanted to come tonight and let, because somebody at the meeting last time said there was no opposition. And everybody I've talked to, all my neighbors, they don't want this. So I just wanted to go on record that there is opposition to this. And primarily it's because of the traffic situation on Happy Hollow.
 Those cars come barreling down that road. We get all the traffic off the crossover cutting through the apartments, and it's too busy. And there's no enforcement of the 25-mile-an-hour speed limit. Now, the cushions have helped, but they've also created some bad situations in that people come barreling down southbound, and they slam on their brakes right before they get to the cushion. So I think if there were more done to enforce the 25-mile-an-hour speed limit,
 It could be workable, but people just ignore it. So I just feel like 12 units on a three-acre lot seems to be enough for that. Most of the other properties there are single-family homes. So I just wanted to register my objection, and I understand some other people have as well. So the biggest thing for me was two weeks ago, I didn't even know this was being discussed, and that property is just a couple of lots up from where I live.
 So I don't know what the, you know, how we normally get informed that these kinds of discussions are taking place, but we didn't really have enough time to organize a, you know, a well thought out objection, but there are people on that street that think the density is just fine. So any questions? Any questions from the council? Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? May, there's one more on Zoom. I'm sorry, just raised their hand. Okay. Okay.
 Go ahead. Susanna Brennan. Yes, hi, Susanna Brennan, 528 Happy Hollow Road. I also am opposed to this, the reason being the traffic. I'm having a little trouble hearing you. Ms. Brennan, could you speak up? Is this any better? A little, but just speak more loudly if you could. Okay. At my age, it's a little harder.
 All right. Yes, me too. I know the feeling. My issues are the traffic. I'm opposed because we don't need more traffic. It is a very dangerous road with steep ditches and a narrow country road. I'm also concerned about the compatibility. The
 Especially now that I hear, and I haven't heard this before, and as Mike and Misi said, we didn't know this was even happening until a couple of weeks ago, that these buildings do not seem compatible with what's already there. And I understand people want infill and density, but in terms of being to scale with our neighborhood,
 It's not that. Now, it's nice to hear that we'll be leaving some green space, and that's news to us too. But I would like to know how this project, this request can be approved when there is no site plan. Does that happen? How does that happen? We neighbors would like to know that, and we'd like the traffic issues to be considered. Thank you.
 Well, what we're discussing right now is the rezoning. Is that correct? Yes, sir. Yes. So that, Jonathan, on the site plan. Yes, Mayor. Are you asking me to speak to your concern about not having a site plan available? Yes.
 It's a request for a palette of uses and the requirements associated with those. So, when the Planning Commission or what the Council is asked to consider is those allowed uses, single-family homes, accessory structures, whatever it may be, how they relate to their properties, the property sizes. It's not required or generally limited to the planning commission.
 legally allowable for a site plan to be considered because a person could be zone of property and sell to somebody else and the other There no obligation to stick with that previous site plan So that's your question. Well, not exactly Well, I don't know how exactly I could answer that we don't do the site plans I
 I see. So all we know then is that there will be some buildings and the developer, Mr. Rhodes, says perhaps, did he say 16 or so? That's still pretty dense because they're going to be closer together. So how can it be approved? And I guess I just didn't understand the city council processes. I thought you approved something on the basis of...
 You approved a rezone request on the basis of why it's needed and what the developer is proposing. So how can you do that without seeing their site plan? Well, the Supreme Court does not allow us to consider that because this is only a question of use and use rights. What do they have a right to do but not use?
 What they are actually planning on doing precisely so that that comes up later if this is rezone and then that would go to the planning commission to approve any large scale development or preliminary plat. But at this level, we can only consider what the land could be used for. Now, one of the big things that zoning does is control density.
 And so the city council can consider the difference in densities between what is allowed now and what would be allowed under the newly requested plan, which is significantly more dense. And therefore, the city council can certainly think about the density, the potential increased traffic and everything else without ever seeing a site plan. But just considering what is allowed under this zoning, which is 10 units per acre, not four.
 And so obviously that's a major change and the city council can consider that. But you can't consider a site plan. There's none been shown. And it's really not a proper thing for the city council to consider at this point in time. Thank you. That answers my question. So we still are concerned about the density and compatibility with the rest of the neighborhood and the traffic concerns with 16 more units still would be quite a bit more traffic. Thank you.
 It's already pretty dangerous around here. No, it's fine. Thank you. Who else? There's no one else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, let's go back to the chamber then. Is there anyone else in the chamber that would like to speak on this? Yes, it is. Just come up. Just come up to the podium.
 Good evening. My name is Deanna Drake. I live at 4841 East Sandy Drive in Fayetteville. But my son is a resident on South Happy Hollow Road at 324. His name is Christopher Drake. He's out of town, couldn't be here tonight, and he asked me to speak for him.
 I know that on March 23rd the Planning Committee went ahead and approved this for recommendation to you from an RSF4 to an NC.
 for this is that as she was talking, there was no plan on the site except we know that he was asking, the developer was asking for instead of four units per acre family single homes to be changed to a 10 unit apartment complex, one building per acre for a total of 31 units. Now instead of 12 houses
 on this property you're looking at 31 individual homes the traffic on that area would be at least 24 cars per unit and on the increase it would be 62 cars at least give or few on that increasing the traffic on a two-lane highway or street excuse me its asphalt but many places has a drop off into ditches
 there's been very many accidents on that road in front of my son's house is his mailbox it's been run over at least 20 to 30 times and had to be replaced because they've run off the road the surveyor was surveying the property in the area because there's multiple properties that are asking for changes in the city code
 And the surveyor was almost run over several times while he was just doing that. And so I want to say that it is a hazard for traffic. It's an increase in traffic that is unnecessary because of the code that's already established would be plenty instead of two-thirds more. Let's see. There's no sidewalks. The sidewalks,
 were supposed to be built on the half million dollar houses that are next to my son's property. When they constructed their houses, they gave the city money to have those established and there was none given. So you still have the unsidewalked portion of the street that is a hazard with more cars coming. Like I said, it's a...
 It's mainly family homes that are in that area. But most importantly, I'm here to discuss the drainage situation because across from my son's house, Dan Cootie owns some property that I know you all are probably aware of. He changed the code in that area for 20 houses on Mount Sequoia runoff area. He trimmed all of the shrubbery.
 on the property, which caused water to come down on Happy Hollow Road and right into my son's property. It is now not a trickle through my son's property, it is a river every time it rains. There has been nothing done in seven years. And I don't expect y'all to be looking at the drainage situation with just this change in the RSF2 and NC.
 But my son's property had a one foot deep by a two foot width area of drainage through his yard. That's now a five foot wide by a five foot deep river that is in his yard whenever it rains. The water comes across Happy Hollow Road from the mountain down his gravel driveway. We've had to replace it.
 Numerous times with thousands of dollars and thousands of man hours to put rocks and gravel and everything else in to fix this drainage problem. Y'all have done nothing. The engineers have been out there and they say, well, it's not on a plan to fix the drainage on Happy Hollow Road. Time. Okay. I appreciate your time and your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 okay i'm going to bring it back to the council i have a question for jonathan um will this proposed rezone allow multi-family or will it remain single family it remains single family by right okay thank you what uh the wishes of the council are we're on the third reading uh what action comments does council
 I've got a couple points. I mean, one, I think that separate of this rezoning, Happy Hollow is due for some improvements,
 of what's happening here. It is a pretty narrow street. It's unfortunate that people are driving very fast down. I believe there's traffic calming that is different than speed cushions that we can look at there. I'm not really a fan of speed cushions and we've been using those more in the last year and I've got some complaints about those, but there's some other options.
 I think we mentioned that the development that was kind of up the hill was seven years, well, I guess, yeah, seven years ago. Well, we've had two 100 year floods since then. And, and unfortunately, we're probably going to have to design stuff better than we did, but
 when we have those hundred year floods it's not because there's a development somewhere around you it's because it's a hundred year flood in a lot of cases so it would be nice to know how often that floods is it just in those those two major ones but okay so those are two of my points
 As far as like where you would want density, I agree the house is right next to this. Don't exactly look like it, but you go two lots north, they definitely do. There's a PZD. If you go northwest, there's already NC. And then usually want density around services. There's an elementary school that's close to this. There's a park that's close to this. There is a bus route that is within walking distance. So all of those.
 make sense at places to increase density. And these will remain single family homes at NC.
 We're not building an apartment complex. And there'd be almost no chance that you could build 31 units in there. I think the most people have been able to build NC is like six or seven units per acre. I guess I'll ask staff, even if we vote on this tonight, I would love to know what's the densest anybody's ever done NC.
 That would be something we'd have to research, but you're generally correct. The yield of lots tends to be much lower than the actual allowance. We do know that RSF4 example, which is about a third of the city, usually gets developed at two and a half units per acre. Okay. Yeah, I haven't. The 16 to 22 seems to make sense what would go here. Traffic isn't created locally.
 Traffic happens when you have to drive somewhere. So the traffic that's right here wouldn't really cause traffic here issues.
 And if people are able to drive to the park here, that's less driving or the elementary school. Or if you go up to Mission and Crossover, you have a lot of services, you've got a neighborhood market. I think you've got two places to get grocery pretty close. So I feel like this makes sense in that context. The two lots right around it don't make sense, but in total, I think this makes sense.
 So, thank you. Okay. What other comments do we have? Mr. Mayor, I would agree with Councilman Scroggins that speed tables are an abomination to the Lord. And this street is a plethora of them. When cities grow organically, they frequently find infrastructure like this street.
 that is too narrow for the volume that it entails. And I know we've got theories that narrow streets make safe drivers and that may be in general true. But I think that the volume on this piece of infrastructure causes me to have caution.
 And while I think that the property in question could certainly afford greater than RSF4, I think that the concerns that I hear cause me concern about NC density by right. I know the developer has indicated a desire for a certain level.
 I'm very cautious going that direction. The street was remarkably narrow for the volume of traffic that it incurs and I think that I'm not anticipating it being widened and addressed anytime in the near future. So I have grave cautions about this level of density and want to be sure and express that it's not necessarily the drainage
 which I think is going to become more and more an issue as Mother Nature brings us warmer weather and more intense rainfall. But it's actually that traffic issue that causes me the greatest concern. Thank you. Anybody else? Teresa, you. Thank you, Mayor. I too share some concerns about the compatibility of the area.
 some of the drainage concerns that have been highlighted tonight and in that area. And then I just want a clarification from Jonathan. So if this is rezoned to NC...
 the developer could go and request a conditional use permit and actually build three and four family dwellings on that property. Is that correct? That's correct. They'd have to go back to the Planning Commission and submit detailed plans and elevations similar to what I think some of the residents are asking for.
 But under RSF4 currently they would not be allowed. They could only have a two family dwelling, is that correct? By conditional use. By conditional use. Okay. I just wanted to clarify that there is a possibility that there could be cluster housing and there could be multi-family housing if a conditional use permit was approved. That's correct.
 I've been over there several times, kind of driving around, I guess contributing to the traffic, and there is a lot of cut through traffic there.
 There just is. That's just the way it's kind of set up because people want to get from 265 quicker over to Highway 16. And that's what I'm seeing. So I have some serious concerns about upzoning this more than what it is right now. And they are allowed to build 12 units right now as it is. Thank you.
 I have the similar concerns on the traffic going and looking at that that road needs improvement anyway but with the current zoning still offering 12 up to 12 units by conditional use right I'm sorry could you repeat the question 12 units by conditional right with the current zoning no by right I mean by
 But the current RSF or zoning district would allow approximately... So that's pretty good density for this lot, it seems to me. So it's hard for me to see that someone would possibly get it more crowded than that. And if there's one thing I've learned from my years of being on city council, we're presented with these ideas and ideals. But what you have to consider is what is the worst possible scenario
 situation that could happen to this neighborhood with a rezoning and I know that's not maybe the fatalistic approach that a lot of people want to see but I've seen us be tricked so many times people come in and they say oh we're gonna do this and
 And that's nice. It is it's feasible that they would do that there but then in the end that's not what's there because the Conditional I mean because the zoning goes with the property and if that person sells the property or has a change of heart They get to utilize the zoning that we have approved and currently in this property I I can't support an up zoning. I understand the arguments for it and I
 We do need housing. We do need density, but this is not the area. This is not the lots that we need to have higher density until we have a better situation with the cut through there on Happy Hollow to make sure that it's safe. So that's currently how I see it. So anyway, thanks.
 Thank You mayor so I just want to thank the the neighbors for coming out and voicing your concerns and your emails we've received all of that
 We were asked to hold it for that reason. That's what these extra readings are about. So thank you for making time for coming out and for being available on Zoom. I do agree. I feel like the infrastructure is not quite matching with the street. And so I'm wanting to maybe slow it down just a little bit, go back, keep it to the zoning that it is. And in fact, that there is a lot of,
 more dwellings, you know, just right next door. But then the neighborhood begins at the end of that street. So, you know, it's okay that there's single family spaces. And then right next to that, there's already some very dense spaces. So...
 I'm feeling like wanting to keep that lower density and allow some time for the infrastructure to build there. If we aren't, you know, it sounds like we're going to get some sidewalks soon. That's good. And then if we need to find some other solutions for the traffic, we need to do that as well. So I think...
 and then of course the Mr. Drake, I saw his video. I don't know if y'all got to see his video on flooding, but it was like a mudslide. It was very, very bad. And so,
 He said from the email that it happens every single time it rains. So I feel like there's quite a bit of work that needs to be done in the area before we kind of make the situation worse. So I probably will not be supporting the reason. Okay. Yes, Mr. Mayor. Jonathan, I have a question about...
 And I know I could have probably pulled this up somewhere here, but on our list of streets that are getting improvements, where is Happy Hollow in the grand scheme of having these
 extensions, and the sidewalks, and maybe better gutters or something like that. Do you know where we are on that street? I do, and Chris Brown, the Public Works Director is also on to correct me if I miss anything. It was recently overlaid with fresh asphalt, which is part of the traffic calming conversation, because there was a lot of concern from residents that the asphalt level may have gone up to the point where the existing speed tables were less effective because of that vertical difference was less.
 So that was a piece of that conversation was the recent recent resurfacing of the street and to councilmember Harvey's point There is indeed sidewalk On the work program for later this year, but it's possible that it won't be built until the beginning of 2023 And that's intended to connect the sidewalks that are closer to 4th and 5th Street with Mount Sequoia woods to the north. Okay. Thank you you know some of the
 I don't necessarily like the speed cushions, but that's something we're using a lot. But I do like the process we go through now to get those is that 70% of the people on the street have to agree to, the neighbors have to agree to put the speed cushions in. And so I think that's more collaborative than what we've had in the past.
 But as far as traffic calming, some of the things that we try to use around the city meet with great resistance. And you know, lots of people don't like.
 They don't like curves in the street. They don't like narrowing points in the street. They don't like the planters. So I don't know, you know, we're kind of trying to feel our way through what will be the best calming methods for the streets. Now lots of people have mentioned cut through.
 I'm not necessarily in favor of this rezoning, but the cut through traffic, I don't think is how does, if we don't rezone this, how does that help the cut through traffic? I don't really see that that changes it at all, honestly. I'd love to hear from DeAndre on, you know, because he's also the other board member from that part of town, and I know we tabled this to allow the citizens to get together.
 and i remember asking if two weeks was long enough for them to do that so i want to make sure that we you know we did try to give everybody time to get together and and uh but just you know it just i know it's hard it's hard to do so i'd love to hear what uh the other council member from that ward has to say about this yes go ahead deandre absolutely uh thank you so much and um uh
 The concerns that each council member has voiced, they are legitimate. And I was thinking about it from a perspective of needing more houses. But as we, after receiving the information from many citizens, I am inclined to
 I guess I'm leaning more toward, um, I don't think that this is the right time, because, again, as you all have stated, that there is some work to be done. Uh, as it relates to the citizens who needed the extra time, I do believe that they were able to... I believe that they were able... that that did happen, that they were able to get together and talk and discuss, so, um,
 I think because of that reason, I think that tonight that we can go ahead and vote. Well, yeah, we are going to go ahead and vote. It's on third reading, so...
 Holly, do you have anything or anybody else got anything? I definitely can understand the neighbor's concerns. However, like Sarah mentioned, I don't know that the rezone is going to affect the cut through traffic. I think that there's other measures we can take to address traffic, even though they might not be as desirable as we would like. I'm inclined to support this because I think that we need more housing and this would be a good place to have it.
 Thank you. And also, Jonathan, just to clarify, in the development stage, do we have to have a plan for drainage to make sure that the development is not further impacting that area drainage-wise? That's correct. One of the tenets of the city's drainage criteria manual is that the post or the
 or the pre-development drainage patterns do not worsen after post development if that makes sense so it is the capture and crossing the property and in some instances where there is a known issue sometimes the city as you all know can work with residents to try to resolve something that's off-site that may not be the result of the development okay thank you so much i think that that would be um the way that i would like to go so thank you um i have a question and um
 isn't there, and I think so, but I'm just wanting to be clear, there is Lindsay apartment housing close in that area, right? Mayor, I can take that. Yes, the Cliffs Apartments, which is several, several hundred housing units, is I believe still owned by Lindsay Apartments.
 So, okay, so I'm wondering if and maybe I should know this, but I don't. So I'm going to ask is, are these issues that we're discussing tonight concerning this property? How is it impacting or is it impacting the Lindsay property or those who live in that property in that area? I'm sorry. Who wants to take that one?
 Well, if you're using it as a cut-through, then you would turn on through and drive through the cliffs on Cliffs Boulevard to get back over to Crossover. So it inevitably has an impact.
 and mayor to that point there was a discussion that much predates my time with the city of making this a much more robust network of streets through this area for which lindsay i believe cost shared mr williams incorrect i think they cost shared work on cliffs boulevard to make it the sizable street that it is to accommodate uh much larger volumes of traffic than are currently going through the property so uh i i
 As far as traffic impacts go, Cliffs definitely has the capacity for it, if that's your major concern, Councilmember Jones. And also too, I've talked to several residents, and again, I'm torn, because we think about accessibility, right? Kids being able to walk to school, and some of our citizens having access to transportation. So,
 with that being the bus service. So I know what my initial thoughts are, but when I think about these, the things that I just mentioned, I am inclined to support it. Oh, okay. Any other comments from the council? Alrighty then. Carol, would you please call the roll?
 Hertzberg yes Harvey no Jones yes Kenyon no Whitaker no Scroggins yes, but yes Turk no mayor. It looks like it is a four to four Vote so do you care to vote? Yes, I'm gonna vote. Yes, so the ordinance passed It's gone to number four an ordinance to approve vacation 22 days and
 015 for property located at 2584 North Candlewood Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of a drainage easement. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Did I miss something? Mr. Mayor, I believe we're on items. Sorry. Let's go to number three. I had the wrong one marked. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-022 located at
 3061 East Skiller and Road in Ward 3 for approximately 2.99 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 Units. This was left on the first reading. Also, I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. All right. We have a motion to second. Kerridge, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Turk? Yes. And your ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-022 located at 3061 East Gildan Road in Ward 3 for approximately three acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre.
 Thank you, Mayor. Similar to the last item, I don't have any updates to the request. Also similar to the last item, we have received some additional public comments since the last hearing. I believe a little ways before the meeting, you received some correspondence from the Brookbury subdivision that was petitioning the applicant to consider offering a bill of assurance that would limit the number of units on the property.
 It is worth noting, I think Mr. Williams may have shared at the previous meeting, and if he didn't, you've heard it before, we cannot require a bill of assurance from an applicant, but it can be offered if it is in their interest. As of immediately before this meeting, we had not seen that.
 From staff and the Planning Commission's perspective, I did want to remind you all that we felt that the request to rezone the property from its agricultural zoning to RSF4 is compatible with the exclusively single-family character of the area and the almost uniformly RSF4 zoning of the area.
 Accordingly, staff is recommending approval. And as a reminder, again, the Planning Commission did forward it to Council by a vote of seven to zero. And I have Daniel Bearden online as the applicant, Mayor, and I'm available for questions. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak with Council? You have ten minutes. Good evening. Good evening. I'm Daniel Bearden, 3061 East Skillern Road.
 We are seeking to have our property re-zoned to RSF4, the same zoning as much of the surrounding area. We are a single family that has purchased this property as anyone, including a developer, could have done. But again, we are a single family with the intent of building a single-family home. We were attracted to the acreage that was in the middle of the city,
 We want the extra space for our two boys to run around, play, explore and grow up. We do not have formal plans to present because we need to get past the rezoning phase before we can move forward with our planning of our home. We would like to start the process sooner than later because our hope is for our children to attend school up here.
 We do hear all of the concerns from the neighbors. Believe me, they have not been ignored. And what we plan for our home will not add to the issues that have been stated by neighbors in previous meetings.
 What we are asking is no different from zoning and surrounding neighborhoods and would not like to put any further restrictions on the property that are already set when acquiring RSF4. Same as other properties in the area. One primary issue that was brought to our attention was the addition to the traffic in the area.
 Our two additional cars will not be a major contributor to the traffic. Thank you for your time this evening. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for staff or the applicant? Nope. DeAndre, do you have anything? Nope. Okay. No questions. All right. All right. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this?
 Good evening, my name is Robert Rhodes and I am not representing but I am helping Brookbury subdivision as I live in Brookbury subdivision. And the request that we have put forward and I think you probably have an email from me or maybe from one of our POA members is that we would like to chat with Mr. Bearden.
 and sell him on the beauty of having RSF4, not RSF2, but RSF4, but with only one single condition, that he would limit the property to four homes.
 And I have, I know that an email has been sent to him. Yesterday I called, left a voicemail, and I would ask you to do one of two things, either vote this down or hold it for the third reading. And maybe by then I can have that conversation with Mr. Bearden and at least attempt to convince him. I thank you. Okay, is there anyone else?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have? I would like to start by thanking the applicant for being so transparent with us and letting us know exactly what he was planning to do, even though he didn't have to.
 I think that RSF4 is completely appropriate. All of the surrounding areas are RSF4. I don't think it's fair to ask the applicant to limit the density, even though the density in the surrounding areas is exactly the same and they aren't required to be limited. So I'm in favor of this request and I hope that you all will be as well. Thank you. Well, okay. We're on the second reading though. Keep that in mind.
 What other discussion do we want to have? You know, I always like to give people an opportunity to work it out. So I don't know if there's a really big downside of holding it for two weeks. And if they can't work it out, then we can move forward with our vote at that time. But so that's what I would recommend here tonight. Okay. Yes. Mike. Yeah.
 oh i'll go ahead and go first sorry sonia no sonia you can go ahead first oh i was just going to agree with with councilmember turk uh to allow them time to have a chat and see if they can come to an agreement do you have an opinion on that deandre
 Yes. Again, I'm supporting the two of them, hopefully able to collaborate and work something out. So you're okay with tabling it as well?
 I am yes, we're in I'm okay with it. Okay, Mike go ahead. I would be comfortable table in it as well. I think it might even be in the applicants best interest to pursue a tandem lot as opposed to changing the zoning that he won't be required to have the street frontage. He can have more grounds for his boys to play in. So I would like to give him additional time to explore his alternatives.
 Yeah, I'm fine with extra time. I'm also fine with RSF4. The majority of the city is RSF4. It seems kind of weird to say that you can't have what the majority of the city is or denser. So I mean, I'll vote for whatever they come up with RSF4 in two weeks. Sure. Yeah, I agree with that as well. Yeah.
 So we'll hold this for two weeks. Mark? Okay. Mayor, may I offer a quick point of clarification to temper perhaps Council Member Whittaker's expectations? I did want to comment that a tandem lot would still require the minimum lot area requirement for the underlying zoning. And since Mr. Bearden only has three acres and RA requires two acres per lot, a tandem lot is not an option under the current zoning district. Thank you. Okay. Well, we'll just go on to the next one then.
 Now, where I began,
 ordinance to approve vacation 22-015 probably located at 2584 North Candlewood Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of a drainage easement now this was also left on the first reading I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved second okay we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading Caravage please call the roll
 Hertzberg yes, Harvey yes, Jones yes, Indian yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes, thanks. Yes, Kirk Yes, in ordinance approved the AC 22-0 15 for property located at 25 84 North candlewood Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of a drainage easement. I
 John? Thank you, Mayor. Similar to the last two items, I don't have any new updates or information on this item. As a reminder, the applicant's representative, Mr. Rhodes, did ask council to leave the item on the first reading to work out some concerns with the neighboring property owner to the
 Again, staff's recommendation is a conditional approval of this request. One piece of that is that if they damage any utilities in vacating this drainage easement and moving an associated drainage line, that it's at their expense, and the second piece
 the drainage line that they need to abandon and move is approved prior to the easement be or the vacation being finalized and i'm happy to take questions and again mr rhodes is here in person yeah it's going to like speak with council you have 10 minutes
 Thank you, Robert Rhodes, Hall Estill, representing the applicant. And actually, I'm actually representing the applicant and the former owner of this property. The former owner is the Harbaugh's. And to give you a little background, they bought this house about 20 years ago and unbeknownst to them,
 their driveway and part of the retaining wall was built on this easement. They didn't know about it until they went to sell it. The Timberlakes, who I also represent, Mr. Timberlake is here if you have any questions for him. Also, Tom Henley, our engineer, is here as well if you have questions. Well, you get 10 minutes, Robert. No, no, no. I'll be quick. I mean, if you're going to introduce other speakers. No, no, no.
 I won't even need all ten minutes. Oh, okay. And I'll tell you why. All right, so tell me why. Okay, so anyways, and by the way, Tom Henley actually designed this subdivision. Okay, that may be more information that you need, but I think that's an interesting fact. So we agree to all the conditions that the city has imposed on us as far as what we need to do.
 And really the only issue we had was with our neighbor, and there's only one neighbor involved because these ones in between the two pieces of property,
 And so we kind of talked about some various and sundry things. We are requesting a temporary construction easement from said neighbor. The neighbor literally as of about five minutes before the meeting started, we chatted and they said they didn't really want to give us the construction easement. And that's fine because according to Mr. Henley, we can do the work.
 It might be a little bit slower, might take a little more money, but we can do it within the easement that we currently have. So with that said, I have a text message from the neighbor's lawyer, and that is John Elrod, and I think you heard him two weeks ago when we both asked for two more weeks, okay?
 And he said, I could read this to him. To confirm our conversation, my clients will not give the easement. They will not object to the proceedings before the city council, but reserve all rights if the trees are damaged or die because of the works being done. Thanks, Robert. Okay. So I say all that to say the reason we didn't ask to go forward two weeks ago was we were trying to work out a couple of issues.
 We literally had four or five other things that we agreed to, such as repairing the sod or the grass, if it's just grass and it's not sod, leveling things and that nature. That's really a lot of those things are already in our plans, and we're going to be good, responsible citizens. The Timberlakes just would like to get this done.
 this project started and done so they can enjoy their house. And of course the neighbor would like to make sure that we do it properly. And we've got one of the best engineers and we've got a contractor that also is an engineer by nature.
 And so we should get it done effectively. If we don't, the city will hold us responsible and we'll do it right. We'll handle that end of it. Yeah. So we'll do it right at some point. Okay. But I think we'll do it right on the first time. I would ask you to approve this partial vacation of this easement. And I stand ready, willing, and able to answer any questions as does Mr. Henley. Okay. What questions does the council have for the staff or the applicant?
 Anything? All right. DeAndre, do you have anything? No, Mayor Jordan, I don't. Okay.
 All right. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council what action with the council like to take or what discussion with the council like to have Do we move it on to the next reading? Well Usually see if you want to discuss anything But you can move it on to the next reading if you wish to I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading All right second we have a motion to second to go third and final reading care which please call the roll. All
 Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Kenyon yes we did her yes Scroggins yes yes yes yes and orders approved vac 22-0 15 for property located at 2584 North Kenwood Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of a drainage easement okay any final comments from the council here which please call the roll
 Hertzberg yes Arby yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Turk yes and the reason I do do that is because a lot of times y'all want to have a discussion and then somebody's trying to jam it on reading and everybody says don't jam it on to the third reading there so that just saves me a lot of issues
 All right, here we are at new business number one An ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition RZ n 22-0 24 Located at 502 South College Avenue and Ward 1 for approximately point to eight acres from NC neighborhood conservation to RAU residential intermediate urban KIP meet ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section one and
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RI-U Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is found in Ward 1. It's just south of downtown Fayetteville on the east side of College Avenue between 5th Street to the north and Martin Luther King Boulevard to the south. Oh, you're not seeing anything, are you? Let's try that again. I apologize. Well, one last try here. We'll just do it like this.
 Again, we're just south of downtown Fayetteville. As you can see on the black outline on the aerial map here, we're on the east side of College Avenue between 5th Street, which is immediately to the northwest, and Martin Luther King Boulevard to the south. It is currently developed with just one single-family home, which was built in 1960. The request is to rezone the property.
 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Staff's review of the request included an assessment of course of land use compatibility
 uh this was a fairly resulted a fairly diverse yield of land uses which is perhaps unsurprising in the walker park neighborhood within about 500 feet staff found dwellings and lots of various sizes i believe there were two religious institutions uh two churches uh of course jefferson school to the south i think there were four or five duplexes uh two apartment buildings down on seventh street
 and at least one fourplex. So that is to say there's a wide diversity of land uses and specifically housing types, which staff finds that residential intermediate urban compliments with its allowance for a single two, three and four family housing. Similarly, well, I guess I'm just cursed to not have a presentation that works in that, I'm sorry. Oh, I was bound to happen, wasn't it?
 similarly staff found the the proposal to rezone the property from
 to residential intermediate urban to complement our long range planning goals. The future land use map designates this or anticipates this area of town being developed with a wide variety of housing types. Similarly, the Walker Park plan includes a mixture of prioritization between preserving single family homes, but also encouraging additional housing types where appropriate and staff feels that College Avenue is one of those appropriate locations.
 When looking at it from our long-range planning goals and city plan 2040, we feel it is quite appropriate. We feel this is appropriate infill, which you can see in the properties, all the marks it gets from the infill matrix. It's near Fire Station 1 downtown, has access to water and sewer. It's near City Park, City Trail, ORT bus routes 10 and 20 go nearby the property.
 And it is also one of those rare parts of town that has a very high intersection density, meaning as a well-established street grid that allows a diffusion of traffic and limiting of congestion.
 With those issues in mind and not finding any additional issues, including no public comment either at the Planning Commission before it or after it, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly, and they forwarded it to Council unanimously, recommending it be approved 9-0. And I'm available for questions, and I believe Ashley David is here in person as the applicant for the item. Thank you, and apologies again for the technical difficulty. It's okay.
 would the applicant like to yes you have 10 minutes thank you um my name my name is ashley davis i am the applicant and the property owner um i don't have anything to add to what jonathan said but i'll be happy to answer any questions that you have okay what questions do we have from the council for staff or the applicant okay deandre do you have anything no i don't thank you okay all right let's take some public comment then
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoo we'll be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that susan how do you have on zoom no one on zoom mayor did you have any questions mark okay all right do we have anyone in the chamber that'd like to speak on this top reason okay
 All right. This is an ordinance on the first reading. What action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have?
 i haven't heard anything just yet from anyone um you know we do have the riu right next door and uh it's very busy dense area uh so i'm definitely inclined to support it but um i'd love to hear what uh councilmember jones if you've heard from anyone sure no i have not no i have not and i'm uh hoping i'm both interested and hoping to hear from uh
 to hear concerns from our constituents. But no, I haven't heard anything. Okay. So what y'all want to do? Yes. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Kenyon yes we took her yes Scroggins yes yes yes and orders to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RCN 22-0 24
 Located at 502 South College Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately .28 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Inion yes Whittaker yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Kirk yes an ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-024 located at 502 South College Avenue in Ward 1
 for approximately 0.28 acres from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban any final comments from the council care would you please call the road erksberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes yes scroggins yes yes kirk yes
 Okay, thank you all. Number two, an ordinance for zoning at property described in the zoning petition is the N22-026 located at 2015 South Vale Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately 3.50 acres from NSG Neighborhood Services General to CS Community Services. We are ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NSG Neighborhood Services General to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor.
 There we go. All right. This property is also located at Ward 1, although it takes us quite a bit further south into Fayetteville towards Mount Kessler, but not quite that far. We are in southwest Fayetteville, just northwest of the intersection of Razorback and Cato Springs. The property in question is bordered by Razorback Road on the west and Vail Avenue on the east and the associated railroad track just beyond that for the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad.
 It is a largely undeveloped piece of property, except for a single family home whose roof you can see on the aerial image here, which fronts on the Vail Avenue. Otherwise, it's largely clear. You can see quite a bit of tree canopy located, especially on the property lines and scattered throughout the site.
 The most prominent characteristic of the site, however, is the unbuilt right-of-way that bisects it from east to west. You can see a little divot in the Razorback Road property line there, which indicates approximately where that right-of-way begins on the west side of the property and running horizontally across to Vail Avenue.
 This property does have some recent history that probably makes it familiar to the City Council The first time you all saw it recently was in April of last year. There was a request to vacate that piece of right-right away I was Referencing that bisects the property that request ultimately failed the request was denied There was felt to be a valuable public interest in maintaining it. Otherwise, there'd have been a very significant uh
 a mega block if you will, lacking connectivity between Cato Springs to the south and a smaller residential road further north. Junction Street that you see on the map here is actually just a private road that serves some apartment dwellings there. Following that and more recently in February of this year, the City Council rezoned the property from its CS Community Services designation to NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 Since then, there's been a bit more history that you all have not seen. The applicant came before the Planning Commission for a conditional use permit for multifamily housing, which is only allowed by conditional use in the NSG zoning district. That was approved, and afterwards, large-scale development plans were submitted to Planning and taken to Planning Commission.
 It was during that high level of detailed review that comes with getting very detailed civil drawings and building elevations and things like that, that planning identified that the proposal was running in the conflicts with the lot area requirement of the underlining NSG Neighborhood Services Zoning District.
 The applicant appealed staff's interpretation on this issue to the Board of Adjustment. Just recently that went to the Board where it was denied. They upheld staff's determination of how we apply our lot area requirements. That brings us to tonight, which the relief would be to rezone the property, and in this case rezone it back to CES Community Services as it was prior to February of this year.
 That said, and as Council may recall, staff did speak in opposition to rezoning it or down zoning it to NSG earlier this year. From a land use compatibility standpoint, we felt that community services was complementary to the area. There is a comparatively robust amount of infrastructure available to the site. Razorback Road is a four lane state highway that connects to Interstate 49 and a wider street network.
 Similarly, there's a wide variety of land uses in the area. While it's mostly housing and immediate proximity, there are non-residential uses along Cato Springs Road, of course the concrete plant to the east that we feel that the non-residential and residential uses allowed in community services would be complementary of.
 From a land use planning standpoint, staff similarly feels that the request is consistent to go back to community services. Again, a lot of that has to do with the existing infrastructure and the transportation network. Not only is the street network fairly robust here, but there's also access to Razorback Transit. The trail system for the Town Branch Trail is a little bit further to the north. Accordingly, we are recommending in favor of the request.
 I'm sorry, I got out of the habit of using my slides immediately because it didn't work one time. The infill score also was a factor in that. Again, I mentioned the transit already, but of course there's water and sewer. Even if you don't go to the north to the trail system that's available further north on Razorback, there's also a trail available further east along Cato Springs.
 In terms of the Fayette Junction plan, staff still feels that the CS Community Services Zoning District most readily fits the goals of this plan, which was to have a fairly intense hub at this area. Granted, it's been many years since that plan was adopted, about 14, but we do feel that there are still potentials to realize pieces of it.
 Again, we did not find any issues with the property. It's not in a floodplain. There aren't significant natural resources and that was one of our reasons also previously for supporting keeping this level of intensity allowance on it.
 We do recommend in favor of it, perhaps unsurprisingly. The Planning Commission, when considering the issue, recommended it be approved as well, forwarding it to you all unanimously. To date, there has been one piece of public comment. There is a resident to the south of this property that felt that the conditional use permit process for the multifamily housing offered them some level of protection for some concerns they had about a dumpster enclosure being placed near their property line.
 otherwise I'm happy to take any questions the council has and I believe I have will Kjellstrom as the applicant for this item but I'm not certain if he is online or in person would the applicant like to speak okay thank come on out you have 10 minutes will Kjellstrom on behalf of the applicant
 Well, I was prepared to get up here and tell you all this long jaded history of this project, but Jonathan's already done a pretty good job of that. So with that, the only real comment I have is that I apologize for taking up y'all's time on the first request. So if you guys have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Thank you. Okay. So this was what it originally was.
 Right and now That is we're going back. We changed it and now we're going back to the original. That's the request Yes, he don't just wanted to be sure I got this. All right. So what questions do we have from the council or the? Staff I mean over there the council for the staff or the applicant anything Yandere do you have anything? No, I don't okay. All right I
 Let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. All right. All right.
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? It seems like we were okay with it at one point, so I move to spin rules and go to second reading. Second. We've been here before, so did we get a second on that? Yes, second. Okay. Tara, would you please tell them the role? Hartspark? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Gliedeker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 22-026 located at 2015 South Vail Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately 3.5 acres from NS Neighborhood Services General to CS Community Services.
 Movies to spend the rolls and go to the third and final reading second second We have a motion to second to go third and final reading care which please color Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes, I
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-026, located at 2015 Southvale Avenue in Ward 1, for approximately 3.5 acres from NSG, Neighborhood Services General, to CS, Community Services. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council?
 The applicant is on the golf course asking for a mulligan, and so I don't see any opposition to it, Mayor. That's good. Anything else? Kara, would you please call the roll? Erksberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, let's go to number three. An ordinance rezoning a property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-025 located at 507 South Church Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately .17 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, and the legal description exhibit be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 in section two that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay jonathan tell
 Thank you, Mayor. I actually received a request from the applicant yesterday that this item be tabled to the August 16th council meeting. I am prepared to present on it if the council is interested, but the applicant is not available. And they did understand that they didn't want to start the reading process until there was a full hearing. And I think this also dovetails nicely. I believe some of y'all may have received some public comment recently.
 very shortly before the meeting about a nearby property owner who wanted to coordinate with the applicant. I don't know if that's the applicant's reason for requesting the tabling, but there might be some nice serendipity there. I'm happy to take questions. No, I haven't. I'm okay with the tabling if that's what they want to do. Okay, DeAndre, you heard anything? No, I have not.
 Okay, so I assume the council is going to table this item or just leave it on the first reading, right? That's right. We just leave it on the first reading then Mayor mask. Mr. Williams question. Mr. Williams if the request was to table specifically to the second meeting and cap on Oh, I said August would that be more appropriate to table? Oh, yes. Well, yeah. Okay. Go ahead And maybe we table to the second meeting in August second, okay
 do we need public comment okay i'm going to we're going to table it um let's take some public comment everybody got one turn to speak five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic give us your name and address and those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those
 President in the chamber will speak after that Susan who do you have? No one has raised their hand mayor. Okay. Is there anyone would like to address this on this topic in the chamber? Okay, so we have a motion in the second to table correct. All right care which please call row Hertzberg Yes, Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes Kenyon, yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Let's move on to number four. An ordinance to amend 92.04 sale of diseased animals kennel and pet shop regulation to prohibit the retail sale of dogs, cats and puppies.
 and kittens unless obtained from an incorporation with the Federal Animal Shelter or another animal rescue organization and to declare an emergency kit.
 Whereas the city of Fayetteville has an interest in maintaining the public safety and welfare of citizens and residents of Fayetteville and its visitors, and whereas Arkansas Code Annotated 14-54-1037 provides that cities shall have the power to prevent cruelty to animals, and whereas the Humane Society of the United States estimated that there are at least 10,000 puppy mills in the United States, fewer than 3,000 of which are regulated by the United States Department of Agriculture,
 And whereas according to the Humane Society of the United States, puppy mills are high volume dog breeding facilities that churn out puppies for profit, ignoring the needs of the puppies and their mothers. And whereas according to the Humane Society of the United States, puppy mills commonly sell through retail pet stores, and the majority of the puppies sold in pet stores are in fact from puppy mills.
 And whereas current state and federal regulations do not adequately address the sale of puppies and kitten mills, dogs and cats in retail pet shops. And whereas Petco and PetSmart, the city's largest pet supply stores, have corporate mandates against the sale of dogs and cats. And both work with local pet rescues and shelters to allow pet adoptions through those organizations at their store locations.
 and whereas it is in the interest of the City of Fayetteville to promote and ensure humane approaches and standards for animal disposition and ownership by encouraging the adoption of rescue dogs and cats. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 9204 by enacting a new Subsection C as shown below. Quote, Subsection C
 It shall be unlawful for a pet shop to offer for sale or to display any dog, cat, puppy, or kitten unless obtained from and in cooperation with the Fayetteville Animal Shelter or an animal rescue agency or organization.
 Every pet shop offering for sale or displaying any dog, cat, puppy, or kitten shall display a label stating the name and address of the organization supplying said animal on the animal's cage.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because it will help prevent the sale of sick animals from puppy mills and other commercial breeding facilities in which the health of the animal being bred is disregarded, which is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents.
 Therefore, the City Council hereby declares that an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. And Mayor, this afternoon, after some consultation and comments from the public and others, I thought that Subsection C should be somewhat expanded to make sure that the other shelters besides the Fayetteville Animal Shelter
 could be accessing our pet stores, but I wanted that under the, and with the okay and cooperation of the Fayetteville Animal Shelter. I wanted them to be able to approve that to make sure that whatever other shelter might want to use the pet stores, it would be approved by Fayetteville Animal Services.
 And I also thought that the volunteer animal rescue organizations should also be approved by Fayetteville Animal Services. They have a lot of experience in this, and they know which is the real animal rescue groups. I think there are a lot of them in there. My wife does one herself. So I rewrote this a little bit, added a little bit to it.
 And I would hope there would be an amendment to it. Let me read you what I'm proposing subsection C should say. It shall be unlawful for a pet shop to offer for sale or to display any dog, cat, puppy, or kitten unless obtained from and in cooperation with the Fayetteville Animal Shelter, a government or non-profit animal shelter approved by the Fayetteville Animal Services, or a non-profit animal rescue organization approved by Fayetteville Animal Services.
 So that is a sentence that would have been changed to the first sentence. And so I would recommend that to the City Council at this point in time to make this a little bit more clear and make sure that animal, Fayetteville Animal Services can use their expertise to make sure it is the right kind of group that we are going to be helping by allowing them to display their animals. Let me ask the two sponsors of the ordinance. Do you have a concern about amending to that?
 I don't. I think that our animal shelter, I do agree with the city attorney on this, I appreciate
 clarification because I did get the emails and I thought well that's a good good point there we don't have this outline I think our animal shelter already works with quite a few rescue groups and possibly other animal shelters in the area I'm looking at Justine there and she's nodding so I think they're they're more qualified to know who
 the best shelters and that sort of thing would be. And I think that they would also, like we also have a county shelter. This was something that was brought up and I'm pretty sure Fayetteville Animal Shelter already works with Washington County is,
 She's nodding again, so she'll come up and outline this a little bit more too, I think. But I feel comfortable with these changes. Holly, do you feel comfortable with it? Yes, I agree with Kit and Sarah. I think that this would broaden or make this a little bit more flexible, but also offer the same protection that we have the Animal Service Department involved. So I'm in favor of this amendment.
 Okay, so is that a motion? I move to amend subsection C to Kitt's recommendation, and I'll second that. Okay, so we have an amendment to subsection 3. Any discussion with the council? Okay, DeAndre, do you have anything? No. Okay. I don't have anything to add to that. No. Okay. All right. Okay, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes, please.
 Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes yes yes okay now we have it amended all right just
 good evening mayor and council members way down here all right um good evening it's good to see you at the end of this meeting um i wanted to give you a little bit of background about how this came about um
 back i would say i would say late 2019 early 2020 right and when things were getting real fun with the pandemic um our animal services advisory board which is one of the city's boards that is made up of citizen members as well as representative bunch who is our council representative um
 There had been a business that had opened up in Rogers and had gotten a lot of negative public feedback because of their business practice of selling commercial retail pet cells of puppies. They wanted to look at our current ordinance, see what we could do to improve that to further
 Fayetteville's overall mission to be a very humane community. We have a very pet loving community and we wanted to further that interest. So the members researched, discussed and voted in favor of animal services staff bringing forward a change to the current pet sales ordinance to not allow commercial pet sales of dogs and cats.
 I wanted to give a little bit of clarification to you because we have had a lot of comments back and forth today that I've seen and I'm sure that you've seen as well. This in no way would affect anybody who is wanting to have a small scale breeding operation. If you have a couple of dogs that you want to breed and you're wanting to sell them privately, you know, personally, that's fine. This is just addressing
 the sale of dogs and cats in a retail outlet. As also previously mentioned, both PetSmart and Petco, which are our two biggest current pet supply stores that have been here for years, both have corporate mandates against the sale of dogs and cats. So when you go in those stores, the pets that you're seeing there are being sourced from either local municipal shelters, 501 , and other local stores.
 animal rescue organizations. So when you see those, sometimes people get confused about what that is. And then also, something I've seen thrown around a little bit too, is just the idea that
 If a store was wanting to sell puppies, it doesn't mean that they can't still operate a pet supply business. Of course we welcome pet supply businesses in Fayetteville and the competition that they bring. But what we're really targeting here is the fact that the sourcing of these puppies that come into these retail outlets are coming from puppy mills. And puppy mills are a place that no one ever really wants to be. They are
 commercial dog breeding facilities in which the health of the dogs is disregarded in order to maintain a low overhead and maximize profits. There's very little oversight. The conditions are deplorable. A lot of these dogs that I have personally seen and others in our community that do rescue work
 If you've ever dealt with a dog that has come from a puppy mill, and I'm talking about the ones that don't make it to the pet store, the ones that are left there in cages where they never see grass, they don't get touched by humans, they don't go outside, they never receive vet care, they never receive any kind of grooming services. It's a pretty horrific place, and I think it's really hard for the average customer to...
 associate that sometimes with what they see in a bright lit store that's happy with I'm sure very welcoming customer service. People don't understand what they're helping to continue to propagate. And that was kind of the purpose behind, that is the purpose behind this ordinance. Fayetteville, we are very lucky to live in a community that is so supportive of our animal services, like even in the Northwest Arkansas region, I feel like our animal services, they
 division receives more support than any other local community and we are so appreciative of that. Currently I have more dogs in my facility than I've had in probably the last three years.
 We're definitely seeing a lot of people in a lot of tough places that are needing to place their pets. We definitely do not have a lack of adoptable pets in our community and certainly in the Northwest Arkansas region. And this is not just an issue that Fayetteville is facing. I work closely, as Sarah said, with other local shelters, particularly Springdale. And their director has been in the same place for a long time. They're just inundated with people that
 either put off having their pets spayed during the pandemic or um you know financially or just really struggling so there's definitely not a lack of adoptable pets and we want to make those a priority because those you know they didn't ask to be here but they're here and we want to give them the best shot that we can at finding a loving home um we have a vet on staff of course to ensure you know that our puppies uh that are put up for adoption are healthy um
 So in summary, that's what this ordinance is for. We just really are wanting to target this, you know, we can't regulate what happens outside Fayetteville city limits, but we can take a stand on the product that is here and that is something that, you know, we don't want to see that these puppies coming in from puppy mills and being sold. In addition, you know, a lot of places that sell these puppies, they sell for a lot of money, like thousands of dollars.
 And a lot of people don't have thousands of dollars to initially spend on a pet, so they offer financing through a private entity. And a lot of times those interest rates are 30% and up. And then, you know, if you default, it's even more penalties. And in my communications with directors from both the Humane Society of the United States and Best Friends Animal Society, that was something that came up in these places open in college towns, particularly like we have a lot of people that maybe don't,
 have the financial know-how or the savvy to understand when they might be taking advantage of. They're not reading the fine print because it's a very emotional thing. So that's what we're trying to prevent with this ordinance moving forward. And I'm happy to answer any questions that anybody has. Okay, do we have any questions from Justine or do the two sponsors of the ordinance like to make a statement or... What questions do we have for Justine?
 I don't have any questions. I'm pretty clear on everything. Okay. I just wanted to be sure. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? I don't have any questions. I just want to thank you all for bringing this forward. DeAndre, do you have any questions? Nope. Okay. No questions. Okay. All right. The sponsor's...
 to say anything or you want to go on the public comment or? Well just very briefly I would say that you know I've been on the Animal Services Advisory Board for a while and I'm glad Justine pointed out that we started talking about this and when when the store first opened in Rogers so that was 2019 or 2020 and we have a pandemic and you know this kind of got put on the back burner a little bit.
 It is something we had talked about multiple times over the past several years and started the process of actually writing it. And just, you know, it just kind of, there always seemed to be a big agenda and everything going on and it was kind of asked to be.
 well let's wait a little while and now's the time to do it I think. Thank you. Okay. I just wanted to add kind of how I got involved in this. I had approached Kit and Justine to work on our pet care ordinance to improve our requirements for shelter for outdoors because we've gotten some public comments from concerned residents about care of animals. So I was meeting with them and they mentioned that Sarah had
 brought up this this ordinance and so I Asked to be a part of it and she graciously allowed me to co-sponsor this And so that's how I got involved and I am very much in support of this. So thank you That's actually the other way around because I did not I did not bring this forward It was I forgot who it was that started it on the animal services advisory board, but Holly is the one that really I
 took it to the front burner this past couple of weeks so and I think Justine was probably the one that it brought it to our attention thank you Thank You Justine okay thank you any other questions from the council or anything let's take some public comment
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak after that. Who would like to address us? Mayor, I have Elizabeth Orrick on Zoom. Okay, go ahead. Elizabeth, you'll need to unmute.
 Oops, sorry, I thought you did that for me. All right, can you hear me all right? Yes. Wonderful. Good evening, Honorable Mayor and Council Members. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Elizabeth Horik. I'm the National Manager of Puffy Mill Initiatives for Best Friends Animal Society, and I'm here on behalf of our Fayetteville members, supporters, partners, and staff in full support of this ordinance.
 There are a lot of reasons why Fayetteville should support humane pet sales, and Justine did a great job outlining those. So I'm just going to focus on one issue, and that is ethical breeding. Because as much as we encourage anyone looking to bring a pet into the family to consider adoption first,
 We recognize that that's not going to be the choice everyone is going to make, but there is a big difference between ethical hobby breeding and the large commercial facilities that ship animals across the country to be resold in pet stores.
 Pet stores rely on commercial breeding mills to supply their inventory because ethical breeders won't sell to pet stores. And that's for two simple reasons. It's not financially viable, and they don't sell to third parties. They want to know where those pets are going. They want to meet the people who are going to care for that animal. They're not doing it solely for profit.
 And that's why the pledge to never sell a puppy or kitten to a pet store can be found verbatim in every reputable breeder's code of ethics, including virtually all of the breed clubs promoted by the American Kennel Club and U.S. Cat Fancier Associations.
 Although the commercial breeders that do supply pet stores may be regulated by the USDA, the federal care standards do not ensure quality breeding or a humane life for animals. And as Justine said,
 For example, dogs are allowed to be confined to tiny wire cages that legally only need to be six inches larger than the dogs themselves. 24 hours a day, seven days a week for their entire lives. Forced to breed every cycle in order to produce as many puppies as possible.
 This substandard breeding that occurs in these mostly out-of-state facilities that Fayetteville has no way of regulating or inspecting means that unsuspecting buyers are often faced with a pet having physical, genetic, and psychological problems that can cause them to be surrendered to shelters when the emotional toll and the vet bills become insurmountable. So this is not just about protecting animals. It's about protecting consumers.
 Yet this ordinance would not prevent pet stores from doing business if they utilize a humane, business-friendly model that generates profit through sales of supplies and services, as thousands of successful pet stores across the country are currently doing, and ideally partnering with shelters and rescue groups to offer homeless pets for adoption.
 It would not impact ethical breeders who could continue to sell directly to the public. And of course, it wouldn't prevent anyone from adopting an animal from a shelter or rescue group. This would be a fair and effective way to prevent an endless supply of poorly bred pets from being imported into the community so that fewer animals will have to suffer in order to supply the retail pet trade and to relieve the burden.
 on your own shelter and therefore the taxpayers who subsidize shelters by getting companion animals out of those facilities and into retail settings where they have a greater chance of being adopted by the public. That's why more than 440 cities, counties and states have enacted humane pet sales legislation like this
 and Best Friends Animal Society, and so many of your constituents hope that Fayetteville will become the first city in Arkansas to take this important step to protect pets, consumers, and taxpayers. We are very invested in the pets and people of Northwest Arkansas, and we really appreciate your consideration of this issue and for all the time that you put into it and for giving me the opportunity to share our support with you. Thank you so much, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else do you have? No one else on Zoom at the moment. Okay, who would like to address this in the chamber? Well, everybody just start coming up to the podium. Hello Mayor and Council Folk. My name is Jen Boyer and I'm the chair of the Animal Services Advisory Committee. And like we've said before, we've talked about this for years. This is very important to our community and very important to the animals of our community.
 So they brought up a lot of great points before me, so I don't want to reiterate those, but I want to make some more points. And so I'm going to walk through kind of the life cycle of one of these animals for you. They are born at what they are deemed as USDA-licensed facilities. USDA-licensed facilities are what chickens and hogs and animals of that nature that are bred for food live in.
 So the USDA works very hard to make sure that those kinds of animals have what they need and the puppy mills kind of run by the wayside. These retail locations buy animals from those puppy mills, or worse, they use brokers. So there's no way to even track where these puppies came from. They could have had to travel across the United States to get to Fayetteville, Arkansas. Then once they arrive at these retail facilities, they're kept in small cages.
 they are not walked their only interaction is when they are put into the hands of unsuspecting people so that they elicit an emotional reaction so that those unsuspecting people can spend thousands of dollars we're talking seven ten thousand dollars for a puppy they may have not walked into that store wanting a puppy they wanted a leash or a new dog toy for the dogs they already own but the retail service folks
 use terrible tactics to sell these puppies at outrageous prices. So the puppy is sold. Now what happens? Since this puppy started its life in such a terrible condition and didn't get much better when it got to the store, the owner now has to take on potentially thousands of dollars in vet bills.
 We are experiencing a veterinarian shortage right now. And that would tax the Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas community of veterinarians to handle all of these new puppies that grow up to have terrible conditions. Conditions that cost thousands of dollars to fix or can't be fixed at all. These dogs and cats could live an entire life where they suffer because they were sold in a retail location.
 So we've spoken a little bit about how they are thousands of dollars and then you have to spend thousands of dollars to fix them because they weren't bred properly. They weren't cared for well. So a Fayetteville resident can now be, you know, they could have gotten a degree at the U of A with the money they spent on this poor puppy. And it impacts everything.
 their emotional well-being their financial well-being the well-being of their family to see children have to go through the loss of a pet unneedlessly so i urge you i urge you to please look at this amendment to the ordinance um and pass it because time is of the essence there is a store wanting to move in near mall avenue right now this is important please consider it thank you
 Who else would like to address us? Hello. My name's Karen Barker. I'm with Petland Incorporated with the corporate office. I've been in the pet industry for 35 years.
 kind of makes sense because my last name is Barker. I don't know if I really had any other option. I started in the pet industry as a vet tech. So I'm a certified vet tech, 15 years experience before I did a sideways move over to pet land. I've been a consultant with the corporate office for the last 15 years. I visit stores and I focus on animal husbandry.
 I work with the staff that takes care of the puppies while they're in our store waiting for their perfect family. They're not in cramped conditions. We have a great exercise and socialization program. Yes, our customers come in and they love and hug and squeeze and play with our puppies all day long. But our staff is the one that's ensuring that all of our puppies get one on one hugs and
 all day. It's documented. If you were to stop into any of the stores, you can see this documentation. It's monitored. We do our very best to make sure that these puppies get lots and lots of one-on-one time outside of being with their roommates. We do, I personally teach a workshop. So I talk to the kennel staff about how to, um,
 care for the puppies while they're in our store. We do best practices. We have procedures and protocols in place. We are always focusing on the one priority, which is the health and happiness of the puppy while it's at the store. I also have visited hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of breeders. Yes, they're all USDA licensed and inspected breeders. They're required to be in order to sell a puppy to a pet store.
 We all know that all of us in the room know that in order for a breeder to sell a puppy to any pet store, they have to be licensed and regulated. Or a hobby breeder, but even a hobby breeder has to be listed with the USDA in order for them to track and monitor to make sure that they're not
 falling under the meaning of a license category. And so puppy mills, we can't get puppies from puppy mills at our stores. We just can't. They're not licensed. They're not registered. They're not visited. They're not, they're trying to fly under the radar. And so that's just not an option at any of our stores for us to get from those types of conditions.
 We visit our breeders. We view what type of veterinary program they have. We view what kind of exercise and socialization program. Are the dogs stimulated? Are the dogs allowed to just be dogs? Are they loved on? Are they hugged on? Do they have names? Are they cared for properly and with love and respect? Those are the breeders that we work with. The puppies, all of the same category, but we know that the puppies are going to get loved and they're going to get hugged.
 All of our stores have extensive warranties. Our puppies are happy and healthy and they come from great places. And if there is a problem after the puppy goes home, we're here. PupLand's been in business for 50 years. We want lifetime customers.
 Somebody comes into our store and has an amazing experience and falls in love with a puppy and takes it home. We want that experience to be amazing. Whenever they grow up and they move out and they want to get their first puppy, we want them to come back and see us because it was so awesome. And they...
 have the opportunity to come and have magic and find the perfect puppy for them. We know where our puppies come from. We share that information with every customer that takes a puppy home. They know. There's nothing that they're not given. A lot of our breeders are genetic testing. They all do breeder pledges. They all make the commitment to the dogs that they have at their place. So, what else?
 I talk a lot I was just rambling and rambling please ask me some questions anything no question in the council all right we're here from everybody and then we can go back and if that's good thank you um thank you for this platform here I I my name is young Kwan um and I'm uh a customer over at Petland I I'm too busy working I guess I didn't I didn't know how to get
 puppies to be honest i said well if you need a detergent you go to walmart or if you need a puppy then you go to puppy store um had i'm here to tell you that this whole sweeping indictment on on pet land is completely unfounded in our experience um from day one i knew about the puppy mills so i walked into the store and i said the first question i asked is i like this golden doodle where is this golden doodle from
 I was given that information. I did my homework. And it certainly wasn't from a puppy mill. So I just feel as though that sitting here, and it wasn't 7,000, 8,000, 10,000, whatever the number was. It was nowhere near that I can tell you right now. I mean, I wouldn't have spent that much money. I know I love my wife. It's her gift. But that's a lot of money. And we were nowhere near that. And this vet bill of thousands and thousands afterwards, we've gone in, and this pet had pretty much no problems.
 And she has been the most important, just stabilizer in our family. There was no sign of trauma with Daisy. My wife has some issues with anxiety, and she's been nothing but just a calming presence. We didn't have to do anything special to Daisy to make sure that she was a happy pet in our house.
 In fact, when I first met her, I felt as though she was in a very loving environment with multiple employees who care deeply about the pet. And I felt as though that was the environment that I wanted to get my dog from. So it's hard to hear all these things that are being said about a company that I feel I've had great interaction with.
 There's no such thing as hidden fine print. I've read all the fine print, but there's nothing hidden behind it like an agenda as some would lead you to believe. And they're certainly not mistreated and not all diseased as we talk about.
 And I did not see that. And I'm here as an avid supporter of having a retail shop that can sell puppies in a good condition, in a loving condition. And I guess if we're going to question USDA and what they do with them, that's a higher level discussion. I feel as though if you're going to question whether they really do a good job of the puppy mills. I think they are in the business of part of their...
 responsibilities is to make sure that puppy meals are controlled and i feel as though that questioning whether usda their certification is you know really not valid i think that's going a little too far um and then just another thing i wanted to say is i'd like to see some real concrete evidence of all these negative comments the sweeping quote-unquote negative comments i started everything
 And also I feel as though there's a little bit of discrimination if you were to say this group of hobby breeders can sell puppies but this group over here because you're in a retail space and we know that you get them all, every single one of their puppies from puppy mill, I think this one is bad. I think that's completely discriminatory, I think there are certainly some breeders
 that you'd be surprised in their practice, in my research. And I think there'll be some pet stores that do not practice by good standards. So in that sense, I think you have to be individualized. You have to look at the company's past history, the company's also sort of the owner's history. A lot of things need to be delved in on instead of just sweeping indictment on every pet land and say it's a bad, bad, bad company.
 That's just about what I thought. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Well, I'm Melina Kwan. I'm a said wife that gets to enjoy my golden doodle every single day, all day long. She goes everywhere with me. For a long time, I wanted a dog. I have this horrible anxiety, depression, you name it, I have it.
 My husband was far dead set against a dog. No, absolutely not. Well, for one of my birthdays, he was going to surprise me. And, of course, he already told you. So...
 he was going to go find me a dog because i was giving him names out of the paper on you know on facebook hey look at this one look at this one but he didn't trust anybody i mean he's a surgeon he he wants to do his research he wants to know where this dog's going to come from he wants to know lineage he wants verification he wants to know and that's what he did with the boils and pet lands he wanted he wanted
 And so, you know, when he went in and he got all of this information and we went in and we met them and we fell in love with their family, with their facility. I encourage you, if you have never been into their facility, hop in and look at it. You will see that these pets are taken care of. They are loved. We take our kids in all the time just so they can play with all of the puppies.
 and it's not a game just to just to pawn them off to get money from from students that's so absurd and that's hurtful for families trying to take care of their family they're trying there's a business you know to attack in that sort of in that sense is just it is a family trying to take care of their family and they're doing it the right way and so to take ugly comments
 and dictate it that way is cruel and unfair. And I'm sorry if you guys were hurt with unfortunate circumstances, but this entity is not that way. I love my dog, and they loved my dog before I did. Thank you. Who else? What's your address? Kind of chicken scratch, so bear with me. My name is Emily Irvin.
 I just live here. I'm a former high school teacher. Right now my biggest job is being a parent and a dog mom. I also volunteer at a rural rescue and I provide towels and blankets that I have salvaged
 From places and I deliver them to the rural Rescues I will say I'm not a rescue or die girl that doesn't go over well with a lot of my friends, but I Have two French Bulldogs and I love them again that doesn't set well with some of my rescue friends But I admit it I love them. There are a lot of people that love purebred dogs
 I believe there are ethical breeders. Not popular, I believe that. I have seen them. I don't want to get caught up, however, on the semantics that the largest retail pet selling chain gets caught up in. Puppy mill is an ugly word. It's an ugly word, it sounds ugly, but it is the same thing as a high volume
 Um dog breeder they're the same one of them doesn't sound so ugly one sounds awful because they are My ma's who's a french bulldog. I wanted a puppy. They're cute. They're going to be loved no matter what um I had spoken to the woman and I felt assured because she told me She's usda licensed
 I felt better, like, okay, it's not a puppy mill. I'm no dummy. I asked the right question. She was no dummy. Her job is to sell me this cute puppy. But what I want you guys to understand is when we're talking puppy mills or high-volume dog breeders, it's really not so much about the puppies as it is about the grown-up, the adult dogs, the breeding dogs.
 They don't get to leave. I believe one of y'all was speaking about the cage sizes that the USDA regulates. The regulated legal cage size is six inches above the dog's head and six inches from their tailbone forever. It is legal for those parent dogs where our cute puppies have come from, some of us,
 their parents stay in that cage forever. They don't have to be let out to exercise. They do not. They have to have a written plan, but that is all it is. Twelve dogs per cage is allowable by the USDA. Unless there is a problem, the USDA is not required
 to inspect these facilities even once a year and that is that is true um if any of you have ever gone to a swimming hole it's hot in arkansas y'all have probably been in pretty close proximity to a legal puppy mill high volume dog breeder whatever you want to call it um so i'm
 It has been shown that this is where pet land gets their puppies from. And again, it's not about the puppies. They're going to be loved. They're going to be our companion animals. We love our dogs. They're our kids. All this. Their parents will never be a pet. Their parents and the puppies they produce until they're purchased will be livestock.
 They're not our pets. They won't be pets. They will be livestock, and that is legal. So the USDA doesn't do just a great job of regulating these places where Petland gets their animals. I had a whole lot written down, but then I got carried away. But mostly I just want y'all to think about not the puppies, because they're probably going to be loved. It's the parents.
 And there is no limit for the amount of dogs these breeders are allowed to have. Mine had 150 adults. A ton. Anyway, thank you all so much. Who else would like to address us? I'm going to hand over the folders to you guys, just some literature about us. Yeah.
 So in here there are a couple things. There's two things. By the way, I'm Samantha Boyle. Tom. This is Ryan Boyle. We are the owners of Petland. In our last week's minute, there were some articles that were brought up. I just wanted to answer those articles with the...
 case that was brought up about the inhumane actions, that case was actually dismissed. I have that case specifically in here. And I also have in here a, there were some talks about, there were some things that were spoken about the controversy that happened in Rogers. The reason why nothing ever aired on that is because 4029 did an investigation on us
 We let them in our store. We brought up every name, we looked up every record. The story was not substantiated. I have the whole entire dialogue here. You guys can literally see everything. We have nothing to hide. We're very transparent. But for us, I'm so thankful for Justine because nobody can do her job like her. I'm thankful to Emily because she knows what it takes to take care of the tree that she loves.
 We know what it takes to take care of the animals, regardless of their USDA license stature, we go above and beyond that. I feel exactly like Emily. I'm just like you guys. I'm an average soccer mom that wants to make sure that these parents are able to find a home right away after they have a litter or two. A lot of the breeders that we use are families just like you that love to breed. Emily loves French Bulldogs.
 i have a family that has two french bulldogs that's all they breed for us their kids play with them every day they sleep in their beds not every pet store is the same i can only speak on behalf of cutland fayetteville and i know for a fact that we've never once ever bought from a puppy mill
 It's just not what we do. It's just not what our standards are. I actually invited Councilperson Bunch to our store in Rogers, because it's open, to kind of see what we had going on, to ask any questions. She's super busy. That's fine, she couldn't come. I would love for all of you to come to our school.
 I have nothing to hide. We want you to ask any questions that you want to ask. We can tell you where every puppy comes from, where every puppy goes. If there's ever an issue with a puppy, we take care of that family 100%. We go above and beyond state regulations when it comes to warranties. We go above and beyond state regulations when it comes to socialization of our pets.
 You know, we don't have a social life. I literally work from 6am to 9pm every night, visiting breeders, having difficult conversations with them, even though they do a great job. It's not good enough for us, you know? We need to work together. The animal shelters that I have reached out to, to try to work with, you know, it's a yucky word, working with pet stores.
 but you know what you guys can be a voice of change we can work together to do what's best for the families to do what's best for the animals it's a great situation for the community you know all i ask is for you guys to you know really just come in give us the fairness of being able to educate the council on who we are where we come from what we do and
 You know, we are a legal, ethical, first-class business. We are the standard in pet stores. I can't speak on behalf of any other pet stores except for my own. And I know I put my sweat and tears into that every day. And if there's any ounce of your body at all that thinks that we could be different, come visit me, have a conversation with me. I'm a lot like you guys. I have the same exact feeling that you guys have.
 You know, we just need to work together to find a resolution because, you know, sometimes people don't want to go to an unknown place and see a pet. Sometimes, you know, it's just not that they want to go to a shelter, even though I have a rescue pod. I think they're amazing. You know, I support several rescues.
 I would be willing to have you come and do adoption clinics. I would be willing to support vaccination clinics. We offer a free stay and neuter with every single puppy that goes home. We offer a free vet visit. Because I want you guys to feel good about the animals you're taking home. We have nothing to hide. The vets don't work for us. They work for our families. You can use the vet of your choice. Did you guys have any questions for me? No. No.
 Do you all have any questions? Yes. I have a couple of questions. So how many stores exactly do you own and operate? So we own one in Joplin, we have one in Rogers, and then one in Sanbel. Okay, my second question is what would be the problem with sourcing puppies and cats from the animal shelter locally? That's a great question. So my biggest problem with that is where they get their pets is not regulated.
 I would like to partner with them to help them, you know, maybe give the shelter maybe their first training with one of our partner trainers that will go to, you know, the animal town and maybe say, hey, listen, based on my visit with this animal, we would recommend probably not going into a small town. Justine's been doing it long enough. I'm sure that she has a very good gauge on that. But we actually partner with trainers that will...
 go into the family's home that will actually work with a specific need um you know we work i'm on the children's miracle network board um in joplin well they probably shut that down but we've you know placed many pets in the home we've paid for their training um we've had
 Kids that literally had one flavor pallet go to five flavor pallets just because they were able to get the support and emotional needs that they weren't getting met because they just don't have the functionality to be in society. I've trained a German Shepherd to carry groceries for a local veteran.
 And, you know, he came back and, you know, took home a schnauzer from us because he was just so thankful for what we did and his wife wanted a pet. I'm so sorry. Go ahead. What other questions did you have?
 The last question, because we're running out of time here, is what's the average cost of a puppy in your store? So my cost or the consumer cost? The consumer cost. So it just depends. They range anywhere from $1,000 to, it just depends on, you know, I would say probably, with our average price right now...
 $3,500 to $4,000. And we do actually cover that pet, their warranties up to five years? A 14-day viral warranty, a three-year congenital warranty, and then a five-year hereditary warranty with every puppy that goes home. As well as mandatory microchip enrollment. We do that before they even leave the store for responsible pet ownership. And then we also process the registration for each puppy when it goes home.
 I have a question. So I was just kind of pulled up your store and was looking at some of the puppies there and they're all just really, really cute. What happens, how long do puppies typically stay in your store and what happens to them if they don't sell? So our commitment is 100% to that puppy. We take care of that puppy until it goes home. If it isn't, we have to place that puppy in a qualified home because, you know, it's,
 Getting older, that's what we do, even if we take a loss. Because if for the betterment of the puppy, it's not for us. Every puppy finds a home. Every puppy finds a home. No matter what, even if we have to give it away. Okay, so I see, I was looking, you have corgis and you have lots of...
 Designer breed. Yeah, I was like, I don't know what, Cavapoo or something like that, which I've never even heard of, but I know what it is probably. But so those are smaller dogs, you know, they're not huge dogs. But if a dog doesn't sell, you said you would give it away to get it into a good home if you had to. A qualified home. A qualified home. Did you give it to anybody? But what, so you would have to.
 How long does it take if a dog doesn't sell before that happens? Or, I mean, you know, how long do dogs, the puppies, usually stay in your store before they're sold? The average time. Our average days in house is probably around, what, 28 days probably? A little less probably. Average days in house. Okay. So at that point, our responsibility is 100% to the pet, to find the pet a good home. And believe it or not, we tell people no sometimes.
 You know, I've had customers come in and say, Mom, I want a husky. And the mom agrees to do a husky. And I have to have that conversation. I want you to understand that you live in an apartment that you –
 A Husky is not meant to live in an apartment. A Husky is meant to run. And if you're going to live in an apartment, you have to be active. You need to be going on at least three walks a day. It is a huge commitment. So sometimes it takes a little longer to find that qualified home. Yes, and we will tell them, I'm sorry, but let's –
 You know, I'll let you play with this husky. Let's see, you know, if there's something. But why don't you, let me recommend a pet for you based on what you told me. And then, so like we probably recommend something like maybe a Pomsky, which looks a lot like a husky. Okay. It has a much different need than say, you know, a Lockery or a Pomeranian. So do you ever end up with animals that you just cannot place and they might go to a rescue or something like that? Never. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, that's all I have for right now. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, thank you all. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Ward 1. I'm the president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. I learned of this issue this morning.
 I've been aware of this company looking to locate in Fayetteville since 2021 and have tried to help them look at places that might be suitable for their needs and given some guidance and advice to what I thought might be better locations than others.
 I did some independent evaluation of this company, unbeknownst to them, because I had read a little bit about them. And I'm like you, and I don't think anybody disagrees with you. You're appalled at puppy mills. They're incredibly bad in every definition of that. But I didn't find that to be the case.
 And this is a franchise. It's not a company. It's a franchise like Taco Bell or Wendy's. And the individual owner has a whole lot of responsibility as to how that organization works. My interest in being concerned about this, and I shared it with the assistant city attorney, was some of the language. And the language speaks to issues that are legal, not issues that deal with...
 some of the other things that have been discussed tonight. Legally, when this council decides it's going to decide what products and services people can sell, I think you potentially run afoul of the Commerce Clause of the United States of America. If it's not an illegal object or an illegal service, I can see I can do that. But for you to say, because I don't know where it stops, and that really gives concern to our chamber and our many members.
 Also what gives us concern is the language that says either unless obtained from the Fayetteville Animal Shelter or in cooperation with or another animal rescue organization. I don't know what any of that is. I don't know what the legal definition is of cooperation. I certainly don't know what the legal definition is of another rescue organization.
 It's something, but it isn't defined in this ordinance, and it makes it very difficult for any business that wants to operate in this city
 to understand what are the rules for operation particularly when not this council but an extension of the city through its animal services board is giving advice and perhaps requirements about who they can use and including to the language that was discussed here tonight that we know who the good breeders are based on what what are the standards how do they apply
 you've already heard from the people that are in the business there are a lot of really bad ones that we know but the issue here is regulating business i was a little concerned to learn that this business coming here in 2021 obtained a business license for the city no questions asked absolutely your legal lawful business please come you're welcome
 This business located a location where they'd like to operate, went to the planning commission, went to the city for permits. All of those were issued. In fact, they believe they are within one day of getting permission with a fire marshal's visit until this came up. So it's a crisis. There's no question. It bugs all of us. It aggravates us and makes us angry to our core. But also, we have a balance that we must strike.
 And the balance is, can lawful businesses operate in our city with lawful standards that are not nebulous or easy to misconstrue, but are very specific? And so in that instance, I really think that is an important thing for you to consider. So the emergency does exist. The emergency to act tonight does not. The emergency tonight is to get it right. And to get it right, you have to have some standards. And you get back to some other issues this council and other councils have faced, and
 When you start deciding goods and services that can be offered in this city because you don't like the way they're offered rather than the legality of what's being offered, I think you overstep your bounds.
 and so i urge you not to act with immediacy i would urge you to act as you are doing tonight hearing from many voices and let this business continue to go forward and if this business is a bad operator in the city i'll join you in driving them out thank you mr mayor thank you who else would like to address us okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 Mayor, I'd like to say one thing if I can. You sure can. This is not the first time the city council has considered restricting or prohibiting the sale of dogs and cats in the city. We have a specific code provision in our animal chapter that says you can't sell animals off of parking lots. We used to have a lot of that going around.
 And it was to do the same thing that I think the Animal Services Committee wanted to do here, is to protect the animals from being really sold or even given away to someone that might not know how to handle the animal or care for the animal. And we felt like that was just, or the city council felt like that was just the wrong thing to do, and so they prohibited that.
 And here, we never talk about any pet store that this might affect. We talk about some pet stores that don't do this, that sell pet supplies and live on that rather than trying to sell individual animals.
 But we are, this is directed totally at trying to slow down as much as possible the mass production of puppies and kittens that we see in this country under conditions that are being produced, under conditions that most of us don't think is probably the best thing to do. We're not trying to shut any business down. They can do anything except selling puppy mills
 dogs and cats. And so I think that we're not trying to, I want to make sure that the Chamber of Commerce realized we're not really directing this at any store. We want all the stores, all the pet stores in Fayetteville to operate under the same conditions where they're not helping and facilitating the mass production of cats and dogs, sometimes called puppy mills. And
 or this is at least directed toward trying to prevent that and rather than any other business that might be coming in. So I just want to say we're already, we've already made efforts years ago to prevent that kind of activity on parking lots and now it is being potentially extended to a pet store.
 I have a question and it's possibly for kind of a combination of the city attorney and Justine Lentz. In crafting this
 change to our ordinance. Where did you find, I mean I know we know that PetSmart and Petco do not sell animals, puppies and kittens that are, they only take them from shelters and rescues and that sort of thing, but where are other cities that have ordinances similar to this?
 because I know we mentioned a few when we first started talking about this but I'm kind of wondering where are some other places that might have have an ordinance like this and do those cities feel that they they are not promoting business by by not allowing a store to sell purebred dogs I don't think I don't think I don't think we're unique in this
 and alone out on island on this issue here. Yeah, so when we were doing our research and we reached out to Best Friends Animal Society, they gave us some information. So there are 26 other states that have enacted very similar retail pet store bans in over 350 cities.
 No one has ever filed a suit in a community for passing such an ordinance and displaced any currently open businesses. And further, only a handful of suits have been filed in communities that already had retail pet stores and none of those had been successful. So it's definitely, I mean, yes, we would be the first in Arkansas, but we're certainly not the first in the country. Thank you very much. I have a question for the owners, if you could come back up here.
 MS. So, Mr. Clark mentioned that you all were franchise. Is that right? So, the rules that govern Petland, your franchise, do they prohibit you from taking dogs or cats or kittens or puppies from an animal shelter? Is that a prohibition within the contract with Petland?
 um no it does not okay so for your three stores or your you could you could change that practice if you if you desired to we would have to change our class it's not our business model and um for the cross contamination of the puppies i just would feel like it would
 I mean, you could ask Justine, when you intake a pet not knowing where it came from, the quarantine process that has to happen is pretty intense because, you know, just like a human, we can harbor
 something viral for 14 days. That's why the state's regulation on warranties is 10 days, but we actually go above and beyond that to do 14 days because really that is the ethical thing to do for the consumer. And so it's just, if you quarantined every intake puppy to bring that in, basically a
 I just feel like there is a way that we could work with Justine and the local shelters to better each other. It could be a new business model. I will tell you ASTCA is opening up talks with major retailers to change that business model because things are different now. People understand that these animals are their family members.
 They are not just a cow sitting in a field, which every animal has its place, but not in my heart. The animal has a right to go to a loving home at a young age, and we care about that. We care about all of it. One thing we could also help Justine with is, we're open quite a bit within our shelters, and if somebody has an emergency or somebody needs to intake,
 We could have a designated spot maybe where we could take something in or help her in a designated area. I do have a separate room, but it couldn't be on a permanent basis. They would have to come get it on that following Monday. But there's so many options that we could do to help each other.
 I could help them with our, we have such strict protocols and everything that we could learn from her and she could learn from us. Have you all had conversations like that yet? So I have reached out and I actually have it on video. I have to find it. Sorry, we just learned about this literally today. Yeah.
 I have not had much opportunity to prepare, but I have actually recorded myself calling local shelters to try to partner with them to sponsor vaccinations. I've actually reached out to local vets to say, hey, can we do a spay and neuter clinic? Can we educate these people? And to be honest with you, the vets do not have the time to do it, even if I pay them to do it.
 There's just not enough hours in the day to take care of the animals the way that they need to be taken care of. And, you know, that's why I just am telling you, there's so much more that can be done. Okay, thank you. I'm just going to ask that we table this so that way we can get a chance to prepare and have you come visit. Thank you so much. I have a question here for Samantha. Yes. You mentioned...
 quarantining puppies if they came from a shelter. But doesn't, you know, do you quarantine the puppies that you get? That's a great question. When they come in, you know, so. So we know exactly where that puppy came from. I can see exactly that puppy's vaccination record. We have a very strict protocol on deworming on all of our prophylactic care. We even do a board of tellers just kind of like a flu shot for,
 Humans, puppies can get the same thing. And it's just helped give them that extra boost of immunity because if you think about a puppy, they basically work on mom's immunity for the first 16 weeks.
 So although we do give them their vaccinations, that's just such a strong component in how they're going to respond to the external, you know, whatever they're exposed to. But at the end of the day, I can see that. So what we do is once we take them in, we do a five-day deworming. And so basically what we do is we monitor their weight, we monitor their food, we monitor their water. We make sure that they...
 we just do everything that we need to do. We deworm them. If you guys can, I can show you everything that we do. When we take a puppy, I can show you, we also take them to the vet, which we don't have to do that, but we do that because what we need to do is if they have any issues, so say they have weak knees or an open fontanel, or there's so much that we can tell, whether a breeder wants to hide it or not, the puppy's health speaks for itself. And we can tell by having
 paying that bet to go down the list to say hey this is something healthy. Are we social? You know you can there's just so much that you you just have to run transparent business when you deal with a herd management situation and I mean systems. There's just no way around it. And I really appreciate your transparency on this but but you you go through this process but you don't actually
 quarantine the puppies for two weeks or anything like that. So we have to hold them for 48 days, but I can see that they've had their vaccinations. 72 hours. 72 hours before they're offered for seven. 48 hours. And in that time we're seeing the veterinarian, we're going through the treatments that Samantha talked about. Okay. So there is a quarantine process. Because we can see that they've had the care that they need before they come in. Because we require it by the breeders. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 That's all right now. Does anybody else have any questions? Well, I would like to ask Justine if she could come up. I don't have any other questions for you right now. Justine, when the animal shelter gets a dog, what's the process that they go through before that dog is available to you?
 Right. So obviously, we have city ordinances to follow. So any dog that we take in, or cat for that matter, unless they're coming directly from an owner who can no longer care for them, they are held either five to seven days, depending on if they're microchipped or not. Regardless of that, unless we have current vaccine records, we immediately give them, for dogs, a parvodastemper booster, bordetella, which is kennel cough, a dewormer,
 and we weigh them as well, treat them with a topical flea intake preventative. After they become our property, then we also heartworm test dogs that are over six months, they get spayed or neutered, they get their rabies vaccination if they're old enough. We actually have an extremely strict protocol with puppies because they are extremely vulnerable
 Same thing with kittens. We actually have one dedicated staff member that's in charge of puppies. That person is not allowed to interact with any adult dogs. We don't allow the public to come in and play with our puppies because we don't know where they've been. Parvo is a virus that puppies can get.
 is oftentimes fatal to them. If it's not fatal, it's pretty brutal to get them through it. We do treat puppies with parvo at our animal shelter on the regular, so we have a pretty good protocol for treating it, but to be extra safe, we don't allow people to handle our puppies until they either leave the facility or until they have three parvo distant birth boosters on board. Parvo is a very hardy virus. You can track it on your shoes, you can walk through it, you just
 don't know until it's too late, once they start showing symptoms, because a lot of times you can't test for it ahead of time, you can't test until they're showing symptoms. So that's a pretty lengthy process there as well, but before that puppy or young dog is available to be adopted, how many days does that take?
 I would say to minimum, obviously, five days. Usually it probably averages more in the seven to ten range. I actually would never turn around and adopt out a puppy that I had less than 72 hours because, I mean, anything can pop up, whether it's, you know, worms that maybe didn't get eliminated the first round. You know, Parvo does have a longer incubation period, too. So, I mean, that's always a possibility that that's not going to break until later. So we try to be as cautious as we can.
 The last time I was in the shelter, and this has been quite a while back, I know there was some procedure where you, of course everybody wants to play with the puppies because they're
 But I believe I had to, I was looking at a kitten or something like that and I had to walk through some kind of substance to clean my shoes off. And then I could only, if I wanted to, I couldn't just take one kitten out and put it back and get another one. I had to wash my hands.
 be really careful that way. Yeah, we, and our staff veterinarian, Dr. Henley, I mean, she has protocols for everything. And of course we train our volunteers as well, which is because anytime you're dealing with like a herd, right, like a large population of animals, you just have to be extra safe to keep everybody healthy as much as possible. Okay, okay, thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to speak to the council?
 or have i've already done that haven't i no no you get one turn to my i'm going to bring it back to the council so what do y'all want to do
 I'm wondering if there's a way that more time can be allowed. It sounds like we're one day away from certification for this business. Fire marshal. With the fire marshal. So I'm wondering if that could be held up for a couple of weeks to allow maybe Justine and the owners of Petland to maybe discuss if there is any room to cooperate or collaborate. Yeah.
 Just any room for that So I don't know what other council members feel or if that's even an option I feel like this can't be about pet land. It needs to be about Is this something we want for all or not? And that's what the decision needs to be about Unfortunately, it seems like some people think it's about pet land it needs to be about
 do we want this type of business specifically prohibited there or not? So I really worry. Hopefully it's something that we do independent of whatever Petland's doing. Yeah, I think that we have to look at this as a situation that is broad. I know I was very involved with the Humane Society for several years and I was president of the board here for several years and
 And I guess it's a supply and demand thing. If there was no demand for puppies from a high-volume breeder, then there wouldn't be high-volume breeders. And the demand, if you look at the statistics, this pet stores, this pet store sounds incredible, and I commend the owners for running a good business. But we can't...
 always know that that's what's happening. We have had a pet store here. It was out by the bowling alley, I don't know if y'all remember it. It was pretty, you know, when they did the investigation on it, it was unfortunate. And so that was a situation that, you know, was quite from the opposite of what we have here. So you have to think of the possibilities, I guess, or at least that's what I think.
 Also, my bookkeeper in the accounting division I'm in, she is a dog breeder for registered dogs. I can't remember what they are. But she doesn't have any problem selling them because they're registered and they're show dogs and people come to her. And that's her, you know, her responsibility to the dogs that she breeds. Okay.
 I commend this couple. I think that they have a great model, but I don't think that we can look at just one and think that that's okay, just based on statistics of, and I don't like the word puppy mill so much as high volume breeders, because that's more of what they are. It's more like livestock or poultry, but it's puppies. So,
 Anyway, I think you know where I stand and I think that that's how I would have to look at it. I think that Mark's hit on some really good points there. And so did Sloan about, you know, it just so happens that Petland is wanting to open in Fayetteville. And that's why we're talking about Petland. It's really...
 not that different than we talk about a rezoning and when someone says, well, I want to build a house or I want to build two houses. And we don't really know that for sure. But I think probably this company, you know, franchise, they have certain standards they have to meet and all of that. But I do.
 I have grave concerns. I would not have co-sponsored this bill or this ordinance if I had not had these concerns. And when I know that there are 350 other cities
 that have a similar ordinance or there are 26 other states that that where there's 350 cities that have Retail bands I have you know, I think that's an important thing to consider and when we look at the industry the the The biggest companies that I know You know Petco and PetSmart do not sell a
 purebred animals. They partner with rescues and shelters and that sort of thing. I think that's something I have to consider also. I looked at the Petland and Rogers and they sure do have some cute puppies up there. They are just cute little fuzzy things and I know, you know, I can understand the temptation to want to buy one of them but I also feel that we can
 And maybe we, I want to take pet land out of the equation altogether. But I just don't know that we need to be promoting that in our city. And we do have a lot of animals that are rescues or in the shelters that need adoption.
 And it's not, you know, we're not preventing anyone from going out and buying a purebred dog. My sister and brother-in-law bought a corgi puppy and they went to Missouri so they could get a purebred dog, you know. So I have had purebred dogs before.
 But I don't have one now, I have one that came from the shelter and she's a pretty good dog too. So I kind of, and I have actually known people that were high volume breeders that was kind of part of their farm model. And I don't really think it was the best situation honestly.
 close with that and wait to hear what the rest of you guys have to say and so I guess I have a comment I mean I think when we're a lot of the emails that I received you know it was about being sure that the animals were being humanely treated and
 um and so if there's if there's a way to to track how the animals come through where they're coming from whether they're sold at pet land or something like that is that something that we're open to or we're just saying where it's just easier we can't we really don't have the resources to to go and inspect and track that and that's what we're that's what we're concerned about right so how do
 I guess for people that are wanting us to protect animals, the answer is to reduce the number of places where the hands are exchanged. And I think that's what's happening. That's the question that the people of Fayetteville are asking us. Like, you're our city council. How can you help us protect our animals? And y'all are doing, it sounds like, an incredible job. Yeah.
 And we also have constituents saying, you know, we've unfortunately had these stories. And so like we're having these dilemmas because, you know, we absolutely want business. Your business sounds really good. You're not you're the exception.
 You're the exception. And so how do we balance that? We want people to be able to get the amazing dogs they have, you know, and you've had a great experience. And that's anxiety is something everybody's probably experiencing right now. Maybe a Labradoodle is the answer from Petland. I don't know. But we really don't.
 We don't have any way to track that, I guess, is the issue. So I don't know if this ordinance can include a tracking. You know, like if we just said, hey, for every animal that's sold in Fayetteville, is there a way to track the animals? Unless the council brings you up. I don't know about that, but I do think that with, I think I had,
 I heard, I mean, I always try to take everything with a grain of salt. And, you know, you hear horror stories. And they're designed to be horrible stories. They're to really make a point. So I kind of pull back from the worst case scenario and think maybe it's not quite as bad as that. But I don't know what we can do about that. I don't think there's any way we can. So...
 I would love to table this and look at it at another point. I agree with you that we need a mechanism. I know it's at the state level, but think about alcohol.
 entity to sell alcohol, but if they do it wrong, the state goes, you don't get to sell alcohol anymore. So we need to look at this a little bit more and come up with something that so if they do it fine, then they get to keep doing it. If somebody else comes in with some derivation of the name pet and they're not doing it right, that we can say, hey, we know you're not doing it right. You're going to have to fix and
 temporarily lose that right just like alcohol places if they keep selling it to minors they don't get to sell it to anybody for a while and if they keep doing that then they either a never get to sell it or get to go to jail so I think we we need to review this and and and write something that works
 independent of their name and more what they're actually doing on the ground. So I have a comment. In the past, when we've looked at this, and I was on the committee before Sarah was, and like I say, I've been active in the shelter. I moved back here in 91, and that's when I got on the board of the local humane society, which at that time ran the shelter. The...
 The problem is we don't have an agency and we cannot afford an agency to go out and be the police in this realm of enforcement. I think, you know, if there were a... We know about what we have, but really there is not tight restrictions that are enforcing this through an agency. So, yeah.
 That's a concern. I have something I'd like to add. For me, I came into this issue not knowing about any business in particular. I came to Kit and Justine concerned about outdoor shelter.
 So for me, this is not to do with any business, not to do with anybody in particular. This was just care of animals. And I would like to take anybody out of the equation. I just want us to look at the ordinance for what it is, which is protecting the health and safety of animals. So I would like to bring forward a motion to move to the second reading.
 Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 And your order is to amend section 9204, sale of diseased animals, kennel, and pet shop regulation to prohibit the retail sale of dogs, cats, puppies, and kittens unless obtained from and in cooperation with the Fayetteville Animal Shelter or other animal rescue organization and to declare an emergency. I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second.
 The motion is saying to go to the third and final reading. Mayor, I have a comment. Can we just, before we do the reading, can we, or the voting, can I just comment that
 you know here i think we need more information i i am so sorry that we are under the gun with one day to go but i'm feeling like this is being really rushed um i guess you guys know that i like to do a lot of research i feel like i i feel like this issue was way more complex than i realized and um so you know i'll support moving this a little bit forward but i would really uh
 I'd like to not make the final vote tonight if there is any way for us to delay the fire department from certifying this business or whatever the right term is. So I will just put that out there. I'm okay to hold it as well. I mean, I would like to hear Kit's comments on what was just said, and I don't know that we can even do that. I don't think that's- You can with your motions.
 You could do that in that, you know, if you're voting on tonight and you're making a decision tonight, if you suspend the rules and go to third reading, it's ready to be voted on, it could be tabled then. But I don't understand how that would be different. And actually, I think we have other council members that want to talk on this. So that's all I want to say. Go ahead, Mark. Well, you know, I can't speak for everyone, but from my point of view, I agree.
 I do know a lot about this and I do have a lot of compassion and so I would go ahead and vote and you all have to do whatever you want to do but I I think this is something that is valuable for my values so just wanted to let that be known. I don't know how long it's been since that particular pet store was in existence I mean
 We've had two big stores, Petland and Petco, in Fayetteville for many years, but they have not sold animals like the store that Mark was describing. But I do know that I was in there before, and this was years ago, but it was a grim place. It was pretty suspish there on that, the animals that they had and everything. And that's kind of...
 I mean, that's in the back of my mind that if we table this, if we try to work around this one particular business, we open ourselves up to other businesses that are not as qualified as Petland probably is. And that's a concern to me because we have had that in Fayetteville before. And, you know, and these pet stores, they sell puppies because puppies are...
 And I've often thought if we just had puppies in the front here, we could deflect a lot of animosity that we sometimes face. We just have a little bowl of puppies out here where everybody would calm down a lot, you know.
 You know, they sell puppies and they're not really, you know, they're relying on those being cute animals and being irresistible to a lot of kids and other people. I mean, I know I've been in a store before and I almost walked out with a bloodhound puppy of all. Who in the hell would buy a bloodhound puppy and live in a little house in town? I don't know, but it was awfully cute and it just bonded with me. It just did.
 I have another comment. I think that it sounds like that we're forcing people to go to a, or to have a pet that comes from a shelter as a rescue. I think that Emily said it from her point of view. She likes her French bulldogs and she got French bulldogs, but she still understands the demand for animals from high volume animals.
 animal breeders. And so I think that's a very valuable point of view because I know her dogs and they are cute and they're purebred. She's still out there trying to do the right thing and reduce the demand. It's the demand for high-volume animal breeders that is in the industry. So anyway, thank you Emily for your point of view. I think that was valid.
 Mr. Mayor, I won't even let Mrs. Whittaker walk into a pet store because I can't handle the competition if she were to bring something home. And I have not researched this. I am not overly competent on the issue of pets at this point in my life. I do know the code, however, and I do know that
 This body does not have the ability to impact an inspection from a department, whether it's the building department or the fire department.
 they're acting on a ministerial permit under state law that says if you meet the requirements, you get your permit, you get your inspections, and the outcome of that is determined by the code. And so I would not like us to be distracted with talk about an inspection because that's irrelevant for our body. I appreciated Sloan and Teresia expressing concern that they wish we had a little more time
 to research this and that is my sentiment, not being overly qualified in this. I do think, however, that the Council has spoken with some significant wisdom saying that the issue isn't the sale of animals, the issue isn't the puppies, the issue is the breed animals themselves. And that's beyond our ability to regulate. I have imminent respect for the Chamber of Commerce
 But at the same time, we regulate the sale of alcohol, a legal product, on Sundays in Washington County. And I wish we could change that, Mr. Mayor, but that's beyond this council's purview as well. We've looked into that. And so I'm at this quandary of saying, while I don't want to get distracted that there's an inspection, that's not our purview. I don't want to get distracted with that.
 The sale of puppies, that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about the care and condition of breed animals and whether we have an ability to impact that. The business entity has the ability to sell more mature animals, such as you and I are, Mayor, or they have the ability to refer people.
 to Springdale to their other facility to say I've got just the animal you're looking for you didn't find what we had available through our our local immediate access and so I don't think that we're curtailing their ability to be a profitable business either so I had no idea
 that this would unfold the way that it did i thought it was a relatively straightforward item and mr mayor it simply proves that i was a foolish man to believe that when i woke up this morning well here's what we got i've got a motion and a second
 And we're going to have to take some sort of action or not. And if you, yes. I would say, Holly and I are, she made the motion. I seconded it. I would say, let's go ahead and vote. And if, you know, if it, if council members do not, are not in agreement with what we have as an ordinance, they don't have to support it. And, yeah.
 you know I'm ready to vote on it well first you're gonna have to get to the third reading right the motor there that's what you're talking about the motion to spend the rules go the third and final reading okay Carol let's call them let's call row here Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Indian yes Whitaker yes
 Scroggins no, but yes, Kirk no Okay, so that did pass and let me do the third reading an order to amend section 92 point o 4 sale of diseased animals kennel and pet shop regulation and
 to prohibit the retail sale of dogs, cats, puppies, and kittens, unless obtained from and in cooperation with the Fayetteville Animal Shelter or another animal rescue organization, and to declare an emergency. Okay, what final comments do we have on the council? I think the emergency part makes it feel like...
 that it personalizes it to the business as opposed to the topic in general. And that would just be the only other comment that I would have to make. I like the general approach to it beyond that. Well, the Emergency Clause will not be voted on first, only the ordinance itself, and then there will be a second vote on the Emergency Clause.
 Okay, so you have the final comments from the council. Well, I do like your point of view there, so I get it. I just want to say that I just feel this issue is so complex, and it's being really rushed, and I wish I had a little bit more time to do some research. So that's my point of view. See, that's why I always ask for comments and action, and as I explain later, because, you know, the...
 I don't want to rush you. But I think for what it's worth, we have done these before. A kid brings out a really good point. I was on the council when we did the sidewalk, you know, no sale on sidewalks. I agree with you, Mark. There was in some pet stores in this town. I'm not saying that this pet store is like that, but I have seen some pretty rough pet stores.
 Now, I think Mark brings out a really good point. This, if I had to, would vote for this because it is part of my values as well. And I have a dog that I have gotten at the animal shelter, and I've become quite, in fact, I've gotten two. But animals are like family to me. So...
 It's just part of my grain. And I believe that this type of ordinance needs to be passed, not because it's business, but because it's the right thing to do. So with that, I will leave it up to you. Carol, let's call the vote here. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Banks? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, now there needs to be a separate vote on the emergency clause. So there should be a motion and a second to pass the emergency clause. I move to approve the emergency clause. I'll second that. I have a motion and a second to pass the emergency clause.
 I think we've said everything there needs to be said. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No. Whitaker? No. Scroggin? No. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. The emergency clause fails. Okay. So that puts it on board for 30 days, right?
 That's right. Okay. Well, that concludes our business. Any announcements? No announcements? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.