I would like to call to order the July 18th, 2023 City Council meeting. Caravage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Wiedeker? Here. Erna? Here. Bunch? Here. Bunch?
 Kirk. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Join me in the pledge of allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice. I think I want to thank Scott. Okay. All right. We have the...
 first on the agenda. Now, Kit, do we add the additions to the agenda first or does Paul give his finance report first? No, his finance report. All right. That's what I thought.
 Councilman Gossett. Thank you, Mayor and Council. This is to inform the public and the Council that the annual comprehensive financial report has been completed. The City received an unqualified opinion on the financial statements by four of us, who is our external auditor.
 Report on internal controls, there were no material weaknesses or no significant deficiencies found. No instances of non-compliance with grants, either federal grants or the state and federal laws. Management discussion analysis completed by management, my audit manager and myself do that.
 are on pages 13 to 27. It has been posted on the website at this point in time. So with that, that's a report that the audit has been complete. We have done the filings. We have posted it online. Are there any questions? Yes. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Anybody good? All right. Thank you, Paul. Now we have an addition to the agenda.
 that reads a resolution to amend resolution 126-21 and to authorize the purchase of an international truck with a recycling body from Rush Truck Center of Lowell for the new total amount of $199,277.10. Scott, I believe that you're willing to add this? Yes, myself and Council Member Moore. Okay. So you need to make a motion to suspend the rules and add this to the agenda.
 I'll recommend we suspend the rules and add this to the agenda. And we need a second second second. We have a motion second to add this item to the agenda. Here, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes.
 we took her yes or no yes yes yes yes thank you all all right who who has this ross ross jackson fleet good evening mayor city council uh resolution 126 21 was approved to city council may 4th of 21 to award bid 2132 to summit truck group
 There's been a number of price increases along the way. It's been about two years in the making and kind of coming out of COVID. There's been a number of price increases on just materials and then supply shortages. So we're looking at a total price increase of $8,277.10 in surcharges, interest and delivery fees. And I'd be glad to take any questions on this. Okay. Y'all want to add anything to that or?
 Yes, in a transportation meeting the other night, it came to light that this kind of fell in the cyber issue where we have a truck that is perfectly ready to go, setting up the dealership and has been so for three weeks, accruing interest of roughly $55 a day.
 And if we went through without walking it on, it would be at least another couple weeks before that got acquired. The present vehicle is two years past its useful life. It's very unreliable. And it just made sense to us to walk this on. And I would, you know, if anyone has any questions, we'll certainly answer them. But I would like to see if we could put this on consent or however we want to do that. We'll just vote on it.
 Sarah, do you have anything to add? Okay, well, let's take some questions from the council. All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name, your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone who would like to address this on this topic in the chamber?
 do we have anyone on zoom no sir okay i'm going to bring it back to the council i would just mention that we we passed the resolution we have a motion second to pass resolution any final comments from the council care which please call the road herzberg yes jones yes moore yes ledeker yes arna yes bench yes dirk yes okay thank you all
 Thank you all for bringing that All right, let's move on to consent number one approval of the July 6 2023 City Council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve the contract with Evans construction LLC in the amount of 43,000 $245 for the Wilson Park historic stone structure Roofing project and to approve the budget adjustment number three a resolution to approve the
 Federal Police Department policies 22.3, secondary employment 41.3.6, overdose internasal narlochizone 49.1.1, peer-to-peer support systems in 61.1.1.11, DWI-DUI.
 I will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as read so much as it was on that word. But anyway, I'm going to relatively welcome it. Second. We have a motion to second. That's the consent agenda. Caravans, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Lederkirch? Yes. Arna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's move along to unfinished business.
 A resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Kevin Roy Calhoun, located at 3301 South Coach Road in the city of Federal Arkansas, and to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $17,500. Billy. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Billy Bryant, Senior Code Compliance Officer.
 The property of 3301 South Coach Road is in South Fayetteville off Sunrise Mountain Road. Today is the third council meeting concerning this raise and removal. The first council meeting was on December 6th of 2022. It was untabled until January 17th of 23, where owner Kevin Calhoun was granted six months to raise and remove the home. Staff spoke with Mr. Calhoun yesterday and today concerning the home at 3301 South Coach Road.
 Mr. Calhoun informed staff that M&M Excavating was hired as of today to demo the home. This information was confirmed by staff contacting M&M Excavating. The owner of M&M assured city staff that a demo permit application will be in process by the end of this week, and the home will be removed within three to six weeks. Staff was also informed by Mr. Calhoun that he would be unable to attend tonight's city council meeting due to work scheduling.
 Staff is recommending tabling the raise and removal order until the meeting of August 1st. I can answer any questions council may have. Okay, so you're asking that the council table is until August 1st? Yeah, August 1st. Yes. Okay. All right. Is there any questions from the city council on this? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Yes.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 Anyone on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. Then I'll bring it back to the council. We will need a motion and a second to table. I'll make a motion to table this until August 1st. Second. We have a motion and a second to table this item until August 1st, the raise and removal. Comments? All right. Caravans, please call the vote.
 herzberg yes jones yes moore yes ledeker yes arna yes yes yes okay number two an ordinance to amend 51.136 monthly water rates and 51.137 monthly sewer rates change water and sewer rates is recommended
 by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Veatch. This thing was tabled on to this meeting from the May 16th, July, from May 16th, 2023 to July 18th, 2023 council meeting. Paul.
 yes once again i'm here in council i'd like to table this to the august 15th meeting at that point in time bring it forward with a public hearing and an amendment to the rates based on information that was received and factored into the study after we had looked at the last study so my request is to table it till august 15th meeting
 Okay, well, let's see if there's anybody who has any comments. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, and don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone here to speak on this topic?
 Do you have anyone else in? No, sir. Okay. Well, we need a motion to second, I suppose, to table this one. I make a motion to table this until the August 15th meeting. Second. We have a motion and a second to table this item until August the 15th. Any comments? Kerr, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, let's go to number three. A resolution to encourage the city of Federal to partner with the Arkansas Rural Health Partners and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Arkansas to offer free mental health certification for mental health first and to all city employees. This was tabled until this meeting from the June 20th meeting, it looks like. DeAndre, please.
 Mayor and City Council, this afternoon I reached out to Kit. But prior to that, I had a quick meeting with a representative from Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield and Arkansas Rural Partners Association. And from that meeting, I decided to send an amendment. And Kit sent that out this evening.
 wording was changed. And so I'm not sure if we need to do the amendment now or should we do it later? Well, you probably ought to go ahead and do it now so that everybody knows what we're discussing before any vote on the resolution itself. Absolutely. Thank you.
 It reads, a resolution to encourage the city of Fayetteville to explore a partnership with Arkansas Rural Health Partners and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Arkansas to offer free mental health certification for mental health first and to city employees. So I added the word explore and I removed the word all.
 And that's reflected also in the body of the resolution. Okay. All right. And I do believe that there is a representative from the Arkansas Rural Health Partners. They are here. They should be virtually. Well, I think we need to go ahead and decide whether we're going to amend this. Is that correct? Is that the order, Ken?
 Yeah, we need a motion and a second to amend. I move we amend the resolution. Second. Two, let me just read again the title. A resolution to encourage the city of Fayetteville to explore a partnership with Arkansas Rural Health Partners and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Arkansas to offer free mental health certification for mental health first and to city employees. Everybody got that? Okay. Is there any discussion on that?
 I JUST WANTED TO ADD THAT I WANTED TO MAKE THAT CHANGE BASED UPON THE CONVERSATION WITH THE BLUE CROSS AND CONVERSATION WITH THE ARKANSAS RURAL HEALTH PARTNERS AND RECOGNIZING THAT A RESOLUTION OF COURSE IS NONBINDING.
 recognizing that here in our city and across the country, there is a mental health crisis. This resolution does not, it's not entering Fayetteville into any type of contract. It is simply a resolution to encourage the city of Fayetteville to explore, to encourage HR to
 collaborate and work with HR to explore a partnership. And I did have a, I received an email from Nick C. Cole with HR, and she kind of explained that the city was definitely looking into doing some type of partnership and training. So I wanted to add that as well.
 Okay. What discussion do we have? Because we're working on the change here right now. Amendment. The amendment. Yes. So what discussion do we have from the council on that? We do, but...
 we can have final comments or whatever you think. So, all right. I would say something real quick. It was my understanding and I don't mind, everything in this I agree with. I believe in the importance of mental health and I want our city to participate in this definitely. But it was my understanding at the last meeting that we already had the option to participate in this. And so, you know,
 it's kind of like we're making a resolution for something we're already doing. Is that, am I understanding that correctly? Are we just making
 Absolutely. So, when last week at the agenda session, and Kara helped us out, when I remember the exchange between Mayor Jordan and Ms. Ecole, I was under the impression that HR was aware of this, but however, nothing had been done. Is that correct?
 Hang on, Missy. Oh, she's here. Okay. Yeah, Missy's here. So the best that I can remember, and I'd actually reached out to Missy as well today because I had to ask her a question about another community resource we have regarding diabetes I was very interested in. So I appreciate that information from Missy. The best that I can remember from last week and going over that information is, I'm not
 I believe, Mayor Jordan, you said, is this something that we're already doing? And I think, Missy, you said it's something that we've been looking into or something that we were already working on. That's correct. Yes.
 So we are, you know, we're aware of it through the Blue Cross Blue Shield renewal process. And we have sent out a link to employees to be able to sign up for the community classes. And we do have some employees that have been able to go through it. And then after we get through our renewal package next month, then we want to talk to Blue Cross about potentially sending someone out to do a class for supervisors. So we are in process with Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield right now and the outreach program.
 And what I would like to say is before we get too far in the weeds here, we're trying to change the title of the resolution right now. And then we'll get into the discussion of the body of the resolution. I just wanted to check because I was like, before I agree to change anything, I kind of wonder what I'm agreeing to. This is not actually passing the resolution. It's merely changing the title if I understand correctly. So let's do that first. Thank you, Missy. We'll probably have you back again.
 So is there any discussion about changing the title or anything? Okay. Carol, let's go ahead and vote on that. Ertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiegecker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. Now let's continue on. Now this one does read.
 A resolution to encourage the city of Fayetteville to explore a partnership with Arkansas Rural Health Partners and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Arkansas to offer free mental health certification for mental health first and to the city employees. Now, that's what we're working with right now.
 Absolutely. And to clarify, had I known, had it been made clear on last Tuesday that we actually had something in place, didn't...
 I would have, I guess, probably reached out to Kidd's office to see if we still needed to move forward. But I wasn't aware that we had anything in place, definitely. So that is why we still have this in front of us. And I wanted to make sure that I made the amendments to make it very broad so it wouldn't hold us into any type of contract saying that we are doing this. Exploring to me means that we are doing just that. And so that's something that...
 exploring is something that we could do or not do, but I do want Fayetteville to know that I'm really being concerned about their health and wellbeing, especially with the mental health crisis that we're facing right now. And with it being a free training, I felt that this was a great opportunity and it's a really good training. It's highly rated. And I believe I sent you all some information a couple of weeks ago, and I also,
 provided the phone number to one of the facilitators as well. And I believe those facilitators are online tonight to answer any questions that any of you all may have. But I felt that this was really straightforward. And when I reached out to Blue Cross this morning, we talked about the amended version and they were fine with it. And I also had the opportunity to talk with
 Dr. Sharkey, who leads our Board of Health, and she is supportive as well. Okay, what discussion are we going to have here? Sarah or...
 Mike, which is yes, go ahead. And I am appreciative. I'm council person Jones. Bring this forward. I agree. Sometimes in the crowd, there's a lot going on at the city, so we don't always know that was identified within our council workshop. That sometimes things don't get quite communicated to council.
 always, and so I appreciate this is actually getting bubbled up because any additional opportunity to talk about mental health and awareness around being able to recognize and have training or additional assistance in this realm is incredibly important. It's very close to home. One in four individuals in the nation are actually impacted by mental health illness.
 I'm directly impacted by it with family members, and we struggle to have appropriate resources. And so I'm always a proponent of any additional time that we can have conversation and create awareness and also remove the stigma. Because the more we talk about it, we'll address it more in the ways of cancer and diabetes, the health condition that it is.
 And there's still value in this resolution. I'm actually really excited because additionally, there's more grant funding in particular to really look at potentially exploring that partnership going forward to be able to really help first responders doing specific training for them. And so I think those kind of unique instances in the city
 to meet specific needs could be really valuable and at no additional cost to the city. And so I think the resolution still has purpose and I'll be excited to support it tonight. Okay. In fairness to his parties that are on Zoom, but- Yes, and that was gonna be the thing we were gonna talk about. Do you have a presentation tonight and they have 10 minutes normally?
 Okay. They are, they, they are on what they should be online and they are prepared to answer any questions. Uh, but I did, uh, want to, to again, state that I did send you all the information, uh, Scott to, uh, Scott, who is one of the facilitators, because I wanted you guys to be able to make an informed decision and to understand the merit behind this. The reason behind this, this is nothing that,
 I'm pushing for my own purpose. I'm pushing this because it is a problem and it impacts many of us and even staff and having those employees and having those managers able to identify
 signs and symptoms and being able to point employees in the right direction to get the help that they need. This is the training again we all know that's free. I remember that we last year we we we paid the University of Arkansas 36 between 30 30 and 30 sorry I'm sorry 30 and 35 thousand dollars for
 diversity training. And of course, that's something that I impact, that I support. And we often talk about, well, let's create something that's going to benefit all of us. Well, diversity, equity, and inclusion, that benefits all of us. But when we look at mental health, that certainly benefits all of us, either having a family member or an employee or
 or coworker being able to have those resources to help them will be such a benefit. Well, again, DeAndre, do you have someone that- Yes. Oh. Yes, I said that twice. Yes, there is someone, Scott is online. Okay. And he's there to answer any questions and concerns. Okay. Yeah. Well, Scott, would you like to address council? You have 10 minutes. Go ahead, Scott.
 Good evening council members. Sorry for the delay. I have my supervisor Amanda is on the line with us as well, but she's having to join by phone. That's fine. Okay. Can you hear Amanda? Yes, we can. Okay, perfect. So in order for us to look at this, we're just here to answer any questions you may have about the program and what it means and who should take it
 Whether the city of Fayetteville wants to bring this to members of your city government, that's completely a call that is well outside of what we're comfortable talking about.
 I do believe it's important. I think Council Member Jones believes in it, and I think that's the real reason why we're here is we just want to bring to light the importance of having some additional training, but know that we're here for any kind of stigma-related conversations that you all want to have. Okay. Do we have any questions for...
 Scott, I have a question for you. I know that this training would be free to city employees, but what is the cost to the city to provide the free training? Can you all hear me? Yes. Yes. Can you all hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Hi, I'm Amanda. I'm the vice president for Arkansas Rural Health Partnership. And I want to thank you all for having us on today. So as far as cost goes, we do have some grants that will cover some people. And I think that the city's human resources people have already been in talks with Blue Cross Blue Shield about providing some stuff.
 We also have some, Scott is doing amazing and he teaches our firefighters, police officers, first aid, EMS, all of those type of people, first responders. So for those people right now, there would not be a cost.
 Obviously, we have a certain number, so as long as it falls within that number of people in our grant, we should be fine. And we've been doing some training at Northwest Arkansas Hospital, and we're also doing healthcare workers. So for those people, the cost would be zero. We do have some other grants that cover college students. I know they've been doing some talking with U of A, that kind of thing.
 So it would really just kind of depend. And like I said, I know Blue Cross Blue Shield and the city's HR people have already been working on working out some other classes. So really, that's kind of where we are. But definitely we can get together and talk about, you know, with Blue Cross Blue Shield and ourselves and some other grantees and see if we can or renters and see if we can find a way to make it very affordable. Yeah.
 Thank you. I appreciate that. You said there was a specific number. Do you have that number right now? I don't know how many we have exactly left because the entire grant, Scott, is at 700 or 800. Thank you. Okay. Missy, would you come up again, please? I'm just trying to get my bearings here. Now, we are working on something along this line.
 Yes, with Blue Cross Blue Shield. And I believe it's taught by the folks that are on the Zoom.
 And I do have a note from some sort of June 13th meeting that that was brought up. Susan? I heard during the agenda that Missy wasn't there. We were in room 326. And during the agenda in which this item was introduced, I explained to the council that I was representing Missy to let them know that we were in negotiation with Blue Cross and we're working on this as a function of that negotiation.
 And then the item was left on there anyway. Oh, okay. All right. What else do we have? Sarah. I have a question, Missy. So what we're working on with Blue Cross Blue Shield is that separate from this? Is it influenced by the fact that we have a big account with them and possibly can get them to do something that is just for our employees or is it tied to this?
 Well, it's kind of all married. So, yes, we are a big fully insured plant with Blue Cross Blue Shield. And so for that reason, they volunteered to bring it on site for us. But the funding that we were talking through had to do with the grant money that's out through, I believe, Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield and the Blue Cross Foundation. And I believe, Scott, it was about 200 slots maybe that were left across the state.
 Scott that's online, something like that. So we were going to work hopefully within those cost constraints so that we would get it for free if possible. Do we have any idea how many like management level positions would be using this with the city or how,
 I do not. No, we would have to kind of figure that out. And then would we separate law enforcement from firefighters and things like that? Thank you. Missy, whether this resolution passes or fails...
 this program you're exploring already. Okay, so what we do tonight really has a non-bearing on what you're doing. You're going forward either way. Right, we're moving forward because we share, you know, mental health is a very important thing to our staff and our employees and our supervisors and managers, so definitely. Sure, thank you.
 So, and thank you for that. Had I been made aware of this, I know, Susan, you mentioned something about a June the 13th meeting. I'm not sure that, I don't recall hearing that the city was going to do this until I brought this forward. So my apologies, but I, you know, I, but I am, and so I didn't, I was not aware of that. Nobody ever told me that this is something that the city was going to do. And I didn't know that it was,
 that you were actually planning to do anything until today, actually. And I'm not sure if anyone else on the council knew that anything was going to happen until today. But nonetheless, you know, I...
 it's good to know that the city is either way, if it passes or not, it's good to know that the city is going to move forward. Whether it's through the council's encouragement or through your efforts, I'm glad to know that this is being done because the bottom line is mental health. It's not who brings it, it's not the author of it, it's as long as the opportunity is made available. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, Tracy. Thank you, Missy, and thank you, Councilmember Jones. I'm glad that we've really had this conversation and discussion. I've learned a whole lot more about mental health training opportunities, but I kind of wonder if we need this resolution or not. It sounds like the city's already underway with this, and this has been a very productive conversation.
 I'm frankly, I see it as kind of a redundancy. So I don't know if you have any thoughts on that. Council Member Jones, this is your resolution. Thank you for that. And if we're going to, if the city is going to do it, then it would be redundant for us to move forward with it. I mean, we'll be moving forward with the same thing and that's no failure of mine. It's just, it's something that I was not aware of until tonight.
 And so, or until today. So again, I say this, it's good to know that the city is going to be moving forward. And I would encourage council members to also, if there is an opportunity for training a free spot, then I would encourage council members to also consider that because it is a major issue in our community.
 And so again, it's kind of like affordable health care. It doesn't matter who brings it. It doesn't matter the name as long as the folks get the help that they need. That's what's important. That's the bottom line. Mike, do you have questions for Missy? No question. We have any more questions for Missy on this? So do I need to remove this or how exactly does that need to work? Sure.
 Just totally your choice on what you want to do. As I think people know, passing a resolution is not going to hurt. I don't know if it'll help, but it won't hurt. So you can leave it for a vote or you can remove it. You'd have to basically vote it down, though you can't do that individually. It's before the council.
 So, and this is, again, this is simply in, as we all know, it's just an encouragement. But if the city is going to move forward with it, then, I mean, there's no, I don't think that there's a need for us to.
 to vote on it. We're going to have to vote one way or the other. Okay, so let us vote. I just want to thank your city for doing such an incredible job because you're the first city we've had. Sorry, that speaker was not authorized to speak at the moment. Okay, yeah.
 Go ahead, Mark. If I may, I would be pleased if we tabled this indefinitely. That would be much better than voting it down, I feel like, if other people would be amenable to that.
 Thank you so much. Absolutely. I would definitely support that. I think that's reasonable because, again, it's very important to me and very important to Fayetteville for our city to really address mental health in this capacity. So thank you. We'll see that it gets done. Yes. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Thank you. So do we have a motion? I would move that we table this indefinitely. Second. We have a motion and a second to table indefinitely. Thank you.
 I don't care what you please call me. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? No. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, it's tabled. Okay. All right, number four.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition rzn 2023-014 located southeast of dead horse mountain road and golf farm road in ward one for approximately 112.98 acres
 from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance to NC Neighborhood Conservation, CS Community Services, and RA Residential Agricultural. Jonathan. Mayor, I didn't recall, does this need to be advanced to the third reading or is it already on the third reading?
 There is one issue tonight before we really get to it and that would be whether or not you all want to accept a bill of insurance which they're offered, which they have to actually be offered to the council, not just sent to staff. Right. So you have to amend the ordinance to accept them if that's what you would want to do.
 want to recognize the applicant to see if they want to offer something, then we can do that, or else we can go to the third and final meeting. Yes. And just amend at that point. We can do that, but since we had this come in this afternoon kind of late when I got it, so I wanted to see if everybody had...
 READ THE BILL OF ASSURANCE. NEW SPEAKER P. AND MAYOR, IF IT IS THE COUNCIL'S PREFERENCE TO GO TO THE THIRD READING, I DO HAVE A PRESENTATION PREPARED WITH SOME UPDATED ITEMS THAT I CAN CLOSE OUT WITH THE CONTENTS OF THOSE BILLS OF ASSURANCE IF IT CAN HELP CLOSE THAT CONVERSATION. NEW SPEAKER P. ALL RIGHT. THAT'S FINE TOO. I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO GO TO THE THIRD AND FINAL READING.
 I'll make a motion to go to third. Suspend the rules and go to third, by the way. Second. We have a motion to second, go to third and final reads. Can't reach the police call, though. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Thurk? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-14, located at southeast of Dead Horse Mountain Road and Golf Farm Road.
 In Ward 1 for approximately 112.98 acres from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance, to NC Neighborhood Conservation, CS Community Services, and RA Residential Agricultural.
 okay john thank you mayor jonathan kurtz with the development services department as i noted i do have a few items to update council on i would like to share staff's 10 minutes with the public works director chris brown however before handing the microphone off to him the first item i wanted to touch on was a request for more information on the assertions or concerns expressed about flooding to the dad horse mountain road bridge or more specifically the approaches to that bridge
 I was able to contact the police department and they were generous enough to work with dispatch to pull the last five years' worth of this information. And that documentation shows that there are five dates where either there was, in the dispatch terminology, water on the roadway or flooding or a vehicle swept off the road.
 So it is an occurrence of roughly once per year, which I think is anecdotally what many of you have heard either from staff or emergency services. And with that, I'd like to hand it off to Mr. Brown to discuss drainage in more detail. Okay, Chris.
 All right, thank you, Mayor. This is a slide that I think you saw last time. On the left, there are some documented drainage issues that we've received, complaints from property owners, etc. What you see in pink there is the proposed development, and on the right side, on the pink, there are some red arrows that show the flow arrows.
 And we'll zoom in on that to talk about that a little more detail. So this is just a zoomed in view of the proposed or the documented drainage issues that we have along Cherry Hills, at Pumpkin Ridge, and then along River Meadows.
 Okay, and then this next slide again shows the documented drainage issues and a zoomed in view of the flow arrows. As you can see, the flow arrows on the site kind of flow from the outer edges of the site towards the middle and then flow to the north along the drainage way that flows north and south. I think the bottom line here is that
 This proposed development is downstream of our documented drainage issues and so really the issues that we have in the area will not be made any worse, but also will not be helped by this proposed development.
 I think the next slide, this is the last slide that just shows some of the pipe system that we have in the area. And just to just so y'all will have a summary of what the what the issues are, there are there are some areas of the golf course that flow onto the side especially along Cherry Hills that flow to the back of those properties. So we do have some water coming into backyards
 of those properties on Cherry Hills. The other issue is that the pipe sizing is for about the 10 year storm. Typically our requirements are that pipes are sized for the 10 year storm, but then the overflow up to the 100 year storm has to be accommodated either through drainage swales or between houses, or it could be in pipes.
 We do have some issues there between those houses that the water basically just doesn't have anywhere to go and ends up piling up and getting into a few houses. So that's really the issue. But again, I want to make sure everybody understands we do have documented drainage issues in the vicinity. This development really doesn't have anything to do with any of those issues. So I can answer any questions.
 Okay, what questions do we have for the question? Mayor, I do have a couple more items. One item that the applicant had brought up that I've received questions about since then was an assertion that this request is justified by adjacent development that has occurred in the last five to 10 years. And I did want to clarify, and what you see here on these series of images is the Riverwalk subdivision to the south and west of this property.
 I don't know the westernmost image there. That's an aerial of roughly the 2005 date when that property was annexed into the city and rezoned to RSF for residential single family, four units per acre.
 Now, that was an annexation and zoning decision done under many of the city's previous policies and goals, which were much more conducive towards peripheral development in the city. So I did want to make sure that was clear to council that those were not decisions that have been made that have been snowballing in recent years that could be interpreted to be a justification for this proposal if that was on the council's mind.
 With that said, I just wanted to reprise where we are. Staff is recommending denial of the request. The Planning Commission did forward it to Council by a 5-4 decision. There were no bills of assurance in consideration at that time. We have received quite a bit of public comment since you all's last meeting, both in support and in opposition.
 Many of the concerns are ones you've already heard, primarily about the adequacy of the infrastructure in the area, a lot of concerns about roads that are not built to current standards or current amenities, no sidewalks, a lot of open ditches, a lot of narrow lane widths. Concerns also expressed about water and sewer, which you heard our Utilities Director, Tim Nyander, go into detail last meeting. Also concerns about
 whether a decision is being made as a housing at all costs, as a direction for it. Those in support conversely felt that this was a very compatible request, it's houses near houses, and also that the development represented a potential to improve the quality of life through the addition of amenities in the area, including revitalizing the golf course, the potential for commercial uses,
 and that it could perhaps counterintuitively help improve the infrastructure issues as the development comes in and can address some of those narrow streets in the area as they improve their adjacent properties. And with that said, the two bills of assurance that are for consideration that the applicant has the opportunity to offer to the council includes two pieces, one for the area proposed to be rezoned to NC neighborhood conservation that would limit the area to 350 lots
 That's the larger, the majority of the property. And the second piece, which is proposed, would limit the area proposed to CS community services to 50 single family lots, no multifamily as Mr. Wiedecker asked about at the agenda session, no gas stations, drive-throughs, and a reservation of five acres for commercial services or commercial development into the future.
 And with that, along with Mr. Brown, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor Robert Rhodes is the applicant. Right. Okay. All right. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes, Robert.
 ROBERT ROSE, LAW FIRM OF HALL ESTILL, REPRESENTING BOTH OF THE APPLICANTS. FIRST OF ALL, I'M OFFICIALLY PRESENTING THE BILLS OF ASSURANCE TO THE COUNCIL. I HAD SUBMITTED THOSE BY E-MAIL BEFORE THE LAST MEETING. I BROUGHT HARD COPIES LAST WEEK. SO THEY'RE OFFICIAL.
 I AM GOING TO TURN OVER. I'M GOING TO SAVE TWO MINUTES OF OUR 10 MINUTES TIME. FIRST I'M GOING TO TURN IT OVER TO MARK MARQUES, THE PRESIDENT OF RIVERWOOD. THEN WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TAYLOR JOHNSON FROM THE GOLF COURSE SPEAK TO YOU AS WELL. WE WON'T TAKE MORE THAN 10 MINUTES. THANK YOU. GOOD EVENING, MAYOR, CITY COUNCIL. I'M MARK MARQUES WITH RIVERWOOD HOMES.
 I'm not going to belabor this much. I just wanted to bring a couple things up to date. We met out on site last week twice, once with the golf course owner and then also with Jorgensen engineers regarding the flooding and with the neighbors. One of the things that seemed to be
 contest is that they needed easements for them, the golf course. And the owners have agreed to give those easements necessary to get that drainage down into the creek and channel it out of those neighborhoods if the city wants to move forward with that drainage.
 When we looked at that, as Mr. Brown noted, we won't create any additional drainage problems or flooding problems to the neighborhood. We might even possibly be able to add some retainage ponds a little larger that might stop some of the flow that's going downstream, or at least retain it. We were challenged the other day about trying to find land that could be in the mayor's box for affordable housing.
 Again, we've been building in here since 1989. Most of the properties that are available today,
 are going to be on the outline skirts of the city limits. Anything that's in town now that has any large tracks is typically going to be a challenge. It'll be either on the hillside or floodplain areas. So this is one of the last areas we've been able to find to look at affordable housing and doing a full mixed use again of the affordable, the 55 and older, and the middle and larger homes.
 If we can't do that, then what we're doing is forcing our hometown hero group to move to the rural areas or the smaller cities. Which, if you look at Elkins, Farmington and some of the other surrounding areas, the city is already supplying the water and the sewer out there.
 So you're already having to maintain that, but you're just pushing it further out, which is really creating the sprawl and you're not receiving the tax base. But you're also making those teachers and firemen and other people that need this price homes to have to drive back into Fayetteville, which is also taxing the system on top of that. And that's really all I have to say.
 Again, we're trying to bring in a full mixed-use subdivision. We're offering this hometown heroes program, which we think is pretty incredible on top of all of our other incentives. So with that, I'll close. If you have any questions, please, I'll be glad to answer. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, Council Members. I'm Taylor Johnson. I represent the General Manager at Stonebridge Meadows Golf Club for the last 10 years. I'm also a neighbor out at Stonebridge. I've lived out in the neighborhood for the last six years as well. So it gives me a pretty good perspective on kind of the totality of what's going on.
 There's an obvious demand. There's a need for more dining, more recreational. We need a pool. We need a way to entertain the overwhelming rooftops that are already around us as it stands.
 In order for us to do that, we need this, obviously, development. We hate referring guests that are in Fayetteville to another town, such as Bella Vista, or something that has more amenities, more courses, more pickleball, more pools, more places to go. And so we want to keep those guys here, and we would love to offer a bigger and better package for that.
 We've been approached by several food trucks and food vendors in the area as well, even one in the neighborhood that asked if they could set up shop in a parking lot or even on our property. Because they can see obviously all the cars and the need for a coffee stand or breakfast or some sort of commercial service there near that intersection. So I think it's important to bring that up because there is such a demand for it.
 Most of the people that I've talked to about this, obviously there's not a ton of people here tonight, but a lot of people would like to express their ideas and concerns to me since I'm at the golf course and I'm available. Most people are in favor of this. Obviously, there's a concern with the road and the infrastructure, but obviously living out there for six years and working there for one day a year is...
 not really affected my access really at all. But everyone has their opinion obviously. With all that, we just want to be able to serve our community a little bit more. So we'd love for this to go through so that we can do that. Thank you for your time tonight. Thank you. Robert, you have about four minutes here for my- I don't need it.
 Okay, I had someone tell me that this decision for you guys all boiled down between a choice between 134 estate homes that were entitled to build or affordable housing. I dare say it's a good bit different than that. Yes, on one side of the equation is 134 unaffordable, expensive estate homes with sprinkler systems and the whole nine yards. On the other hand, is more than just affordable housing.
 You'd be getting things such as 100 of those would be the 55-year-old plus cottage homes where it's less than half the daily car trips than normal and less usage of water and sewer than normal. You also would get a diversity and inclusiveness in this plan that is being proposed, three points of ingress and egress. You also would get retail that enhances the community as well as the golf course.
 And this is a public golf course that is currently one of the many attributes that make our city so great and so livable.
 You're getting the Hometown Heroes Plan that will be one more way to keep our teachers, our cops, our firemen home in Fayetteville as opposed to going to outlying communities where we're still having to supply some of the services. You're also getting contractually binding bills of assurance. You're also getting 92 acres of this project that will stay a green RA zoned area.
 You're also getting a developer who has been in Fayetteville developing since 1989, and the second generation, his son, was born here in Fayetteville. You're also getting a Fayetteville resident owning the golf course. These guys have followed up on any and all questions that have been asked by whomever, whether it's neighbors, whether it's council members, whether it's staff. They've attended numerous meetings, even two more last week.
 Therefore, I would tell you that during the development phase, if you pass this, they'll be still highly accountable to the city and to the neighbors. And I would ask you to pass this. I think what you're getting is not just affordable housing, but affordable housing that's good for the city of Fayetteville. I stand by ready to ask any questions. And further, we have our engineer if you have any questions for him. Thank you.
 Does the council have any questions for the staff or the applicants? Teresa. Chris, if you could come up here, I have a couple of questions. And Jonathan, if you could go back to where you had the directional flow slide, that would be really helpful. Okay.
 So my first question is, where the flow is going to the left, the arrows are going to the left, what is in there right now, and is that part of this development? That is the golf course. There are a couple of pipes and or drainage ways across the golf course. I think, Jonathan, if you go to the
 pipe systems. Yeah, you can see the orange, yellow are the pipe system and then the dashed lines are the open channel drainageways. So the dashed blue line is some kind of drainage there, is that right? That's right. It's a small stream, a dry creek, ditch, whatever you want to call it. So this portion is already utilized as a golf course. It won't be developed. Is that accurate?
 That's correct. And if you see where my cursor is indicating the proposed development, although the extents of the legal description back up to the neighborhood, the actual area proposed to be rezoned to neighborhood conservation will be approximately the easternmost extents of it will be where I'm indicating here and go back westward.
 Okay, thank you. My second question is, you kind of mentioned there was an area where the water had no place to drain in a large storm. Could you identify where some of those locations are? Yeah, it's really at both of those pipe crossings there on Cherry Hills.
 Again, the pipes are designed for about a 10-year storm. In a larger event, typically what we require is some way for the 100-year storm to find its way through, whether it be overland and swales or whatever. For whatever reason, we have some weaknesses in that system, so when the pipes are full,
 and are unable to carry any more flow, then the water starts to sort of pile up. And we do have some houses that were built very low to the ground. So we have a couple of houses that get water in them.
 And so really the only solution for that problem right there is to replace the pipe with a larger pipe or are there other alternatives? Either enlarge the pipe or find an overland route, which would be a swale or a ditch between houses, something like that. But the solutions that we have come up with that we've identified do include larger pipes. Okay. Thank you, Chris. Appreciate it. Mm-hmm.
 Chris, is the easement that the golf course manager is speaking about, is that addressing these areas of concern? There, I think, are a couple of easements. The one there by the dot number three, I believe, is a critical one that's needed. So that would be beneficial to help drain a couple of places that we do have some standing water issues.
 That's the easement that they were talking about the golf course is willing to give.
 to help accommodate this flow. There are a couple of locations that our designs have that go across the golf course. And we did hear in the past that the golf course was concerned about having that cross the course just from a construction standpoint. So yeah, it sounds like they've softened that stance a little bit. Okay. And is that something that if this were to pass that we could do some sort of...
 joint arrangement with the engineering company to do both projects at the same time to help cut costs? Potentially, yes. We've got designs ready to go. We did have funding included in the bond program. We've got some some pricing pressure on other projects. So we'd really have to see how we could make those fit together. So really we just we need to go back and rethink
 our program and see where we could potentially work together or go ahead and move forward with these projects separately. Okay, thank you. I had a question for staff on the bill of assurance. One of the things that was placed in was to not have any multi-family dwellings.
 And so, you know, given with this usage being mixed and affording the opportunity to put in housing that's not just single family, I was curious. I see it listed out in code separately as multifamily, but I also see like two family and three and four family. So with that language, I just wanted to make sure that we weren't limiting because I know families.
 regardless of whether this property develops with these current owners, this bill of assurance if passed would say with the property. And so just trying to understand exactly what gets excluded in that zoning. Thank you for the question. With the way that's written and proposed, that would exclude any structures with five or more attached units. So single family duplexes, triplexes, and quadplexes would still be allowed by right. Okay. Thank you.
 Anybody else? Any other questions? Yes. I have a question. Sure. I hear the term affordable housing a lot, and I'm just curious to know affordable for who? That's what I'm, you know, I'm just curious. And this is a question that many of the residents have addressed, and it's a very fair question, especially considering the lack of affordable housing. So that's one of the things that is, well,
 When I'm having conversations with the residents, that's been driving the conversation. In addition to the challenges with the traffic and access, the draining and flooding issues, and the water and sewer utilities, the residents, they understand that eventually that this will be developed. However, they're looking at the strain that they are currently experiencing and that if this development continues, then eventually,
 it, the situation will be worse. And so I've been hearing from a lot of the residents I had and I was there in person last Thursday and I got a chance to see some of what they were concerned about. And Jonathan, especially the fact that, well, one of the main things was that city staff is not supporting this. That was also a major concern as well.
 Anybody else? I'm fixing to take some public comment now. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? All right.
 Thank you for the opportunity, council. My name is Kurt Schumacher. I live at 1803 South Cherry Hills Road. If you don't mind pulling up that drainage sign again, please. I'm just going to show you that that C3. Mayor, would you like me to pull up that exhibit? Yes, go ahead. I'm sorry. Okay. Yes, I was taking notes. I just want to show you where we live is right by the three, the line that you're talking about where the three and the dot is.
 That is between my neighbor's house, who's right there in our house. That is the new land that the city's talking about replacing. Just wanted to first tell you that that is not a drainage issue on our land so much as it is the street floods. It will not take the capacity of the pipe. It's undersized, so it floods out, washes everything down the road to us.
 Number two, guys, I'm a civil engineer, so pardon me for asking this, but I've not seen any kind of a sewer plan showing where we're going to tie in in retrospect or relationship to the Stonebridge Meadows sewer. Is there a plot that shows where your sewer line will be tied in in relation to the Stonebridge Meadows sewer system? That would be a question, I guess, for Tim. Is it a separate system, or does it tie on to the Stonebridge Meadows sewer system? Hang on. Yeah.
 The sewer system is designed for so many houses, and that's what I'm wondering is, are we talking about having to load up the system that's already in service at Stonebridge, or are we talking about a new forest main that's gonna tie on to the main? Here we go. Oh, excuse me.
 Thank you. Actually, I have not seen the developers' detailed plans on how the sewers are going to run. As I said at the last meeting, the issue is the capacity of the list stations, number one, and also of the force main discharge affordable stations. So the answer to the question is, yes, they would be looking into the existing system.
 Okay. You've got about three minutes left here. I would suggest you just watch. So the main sewer system, sir, that we're talking about tying into is there on Huntsville Road in the turn? Is that where the main sewer line is? Well, there's more than one main sewer line. Okay. I'm just curious how far, when we're talking about taxing now, our existing sewer system, are we also talking about taxing now our existing water system?
 And that's all of my questions, sir. I just wonder if we're putting the cart before the horse on this. Okay, and that's fair. You have two minutes and 20 seconds, though. But we'll get you an answer to your question. Okay. So the answer to that question is on the water system. As we said before, there's about four places to tie in, and it would be phased in as the development grew, and the water system is adequate.
 You got a couple of minutes. We just ask you to consider that the residents from there. We realize the developments coming. We're all tickled to see what happens with the golf course. We just like to make sure that we're not overlooked. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on this? Good evening. My name is S Robert Smith. I'm at 1571 South Gordon Street.
 in Hampton's phase two. And my biggest concern, progress is progress. We know we're going to grow, but we're talking about pipes. The roads are pipes too. And all due respect to the golf course, your commute is like two miles. If you have to get into downtown Fayetteville, you cannot make a left on the Huntsville Road in the morning. You cannot. You'll sit there for 10, 15, 20 minutes.
 and those roads robert street and then you go through the other development to get to get to huntsville those roads are not made for major traffic i'm just saying if with more cars it's just like a pipe and you're just going to jam it up and i would just like to see that all improved
 So everything the big money people want to do and you all want to do is going to happen one time. And we can get it all done. And it can be done in phases. But the infrastructure for sewage, water, Internet, everything, electricity, and the roads is done before they dig the ground. That's all. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening. I'm Dr. Steve Abernathy, 1612 Spring Lake Drive. Two things I'd like to mention. One, I would, I want to thank Councilman Jones for coming out to our area meeting just a few nights ago. And I want to invite all the rest of you to come out
 before you approve this building measure. I recommend that you all come out during rush hour in a public school bus so that you can see how dangerous it is coming around those curves, taking up more than one lane because that's the only way a bus will come around there and realize that there are going to be children filled with that bus.
 The other thing I want to mention, the only thing about all this, I'm in favor of growth and development and have no problem with the housing. But as the gentleman before me mentioned, the infrastructure, the roads particularly in my mind, but everything associated with it is also a problem that I would like to see dealt with before the first house has begun building.
 The one thing that irritates me about all this is I've heard mentioned several times from three or four different people that a part of this
 affordable housing is going to be for the elderly or someone called them the local heroes or I'm 71 years old and I drive from my neighborhood into town sometimes three or four times a day so I'm just I'm not sitting just parked in front of my television I travel quite a bit I'm active
 And I hate to be thought of as a geriatric old geezer who just is not going to be a hardship on the system. I know I've probably got a minute or two left, but I'll yield the rest of my time. Thank you for hearing me. Thank you. Hello, my name is Dominic Wright, address 2901 North College. I'm here to speak on behalf of Stonebridge Golf Course.
 Stonebridge Golf Course during COVID saved my life. Saved my life. Because if it hadn't been there, don't know what I would have done. No, progress is good. I'm a business owner. I'm a property owner. If I want to complain about roads, I can complain about when you pull out of Herman's. No, it's hard to get out. But you can't move the mountain. No, things have to get better. Have to get better.
 I travel, I go places, I play a lot of golf courses. These kind of communities don't do nothing but help. A golf cart community is the best community to live in, especially for children. You know, when you put a swimming pool, you know, you got a restaurant there, you got a place where you can have weddings. No, I own Herman's. I cater there all the time. This golf course,
 Helps drive my business. It helps drive other caterers' business because there are a lot of golf tournaments. No, revenue, revenue, revenue. It's all coming to Fayetteville. I know some of the people who have huge problems, they're minor problems compared to what's really going on. Just they're complaining and they're going to hate me for saying that, but it's true. This golf course is the best thing that can happen to that area.
 No, I'm there all the time. I've seen what the new owner has done from the previous owner. Like I said, I played her all the time. I see how much the golf course has improved over the years. I mean, tremendously, not just a little bit. I got people who I take to go play golf there and they're like, man, it's the same golf course. Just imagine what they're going to do with this community. If they're taking a golf course and made these kinds of improvements already. That's all I want to say. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Patty Cavanaugh. I live at 1468 Cooper's Cove. That's in the Crescent Lake subdivision right off of Gulf Firm Road. I want to refer to the infrastructure issues that exist.
 already. And my concern is the additional strain that would be put on this infrastructure in the area with any changes that are made at this time. So first off, I would mention the draining and flooding. And I heard that once every five years, but it seems like it's a little bit more frequently than that.
 I do live, my property backs up to Crescent Lake, which is towards the end of that diagram that you showed earlier where the drainage is going to. So obviously I have concerns if there's any more development, how much more water is going to go into that drainage area. Yeah.
 So, and then another concern that I would like to bring before the council is the roads and access. And you've already heard some about the traffic. Golf Farm Road in particular is barely a two-lane road with ditches on either side. And the gentleman from the golf course mentioned additional improvements for families and children, and that would be wonderful, but there's no sidewalk for them to get through.
 So I do believe that these infrastructure issues need to be considered and hopefully addressed before we put any more strain or any more hardship on the citizens that already live in the area. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 My name is Steve Whiting. I live at 3884 East Spyglass Hill Road or Drive. I think we need to add one or two more words to the name of the street. And far be it from me to beat a dead horse, but that is most of the problem that we've got. If you've driven down that road and looked at it.
 After you get off Highway 16, you drive about 70, 80 feet, maybe not that much, you turn left. Well, that road has no lines on the outside, there's no street light, and on at least one occasion I've seen a car
 lying on its side down in the ditch with the teenage driver, apparently on the phone trying to explain this one to mama. The rest of Dead Horse, and again, you finish out what basically is an S-curve, again, with ditches rather than
 A SHOULDER ON EITHER SIDE. IN THAT FIRST CURVE, THE ROAD IS FAILING. I KNOW THE CITY CAME OUT AND PATCHED PARTS OF THAT FOR WHICH WE ARE GRATEFUL, BUT THAT PART OF IT IS FAILING NOW. WATER UNDERCUTS IT AND THERE'S A DIP.
 several inches deep on the outside of that curve, which is a death trap, maybe not death, but an injury trap. Then we've got the property from what used to be the Collier property to Goff Farm. Again, deep ditches,
 Every time it rains or snows, we will see tire tracks that go off the street into the ditch. We don't know if they come out. We don't know how they seem to disappear. But again, I'm talking every time. In the flooding situation, I would contest the claim that it happens once a year. I know in the last year, I've seen traffic stop twice.
 Now, when we have construction, which has been pretty much incessant for the last several years, the construction trucks and their trailers do take up basically both lanes. I was lucky enough once to stop away from the corner and I let a truck driver through. He waved at me. But at the same time, if you are already committed to,
 you're either going to be hit or stopped and either one or both parties is going to have to back up. The road is not sufficient. Now we have the specter of having multiple
 Pieces of property being developed, including the one and I can't even figure out which side it is, but above the Gulf course above the cart house that's going to form a watershed. What happens when.
 Contractors move in as they typically knock down all the trees. Sometimes they claim they're going to build new ones or put new ones in, but rarely does it happen. That water is going to drain down, unfortunately, onto the golf course. We like the golf course, but it's going to go down into those neighborhoods. And even when we were looking for a house,
 We found that it was recommended that we stay away from Cherry Hills and the other street back there, Pumpkin. I'm not even sure what the name of it is. But those were things that the realtor told us, don't even go there because it's either in the floodplain or you'll have to pay flood insurance. That is a situation that should be remedied. The other part of...
 Deadhorse is again going up that road, the intersection of Deadhorse and Gough Farm that needs a street light. There are no street lights anywhere around there including the first S turn. Then you get to a road that is very dark at night and
 you're off on a ditch on the right, off on a ditch into a ditch on the left. The only thing that could possibly save you is the Collier property has a little place you can drive in if you can't see anything, which is usual. And then you'll have to try and reorient yourself in the dark because there are no streetlights and there are no signs on or no...
 curbs or curves painted or the borders of the road. That can be done easily and not expensively. But as to the overcrowding of Deadhorse, in and out of pardon, Thompson is still crowded and it will get worse. Well, select addresses.
 My name is Deborah L. Smith. I live at 1571 South Borden. My husband spoke before. We've been in this predicament before in another community, which was actually in Seattle, Washington. And I think a lot of times with the city council meetings, it's basically more toward optics. I think that the decision is all already made. I won't talk about infrastructures or anything like that. What I would like to talk about is the intangible things that we cannot put a price on.
 And that's going to be the commute time. That's going to be safety measures. That's going to be... We moved here last year. We were coming via way of Canada. And Dead Horse Mountain, it was shut down because of the flooding. I literally didn't know which way to go. There was only one way out. And the way that I look at it is if there was a case of an emergency, there's just no way that we are going to be able to get out. I think a lot of times when people sit on the city council, if you're not a part of that community, then you have no idea what is going to...
 take for the community that's already there. And what that looks like is that you're talking about more frustration in trying to get to work. Those are the things you can't buy. Those are the things you can't even foresee. When you have emergency services coming through, the roads are already narrow, especially that bridge that's on Gulf Road.
 We literally are being patient with each other to allow one car at a time. So I can't imagine if we really all needed to get out for whatever reason. I think that those are the things that we have to look at. Someone mentioned before about closing the barn door after the horses have already left. If you want to allow the builder to...
 focus on the infrastructure during the development, then I say to you that how are you going to get them to do it at the very end of it? I don't think that there's a way to do that. Once you approve this deal, there's no way that the builder has...
 you're going on character and integrity for them to do what it is that they say that they're going to do. I just think that in society, you have to get things up front. Let's not wait until the very end of something in order to do something. I just think that you need to have them put their money where their mouth is up front. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay.
 I'm sorry, what's the question? Can I plug in HDMI through here? No, that is not an option. I'm Sean Morsey. I live at 1758 East River Meadows Drive, or South River Meadows Drive. I spoke last time. Can you pull up the drainage map again? Mary, would you like me to pull the exhibit up again? So I live at number two.
 And I guess what I would like to propose or see, I'm in agreeance with Councilman Berna that we combine the efforts if we're going to do this. Where the drainage runs, I guess it would be east to west there by number three. I'm up with number two. And where the dotted line is kind of that diamond area there, that's county-owned property. Okay.
 So what I would propose all of the water, basically where the red dot is on number two, is where all of the water collects and it heads out towards Gough Farm Road. So I would propose and would appreciate the vote if we did this as a joint effort, if we could get some sort of a drainage or storm ditch to connect from where number two runs to the yellow pipe that runs across, I believe it's number 15 fairway. So thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Good evening. I also would like to thank Mr. Jones for coming out last Thursday. It was wonderful to get to meet you and also go over some of the issues that we had. I'm going to be your with all due respect guy today. With all due respect to Mr. Rhodes, I noticed that he has all represented in the past neighbors to reject the proposal. I'm not sure why all of a sudden this change is mine. I don't know why.
 The creek, I live on 1697 Cooper's Cove. I back up to the creek. I find it a little insincere that anybody would say that additional, and it looks like it's going to be substantial, flow into that creek is not going to make a huge impact.
 I've seen it in my three years at my residence, where the water comes up to the bottom of our historic bridge. Somebody else, I think the young lady before me had mentioned that that bridge becomes a one-car bridge during really bad weather. So it's not really the best way once the Dead Horse Mountains close down. The tax burden, with all due respect.
 In order to, I think in order to come to some sort of a conclusion on infrastructure, you're going to have to build a pretty big bridge to get past all that flooding. With all due respect, it happens more than once a year. There might be a year or so that it happens. There's lots of times we don't report it, but it's flooded so much to the point where you're not going to take a chance. With all due respect, nobody has made mention of all the ground being broken for the New Hampton flood.
 um residents that are going up just up above this proposal there has to be at least another hundred going in the grounds already broke the lots are already set so you're going to have another 200 plus cars coming down um and with all due respect to the golf course i've been trying to be joined the men's club for two years there now i love the golf course it's beautiful but none of this
 None of what they're saying really has any effect on what we're talking about here. The infrastructure, the impact of all these homes. With all due respect to Mr. Rhodes, once again, he said the 55 plus homes will reduce that traffic that we thought because, you know, 55 year olds don't drive as much. Dang, I'm going to be 66 this year and I drive all around the United States. And I don't know, I would...
 I would ask any one of us in here that's over 55, if that's really impactful, being 55. You're going to see two cars in those homes. With all due respect, they didn't mention the 50 available townhomes, apartments or whatever over the businesses. That's not in the 350. So you know they're going to do it. It's 400. So now you've got that on top of the Hamptons up there.
 So I didn't really want to talk about infrastructure. I won't go into it because you've heard it too much, but it's a lot broader than what they're making it sound like. There's plenty of property up there for more too. And I think we're going to be having this conversation. I think we're all, we spoke with Mr. Jones and it was wonderful. We all said the same thing. We're all from, you know, more homes, but this is one of the nicest golf clubs in all of Northwest Arkansas. I know plenty of pros that play up there.
 that think it's wonderful. Is it really too much to ask? You know, it's kind of insulting to say that people can't afford five, six, $700,000 homes. They sell, they come. That's what we did. You know, you move up, you come up. It's...
 Those aren't million and a half dollar homes we're talking about. We're talking about nice 3,000, 3,500. That's what we have in our area. They're affordable. They're all 500,000. That's affordable. I think it's insulting to say that people can't afford those. And I'm not saying wipe out all the others. I am saying that I think as a community, we need a little bit more than just all of these projects that are going on.
 I mean, we're cramming every square inch of this community. How does that affect the tenant you guys have of urban sprawl? And you all just take the cursory ride down 15th or Huntsville. You're going to see these neighborhoods going up and they're just packed, crammed with affordable housing. So let's put in some nicer homes too for people. I mean, we're telling people, no, we're not going to build those homes because we want nothing but affordable housing.
 How about a little balance? That's all. Thanks, guys. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. I decided to speak last because I wasn't going to let my husband have the last voice in this. He's used to it 50 years. I'm Michelle Abernathy. I live at 1612 South Spring Lake Drive, and my home is also on the Crescent Lake, and we watch it flood, and not over the banks right now.
 The drainage that you've seen stops at Gulf Farm Road, but what it doesn't address is Crescent Lake that comes up behind that is a small pond. It's called lake just because it makes us feel good to look out across the lake and know we could swim across without any trouble.
 The thing that we've discovered, we've lived here a year and a half. We moved from across the state to be here by choice. And we found that the road system, if you look at the construction between Huntsville and I think it's Highway...
 16, 15th Avenue. There's lots of new homes going in there, but all of those roads are four lanes. They have shoulders. They have bikeways. This area that's going to be developed has ditches, unmarked lanes, and it's just very hard to navigate at night with the poor lighting. You've heard so much about the infrastructure, and it's not the infrastructure, it's the safety of your citizens that is at risk.
 And I feel like we're building the roof of the house before we build the walls. That's my husband's medicine alarm. Yes. So I hear it every night at this time. But so that is the concern here. If we build the roof before we build the walls of the house, you've got a huge problem waiting for you along the way. I've never seen construction done that way. Right.
 Stonebridge Meadows will benefit from this, all of the area will benefit from it, and you can see by the existing construction, again, between Highway 16 and Huntsville, that with a bigger road that you aren't dodging the construction vehicles or waiting for them to collapse the shoulders, that the safety of your citizens is there.
 So I would encourage you to vote against this. The developers have already said it'll be two years before they can begin. Bring it up again in two years when we've had the city behind us making the roads better. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'm Gail Hancock, and I live at 1735 South River Meadows, and I have lived there for 10 years. So I've seen the light in that 10 years. And the golf course has been a godsend for me because I buried two daughters in that time. And had I not lived there, I think I might have lost my mind. So I'm not one of those that's against the golf course for sure. I love it.
 My question is, is why are they so invested on all of these building houses? Why can't they do swimming pools and all the stuff they want to do for just their own whatever? Why are the housing, is it about money or is it about money?
 really wanting to improve just the golf course for the whole community. That's my question. Yeah, that's it. I'm not being negative. Miss Hancock stayed with me. I'm sorry. Not good at school. But he's our neighbor too, also. And no one is against, we all know we're going to have to have more housing. Believe me, I'm 70 years old and I've been here 10 years and I've seen a lot change in 10 years.
 in just our neighborhood. We don't have the infrastructure and whoever said that the road only floods once a year, you are full of crap. It's already done it more this year. I'm sorry, but you're full of crap. I've been there and it floods more than that and it's deep and sometimes it's closed for more than one day at a time. Now that's just the honest to God's truth and let's quit blowing smoke up everybody's tail here and say the truth. I'm sorry.
 But it's like, jeez, no one's against anything. But don't do what they're doing in Rogers and Bentonville and everywhere else. They did not look far enough out and they didn't do the roads. They didn't do the infrastructure. And now they're paying for it and they're trying to go back and redo it and try to fix it. You can't fix it.
 It's really sad. We need to not go and rush into everything because it will feel like it's being left behind because the rest of them are doing whatever. You know what? Sometimes it's not the best interest of everyone to just run off at the end. And the golf course, I don't have a problem with them building a restaurant or nice restaurant, swimming pools and all that. What does a housing got an extra 400 houses got to do with that except profits? Just asking.
 Just that. So here again, thank you for listening to me. And I want to tell you, your councilman has been great. He has been out there and I would invite all of y'all to come out at 630 to 730 in the morning and set up that stop sign that everyone tells you about Gulf Road and coming into whatever on Dead Horse Mountain and set up the end of the stop sign and see if your butt don't
 Draw up in a knot because you're scared someone's gonna kill you. I'm sorry That's just the way it is when they're turning left, especially a school bus or a big truck or a dump truck It's not even feasible now. Can you imagine if you put all these other people out there? Come on Thank you, no, no, no, no, okay who else like to address I
 Hi, City Council and Mr. Mayor. My name is Max Lemons and I live at 2806 South Carbon Road.
 I wasn't going to say a whole lot, but after listening to everybody, it kind of seems like I'm hearing a lot of problems that are addressed with the way things are now that don't necessarily have anything to do with the development. The roads are the way they are. The drainage is the way it is. I don't see how the new housing development will negatively affect that.
 It seems like adding exits onto Dead Horse Mountain and adding a drainage system that's been planned for on the other side of the hill seems to be positive. Also, the river is going to flood. There is another way out of the subdivision on the 16th. You can go through the industrial park and it takes about a minute longer. Other than that, I was going to say...
 It does provide an opportunity for people my age to buy houses. We definitely can't afford half a million dollar houses. We can barely afford the $300,000 houses. But I know that a lot of my friends and family are moving into Riverwood Homes because unlike some of the other builders that are here, they do provide a quality house. It's just something that's going to fall down like what you see on 16th. That's all I got. Thanks. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is LaJuan Schumacher. I live at 1803 South Cherry Hills. A family moved in across the street from us this year, this summer, and they have three children. The youngest girl has to be bused to Elkins because there's no room in the Fayetteville public schools for her. And that's another issue. You're bringing in families with children. Where are they going to go to school? That's all I have to say.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Anybody? Good evening, Mayor and Council. Blake Jorgensen from Jorgensen Associates. I've had the pleasure of doing the engineering for all of Riverwalk. It's always nice to go out there. We're on new inspections. You can literally see downtown from Riverwalk. It's about two and a half miles from downtown.
 um this is not a far stretch there's been a lot of conversations about infrastructure this mayor and his staff has done a great job of being ahead of that and i've been part of that we've done cost shares we've done a lot of capital improvement projects and i know very well of the infrastructure
 in that area. Yes, there are lift stations that may have to be improved. There are force mains that are in place that may have to be improved. The developer is well aware of this. This is stuff that we work through with the mayor's staff. We do it daily. This is not uncommon. Every project we do, we have to do a sewer capacity analysis.
 We have to worry about water capacity issues. We have to worry about drainage issues. It is stuff that we do on a daily with the city of Fayetteville. The city of Fayetteville has already hired and paid crap to the toll of very well-reputed civil engineering firm in this area to design the drainage improvements to fix every issue that's been brought up on this map. I've toured the golf course. I've met with homeowners. All of these issues are very easy to resolve.
 So as far as infrastructure goes, I hope you all have questions that we can answer. But I'm going to defer to a very simple statement. As council members, I'm sure you're well aware of 
 the housing issue. Every week there's been an article in the paper. People have gone on seminars, they've gone to this and that, but the latest editorial, not my words, this is the latest editorial, I just want to take a small clip, and it's about Californicating Arkansas, and they're talking about the lack of housing.
 And this is quotes, why? Because local government laws and policies severely restricted or banned outright the building of anything on vast areas of land. This is called preserving, quote, open space. And open space has become almost a cult obsession among self-righteous environmental activists, many of whom are sufficiently affluent that they don't have to worry about housing prices. What we need in Fayetteville is housing.
 Y'all find me open, available land. We will design it. We will build it. This is open, available land. The PZD that was approved on Industrial Road just south of this is no different. The property in North Fayetteville was annexed and rezoned. No different. This is what we do. We collaborate with the city. We provide housing. 350 people that aren't here that will build in these homes want to thank every single one of you, Councilmember, if you vote yes.
 The 10 year project that it takes to build this project out, the 10,000 workers that will be employed to build these houses will thank you. Those of the people that can't get the podium will thank you tonight. We need this project desperately. We need housing in Fayetteville desperately. We don't need more mansions. We need a vast opportunity to provide affordable housing that is available in the city.
 That's simple. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I have no idea who Susan Healist is. I'm number five at 2080. It's hard to get shaky when I talk. Pull the mic down. Pumpkin Ridge. Okay. Okay. Anyway, I've been hearing everything tonight and I'm in my 60s so yes I'm on the road every day.
 The road itself is a problem. I love it. I love going home on that kind of call it a rural country road. I love it. It's beautiful. I'm not against homes, but who would build? I'm not being snotty. I've worked to get where I'm at right now. I started in a starter home. Not a problem with it. But who builds a starter home on a golf course?
 I mean, I don't have anything against an affordable home. Like I said, I started in it, but I worked up to where I'm at right now. You work to get your home. I myself don't. Why can't they just build a little nicer, affordable home? I went through one of their additions. I was a little surprised at what the affordable homes was. It just wasn't what I thought. Even when I started out in affordable homes,
 Like I said, I had to work my way up. The roads in there, yes, they need work. I love them, like I said, but we have a lot of bike people that come out there and ride the trails. They ride up through Dead Horse Mountain and it's really steep going up Dead Horse Mountain Road, very steep. You have to stop to let the bikes go up the road.
 We get a lot of cars on there. They need something for those. I hate bicyclists. I'm sorry for my bikes. I think they get in my way because you've taken two roads, narrowed them down for the bike paths already. We don't have that. Something needs to be done for some safety on that. I hate to see it done because I love the road, but it's very dangerous. But we bought out there after a 100-year flood, not knowing about the 100-year flood.
 But we like it. But like I said, there does something to be done not against anything being built. We love the golf course. We want to see it built up, added on, rebuilt, whatever. Because it's just pretty. I don't golf, but I like it. But I just think, like they said, things need to be done to ensure the proper things are built. Who wants to have golf?
 I don't mind coffee shops and stuff, but with apartments above it, I go down Steele Boulevard and that's what you see is the little soft spots with apartments built on top. And I was first told it was strip mall, then the son of the builder changed it and said, no it's soft spots with apartments on top. Has that been noted that that's going to be done? We were told no duplexes or apartments. Well that's kind of in there.
 So, I'm just like to say, I just think things need to be looked at to see what can be handled up there and what would sell because, I don't know, I'm sorry, but I just think things need to be considered really deeply. But we're not against any, it's going to be built, but maybe they need to see what's going to be built and go look at the area. I'll go up there, look out there, look at the road, drive on it and just see what needs done. Sorry. I work from home. I can't talk very well, but I'm done.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I hadn't planned on speaking either. My husband probably wouldn't believe that. But I've just been sitting and listening. I've not been able to come to any of the meetings prior to this. I live in Spyglass Hill Drive. We've been there almost five years. And as you can tell, and with your own self,
 Your home is important to you. Your neighborhood is important to you. People have my age, and I'm well over 65, okay? We're probably in the home that we're going to be in from now on. One of my concerns, and it's a big concern, we tend to, I'm sitting here, and it's kind of like we're trying to, in some ways, not really minimize, but we have the infrastructure issue. Since Riverwood was built,
 There's a crest, if you've been out there on Dead Horse Road. Just the traffic from Riverwood, they come over that crest, and when we're coming out onto Dead Horse Road from Stonebridge, it's very dangerous because they've picked up speed. And so there is a real concern. As I listened, what I'm thinking is, is there not a way that we can...
 So some of the fears that we have as homeowners, we want progress, but yet progress is not always progress. If you get congestion now on Dead Horse Road like we have over on Weddington, is that really progress?
 So, I would just ask the council to just consider a way that maybe you could have more conversation with us as homeowners in the neighborhood that we would understand and that you could understand where we're coming from as well. I don't know anything about the developer, but I'm sure he's a man of integrity.
 And maybe we could meet with him and see exactly and understand exactly. When you talk about affordable housing, what are you talking about?
 when you talk about exactly where are these homes going to be. So I thank you for your time, and I certainly appreciate your willing to serve our community. And so I would just ask the council to just take a little bit more time with this and provide opportunities for us as residents in that area to feel more knowledgeable about the project and more at ease with it. Thank you. Thank you.
 I did not catch her name. Oh, I'm sorry. Did I not say it? I thought you did. I'm Alla Campbell. Who else would like to address us? My name is Debbie Ficichello, and I live at 1697 South Cooper's Cove. My bottom line is they don't recommend it, so I'm confused why. If these guys...
 don't want it or don't recommend it, why is anything happening? So that's it and I came here from California to live in the house that I'm in, the area I'm in. I love it. It's gorgeous. Pigs running down the road, animals everywhere. That's what I love and I left urban sprawl for Fayetteville because people are nice and we got land so that's it.
 Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Who do we have on Zoom? No hands are raised, Mayor. Mayor, if I may make a quick point of clarification to one of Council Member Moore's questions earlier. I spoke incorrectly when I said two, three, and four family houses would be allowed in that area. That's incorrect. There's a second clause in the Bill of Assurance that says that it's limited to 50 single family residential lots specifically. So I apologize for that misinformation. All right. Okay.
 This is an ordinance. It's on the third reading. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Mike. I'll go first, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. First of all, I want to clarify that I never said that that road only floods one time a year. Let's just get that on the record right now. Okay.
 It's a challenging, challenging project. The project team has done a yeoman's job representing their interests. I think that the community has been dead on in saying that the issue is the capacity of the existing infrastructure. And that we know is just time and money. The question that begs...
 to be answered is who pays for that infrastructure improvement. Okay. So I'm no hero here. I had someone explain to me when everyone in the room is unhappy, you've achieved fairness because everyone is not happy. And I'm going to achieve that, I fear, because the people already living there citing infrastructure deficiencies are accurate.
 and their own subdivisions helped create that deficiency and that demand beyond that capacity. So we have to be careful not to throw stones
 had a future development that may very well pay their fair share. We're dealing with a math problem that says previous development perhaps did not pay its fair share in upgrading the roads, the drainage along the way as incremental development happened. I've, you know, my whole career has been in municipal government. This is not unique to Fayetteville.
 No one person's fault. This is that incremental growth in the nature of the beast. And my admonition for us beyond just this project is to begin to have that budgetary conversation that says,
 Gee, we build a road. The first development doesn't impact it. No one pays into an escrow account. The second development comes along. There's no real significant detriment to the capacity. No one pays into an escrow account. You get to the seventh development and all of a sudden you end up saying, gee whiz, how did we get in this situation? The roads can't handle it. The infrastructure can't handle it. Now there's no money to handle it.
 the eighth developer comes along and that person cannot be expected to remedy all the sins of the past. So I feel for the developer in that circumstance. I feel for the developer with this application because they cannot legally be required to remedy the shortfalls of the incremental growth that has taken place in this area.
 I think the chief concern that I have as a council member is that I don't have a price tag for those infrastructure improvements that would be linked to this development. I do not like the use of the term affordable housing for a development such as this primarily because
 By the time 10 years goes by, the cost of labor, materials, and infrastructure is such that you can't make a promise of a price tag. The only thing you know currently is the price of the dirt upon which you're going to build. So that's a huge hesitation that I have. I'm not excited about homeowners coming to us and saying, improve our road.
 Yeah, it's the same way of saying, well, let's form an HOA and let's charge everyone who lives there and uses that road to upgrade that road. Well, the people that use that road would not be excited about that. But someone who lives 15 miles away from those neighborhoods is equally not excited to pay to upgrade the road that they don't use. So I'm not happy.
 I don't think anyone else in the room should be happy. I think the developer is a credible developer. I think the product that they would build would benefit the community.
 I'm disappointed even that our planning commission forwarded this to us with a 5-4 vote and I would like to send them the message that this should have been resolved at that level. The bills of assurance should have been introduced to that body, not this body. And this is our third time to be discussing this project.
 through no fault of anyone's in the room we decided we needed more public input that we needed more information we can't squeeze any more information out of our staff it is not possible for them to even tell us the price tags for the infrastructure upgrades that would be necessary and so
 Having now preached more than I have a right to preach, I'm simply going to say that I am cautious and extremely hesitant, given what I fear is a major price tag for the taxpayers of the city of Fayetteville. And thank you for that opportunity to preach, Mr. Mayor. Amen. Thank you, Mayor.
 Well done, Mike. Anybody else? What other discussion would you like to have? I know, DeAndre, you were at the neighborhood. Yes, I was there. Yes, yes, absolutely. And just basically echoing what the residents have said, and I
 talking to many, many, many of the residents, no one said that they were anti-development. And it's interesting because people, from what some have told me, they feel like when they address concerns about their neighborhoods, that they're being undervalued
 viewed as anti-development. And so the bottom line is, and we all have our opinions about certain things, but tonight the bottom line is the infrastructure challenges. And they've all expressed that they enjoy the...
 What's out there, the golf court, none of that's in question. The challenge, what's on the table tonight, what they are concerned about is the infrastructure, the strain that that is causing, and what any future development could cause. And so that's what...
 My focus is tonight dealing with what's happening right now. And so after talking to the residents and even last council meeting, I was really inclined to support it because it's a great project. But when I think about it, the infrastructure, those challenges are serious challenges. And I think that at least for me being in Ward 1, making sure that we do this
 being as responsible as we can and making sure that we've done everything that we can to ensure that this is going to be done the way that it should be and building on top of something that's already that's experiencing challenges. I don't think that's smart. And so the residents, they've heard this from me before my perspective. And so Mayor Jordan, I'm going to
 I will not be supporting this. And I do support affordable housing, and I certainly understand the housing issues that we are facing. But tonight is not about that. Tonight is about infrastructure problems. Okay. Thank you, DeAndre. Sarah. Go ahead. Scott had his own question. Okay. Okay. I'm just going to kind of 
 kicking around some thoughts here and they're not really in any particular order, unfortunately. But one of the, this is kind of like on one hand this, on one hand that. We are going to pay for infrastructure if, you know, in a lot of ways, whether we develop in Fayetteville or not. Because
 The traffic that comes into Fayetteville from Elkins and Farmington and all of these other cities where there's, you know, 200 houses being built by Roush Coleman or whoever like that. You know, that stresses our traffic and our streets. And also, those are cities that use our water and sewer.
 as well. So we're going to pay for some of these things regardless. And those cities do pay their fair share, but you know, they don't pay for our streets in Fayetteville. They pay for their water cost and sewer, but so I really feel the pressure of having development because we do so desperately need that. And
 The reason we desperately need it is that we didn't build things the way that we probably should have 15 or 20 years ago. And, you know, we had all the land in the world and the, you know, development was steady and demand was steady. And so it wasn't as necessary now. So I really feel the pressure of wanting to have more development and why it's necessary for our community now.
 I am having a hard time getting around the fact that our staff did not support this. And when I hear about the infrastructure problems out there, you know, I drive out that way. I know what the roads are like. I know they're basically...
 you know they're not the most developed roads they're more country roads i would think of and you know ditches and that sort of thing but staff didn't support this and i i just feel like you know we've got some issues that need to be taken care of out there and that's where i'm at with i want housing but i'm just not quite sure where i stand on this one yet i'm still deciding and um
 I just know we need that housing though, but I don't want to just throw everything into the breach for housing if we're not doing the right thing. So thank you. As we've said before, all the good pieces of property in Fayetteville are already developed. We're going to have challenges on every piece of property going forward. I don't care where it is. Okay.
 I want to say that I fully respect staff's opinion and the work that they've done on this project. Also, I respect the Planning Commission in the fact that they looked at it and they approved it. So here we are tonight. I guess where I fall is infrastructure is a challenge. It's going to be a challenge there for many years to come.
 and talking to Chris Brown and please, Chris, if I misstate what you told me, please make sure you correct me. There are no infrastructure improvements in the near future coming out there. That's on the near horizon. So as a business guy, I look at that and say, well, if we don't do anything, you've got no improvements on the horizon. If we do this project,
 does it push any potential infrastructure needs up that chain of concern with the city? Without in typical fashion, we don't do any commitments, but the ideal that it could potentially push the improvements up the ladder is there because you would have concerns that need to be addressed.
 The sewer issues, that's something that's going to be worked through through development. That has to be, the developer fully knows that. I was pleased to hear that some of the flooding issues that are existing in the neighborhood, of which this developer should not be held responsible for because he didn't do it.
 But I was pleased to hear that some of the issues could potentially be addressed, you know, at the same time that this project's going on and could potentially save the city money if we could work out the timeline to do a joint work out there. So that pleases me. I guess I struggle with on the attainable housing. It seems like we we talk about attainable housing. I don't know.
 And then in one meeting, we talked about the strong importance of attainable housing. And then the next meeting, we are fighting tooth and nail over property for some attainable housing. And now all of a sudden, it's only about the infrastructure. It's not attainable. We're not really worried about the attainable housing issue.
 The infrastructure is obviously a problem. It's going to be a problem. Attainable housing is a problem and failable. And yes, we cannot, anybody in this room, if we ask what the definition of attainable housing is, we're going to get 40 or 50 different answers. But as we sit here, the existing zoning gives them the right to develop 134 houses.
 The economics of it's going to say if they do 134 houses, those houses are going to cost half a million to a million dollars. Okay. You know, that's just that's just economics. You're going to have 134 houses that are going to push cars out on that infrastructure. That's not good. I get that with the attainable housing component of this.
 What intrigues me is we've got proposals out there that are requests for proposals and we have done things in the past of public and private partnership to do obtainable housing. This is solely a private developer trying to help with the situation.
 I think he's gotta be commended for that. I think that he has a history in Fayetteville and the community in the surrounding areas of being a very strong developer for building quality homes. So I guess that's where I'm struggling with a yes and I'm struggling with a no. But I don't want this developer to be a failure.
 and rocks to be thrown at him over stuff that he didn't do. It's not his responsibility for, I hate it, that we have flooding issues there. But that's not his doing. And if this passes, some of that hopefully can be eliminated.
 uh so i that that's what i want to keep in mind and i someone said the sidewalks and stuff i'm assuming not assuming but they have development standards that they would have to go by jonathan that sidewalks through the neighborhood things like that would would absolutely be a requirement that's correct so i i think
 My gut has me leaning one way, but I want to hear what everybody else's thoughts are. Sure. Sure.
 I had a question of staff. I really appreciated the conversations that have come from the neighborhood and really echo a lot of the sentiments that have come from other council members. But there was something brought up about the concern about public safety whenever the road closure does happen in the event that there was an emergency that happens. I think I see, yeah. Is that something, I know that we have stringent state regulations and oftentimes, you know, we get...
 a little frustrated because they alter the design of a development because they are so stringent. And so can you talk to what that evaluation would be around this particular development with the in and out in this particular area?
 So you're asking specifically the number of exits that would be required, or are you asking what we do when it floods? Well, so I guess what I know during the development phase, whenever we're looking at the impact this has to the area, that we're going to obviously look at how first responders can get in and out.
 of the area and how the residents can get in and out. And so that's, I was hoping that you could walk us through kind of how that would be evaluated because that was raised as a concern by the community members. And I just wanted to make sure that we are addressing it.
 Okay, so we're not, and Jonathan will be able to share more on this part of it, but we've not made it since we're just on the zoning stage of it. I mean, there's been no traffic flows or anything like that. Of course, if there's more than 30 units, we're required to do, you know, multiple entrances and exits.
 Any kind of turnarounds, there's requirement, you know, where hydrants are supposed to be and how deep those turnarounds can be or at least what the style of turnaround would be. As far as the flooding goes, I mean, we do have another, we would come in from Black Oak Road, as somebody mentioned. It's slower, it's probably about another five minutes, you know, from Station 3 there, which is our first in-unit. Does that answer your questions? That was helpful. Thank you. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to commend everybody for coming out, especially probably for the three meetings. This is the third time we've discussed this item. Thank you for your presentations, your passion, your opinions. That's very helpful. I am concerned about the price tag on the infrastructure. Clearly it's lacking.
 We don't have a good idea what that would be. There'll be at least two lift stations that have to be upgraded. There's a, if I recall correctly from Tim two weeks ago, there's a bridge that also has to have some improvements made. There's some other bridges that are within the neighborhood that need to be dealt with in terms of their flooding and their accessibility a couple of times a year, at least a couple of times a year.
 I'm very concerned about that. I'm also concerned about the staff not supporting this project. It's clearly outside of the mayor's box and it has a very low infill score.
 And I want to remind my fellow council members that the only item that is enforceable is the bill of assurances. So I know this developer is reputable, has got great integrity, but we have also heard about affordable housing many, many times before. And the market changes, other things change,
 And so keep in mind that only the bill of assurance is enforceable before us. And I also echo...
 One of my other colleagues that said we should have had the bill of assurance at the planning commission level, because that's really where this kind of really in-depth analysis and thought should occur initially. And so without that information, I kind of feel like they didn't get the full analytical effort that they could have had. So, yeah.
 For me right now, I'm concerned about the infrastructure. I'm concerned about the safety.
 The residents made a lot of good points about the intersection. I have driven out there several times. It hasn't been a rush hour, but even when it's a regular time, it's still very congested. It's very tight. There are no shoulders. There's ditches. There's a lot of constraints there. So at this point, I'm leaning against supporting this rezoning. Thank you. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate Mr. Georgenson's comments about how the developers could work with the city staff to address the flooding concerns. I'm encouraged by the discussion of the possibility of using the golf course easements to assist in that. And then I also agree with Council Member Berna that development in this area may expedite the infrastructure improvements, hopefully, potentially.
 and I agree with Councilmember Turk too, I struggle with staff's recommendation for denial, but I do think that the bills of assurance may have impacted that. I would like to have seen how that would impact staff's decision. I don't know that it would have, but I know that it has helped change my opinion, so I am going to be supporting this. Thank you. Anybody? Yes, Sarah. Thanks. I got to ask my question, but I didn't get that finished. Okay.
 Going back to echoing the sentiments that Brian brought up by Councilmember Bunch and Councilmember Berna, I did want to
 I think the thought that came from staff bringing forward and us looking at the city plan and being concerned about sprawl, there was some conversation that was brought up about the fact that this piece of property, and I've had a lot of thoughtful consideration around this because one of the things I brought forward when I first joined
 council was about readopting the city plan. And I really think that there was a very deliberate process that got us to that point. You know, and it's a plan. I keep being reminded that, Sarah, that's a plan, right? And we can't force anyone to do, you know, the plan that we've put in place. And, you know, there aren't perfect situations and circumstances for us. And so, you know, one of the things as we continue to look at and refine those different goals, one of those is sprawl.
 And so, you know, ideally would we like to put all development right where we're close to, you know, smart infrastructure where we've already made those improvements? Yes, absolutely. Can I make developers do that? No. You know, I don't have a lot of mechanisms, unfortunately. I sure wish I did. And the state legislature sometimes continues to limit that, unfortunately. Okay.
 But one of the things is that we do, we are a part of a region. And we have to really acknowledge that the way that land is used out in the county is very different than Fayetteville and in some of the surrounding cities. And so when I start to look at SPRAWL and I look at trying to make sure we have available housing for every resident that comes into Fayetteville and the Northwest Arkansas, I
 I really start thinking about the fact that we really are starting to push individuals further and further outside of Fayetteville. Individuals even who have lived here long term have been here 10 and 20 years. If they actually want to achieve home ownership or having to exit Fayetteville.
 And so, you know, it's been very hard because I've really weighed all of those very valid concerns about infrastructure. I also come from a business background and I do that number crunching, which I really don't like that we don't have these numbers that I can really look at and understand, you know, what we might be biting off. But I think that's already there, unfortunately. And so I think it was an imperfect approach.
 a situation we annex that land in, kind of what happened in the past. And so we're kind of set in this area where I think my seatmate spoke to it that no one's gonna get everything they want.
 The truth of the matter is that we have to increase units in our region in order to make sure that we're able to house everyone that's coming here every day. And I am incredibly concerned about the type of lack of infrastructure, lack of regulation and zoning that are outside of our borders. And we have control about what is placed inside Fayetteville. One of the things I want my colleagues to kind of consider as we're looking at this is the bill of assurance
 I honestly, you know, community services is a very interesting, I'm learning a lot about our development code, but it's a really interesting available option to us about the types of things that it can allow us to do. I've been reminded in other zoning conversations that we...
 We do tie the property long term to the bill of assurance. And so I'm trying to be really mindful of that. We do have times where this property, you know, say these folks, this doesn't work out and this property changes hands, you know, that that that handcuffs those individuals. And I have a lot of heartburn over the fact that we are talking about just single family residential lots when many of us here have talked about that being possibly, you know, an antiquated zoning and antiquated housing.
 way that we house people going forward. And so I really, in the event we're gonna look at adopting the bill of assurance, I would want to actually recommend we think about amending it and we remove that so that we at least can allow those other potential units to be in consideration. I don't think you can amend the bill of assurance, can you Kit?
 No, the city council can't actually amend that. That's what was offered by the developer. In the future, if the landowner came back and said, I would like to have the city council amend the bill of assurance to this, then that would be just like another rezoning decision and city council could do that or could not do that.
 So it's like part of the zoning itself. And so you can't pick and choose what part of the bill of assurance you like. And only it would be an agreement between the landowner and the city council if it was going to be changed in the future. Yes, I have a question for, I guess, a couple of different members of staff here.
 So, Jonathan, they can build by right now 134 homes.
 Is that the number of lots they can have by right? I believe that's correct. On a portion of the property, it's limited by bill of assurance to two and a half units per acre. Okay. But without, so there's already another bill of assurance? On a portion of the property. On a portion of it. I'm trying to remember all this stuff because this property has been run through the ringer a couple of times, I think. So if they were to build, and this is a question for Tim.
 If they were to build, or maybe Jonathan can answer it, if they were to build the 134 units, I've forgotten if they would need to update the lift station.
 I can respond to that and if Mr. Nylander feels I do it inadequately, maybe he can come up. I mean, per his comments and his department's comments, I believe it was lift station number one, which is the one within the golf course has the capacity for, I think the estimate is a few dozen units, which would not adequately accommodate just the development of that existing piece of land with the bill of insurance that you're describing. Okay. But if I remember correctly, it wasn't going to be just like...
 Whole new lift station or anything like that. It was a fairly simple, okay So if they were to build the 134 units we would still have the roads being exactly the same way that they are The bridge would still be the same There wouldn't be any changes required there Correct. That all comes back to the the
 the estimation as a part of the project of what impact it's creating and what proportional infrastructure improvements that impact can bear. And there is, I think, a rough calculus that shows that the less impact, the less infrastructure the city can ask to be made. I know that's a very broad response, but it's a very broad issue. So still limited. If we were to ask for any infrastructure improvements, we would be limited. Right.
 by the size of the number of houses being built. Okay. So also there is, I know there are in Highway 16, all the way to Elkins, I believe the State Highway Department is going to widen that road. I'm not sure when that's going to happen though.
 There's going to be some changes going on that aren't really tied to this development. They're happening to infrastructure to our borders anyway. Chris, hey.
 Do we have any idea when the state is going to start on that? Yeah, I think there are several phases of that. But the one phase that I am aware of is basically between Stone Bridge and Roberts Road. So it's kind of filling that gap, going a little bit east of the West Fork Bridge. That's programmed in the Highway Department's plan for 2025 to be in construction. So it is a couple of years away, but it is fairly imminent.
 Okay, so they're going to start on the part that is closer to Elkins, work their way closer to Fayetteville. Well, between Stone Bridge and Roberts Road. So Roberts Road is just east of the West Fort Bridge. Okay, all right.
 Sit back, Chris. One quick question, and it really has no bearing on approval or denial, but they've had several comments that have been made about the light there coming out of the subdivision and understanding that's coming onto a state highway. Does the state control that light, or is there anything that you could do to help the community
 without approval or denial, is there anything you can help with that light that may be able to facilitate movement a little bit more? Sure. The existing light at Stonebridge, that's what you're talking about. Yes, we do operate that so we can look at signal timing and things like that. That obviously there's a lot of traffic coming in from the east and going out
 It's a balance. From the west. So yeah, just balancing those levels of service. But we certainly can look at that and we do monitor all of our intersections to cut a balance out that level of service. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Okay, we're on the third reading.
 Let's see where we go with this. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? So if we vote yes, that's mean we're voting for or against? You're voting for the development if you vote yes. Okay. No. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? No. Burnham?
 Bunch? Yes. Dark? No. We have four affirmative votes. Mayor, there are four affirmative votes, and so you can vote if you please. I'm not going to vote. Well, then the rezoning has failed.
 If I may ask a question, Mr. Mayor, of the city attorney, that is, the applicant has the right to reapply with a different application, say a planned zoning district. Do they have to wait a year to do that? What's the allowable time frame for the application to be deemed different enough to resubmit? Well, I'll actually defer...
 That because that's really a planning decision planning commission kind of controls that but if they change their zoning a lot and usually it would be allowed Well, I'll defer to Johnson But that's correct with within this one year of a denial of rezoning the same request cannot be made if another request That's substantially different is made it can be entertained by the Planning Commission and perhaps subsequently the council Okay. Now do y'all want to break or I'll bet you do All right
 All right, we're on new business. Number one, a resolution to oppose the issuance of any ADQ permit to Senegro or other company that would allow the release or land application of nutrient or phosphorus
 industrial waste or similar material within the Illinois River or Beaver Lake watersheds. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm bringing this issue before City Council tonight because we are currently in a nutrient surplus area. What that means is a designated nutrient surplus area. And what that means is there are surplus nutrients like phosphorus and nitrogen already applied that have already been applied to soils in our watersheds in the Illinois River watershed and the Beaver Lake watershed area.
 But, there are gaps in the Arkansas state law that allow industrial nutrient operations to be permitted and spread industrial nutrient waste. And that's what I mean like from rendering plants, cooking plants, lots of fat, lots of nitrogen and phosphorus within the current code.
 The citizens of Fayetteville spent millions of dollars, especially on the Westside Treatment Plant, to clean up the Illinois River, to lower the phosphorus amounts on the Illinois River. Yet we still have this loophole in the regulations at the Department of Environmental Quality.
 So I'm bringing this before you all tonight to hopefully send a message to the state to actually draft and adopt more stringent regulations and to prevent any of these nutrient, any of these companies from spreading industrial nutrient waste. So that's why it's coming before you. Thank you. Okay. What discussion comments from the council? Teresa? Sarah? Okay.
 I probably have one of kit actually I just was curious about. I think I understand the way that the process usually works is that there's that permitting process where there goes to public comment and oftentimes I see you know folks letting the community know and you know then there's you know letters that go out and then they look at it and they approve or deny it and so with the city council potentially passing
 Does that mean that going forward when they do that process, you know, is the city going to be like sending a letter proactively or how does that impact, I guess, with this is what I was trying to understand. Oh, you want to go ahead? Yeah.
 Sure. So the way it usually works is the company applies for a permit. ADEQ may or may not have a public comment period. Most of the time they do, but you might miss it because they might publish it in the newspaper and most people don't know about it. And then they make a decision about whether to approve or not. But I don't think there's any implication for the city within that process.
 And there's nothing to say that we have to wait for that process too. We can go ahead and once the city has established its position about trying to protect our watershed from excess phosphorus being laid out as part of an industrial project, then certainly the mayor can send a copy of the resolution down to ADEQ so that there's no way that they won't know that we as a city are...
 are opposed to this because of the problems we're already having in our watershed as well as the problems in the Illinois watershed. So protecting our water source, Beaver Lake, but also protecting the Illinois River, which we kind of have to do pursuant to the cases that we've had when Oklahoma has sued us.
 That's one way we can also do it with the mayor sending a letter and with the copy of the resolution to show them that we are opposed to that. And I did something similar a few years ago when they were doing the hog farm on the Buffalo. We did a resolution saying we didn't support the hog farm on Buffalo, which got me a few colds. But anyway, we did.
 I thought we needed to make a statement.
 I think Teresa's got a great point here. Teresa Codnery- And eventually the hog operation was closed because it was polluting the river. So the one thing that I failed to mention is that phosphorus is the driver, is the nutrients actually behind algal blooms. And so the more phosphorus you have, the more likely for an algal bloom. Sometimes that turns into a harmful algal bloom. And we've had several of those around town in past years.
 There's also a lawsuit that's going on right now on the Illinois River. The judge has asked for a ruling. I think they're in negotiation right now. So everybody would like to clean up the Illinois. And this is one area where we can close this loophole or at least encourage Department of Environmental Quality to draft regulations to close the loophole.
 Anything? Yes, Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I've calmed down. I think that I'm sometimes hesitant regarding resolutions that maybe are not as instrumental in accomplishing something. And...
 And I had concerns about this one is, is it show for Fayetteville? Is it more? And then I was reminded of how many millions of dollars Fayetteville has invested to clean up and maintain the watershed that feeds the White River. And so.
 I then took my blinders off and re-looked at this as a means of protecting the investment. I mean, just in ARPA funding alone, it was two or three million dollars. And I know that the city expended far more than that over the years to protect that watershed. And so I view this as then a statement to protect the investment our residents have been making for decades now.
 And so that made a real difference for me in looking at this. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this in the chamber?
 MR. BEAGER, COUNCIL MEMBERS, I APPRECIATE Y'ALL'S THOUGHTS LISTENING TO YOU. MY NAME IS BRIAN THOMPSON, 3428 EAST WYOMING ROAD. I HAVE THE PRIVILEGE OF REPRESENTING THE OZARK SOCIETY. WE HAVE BEEN TRACKING THIS BECAUSE WE'RE VERY INTERESTED IN CLEAN RIVERS AND THE ILLINOIS RIVER IS ONE THAT WE CARE ABOUT. IT'S A NATIONAL SCENIC RIVER.
 And we know that there's been a lot of pain and agony trying to figure out how to get this river cleaned up. So I can tell you, you know, we got here to this nutrient surplus situation.
 zone business, honestly. Poultry farmers would spread their litter on their fields and that happened for years and you know, they didn't know that it would eventually come to a problem. And the poultry companies have taken a beating. And so, you know, in the background, what they've done is they have paid
 they have started a small nonprofit called BMP Incorporated. And this is one lady. And what she does is she matches up poultry houses that are cleaning out with a truck that hauls that stuff to the west and the north to row crops where it can actually be used as fertilizers.
 So the good news is that the poultry companies are trying to do their part. And then you've got nonprofits like Beaver Watershed Alliance and the Illinois River Watershed Partnership, and they're preaching, you know,
 the buffer zones to help clean our waters and keep our waters pristine. And then we have the municipalities which are paying big dollars to try and mitigate phosphorus going into the watershed.
 And then you have these permits, and we have asked ADQ, it's like, why are you letting these into a nutrient surplus zone? Well, they don't really have a rule in place for managing this. They have 36 rules by which they manage water quality, and they don't have one for this one, and they've told us that.
 And we say, well, how do you do it? Well, we pick up rags from various bits and pieces that we think are appropriate. And they'll tell you, we need to have a rule. But, you know, they're underfunded and they're not going to get to it unless they have a little bit of motivation. Now, these waste companies, they have to do something with that material. I mean, these are from plants that Tyson Foods is managing to get the stuff out of the watershed, right?
 And so what's happening is companies like Synegro, they're like, well, we'll make a bid and we'll take that stuff off your hands. And what they're doing, they're making a low bid and they're finding a farmer that'll take it and that's where it goes. And it's in our watershed. And that works against everything that Fayetteville is doing, that the taxpayers are paying for, and that Tyson Foods is doing, and that the nonprofits are doing with trying to mitigate water quality.
 So I can't see how this resolution could be anything but productive because it would send a strong message to ADQ that, you know, we have a lot of people up here in northwest Arkansas. They're trying to do the right thing and you don't have a rule for managing this. And they should. And so we go through the public comment process and we fended off a lot of these. Well, there's four of them that have been recent.
 But here's the problem is when you're making a comment against a permit that has no rules, what's that measured against? It's not measured against anything. They can just say, well, you know, it's not illegal. So where do you go with that? So they need a kick in the pants. So, and I appreciate y'all's, you know, hanging in there because these are long nights. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else wants to address? Hello. I'm David Peterson and I'm not from this area. I'm from Greenbrier, Arkansas. But I am the past president of the Ozarks Society. The purpose of the Ozarks Society is to protect watersheds every place in the state. But I'm a retired mathematician and statistician. I hope that doesn't end the conversation. But I thought perhaps some numbers might
 help us move along. So I studied 71 of these permits before DEQ, and they cover some 53,000 acres in Arkansas, which is more than state parks. We're spreading industrial waste on areas that are larger than all the state parks, which sort of is a shock to me. So it ought to be well done, I think.
 There are several thousand fields and if you're outside of the nutrient surplus area, about 50 percent of the fields that are proposed to have waste already have too much. They're already in a very high level and DEQ recommends but can't force people not to spread waste on them. Half the fields outside of the nutrients surplus area already have too much phosphorus.
 And then in the four county area up here, Madison, Carroll, Banton, and Washington County, though it's much worse, it's 78% already have too much phosphorus. That's just incredible to me. So how did it get that way? Well, it's been that way for a long time. Back 20 years when the nutrient surplus area was set up, in which case the phosphorus
 The farmers were asked to export 70% of their litter. And to large measure, they've complied with that. We sent it to Oklahoma, Missouri, and Kansas to large part. But the industrial waste haulers don't have to export any. To me, that seems unfair. How is it the farmers should carry the load of trying to limit the damage to our streams? It just seems bizarre.
 So to bring this home a little bit further, in the two-county area of Benton and Washington, there are at any moment 49 million chickens and other poultry. That's just an incredible number to me. And I have a picture, an aerial picture, of a proposed industrial waste field that has 50 chicken houses within a mile. Wow.
 The density of the litter problem is just immense. It just overloads the system, that's all there is to it. There's one more insult, I think. The industrial waste haulers actually import waste from other states and put it in on our fields. It's not the majority of it, but it's maybe five percent of what they do. It seems to be just opposite of what they're asking the farmers to do.
 So it undermines the whole system. So what we want is to have DEQ re-examine the problem and actually set up rules that everybody can understand and follow. As it is now, a typical farmer puts 50 to 100 pounds of phosphorus per acre on their land every year, but the waste haulers put in three or four times that. That just seems wrong to me. So I think this could be a good start, or actually a shot,
 to get people going at the state level to re-examine the problem. So thanks. If you'll pass this, I'd appreciate it. Thanks. Thank you. Who else? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised. Can I bring it back to the council? This is a resolution.
 uh what conversation or what action would the council like to take i move we approve the resolution second we have a motion second to approve the resolution anybody have any final comments fairbridge please call the role hertzberg yes jones yes moore yes
 Okay. Number two, an ordinance to amend Article 10 Historic District Commission and 33 Department of Sports Commissions and Authorities of the Federal City Code. Kip? Or not. Oh, I'm sorry. No problem. Okay.
 Whereas the Historic District Commission began discussing changes to its governing regulations in February 2023 in response to feedback from the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program as part of a certified local government review. And whereas the Stantec Consulting Services also recommended that the city should consider an update to the ordinance to clarify the path to create a local historic district.
 And whereas historic district commissioners and city staff recommend the approval of these amendments to the city code. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one at the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend section thirty three point two two six established by replacing quote act number four eighty four of nineteen sixty three with.
 Quote, Arkansas code annotated section 14-172-201 at SEC, unquote. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend section 33.227, membership, by adding the following language to the end of the section. Quote, members should demonstrate an interest in historic preservation...
 possessing interest or expertise in architecture, landscape architecture, history, urban or regional planning, building rehabilitation, real estate, law, archaeology, or conservation, unquote.
 Section 3 of the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, hereby amend Section 33.229, Powers and Duties, by adding the following, quote, review and recommend historic markers to recognize important places and persons in Fayetteville's history. Section 4 of the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, hereby enact a new Section 33.231, Historic Districts, as follows.
 Subsection A, the City Council may establish historic districts pursuant to the provisions of Arkansas Code Annotated 14-172-201 at SEC as amended.
 Subsection B, District Characteristics. The City Council and the HDC should consider the following characteristics when establishing a historic district to reserve areas of exemplary architectural, archaeological, cultural, or historic value. Number one, significance in history, architecture, archaeology, or culture.
 Number two, association with certain events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of local, regional, state, or national history. Number three, association with the lives of significant persons in our past. Number four, embodying the distinctive characteristics of an architectural or engineering type, period, or method of construction. Number five, represents the work of a master designer, builder, or craftsman.
 Or represents an established and familiar visual feature of the community. Subsection , relationship to zoning districts. Overlay zone, the historic district regulations are intended to preserve and protect the historical and archaeological worthy buildings, structure sites, monuments, and neighborhoods of the historic area.
 In all zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the historic district, the regulation for both the zoning district and the historic district shall be applied. Whenever there is a conflict between the regulations of the zoning district and the regulations of the historic district overlay zone, the more restrictive shall apply.
 Section 5, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby renumbers the sections following the new Section 33.231, Historic Districts Accordingly. And number 6, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals subsection C of Section 33.233, Work Not Requiring a Certificate of Appropriateness, formerly Section 33.232, and enacts replacement subsection C as follows.
 Facing the public right-of-way, work not facing any public right-of-way shall not require a certificate of appropriateness.
 That's it. Thank you so much, Mayor. Good evening, Council. It sounds like I'm asking for an awful lot, but what this is is the first and second action items from our newly adopted historic preservation plan. The first to modify an ordinance to include eligibility criteria and a process for establishing local historic districts that's specific to our historic district commission.
 And then also number two, to make sure that it meets the certified local government criteria for expertise in architecture urban planning designer history to the extent possible. That's a recommendation from the state. So here we are two weeks later trying to knock out our first two items. Mr. Williams described those in such great detail that I think I should see my role to him honestly.
 Very briefly, we have- Thanks for all those big words too, I appreciate it. I am so sorry. I think I've made him read the most tonight. But our ordinance basically currently doesn't fully build a path for a local ordinance district. And so the only one that we currently have, the only historic zoning protections in the city of Fayetteville are for the White Hanger at Drakefield,
 which is great because that allows us to be a certified local government. We have access to grant funding and support from the state that is very valuable to us. But if anybody ever wanted to make that request and voluntarily have those same protections or similar protections, we don't have a path. And so as part of the assessment of our historic preservation program, our consultant Stantec said,
 It'd be really great if y'all would build that path. Our state contact with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program concurred. HTC thought that was a great idea and such a great idea, they began working on this before we had the preservation plan fully adopted. And so one of the things we looked at was across the state of Arkansas, what do these ordinances look like in other cities and what can we model as perhaps the best practice? And we saw consistently that there were criteria. So not every,
 property, for example, may qualify, what's to keep someone from saying a 1996 multifamily apartment building should be a historic district. And so we're looking for what would be those specific criteria. So anyway, we had three key opportunities, one to create that path, two to create an application process, and three to create an ordinance template.
 HGC is recommending this first of three and we'll be working on the rest of them as we go forward. So what does this include? Updating the state code reference to what it is currently, which I think is probably something that's very helpful to us when we say, what do you have to do? Follow what the state says. It's really that simple.
 We would be proposing to add the criteria I mentioned at agenda session for commissioners. It does not keep the council from appointing anyone that they would choose to those roles. It just identifies what the certified local government program looks for when it's available and possible in the community.
 We would, and I highlighted this for council, I want to make sure this is clear, add the review and recommendation of historical markers to HTC's powers and duties. If the council does choose to approve this, it would be clear that that's part of their responsibilities. It's not explicit in their ordinance right now.
 we would provide for the establishment of local historic districts. I will say that in most cases, that would be something that someone would have to propose to us. We would not actively go putting that restrictive zoning on properties that did not agree to it. And then also another thing that I want to make sure is very clear is
 because this is a very technical item. But in the event that you would have a local ordinance district, like we do the White Hanger at Drakefield, we are proposing to change when the work would have to come before the Historic District Commission for review. Right now it says,
 work visible from the public right-of-way, that can be a little bit vague and a little bit peeking around corners. A more clear way to approach this, and the state staff did agree with us on this, is to say work facing the public right-of-way or part of that facing elevation and not something that would be peering around a corner. Then we'd have to renumber the sections to do all of that.
 Staff and the Historic District Commission are both making that recommendation to you all. They voted for nothing, nothing to recommend. We've not received any public comment so far, not in their multiple meetings that they discussed this and also in the meeting in which they voted. So thank you so much, Council, for your time this evening. I'm happy to answer any questions if you have any. And thank you so much, Mr. Williams, for reading all of that. Yes, thank you, Kit, for reading all of that.
 Oh, I love it. It's my job. What questions do we have? Thank you, Mayor. I have one quick question just to clarify. So if you have a house that's on a corner, the right of way is probably on both sides. Yes, ma'am. But if it's not on both sides, would both sides of the house still be the visible facing under your recommendation? So.
 So if you had a house on a corner lot, you would typically have two right of ways. And so both of the house faces would be something that would have to be reviewed, not what faces your rear neighbor, for example, a rear property or a side property. And so if you imagine an architectural elevation that draws kind of a...
 a flat version of a house side, we would be looking for what are the things that are included in that flat drawing of the house that are facing a right-of-way. Now, if a right-of-way were undeveloped, so maybe we call it a paper right-of-way, if it's a right-of-way, it would still qualify under the language. And it already does, so there would be no change to that. We would just be looking at, is it part of the elevation, the flat drawing of the building,
 Or is it something that would be around a corner and maybe facing a different direction? That's where it can get really confusing, where we can say, if you provide us an elevation drawing, there's a certain expectation of what that includes versus...
 trying to deal with and historic buildings often have these like corners and interesting kind of nooks and crannies and we wouldn't try to just we wouldn't try to determine what manner of peaking would get us the right outcome uh versus kind of a standard industry drawing i think it's still not a great way to explain it but it's probably the best i have i thank you for clarifying i appreciate that certainly
 So I have a historic house on the historic register and the sides of it have a bay window. So would the bay window on the sides of my house be controlled? Because they're facing toward the street. If it's part of the street elevation, then it would be considered. And a bay window typically, even though two of the...
 If I'm thinking correctly, two of the sides, although they're in an angle, would still be part of that elevation drawing. If you had a full kind of hexagon or octagon in which you had backside angled wall sections, then those wouldn't be street facing. Historic preservation is a tricky business. I want to ask just about the process.
 Now, I know you worked on this quite a while, right? Yes, sir. So from the time you started working on this...
 about how long did it take? For this particular ordinance change or? Well, I mean, just the overall story. Oh, well, I got to start working on the whole plan about the time I got here a year and a half ago, which is one of the most exciting ways to start a job. And then we started working with the Historic District Commission at the beginning of this year, just for all of these text changes that we're bringing to you in just this piece.
 Right, so it took a while. It's taken a little while to do the research and to get everybody together on the language and make sure that we weren't doing something that we would immediately have to come back to the council and say, we're sorry, we didn't get that right. Right, so it involved quite a bit of public process. We were definitely in public meetings. We didn't have a lot of public participation. I guess the public didn't think this was one of our more fun activities.
 Okay, I just wanted to just, you know, I know we talk about this quite a bit and I want everybody to know that it takes about a year, year and a half and public input, but great job on that. Thank you so much. We tried for years.
 You are a god, Sam. I'm going to blush very hard now. My apologies. You did a wonderful job on that. Okay. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? No? Nobody on Zoom, Mayor.
 that's a very thorough job britain there's no value okay i'll bring this back to the council this is an ordinance um so what action would the council like to take or um what discussion the council likes i have one comment and then i have a motion um i just hope that we don't have a lot of bay window property and i would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second
 And we have a motion to second, we have a second reading.
 Oh, you could. I just wanted to say thank you. But also, I especially appreciate tying back to the fact that these were some of the goals that were originally in what you presented as the master plan and that you were able to kind of check those off. Because, again, that's been something that we've been talking about as a council, right, and trying to make sure we're communicating where we're at on those particular goals. And so I just really appreciated how you brought that forward. So thank you.
 Oh, Karen, would you please call the vote? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Bedecker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terk? Yes. An ordinance to amend Article 10, Historic District Commission and Section 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville City Code. And I have one kind of form or grammatical possible change I'd like to ask you about.
 In Section 4, under the Section 33.231, Historic Districts, the district characteristic says the city council and the HDC should consider. Well, I know you work in this all the time. HDC means a lot to you. But I would rather spell that out and say Historic District Commission rather than using the abbreviation because I have not.
 And looking at this, it was not abbreviated when you talked about historic district commissions and above and the whereas clauses. And I just think that when people are reading the ordinance, they shouldn't have to wonder about what something means. And I think we could write it out. It wouldn't be too bad if that would be OK. I entirely agree. And I really appreciate your catching that because you're correct.
 Thank you. So I would ask someone, I can't make a motion to amend. I move you amend to write out the abbreviation. Second. There was a motion and a second. What was the motion? To write out the abbreviation. Okay. Scrib out the abbreviation. Okay. We move. Spell it out. All right. Any other comments on that?
 all right care which police call the road hertzberg yes jones yes more yes wedeker yes verna yes yes yes okay are we on the third reading yet i mean we suspend the rules and go to the third final reading second all right we have motion to say uh um care which please call the road hertzberg yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wedeker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. In order to amend Article 10, Historic District Commission in Section 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions and Authorities of the Fayetteville City Code. Okay. Any final comments from the Council? All right. Chair, would you please call the vote? Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 23-015 located at
 10-09 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1 for approximately 0.30 acres from RSF4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RMF24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre kit. Reviewed ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map in Exhibit A and the legal description Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre to RMF-24, residential multi-family, 24 units per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Ward 1 towards the southeastern part of Fayetteville. It's about 500 feet south of where Happy Hollow and Huntsville Road meet, most specifically at the southwest corner of Fairlane Street and Happy Hollow Road, which you can see here.
 The property is currently developed with a single family home, has a driveway access to both of the adjacent streets, and constitutes about a third of an acre overall. The request before council tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RMF24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 In evaluating the request, staff does find it to be compatible with surrounding land uses, both existing and potential. As you can see on the zoning map here, all of the property immediately south into the west is currently zoned RMF 24 and all its associated entitlements.
 In fact, in the larger area that you can see in this map with exclusion of the property immediately to the north, the properties are all all include a much higher entitlement either in the size of the buildings allow or the number of uses.
 When it comes to existing land uses, staff found the request to be similarly compatible. Immediately to the south are several multifamily buildings. As you segue to the south and west of the neighborhood, it's a mix of single and two-family dwellings. Further south and to the east, there's a mix of offices, a gas station, a funeral home, and several employment centers.
 From a long range planning standpoint, staff found the request to be similarly complementary. The area, the property's designation on our future land use map is known as a city neighborhood area. In those areas, it's envisioned to include opportunities for some of the widest spectrum of housing opportunities possible. The RMF 24 zoning district allows for exactly that. Everything from single family homes up to multifamily buildings and everything in between
 Similarly, or this is also reflected, as you can see, the infill score will not overwhelmingly high compared to as you get closer to downtown. For being this part of the city, it does include several elements that staff found to be compatible with infill development that has access to adequate water, sewer. It's near a city park immediately to the west, Dock Mashburn. There's a nearby transit stop and I've.
 failed to mention at the very beginning it's immediately across the street from fire station number five so response times are understandably exactly what you would hope they would be
 When it comes to issues, the only main one I wanted to draw the council's attention to here is that this does reduce the tree canopy requirement for the property. As you all may know at this point, RSF4 has the highest requirement for tree canopy in the city at 25%. So it's perhaps unsurprising that any rezoning for greater entitlement would have a commiserate reduction in the required amount of canopy.
 All told, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission offered very limited comment, finding it to be appropriate and forwarded that City Council unanimously. As of the Planning Commission meeting and since, we've not received any public comment on the item either in favor or against. And I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Justin Kelly is here as the applicant for the item, Mayor. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening everybody. I don't have a whole lot to say. My name is Justin Kelly. I'm a realtor with Smith & Associates, representing the owners of the subject property, 1009 South Happy Hollow. That's all I've got. That's good. You've got to speed it up a little bit. Very to the point. Very to the point, yeah. All right. Well, what questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Okay.
 Okay. Well, let's take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber? No. Who do we have on Zoom? Nobody, Mayor. All right. Well, I'll bring it back to the council.
 What discussion would we like to have or what action would we like to take? Given that this is the last remaining piece of property that is not RMF 24 on this block, I would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call this off? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 23-15 located at 1009 south happy hollow road in ward one for approximately three tenths of an acre from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second yeah motion second to go to the third and final reading can't which please call the row artsburg yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Adornance to rezone that property. Described in rezoning petition RZN 23-15 located at 1009 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1 for approximately three-tenths of an acre from RSF-4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF-24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 DeAndre, you haven't heard anything from anybody, have you? Nothing, no. Okay, okay. Just wanted to be sure. All right. Any final comments from council? Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. And now, number four, a resolution to adopt the
 2024 through 2028 five-year capital improvements plan. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We had a rather expanded discussion last week at the agenda session. I'm not going to go through all that again, but I thought I would go through a couple of quick slides. We'll have the patients to sit with me. First slide. Remember overall,
 This plan totals $262 million or $262,246,000. We talked earlier today about infrastructure. This is how we maintain or improve the infrastructure and replace or improve equipment through this plan. If we look at it, the largest overwhelming
 portion of this plan is water and sewer, very capital intensive. But remember, we've talked about this and this includes the expenditures to build the 48-inch line down to the city on the west side,
 of the city from Elm Springs, and that's got a price tag of about $85 million. That's included in that and that's one reason that water and sewer is so high.
 Second largest is vehicles and equipment. Vehicles and equipment, most of that's been replaced, and most of these already have had the funding done over time for the replacement. So that's generally funded at this point in time. The third largest segment is transportation. That's overlay sidewalks, things of that nature. That's 7% of the total. Public safety is 4% of the total.
 Recreation parks 5% of the total and trails 6%. All of those total 90% of the entire plan. If we look to see exactly what that means in dollars. Do the next one for me, please.
 we could see water and sewer 142 million dollars over the five next five years projected vehicles and equipment 33.6 million transportation 18.6 million public safety 18.4 million dollars and parks and recreation 14 million dollars so this is kind of how in dollars how this looks
 Next, I'll go to the next slide. One of the biggest segments of this capital improvement plan is the sales tax capital improvement fund. We put of the city one penny it collects on sales tax. 40% goes to the sales tax capital fund, 60% goes to the general fund for operation.
 The large segments in here are information technology. The largest is transportation again, 25 percent of its transportation, that's for the overlay and sidewalks.
 12 percent for police, 11 percent for trails, 11 percent for fire, 12.5 percent for parks and recreation, 6.3 percent for library. So this geographically shows us where we do it. We go to the next slide, which will be the final one I'll show you. What does that mean in real dollars? Transportation, $18.4 million.
 Parks and Recreation, nine. Police, 8.7. Trails, 8.3. Fire, $8 million. Library, $4.5 million. That's how it's spread both on a percentage and total, to try to give you an overview of how the money is spent. Again, this is a plan. This is not a budget subject to adjustment. We always adjust this plan going forward.
 based on current revenue estimates for those periods of time. See administration's recommendation for capital needs is generated by input from the departments who receives input from various committees, etc.
 We don't lack for citizen input. We also hear citizen input and that's involved in this too. That's the capital plan. Like I said, we talked about it in specifics last week. I'll be happy to answer any questions if I can. I'm prepared to answer questions if you've got some specifics. All right. Let's get going on this.
 I sat down with you, Paul, on these, but I wanted to bring these forward and see, you know, this is my first time to walk through the CIP process. Being on this side of it, I followed it as a resident, but wanted to understand, you know, it's challenging, obviously, to put this together. I know a lot of thought goes into it and there's a lot of uncertainty.
 back and forth and work that goes into it. I'm just really reflective, and I think I shared this with you, of wanting to make sure going forward, anytime that we can tie to what our strategic goals and like the spending specifically to really make sure that those decisions we're making going forward, the council too has visibility with saying yes to those budgetary items.
 And one of the areas where, you know, as I was looking through here that I was being really mindful was thinking about our recent retreat and thinking about, you know, we talked about really wanting to make sure there was attainable, affordable housing and making sure that we have, you know, a good quality of life. And so that's kind of how I went into the mindset as I was kind of, you know, looking through here. Yeah.
 That had been a focus and a priority. And so that's where I bring forward a few questions I wanted to check and see, in particular under parks operations. Could I ask the council some doubt? I usually like to stand at the podium, but I'm hearing some hearing issues, so I'm going to go back and use the microphone. Okay.
 Would it help if I tried to speak up and be at the microphone more? Is that helpful to you? I'll try to be mindful of that also. That helps a bit. Okay. Sorry, I'm fading. I'll try to speak up. I apologize. So looking at page 11 from your, sorry, so everybody can follow where I'm at because I know we don't have a, page 11 from the capital improvements plan kind of handout that we went over at agenda session.
 On the parks operations 521, there is an ongoing line item. We had a big conversation in March about trash removal for unsanctioned camps. And I had hesitation around that item, obviously, because it's a big expenditure for that. And with the mindset that we were going to stay on top of those things,
 and not have to experience that in the future. And so I had talked with Terry on that and it sounds like 150,000 of that is actually for cleaning up in the creek area, which seems like that's something we want to be doing ongoing because obviously that's...
 achieving our goals around trying to make sure, you know, that we're keeping the streams, you know, clean and safe. But $150,000 was allocated towards continuing to remove trash around unsanctioned camps. And so I just am hoping to challenge our thinking on that to consider whether or not the $150,000 could be better spent, maybe putting it over, I don't know, into facilities or where we could create a line item in regard to some of the housing initiatives that we know that we're going to.
 want to do going forward. And I'm not sure how that works in the process. And so I'm just bringing it forward because, you know, I would much prefer personally to be able to listening to the feedback from the community of what they're wanting to solve for, to be putting that towards more, you know, longer term solutions versus having to do the trash cleanup and bringing it front of mind, knowing it's going to be embedded and folded into a budget, you know, to bring forward in the
 future budget year in the event those occurrences happen I think holding ourselves accountable that we still have that situation being able to touch base on that conversation I think is important so so I don't know what the proper procedure is or if that's like asking to make a limit to it sure if I may respond yes please first I can't
 I can't comment on what Terry told you. I was imparted to that comment. However, I'll say this at this point in time. We've currently spent quite a bit of money cleaning up some of these areas, and there are still areas to go. So I think certainly in the immediate future, we're going to be spending money on that area if, in fact, we're going to continue cleaning up some of these trails in that situation. Now,
 This was what was requested by the department. I don't know if it's going to continue in the future. I don't know if any of us know if it's going to continue in the future if we're going to have other solutions. But as I said from word go, this thing can always be amended going forward if that is not the case. As far as procedurally, this is the recommendation from the administration at this point in time and the council is free to make
 to make an amendment for the change. The only thing I need is if there is going to be an amendment for a change, I need to know where you are suggesting it goes, and to where it comes from. Now, you've talked here about taking it from this particular line item and doing something else with it. So I would have to look at, we would create something to do, but that would be the formal procedure.
 You'd make an amendment, suggested amendments, they take it from here and put it at another place. Again, we all talk about this again every year when we talk at budget time. I don't know if Terry, do you wanna, do you have any comments for Byron? Byron deals with this every day, I don't. This, if you recall, we came to council a couple months ago, had 150,000 approved for this year to clean up the trash along the trail system.
 We've been doing that to date. We've cleaned up a little over 50,000 pounds and that's still going. So it is an active project. The other thing that we would like to do with some of these funds is to clean up the creeks. A lot of these camps are right on the creeks and when it rains it washes that material into the creek.
 Town Branch Creek basically starts at the interstate and it's pretty trashy all the way to the West Fork of the White River. So that's a large stretch. So we're planning to put this out for RFP to try to get someone, a contractor in that can clean the streams. So there's a little bit of an unknown exactly what that will cost. So that's the intended work. It was just kind of a continuation of the trail cleanup and then adding the stream cleanup that's,
 that we would like to do as well. Do you have an estimate of how much you think more of the stream cleanup would be? I know you said that's a large stretch so maybe that's too hard and that's kind of why. Yeah, I don't at this point. We approached our current contractor and it was a little bit out of his scope just because of the complexities of getting in the water and a lot of the debris is hanging from limbs and there's
 There's a lot of danger involved in it and it's pretty extensive stretch of streams and a lot of that is visible from the trails, it's visible from the roads as you pass by, so we really want to get that cleaned up but I don't have a firm cost on that yet.
 It would be something that we could adjust, like Paul said, in future years once we kind of nail this down a little bit. And we're making good progress with the cleanups, and our Pick Me Up program is doing a great job as well. And they're taking some pressure off of the contractor funds. So as this develops, we may not need this funding to this degree. But I think initially it's just a bit of an unknown. Sure.
 Can I respond to, so I've actually been out there in the water in the fall and the spring when we've been cleaning up and we've got our boots on and we're in there in the stream and it is very difficult. It's slow going. There's a lot of material in there, unfortunately.
 So I can see the real challenge finding the contractor that would be willing to go in there at the right water conditions and time of the year. So it's a big challenge and it would be great. I really hope they're able to clean the stream up very effectively and that we keep it that way. But I could see where this cost would be pretty high, at least initially. Okay.
 I wouldn't I would not be in favor of moving that because I think it's pretty clear the citizens spoke that they want the trails cleaned and that is a costly we had to move money earlier this year.
 what was it, $100,000 or something close to that. So we gotta be mindful of the fact that it's an ongoing challenge. And I saw pictures today of trails on the north end of town and there's,
 thousands of pounds of trash that's in the process of being removed. So we can't, you know, I mean, we can do it, but we're just going to turn around and move it back in there when we've got to clean it. So that would be my concern.
 My only intention on that would just be we would have to have a touch base. And, you know, once we put into the budget and it's already appropriated, we don't really, you know, you don't see it, right? You're not aware of exactly what the goings on and how much money is being spent and how many pounds of trash. You know, it doesn't create that conversation point to touch base because, you know,
 As I came on to council and knew, right, everyone's like, this has been compounding over years, and you need to solve this now. Okay. For a while. For a while, they said. That was feedback from the community to me. That's not me saying that. But I guess that's my question, is that to be able to have a touch base where we would have an update on, and maybe we can do that without having to.
 I'm sorry? I don't have any problem with giving you an update on that. Okay, so then, yeah, so that might fulfill that purpose. So, I mean, I don't want to hamper, you know, the ability to be able to do those things. I think it's especially important to continue to work towards cleaning up our stream areas. And so, just in that conversation, it looked like there might be some movability, but obviously there's additional complexities that didn't get entered into that conversation.
 But I will make sure that you get a report on the pounds of trash and to the whole council. I don't have any problem with that. We've got pictures shows what we've been cleaning up and find that interesting.
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was just going to add, I think the last cleanup, you know, it wasn't, I know you said it wasn't years, but it was months. It was like nine months, maybe. About nine months. Less than a year. And it just mushroomed. So, yeah. Trails to the north is every bit. Yeah. Like what we encountered on. It's probably going to be.
 the same volume of trash or more. So anyway. I'm sorry, now it's me you can't hear. I gotta have a microphone.
 One of the things we try to do is we try to be realistic. We're not adverse to adjusting it on a year-to-year basis. Believe me, if we can't use it one place and we can't another, we make that adjustment. We discuss that at budget time. So kind of what we did here was trying to be realistic of what we're looking at in the future. And when we started this thing, it's been about a little over a year ago. You remember that, Teresa? Yeah.
 So we cleaned that whole town branch area up. And within nine months, it was as bad or worse than when we cleaned it the first time. So I thought from now on, we're going to clean it and keep it clean. So that's kind of where I'm at. Because I know you're here...
 Sarah, I'm not saying you're not hearing from citizens, but I'm hearing from citizens too. They want those streams cleaned up. They want their trails cleaned up. And until they say, we don't want them cleaned up anymore, or you all tell me you don't want to clean them up anymore, I'm going to continue to clean them up. I just am. Thank you.
 So, Paul, just to make sure, this is just a plan that we're passing or talking about passing. It's going to be more hashed out as we get into the budget process. That's correct. We discuss it going through. Once we start, we start this as a starting point for the budget. Like in 2024, we started as a starting point. Then we'd get input. And if we have any adjustments to make, we make them at that point of time.
 And if it gets to the point where we don't need as much money, Sarah, then I won't spend it. But I think we've got a realistic, we have to realistically look at this. And I think from my perspective, at least, for the next couple of years, it's going to be there. And hopefully we'll, I hope it gets better. All of us hope it gets better. And if it is, we can reallocate the money at that point. But you're correct.
 I'm glad it's budgeted in there because I see this as a commitment from the city that we are going to keep our streams and our trails clean and we're sending a really clear message. Now, hopefully we won't use it all and can be reallocated. But I think this is kind of a principle that we're going to maintain those streams and the trails and make sure that they're safe and they're clean. So thank you.
 I would make a motion considering this is a plan and we'll be hatching it out in further detail. I would make a motion that we approve the resolution as presented.
 Second. I have a comment before we go to vote. I would like to spend a little bit more time on this. I've gone through some of it, but I'd like to review. I'd like to just hold it for two weeks and have some time to kind of sit down there and digest it and think about it a little bit more.
 Paul and staff, I appreciate all the work, the hard work that you have done in compiling this. And the city staff. I mean, this is a good starting point and a big effort, but I think I just need a little bit more time. I could use a little more time too. I've got a motion. Mayor, have we taken public comment yet? What, did I hear a motion to table? Because right now we have one motion on the floor to pass it.
 I think I've heard the one you asked. The what? I think I've heard the one you asked. I made a motion to pass. I think Mike said . But did we have any other comments? Well, we will, but right now we were just getting to what you all wanted to talk about. I mean, I know Sarah brought up a topic and I figured Teresa would bring up a topic and then you all would bring up topics. Usually we will discuss what we're,
 I want your input on the CIP. If they need more time, I'll gladly. Now we can take all the public comments you want to take, but usually we have discussion here for a while, and then I open it up for public comment. I'll withdraw my motion. Okay. Well, if we want public comment before we have discussion, then is there anyone in the chamber? Oh, I forgot.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Everybody happy? No, I thought y'all would, let's, let's. I will say to withdraw your motion, you actually have to get permission of your second. He always has permission from Mr. Whitaker. Now, if y'all want to table it for two weeks and come back and discuss it later, we can do that too.
 It's a five-year plan. We've got some time. For clarification, that would put this as like the first time on unfinished business, perhaps, correct? I think having a little more energy as well to be able to talk with staff. Sorry, staff that you stayed all night. They're all right. Do I need to make a motion to table? Okay. I move that we table this item for two weeks. Okay. Okay.
 Second. We get a second there? Second. All right. I do want credit for having read the CIP report this weekend and was prepared to move forward. I view it as a compass. It's not our budget, and so it's not like a line item. It's more of a philosophical document and a long-range planning document.
 Rarely do I do it, but I would express appreciation to the staff for putting it together. I found it to be a remarkable document and very helpful. So thank you. And there's no reason not to provide a couple extra weeks. I'm not special just because I read it and I'm happy for other people to have the privilege of reading the 200 plus pages.
 And keep this in mind, Council. If you want to make changes to the CIP, just make a motion, get a second, we'll vote on it. And if you don't get the support, then we just move on to the next item that someone has a question about. That doesn't bother me in the least. I'd rather do that than skitter something through there and everybody says, well, I didn't really like it, but I voted for it anyway or whatever. We just don't, just don't.
 Take your time. It's a little different with the operations thing. We've got to move on stuff now, but just take a little more time if you want to. All right. Care would you please call?
 Before we go to the vote, someone mentioned, and I didn't hear who it was, that they wanted the item to be at the beginning of unfinished business. A lot was tabled this evening. So if you're wanting that to happen without having to talk again about that later, that could be included in the motion now. Okay. All right.
 I'd like to amend my motion that this item would be the first item on unfinished business in two weeks Second okay, yeah, that was a friendly amendment. There only one vote on the tech motion to table All right Hertzberg yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. I don't want to call the roll.
 What announcements do we have? We don't have any announcements. Oh Mayor, I've got a couple of announcements. You've got a couple of announcements. I think I need to inform the City Council of some legal developments that occurred recently. We have two cases that have been going on. Uh oh. We have two cases that have been going on. The first case was involving the development that you all approved on Zion Road.
 And we have a brief into the Court of Appeals. And I think we're in a very strong position. So I think that your decision is going to be affirmed again, just like it was in circuit court. We also have the pet store case, which many of you have been deposed for. So you're very familiar with that situation. I assume that after the law was changed, which made our ordinance noncompliant,
 And we repealed, you repealed that ordinance to make it compliant with state law. But that would probably end the case. But the plaintiffs still want money and attorney's fees. And so they filed a motion for partial summary judgment seeking to try to say that they had won and were entitled to money.
 So this afternoon I filed our brief in response to that motion for summary judgment. I don't think they're right. And I asserted for the first time qualified immunity, which says even if it was a mistake, we still have qualified immunity and should not have to pay. And tomorrow I will probably file a...
 a motion for summary judgment on our pay for the city on basically the grounds of qualified immunity And so hopefully that case will eventually come to the end without us having to pay anything To pet land or their attorney, although it's a struggle But I'm going to continue struggling with them. So I just wanted to bring you up to date with that Okay
 We don't have anything else. We're adjourned.