i'd like to call the order of the july 16 2024 city council meeting care which police call the room stafford here jones here moore here we'd occur here erna here bunch turk here herzberg here mayor jordan here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance i pledge allegiance to
 of the United States of America and to the Republic of the United States, one nation, under our own individual and with the justice of our people. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is under reports, number one, reports of the 2023 financial statement audit by Paul Becker. Paul. Paul.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Statutes indicate that I am to approve
 publicly announced at the council meeting that the annual Comprehensive financial report has been completed. So those are financial reports for 2023 They have been audited and the audits have been complete If I look at I'll make just a few brief comments when we look at the financial statements the reports issued by the auditor were one and unmodified opinion or
 a clean opinion, it's called, on the financial statements themselves. Unmodified opinion on compliance with state requirements. A report on internal control, which is also required. No material weaknesses, no significant deficiencies, and no non-compliance issues.
 The report on each major federal program audited. There were no material weaknesses and an unmodified opinion on that also. Now, as you look at the report, it's posted on the website. I would refer everybody to the management discussion and analysis that's on page, that go from pages 9 to 25, which is a summary of the entire report.
 But I'll just mention a couple of key things. Capital assets increased over 2023 by $50 million. Now, those were not only completed assets built by the city, but also some contributions, et cetera, for development.
 As far as the current assets, the current assets decreased slightly, but that is not unusual. Actually, that's a good thing. The reason it decreased slightly is, remember, as we have all the bond funds, we're paying out on programs and completing programs on the bond funds, therefore our cash.
 current assets which are cash and investments primarily are going to be reduced as we paid that off so that's not a bad thing actually that's uh that's a good thing as we complete that going forward our debt was decreased by 30 million dollars uh and that's that's for the sales tax bonds primarily so the debt level is about 143 million dollars at this point in time
 As far as our net positions, total assets exceed liabilities by $999 million. They're substantially larger, but remember most of those are capital assets and capital assets aren't liquid, so you really can't use those for budgeting. As far as the general fund was concerned,
 We were pretty level as far as expenditures with revenues for the year. However, as we look at it, we look at the unassigned fund balance as I calculate that, look at it, we have after the 60 days that we keep for potential revenue losses and short-term revenue issues.
 We still have at this point in time roughly $20 million after that point. So that's after deducting 60 days. That's after deducting what we need to complete this budget year if it pans out according to the...
 according to the budget estimates. So that's where we are this year. There are many many things I could talk about at this point of time but the report is out there for your examination. It's on our website, it's under accounting and audit. If you go to finance you go to accounting and audit. It is there in the last ten years are there of the annual comprehensive financial reports. So it was good year overall for the city.
 We did increase in some of our revenue funds, some of our special revenue funds. Those are restricted use of those assets. We did have some increase in fund balances there. But all in all, 2023 was an economically good year for the city of Fayetteville. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Again, I would refer anybody who wants to look at those to go to our website. Again, and they're under annual comprehensive financial reports.
 under finance under accounting and audit with that there any specific questions I'll be happy to respond thank you Paul for that update and telling us in the public where we can go to the website to look at that in more depth because that's a lot of information coming at us
 One of the things that you talked about was the $20 million that's left after you deducted the 60 days that we need to keep on hand. And you said that's based on our budget estimates. Some of the numbers that we've talked about are that with our year softening,
 for this current fiscal year that we might dip into reserves two to two and a half million. Is that taken into account in the 20 million that's remaining? I've got to take that into account when I did my analysis. That's not going to show up in the report. That's my analysis when I give you that that would be left. But I've taken into consideration those potential losses at this point in time. Okay. Thank you, Paul.
 Now, that can change as years come. Fund balances come and go, but right now at the end of the year, that was the unassigned fund balance in general fund. You good? Okay. Anything else? Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Paul. Let's go on with the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the July 2, 2024, City Council meeting minutes.
 2. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in a total amount of $362,785 to recognize park and land dedication fees from the Northwest and Southeast Quadrants. 3. A resolution to approve a professional service agreement
 any amount of twenty one thousand seven hundred dollars with post oak preservation solutions llc for historic context statement for the out spring neighborhood and to approve a budget adjustment number four a resolution to approve a cost share agreement with washington county washington
 Washington Regional Medical services any amount not to exceed $730,000 for the construction of the railroad crossing at Futrell Drive and Gregg Avenue intersection and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Street Improvement Bond Project. Number five, a resolution to approve an agreement with Central Arkansas Recycling and Disposal Services LLC for the hauling and disposal of solid waste in the city of Fembley.
 Number four, a resolution to authorize the application for a Federal Aviation Administration design grant in the amount of $238,500.00.
 to fund 90% of the cost for design and bidding of the proposed taxiway extension project at Grayfield to execute the grant upon the receipt of the Federal Aviation Administration grant offer to execute task order number 08 in the amount of $257,000 with Garver LLC to provide engineering design and bidding services and to approve budget adjustment. Number seven,
 A resolution to recognize the Federal Aviation Administration Grant Amendment in the amount of $332,300 to execute Federal Aviation Administration Grant. Close out paperwork to execute Task Order 03, Amendment 01 with Garver LLC in the amount of $21,764 for additional construction phase.
 pay services rendered to apply for an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics grant for reimbursement of 10% of the
 Airport improvement program eligible project costs not funded by the grant Amendment and to approve budget adjustment number eight a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of two thousand four hundred thirty nine dollars to recognize 2023 community development block grant program income to the Community Resources Department
 And number nine, a resolution to approve the 2024 Community Development Block Grant Plan, CDBG, to authorize Mayor Jordan to execute the CDBG and home grant agreements for 2024 when received in the total amount of $1,209,075 and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept and send agendas read. So moved.
 Second of most in a second except instead of this red here. Would you please call the roll Stafford? Yes Jones yes more yes, we dicker. Yes, Arna. Yes Yes, hurt. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much Let's go to unfinished business
 Number one, an ordinance to amend 50.04, depositing on vacant lots of the federal code to include a prohibition on dumping mulch, compost, field dirt, and brush on vacant lots in the city. Now, I understand that this has been fixed. Is that correct, Theresa? I'll turn it over to you. So I think you're asking for it to table indefinitely. Yes, Mayor, thank you. And I'm going to turn it over to Holly. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, this was the ordinance that went to ordinance review, and we've discussed it, and then we voted on that at the last meeting. So this item has been resolved, and we would move that we would table indefinitely. Okay. So I will entertain a motion to table. So moved. Table indefinitely. Second. Yes. Can we get a second on that? Okay. Got a motion to second to table indefinitely. Any final comments from the council? No.
 all right please call the row stafford yes jones yes moore yes we did kirk yes arna yes yes kirk yes herdsburg yes okay thank you all let's go number two
 An ordinance to rezone the property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-0011 for 39.41 acres in the Park West PZD on North Highway 112 and Ward 2 from planned zoning district to
 to UT Urban Thoroughfare and CES Community Services. Now this was left on the third reading and was tabled by the council. And so we'll start right there. Jonathan, do you have anything you want to add?
 Mayor, I do. I alluded to this during the agenda session. Excuse me, but I feel like I'm going to pull something up here. In reviewing the direction that staff received from at least a pair of council members at the meeting,
 Second meeting in June, there was some concern that the staff and planning commission recommendation, which you can see on the right side of the screen, is not necessarily reflective of the previous Park West planned zoning district, which you can see on the left-hand side of the screen. Most prominently was that that PLEASE-ED, that planned zoning district included a planning area along the southern portion of this area that was intended to be used for detention or preservation or open area spaces.
 And then also, if you can see the split now, also in potential acknowledgement of floodplain in that portion of the area. So it's staff's request tonight for a general consensus or to receive general consensus from the city council that it is your desire to see the planning commission and the staff's recommendation
 be amended to reflect this. I'm not asking to amend the ordinance necessarily, but to potentially table the item again so that we have very clear direction from the city council as a whole to modify what we're proposing to reflect what was discussed. That said, I do want to remind the council that it is staff's position in the planning commissions that we do feel confident that our current regulations are sufficient to accommodate and be able
 be sensitive to those areas of floodplain in that area. They don't by any means prevent development in that area. I think that's an important distinction. Our regulations now are meant to offset the impacts of development in an area. So if it's the city council's desire to see that area
 not be developed or developed to a very minimum level, then the request would need to be revised. And also as a reminder too, we did receive a letter from the Environmental Action Committee some time ago. Their recommendation was to consider rezoning the entirety of the property to RA residential agricultural.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions. Staff is of course the applicant on this item, so I represent both in this instance. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for Jonathan on this?
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, we talked about this a little bit before, but I really, especially given the EAC's opinion and acknowledgement, and also this large parcel scored very high on the climate resiliency, the nature-based climate resiliency score, which is included in the
 and climate action plan that we'll talk about later. So my direction with my, maybe I'll get some other colleagues to jump in here, would be to have the RA zone segmented out and to go back and revise that. And I think that would be consistent with, in some ways, what the direction that our city attorney gave us
 from the previous PZD and to make good on that as we did with the other portion that we talked about a month ago. Okay, Bob. Thank you. Jonathan, can you bring back up the slides and if you could go to the two maps again. And I'm, whoop, there we go. And I'm kind of in agreement with Council Member Turk.
 And I know that even though we have protections now, stormwater protections, there's still there's a phrase in Thailand, same same but different. And as you mentioned that
 the way it is now, even though we have the stormwater protections, that piece all the way down to the edge of the creek could be developed, and even though they will have to abide by stormwater protections, I still think it's a little different than a preserve or botanical area or having it zoned RA. And so I'm in agreement with Councilmember Turek and hopefully our other councilmembers will join us in
 Wanting to see that bottom especially that southeast part of the property Whether it's whether it's our a Whether there's a different designation But that that part down there the sensitive area of the creek I would like to see Separate it out. Okay. That is the the green Section right Bob. Yeah. I'm just trying to get my bearings here. Yeah, okay. Yes, sir. I
 I had a question in regard to if it were to be RA, what would be allowable possible development that could happen within that flood area? Or is it totally undevelopable based on our current code today with that designation?
 That's a good question. We do not have any zoning designations that prevent development altogether. We don't have an open space zoning designation. That's been something that's been discussed over the years. There are legal concerns with the potential to diminish property values, and I think that's why to date it's not found any success or attractions to get adopted.
 so with that in mind as you all heard me say before we use our ra residential agricultural zoning district as a surrogate if you will for an open space zoning however it does allow development very low intensity comparatively on the residential side you could build one house or one duplex on two acres of land you could also use the property agriculturally which in theory could mean some could mean aversive activities near near a stream if somebody wanted to
 use it for some sort of livestock, but how we've seen it used in the city, that's not something that we've experienced to date. So yes, as the name suggests, it can be used for residential and agricultural purposes, but we don't have an alternative today to prevent or restrict development to a very low level.
 Okay, thank you, Jonathan. Just given that information, I guess that's my only pause. We kind of continue to have, I guess, kind of a recurring conversation that that might be something that's kind of missing within code, that more conservation element. And so I'm interested to hear from other folks. But I do pause when I think about how we've done so much cleanup of our waterways around the city and made improvements to think about the fact that while it hasn't happened before,
 um that zoning uh ra could allow for there to be you know grazing animals that their waste is going in and if anybody's gone to places like where eagle creek like i have to canoe and my kids are swimming and then the cows coming into the creek and they're you know defecating right where we were swimming we quickly vacate so um again that's worst case scenario most likely but trying to think of all the possible as we've kind of talked about when we rezone something i'm kind of
 struggling trying to think through that when I think was brought up in discussion with this designation I think when we had asked about why that may area maybe hadn't been protected I can recall that was something to the feedback was maybe they'd have better flexibility to kind of avoid that area and so I'm kind of wondering and weighing in my head you know which is the lesser or the better of the two and so that's kind of where I'm I'm stuck kind of vacillating between those two right now
 Thank you Mr. Mayor. So Jonathan, a couple of questions. This P8 zone option no longer exists at all I presume? That's correct. That was a zoning designation the developer imposed on themselves or requested for themselves as a part of the PZD. And so then my next question is would that zone have allowed any development or was it purely some form of?
 It did allow for detention. I think that was the most, the highest amount of disturbance that I think I've read in any of the PZD documents is that they could enter that area and put a retention or detention pond as a part of that. And do you have the ability to eyeball, estimate how many acres are in that area? And we won't hold you to it. The area that's floodplain or the area that is the former planning area? Yeah, the old PA8 area.
 One moment. It would constitute about five to six acres. Okay, thank you. And then one final question and it's probably valuable if you are able to pull that the map back up. And that is in fairness to the property to the south of them with the same creek
 The Planning Commission has proposed rezoning this without a special designated RA or any other form of mandatory detention. I'm assuming the property just to the south of them, from a zoning perspective, does not have any other designated zoning RA requirement for detention. They're simply needing to comply with existing stormwater and stream bank preservation standards.
 that's correct and i appreciate you bringing up the stream uh the streamside standards uh we're fortunate to have mr pew in the room and he sent me a message while we're discussing this and he did want to highlight that there are streamside protection standards uh that may uh address some of councilmember moore's concerns about using the residential agricultural zoning district that prevent use of the areas within the streamside for grazing and things of that nature so it wouldn't totally include that area but it would restrict it how close it could be
 So while I have no opposition whatsoever to
 with our admonition from our city attorney that we should mimic the previous PZD as best we can. I heed that advice. I just want to be sure that I'm being fair to the other adjoining property owner and the same standard and fairness is being applied to this owner as we previously applied. But I am not opposed to mimicking this. Thank you.
 I just want to clarify what my advice is. I think planning now understands that even an expired PCD where the development has been expired, the zoning has not. So you could in fact leave it just like it is now.
 and the previous owner, when they decided how they were going to develop it, already reserved that area out so it could not be developed. And so you don't have to make it where it's developable. However, the owner would still have the rights to the developable parts as designated in his PZD. Now I think some of these are like a urban thoroughfare where it's not a form-based zone,
 And so that might be more preferable for the owner or if the owner doesn't like that he could come back in and seek to get that rezoned. What I did not want to happen is to have land sitting out there where the whole parcel could not be developed because we said your zoning has expired and as I
 I told you earlier, I don't think the zoning ever expires. Only the development approvals expire. So you could leave it just as it is. And in fact, that would be more protective of this green area, I think, than any of our zones would be. And it would be zoned. It would be zoned PZD. But the PZD itself, and I haven't really studied it. I'm sure Jonathan knows much more about it than I do.
 preserve that area except for potentially detention which obviously in this area is going to be needed. And so it won't be invaluable to the developer. They're going to need to have detention on this property. And it probably makes sense to have some detention in that area if you're going to have it because evidently that's where the water is going. And so that's your other option. You don't have to rezone any part of this except that, and the difference is is that
 It's now understood by planning that the previous zonings that were done under PZD are still in existence. So they can still develop
 pursuant to exactly what their PZD said, what they requested, that was their suggestion, what the city council approved in the past. So it could still be developed just as the PZD once planned it and this is an unusual PZD. I don't remember another one that actually had these kind of protections for a wetland area and so those would remain if in fact it was not rezoned but they were just allowed to develop
 as the zoning part of their PZD says they could. So we're not taking anything away from them. They're still having their same development rights that they had in the first place. And they're still preserving that strip that Bob was talking about. And we're probably protecting it more because using their language than any of our zones would protect it. Scott?
 So I guess I'm a little confused. I thought our goal was to clear up some of the PZD. I mean it sounds to me like, you know, what you're suggesting is might be the best way to do it, but I thought that was something we're trying to clean up. Well for a long time, it was not completely, but sometimes the planning department thought that someone could not use the underlying
 zoning of a planned zoning district and let them continue to develop, they can still require a new development proposal, but I think that it's clear now that the underlying zoning in a planned zoning district is still applicable until it's amended by the City Council.
 Councilmember Burner, you are correct. This project was initiated in conjunction with feedback from our legal department that several of these properties did have expired zoning district and there was a high degree of urgency to get these rezoned. So you're correct. It does sound like some degree of the feedback in that regard has changed.
 That's absolutely correct. We certainly did not need to have any land out there that because of a Continuous of time or length of time now could not be developed in any way. Then they were taking their property if that happens. I think when this finally came about and We examined the state's law more carefully and saw that it
 although a development proposal can expire over time and that's what ours do a zoning cannot expire just through passage of time and therefore it would be safe in this particular case to just Lent this be as it is or since I think the owner has already said that he likes what planning is is Recommending what the Planning Commission recommended you could also rezone it as planning has recommended
 So those are those that you have much more options with this land than you did with with the others where really rezoning was needed.
 As a follow-up, I honestly feel like I'm more confused now than when we started these conversations. It seems unusual that a PZD, this plan, a major plan that basically gets some kind of additional kind of attributes to it because it has this expiration date that it says, you know, we want you to do this within a certain timeframe and if you don't, conditions and things within our city could change and we're saying it's expired.
 And so oftentimes I would think, because I think about the workings that we've had, you would be also that consideration would be the zoning. And you would be making concessions of zoning based on that PZD. And so, you know, it may be that you would be giving more leeway with a particular zoning that you maybe wouldn't give as much entitlement because you had the handcuffs of the PZD that we'd accepted as council.
 And so that's where I'm really fuzzy on the actual development expiring, but the zoning not. And I'm just wondering if maybe we need to table this discussion and get more clarity, because I don't feel clear on proceeding at this time. I still feel quite fuzzy. That's where I'm at.
 Hey Jonathan, considering the new information apparently from the legal department, is it your take that the existing PZD is the most protective of the land as we sit here right now versus what we're considering? If by protective you mean limiting development intensity? Protecting that stream side. Yes. And it is of concern to all of us.
 Yes, with the feedback we received from legal tonight and at the previous meeting, yes. Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. I'd just love to hear it. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber? No one's on Zoom, Mayor. All right. No one on Zoom has their hand raised for this topic. Thank you all. Well, we're back at it again. So everybody got a two-minute break, so surely that gave you plenty of time, too.
 Well, I'm going to take a bold move here. And I'm going to propose that we indefinitely table this item. Second. We'll motion to second the table. How long? Indefinitely. OK. Just a quick question.
 procedural When we table indefinitely that doesn't mean it can't be brought up at a later date Is that correct that that is correct? It can be brought up again as long as it's done before December 31st of this year of this year. Okay, great And the old PZD I bring this up again It's solid right now
 I believe since the city will allow the property owner to do just what the property owner asked to be able to do so many years ago, then we will not have taken any of the value of the land by just leaving it where it is. And then it's just up to the city council or also to the owner if he wants to suggest rezonings.
 to decide what is in the best interest and as long as you do not lessen the amount of value of this property by reducing some of his developmental rights that were granted through the PZD, then the city is not in any danger for having reduced the value of the property because it's left it exactly where it is. Okay. So we have a motion and a second to table indefinitely. Alright.
 Here, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Weedykirk? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 all right let's go on to new business number one a resolution calling for an election to be held during the next general election november the 5th 2024 on the question of authorizing sunday sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption in federal arkansas kit
 Well Mayor, the citizens of Fayetteville have signed a petition in adequate numbers that justifies and in fact authorizes and requires the City Council to do what is necessary to call this election. What happened was that petitions were presented to Fayetteville voters
 thousands of Fayetteville voters signed these petitions which would authorize the sale of off-premises consumption for alcohol and beer and wine for off-premises consumption. They did that. They handed the petitions to our city clerk's office and Carol Paxton and her clerks went through these petitions and were able to validate more than 4,000 signatures by the voters asking for this election.
 and when she hit the magic number, over 4,200 signatures, that was more than 15% of the number of electors who voted in the last election for the office of governor. So she found that many signatures were valid and had to go through the record checking each signature and that has happened, so now she has certified this petition.
 And that really is what is called this election. But once that has happened, both the city and the county have some ministerial duties. And your duty would be to, in fact, pass this resolution that is calling for the election to be held during the general election of this year, November 5th, I think it is.
 And so this will help place it on the ballot. The statute also tells me how this election title is supposed to be, so I put that in here too. I did my ministerial duty to follow what the statute told me to do.
 And what it would do is have an election on whether or not to authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumptions on Sundays between the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 midnight within the city of Fayetteville. So that is what the resolution would do, and I'll answer any questions you might have. Any questions? Yeah.
 yeah yeah I just I motion we pass the resolution well I gotta get some public in all these details I know cheers to that okay all right now let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak
 you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic no one on zoom mayor okay then i will bring it back to the council you're all sticking my motion all right bob yeah
 motion pass second yeah motion second pass resolution care which please call the roll I just want to say before we go to the vote that I want to recognize the team that I work with every day they make it to where I smile every day right before I come into work and I look forward to working with them every day Jackson Shelton our senior deputy
 Courtney Spahn, our Deputy Clerk Codifier, Christine Ray, our Document Manager, Chansey Fondren, our Document System Specialist. And I just could not express to you all enough how hard they work on a daily basis. The time that they put in verifying all of these signatures, coming in before work, staying after the normal work hours, and coming in on weekends. So thank you. Thank you. Stafford?
 Absolutely. Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Good work, y'all. All right, let's go on to number two. A resolution to approve and adopt the Federal Climate Action Plan. Peter? Yes.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Peter Nearing-Garten, Environmental Director for the City. Give me one moment to share my screen. And put it on the screen. Here we go.
 Again, my name is Peter Nearingarten. I'm the environmental director for the City of Fayetteville. I'm very excited and pleased to present to you all this evening Fayetteville's Climate Action Plan. Hopefully you've had a chance to take a look at that plan over the past week, but if not, that's all right. I'll give you the highlights of the plan over the next ten minutes. So just a little bit of a background reminder on the plan.
 on this climate action plan. And in November of 2021, the city council passed a resolution asking staff to begin working on a climate action plan that included elements of carbon sequestration, climate equity, climate change resilience, and ecosystem services.
 that we took that resolution and our existing energy action plan and looked at a way to incorporate this new work into conjoining it with that energy action plan creating our new climate action plan that I'm going to tell you about tonight.
 Just a little bit of background on that energy action plan. That 2018 plan is your current policy document on carbon emission reduction. It focuses on emission reduction in energy consumption, both natural gas and electricity, vehicles driven across our community, and then waste generation. It has an overall goal of 40% greenhouse gas emission reduction.
 by 2030 and then an 80% greenhouse gas emission reduction goal by the year 2050. There's a number of sector level goals in that plan in the buildings, energy supply, waste, transportation and cross sector area. And these all are your current policy guidance goals with respect to carbon emission reduction
 I did want to highlight just for a second the amazing progress we've made since that 2018 Energy Action Plan was adopted. The graph before you is a graph of annual carbon emissions across city government operations in four different sectors, electricity, natural gas, and fleet fuels.
 and wastewater. And you'll see that in 2020, the first year when we had our wastewater treatment plant solar arrays online, the first full year, we saw significant reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions. In fact, in 2023, the most recent complete year of data we have, we've seen a 70% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions since our baseline year of 2020.
 That's over the same time period when we've seen a 13% increase in energy consumption. So it really helps show or illustrate the decoupling of energy consumption and carbon emissions and the investment that we've made in clean energy that's helped to really take advantage of that decoupling.
 So that was a quick refresher on our energy action plan. Next I want to move to the new climate action plan. So if you've had a chance to review it, you may have noticed there are some similarities to that old energy action plan, particularly in the area of carbon emission reduction. And then we've added this entire new nature-based solutions chapter that addresses carbon sequestration, climate change adaptation strategies.
 and climate equity that really focuses on ensuring we've got equitable access across our community. The overarching goal of the Climate Action Plan is net zero emissions by the year 2050.
 Setting that net zero goal allows Fayetteville to align with international targets that seek to balance greenhouse gas emission or production with atmospheric removals. To be on track to achieve that 2050 goal of net zero, we'll need to decrease our cumulative greenhouse gas emissions by 17%.
 excuse me, by an additional 37% by the year 2030. The net zero goal also helps keep us aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement goals. And it recognizes the need to reduce not just carbon dioxide emissions, but other greenhouse pollutants.
 such as nitrous oxide, methane, and hydrofluorocarbons. You may know that those gases are between 30 and 12,000 times more damaging as greenhouse gases as compared to carbon dioxide. And then finally, net zero emissions allows us to take advantage and take credit for carbon sequestration associated with our natural lands and the uptake that those lands can provide for us.
 This new plan is really a holistic approach to addressing climate change in both the mitigation sector, again this is the area that focuses on reducing emissions that cause climate change by focusing on energy efficiency, renewable energy and sustainable transportation options that have a lower carbon footprint. And then also the adaptation elements.
 that allow us to focus on actions that reduce the risks of the drivers of climate change. Again, by focusing on harnessing the ability of our natural lands to help us do that. The overlapping of those two is really the sweet spot and that's where we can see both adaptation and mitigation benefits from investments across our city.
 Tree planting is a great example of doing that. Trees as you know help absorb and sequester carbon and then they can also help provide shade and cooling effects that can reduce energy consumption. I've mentioned carbon sequestration a couple of times so I wanted to just talk about that for a second to explain what it is, what we mean when we say carbon sequestration.
 I'm sure you're aware that trees and plants breathe in carbon dioxide and trees of course store that carbon in biomass. But grasses and wetlands and prairies also breathe in that carbon dioxide and they're very adapted and successful at pumping that carbon dioxide actually into the ground and storing it into soil carbon which locks it up in a much more secure fashion for longer periods of time. So by
 By focusing on either acquiring or improving the ecosystem conditions of those lands, we can harness nature's ability to help us sequester carbon dioxide.
 Okay, so here's the plan structure. It has the two main parts to it, the emission reduction strategies on the left, those are the drive, that's focused on reducing the drivers of climate change. Again, energy, transportation, waste, and then a new sector that we've added that is water. That's very similar to the existing energy action plan. On the right, these are our nature-based solutions in ecosystem services, ecosystem resilience,
 and carbon sequestration. So again, how can our natural lands help buffer the impacts of climate change? And then in the middle is climate equity, which acts as that connective tissue that helps us ensure that we're analyzing and addressing disparities in impact that climate change will have on different populations across our community.
 Now breaking that down just a little bit further, we have our sector level goals in energy, transportation, waste and water focused on emission reduction. Again, these are very similar to the existing energy action plan with the addition of the new water element. And then on the right side, these are our ecosystem goals.
 excuse me, our nature-based solution goals, ecosystem services, ecosystem resilience, and carbon sequestration. I should say that all of these goals have strategies and actions buried underneath them that help drive towards the specifics of achieving these goals.
 And then finally, there are our proposed climate equity goals. Again, how can we mitigate for the impact that climate change is going to have unfairly on different populations across our city? And how can we ensure that we've got equitable access to active transportation and open space across our community?
 As with all plans that the city does, this one benefits from robust public input. We did an extensive effort at public outreach and got a number of survey responses on this plan. We had a project stakeholder group that helped guide the development of the plan. Also received invaluable input and strategic guidance from our city's energy, excuse me, our city's
 Environmental Action Committee. In fact, there's a letter of support from the Environmental Action Committee in your packet. And I believe we have some members here from the Environmental Action Committee tonight. So definitely wanna thank them for their valuable support and guidance on this project. And then last but not least, had a lot of input, important input from a number of divisions and departments across the city to ensure that this is truly a cross-departmental plan.
 And then finally, I did want to just spend a moment on highlighting one of the important outcomes of this climate action plan, which is the creation of our climate resilience mapping tool. This was developed to really help understand the climate resilience value of parcels of land across the city.
 And in this mapping tool, which is available online, it's a GIS tool that our GIS department helped us develop. Each parcel across the city is scored across 24 features and characteristics present on those parcels that might provide nature-based solutions to climate change, such as wetlands, tree canopy, streams, unique habitats, carbon sinks, floodplains, and other elements.
 As I mentioned, the mapping tool is an online tool. It's public-facing, and it can be useful in helping to guide the development of policies and programs and projects. Okay, Peter, they'll have to give you more time. I just need about ten more seconds. Well, good. Can we give him two more minutes? Take a full minute. Okay.
 I can wrap it up in less than that. So this is intended to be a strategic guidance tool for the council and our community on decisions relative to land acquisition and land use across our city.
 I do have Olson Engineering here to help answer any questions that you all might have about the mapping tool or about the plan. They were instrumental in helping us develop it. And with that, I'll conclude and open it up to any questions that you might have. Any questions for Peter on anything? Very good. All right. Well, then let's take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration.
 don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those press the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating visiting will speak after that who would like to address this that's in the chamber anybody nobody okay here we go will you go first i actually i'm todd yeslo 424 north willow
 board too. I'm also a member at large on the EAC with Teresa and some fine people in the audience who've worked very hard on this climate action plan for one reason and one reason only because environment as you have all discussed when you were talking about Park West is a concern when you make any decision and I think as a result of this plan not only do you have all the technical information behind you
 But as a result of this plan, you end up with a tool that you can utilize in helping you render a decision on anything in the council, transportation, water, zoning. And these are the kind of tools that we think are important to bring all the areas of the city together to have a forward-thinking approach to not only the development of a very fast-growing
 but also to the protection of our environment, which is an important part of being a resident of Fayetteville. I know I enjoy the environment very much, and I know people move here for the environment, and it needs to be a number one concern. And so this is the plan that will help you make decisions to move the city forward in this kind of positive, progressive direction. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Tom.
 My name is Dot Neely and I'm a resident of Ward 3 near Mission and Elroy Road and I agree with everything that was just said and I see I've been watching this for over 14 years as a member of the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association and involved in the pilot.
 Green Infrastructure Planning Project for our communities. I am thrilled to see this evolving and expanding and building on what FNHA and the Green Infrastructure Pilot Planning Project did for Greenland, Fayetteville, Johnson, and out toward Taneytown, and then including Lake Weddington.
 This is a very, I participated in some of these sessions for the input and this is just another way Fayetteville can lead.
 We have to start locally, we have to start within our own communities and this is a good road map. It's an important tool and I encourage it to be utilized by our city planning and city council and members of the other committees and boards. So I heartily support the climate action plan and if I have a little bit of time left, oh
 It's important as we do infill, and I know we've talked about this, to retain vegetated areas as best we can in the tree canopy. And that is part of what is mentioned in this climate resiliency plan, is tree canopy for carbon sequestration and for air quality and for reducing the heat island effect. It really is critical and it's while
 saving trees may curtail the size of some projects, it's important to preserve those trees. I've been having a little conversation with, well, and if we don't use infill and we don't accommodate projects,
 I understood it projects that would have to have tree sacrificed if we don't approve those projects for infill then there's going to be sprawl but we're not keeping with our climate resiliency plan if we cut down the trees within the city where the infill is going so
 just encourage the planning department in the city to really work with the developers to preserve as much green as we can. I'll give you a few more seconds. They'll have to give that to you though. Oh, I'd like to give you a few more seconds, 30 seconds. I won't take too long, but What can I do it? Do I have it? Yeah, you gotta go. Okay, okay. You're wasting it. There's
 Something that's really cool and innovative is there are a lot of buildings now being designed to be greened green, cloaked with vegetation or at least have vegetation on the
 open surfaces trees or whatever And I that's another thing the city can consider in these big projects is incorporating vegetation into the buildings So thank you very much for extra time I appreciate all the work that you do mayor Jordan and the City Council and everybody else and and I'm glad to be a resident of Fayetteville Thank you Who else?
 Who have you got on Zoom? I have Dinah Nash. Okay, go ahead. Hello there. We got a... I'm Dinah, and I lived in Fayetteville a long, long time. And my retirement hobby has been understanding climate change and promoting environmental policy statewide since 08. I was very instrumental in getting that metering passed in the state.
 And I have continued as I've returned to Fayetteville to work on these issues. And I'm currently a member of about an eight member group that is giving programs at the libraries, one of which will be Thursday night at six at the Fayetteville library on more about these plans, including the Northwest Arkansas regional planning districts plan.
 So this green team of eight folks is looking to expand and to give more library programs. So I wanted to urge the council members and the planning staff to adopt this plan because Peter knows what he's doing. And there's been a lot of thought that's gone into this. We'll increase our oxygen supply.
 and decrease our CO2 levels by this plan will increase our property values and, most of all, maybe save our lives. That is my final statement. Thank you. Thank you. Now, there was somebody else wanted to speak, so yes, let's hold the Zoom folks a little bit. Yes, go ahead.
 Hi, I'm Sarah Lewis. I am a resident of Fayetteville 1908 West Ferry and I'm a former city council member. I also am an adjunct professor of environmental resiliency at the University of Arkansas and coach sustainability professionals in achieving their goals in sustainability.
 I want to be here tonight to celebrate this achievement on the part of the City of Fayetteville. It has been a long time road in developing this, both along the lines of the culture to accept something like this, as well as the work and the science behind it, and I want to say thank you for your leadership.
 Mayor Jordan and your team and the City Council for shepherding this as well. One thing I want to request is that we hold to very specific metrics in measuring our milestones towards achieving our goals related to the Climate Action Plan. They're in there, I think, really encouraging our team and helping them feel the political
 will of the of the city government as well as our city council members that they are supported in reaching those goals and even if maybe we don't exactly make the mark we're celebrating the achievement or the achievement of getting there and working towards though and expressing our progress towards those and
 This can be things like improved water quality, measuring the temperature of our sidewalks, and also gathering places, placemaking and demonstrating that people are coming to places where there is improved active transportation. Things that really demonstrate measurable progress towards what we're trying to achieve and create in our community.
 again fantastic news I'm proud to live in this city I'm proud to be a part of this community thank you for all the hard work thank you sir now is there anybody else who would like to just be and then I'm going to go back to the same folks but if you want to speak you need to come up toward the mine so I can see you okay I'm waiting no problem
 I actually didn't come for this. Oh, OK. But you're not actually considering one thing about climate change. And that is, I'm from Phoenix. When I was a kid, I was from Phoenix. I came here, and thank goodness. It's hot down there. There is not that many trees. The sidewalks are so hot, it burns your feet. And the asphalt is actually bubbling.
 and most of that's because they don't have enough trees to take on the heat you need to consider that with the climate change that's going on right now and that's all i have to say thank you well thank you okay well let's go anybody else okay let's go back to zoom i have no more on zoom mayor okay all right then i'm going to bring it back to the council teresa
 uh i want to take this moment just to thank all the hard work that's gone into this um eric fusile peter nearing garden leaf olson a whole bunch of other staff people that have supported this chris mcnamara all the members of the environmental action committee i mean they're this review has been pretty rigorous and thorough
 And I am just so proud of this team and that they have brought this forward to us tonight. So with that, I don't know if anybody has any discussion. If they don't, I would move that we approve the Climate Action Plan. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the Climate Action Plan. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederkerk? Yes. Verna? Yes. Lynch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Thank you all very much. Just this one time. Thank you all very much for your participation. It's a historic moment for us. All right. Let's move along to number three.
 ordinance to amend 170 stormwater management and drainage of the drainage of the Unified Development Code to clarify the maintenance responsibilities for private drainage systems as well as provisions regarding this discharges into the drainage system. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
 Whereas the Unified Development Code has historically defined public drainage systems as those systems within the public right-of-way or public drainage easement, and whereas public systems are to be owned and maintained by the City of Fayetteville and all drainage systems outside these areas are considered to be private drainage according to the Unified Development Code, and the maintenance responsibility would fall upon the owner of the property.
 And whereas staff and the City Attorney discovered potential ambiguity in the Unified Development Code regarding the maintenance responsibilities for these different systems, and recommend changes to clearly define those responsibilities. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council that the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw hereby repeals Section 170.02, Adoption of Drainage Criteria Manual in Best Management Practices, and enacts the following replacement language, quote, The City Council hereby adopts by reference
 the drainage criteria manual, and requirements identifying best management practices for any private activity, operation, or facility which may cause a discharge of pollutants to the storm drainage system. Where specific BMPs are required, every person undertaking such activity or operation, or owning or operating such facility, shall implement and maintain these BMPs at their own expense."
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal subsection A and B of section 170.06 maintenance responsibility and an acts of following replacement language subsection a public and private drainage systems these stormwater management systems are
 Those stormwater management systems within a public right-of-way or public drainage easement as of July 31, 2024, or later accepted by the City, shall be considered public drainage systems.
 The City is authorized to work to maintain the proper function of these facilities through maintenance as necessary, except for detention-retention facilities, green stormwater facilities approved as a portion of a development, and any exceptions noted in Section 1709 which will remain the responsibility of the property owner.
 Any public drainage easement dedicated subsequent to August 1, 2024, must be dedicated to the City by plat or separate instrument, and accepted by the City engineer or designee before being considered a part of the public drainage system. All other systems shall be considered private systems and will be the responsibility of the owner of the property on which the systems are located.
 Maintenance of stormwater systems and structures of section 1 private systems.
 unless otherwise stated in section 1706 a The owner of the property on which the private stormwater systems and structures have been installed Shall maintain in good condition and properly repair and restore all grade services walls drains culverts dam structures vegetation erosion and sedimentary sedimentation controls and other protective devices to their proper working condition and
 Proper working condition is defined as a condition in which the system or portion of the system was operating or designed to operate when originally installed. Subsection 2. All systems
 Whether public or private, the owner of the property on which the stormwater system is located shall clear open channels of excessive vegetation, trash, debris, and other obstacles obstructing the flow to the extent deemed feasible by the City Engineer or Designee. Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Ark saw hereby repeals and reserves Section 170.08 Private Drainage System.
 Section 4. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals Subsection B of Section 1709, Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination, and enacts a replacement Subsection B as follows, quote, Subsection B, Prohibition of Illegal Discharges and Illicit Connections. Number 1.
 Illegal discharges are prohibited. No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the MS4 any pollutants or waters containing pollutants other than stormwater.
 Common stormwater contaminants include trash, yard waste, wastewater, oil, petroleum products, cleaning products, paint products, hazardous waste, and sediment. Subsection 2. Illicit connections are prohibited. The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
 This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of the connection. Objection 3. No person shall connect a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic sewage, or industrial waste through the storm drainage system or allow such connection to continue.
 Subsection 4, Private Drainage System Maintenance. The owner of any private drainage system shall maintain the system, prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants. This maintenance shall include but is not limited to sediment removal, bank erosion repairs, maintenance of vegetation, vegetative cover, and the removal of debris from pipes and structures. Subsection 5, Cleaning of Paved Services Required.
 The owner of any paved parking lot, street, or drive shall clean the pavement as required to prevent the buildup and discharge of pollutants. The visible buildup of mechanical fluid, waste materials, sediment, or debris is a violation of this chapter.
 Paved surfaces shall be cleaned by dry sweeping, wet vacuum sweeping, collection and treatment of wash water, or other methods in compliance with this code. Material shall not be swept or washed into the stone drainage system. This section does not apply to pollutants discharged from construction activities.
 Subsection 6, Maintenance of Equipment. Any leak or spill related to equipment maintenance in an outdoor uncovered area shall be contained to prevent the potential release of pollutants. Vehicles, machinery, and equipment must be maintained to reduce leaking fluids. Subsection 7, Material Storage. In addition to other requirements of this code, materials shall be stored to prevent the potential release of pollutants.
 The uncovered outdoor storage of unsealed containers of hazardous materials is prohibited. Section 8, pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers. Pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers shall be applied in accordance with manufacturer recommendation and applicable laws. Excessive application shall be avoided. In subsection 9, minimization of irrigation runoff. Concentrated flow of irrigation water to the storm drainage system is prohibited.
 Irrigation systems shall be managed to reduce the discharge of water from the site. Allen. Thank you, Mayor, members of the council, and Kit. Thank you for reading through all of that. As Kit alluded to, the real crux of this change comes to what we feel might be an incorrect interpretation of 170.06. Specifically the existing code in subsection talks about dedication of facilities to the public, to the city.
 And it could be interpreted, based on advice from our city attorney and prosecuting attorneys, that that entire section be applicable to only those systems dedicated to the city. So that is certainly not how staff has interpreted that in the past, and it isn't really...
 In keeping with the rest of the code, when you begin to read specifically subsection D where it talks about failure to maintain and enforcement actions, I don't believe the city would take an enforcement action against ourself in those instances, but
 In order to clear up any confusion, we worked with the city attorney to come up with language that we feel very clearly defines public versus private drainage systems and how that ordinance is currently being enforced just to eliminate any alternate interpretations.
 You will see also that 170.08 is kept in reserve. We did not eliminate any language from the code. Most of that language was moved down to 170.09, illicit discharges, with the exception of adoption of best management practices, which was moved up to 170.02, I believe, which we felt was more applicable in those locations than it was 170.08.
 The only other change that was stated was a removal of some ability to administratively change our drainage criteria manual. That was at the advice of our city attorney. All of those changes would come before this body before they were enacted. So happy to clarify or answer any questions that the council may have. Okay what questions do we have? Everybody good? Well let's take some public input. Everybody get some one-turn speak.
 You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? No, you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take?
 i would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading all right then did we get a second okay you get that who's the second okay we have a motion in the second to go to the second regions please call the wrong stafford yes jones yes or yes yes verna yes lunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes
 An ordinance to amend section 170 stormwater management and drainage of the Unified Development Code to clarify the maintenance responsibilities for private and public drainage systems as well as provisions regarding illicit discharges into the drainage system Oh
 I do have a question actually for Alan as I've sat here more in particular. I know I brought up one question during agenda session, but one of the areas that I'm looking at in the passage under 170.06 in B2, just kind of curious. I just think about again all of our aging areas of town that have like the older, you
 And those are going to be on private area. And this speaks to the owner of the property on which the stormwater system is located shall clear open channels of excessive vegetation, trash, debris, and other obstacles to the extent deemed feasible by the city engineer or designee.
 And so, you know, obviously there's some subjectivity to that. And so I'm curious if there, in the event that that's not a satisfactory thing, I think about some of our homeowners, especially on incredibly fixed budgets and some of the folks that are much more elderly in my neighborhood who are living on, you know, social security and can't necessarily afford in some of that old infrastructure.
 Is there an appeal process or what does it look like if that homeowner potentially is in disagreement with the designee or the engineer? What are their remedies? I might defer at least the last portion of that question to our city attorney as far as the appeals go. But my understanding would be that the appeals section would be applicable to really any decision that is made. But I may yield to him. Just so you know the theology behind that and the rest of the council does as well.
 Our intent there was if somebody has a small grass line channel or something on their property, we would, similar to any other right of ways, expect them to mow that and keep that maintained. If that channel became sizable at all, then that would become the city's responsibility. And there is some subjectivity built into that, and I understand that concern. But the intent was if it was a simple grass line channel, that the owner of that property would continue to maintain that channel.
 We really, I'm not aware of any appeal procedure we have here but there is an enforcement procedure and that and that you always have an appeal right. I think a lot of this is actually has been in the code before and it's just being repeated here and is required in many cases by our stormwater permit that the city has. Is that not that right?
 Correct. There is some maintenance provisions associated with that. And we do need to, in my opinion, clearly define who's responsible for what.
 So basically we're repeating what has been there pretty much, but we've tried to divide up a little bit to make a little bit more clear what is a private responsibility and what is the city's responsibility. But I should note that oftentimes we do have a city staff going out and cleaning out ditches and things like that which have caused us problems in the past.
 It's really probably the primary responsibility of the homeowner, but still there is services that our transportation department does to try to make sure that our system is working. So there are certain areas that they do help on.
 I appreciate that and just I know historically we might have gone about things a certain way but I know we're in current discussions about a stormwater fee and doing routine maintenance that even we in the city have not been able to achieve that we're very hopeful to be able to maintain that and so I think that the city expectation on private residences to be in better compliance will probably be there so I just want us to be real mindful in that section maybe as we navigate that.
 So again, those challenges that our homeowners face. Absolutely, and we certainly appreciate those comments. I would add that if the stormwater utility does get enacted, we would expect some changes and modifications likely to this section as well to bring it in line with whatever is approved by city council. Well, I would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In Ordinance Demand Section 170, Stormwater Management and Drainage of the Unified Development Code, to clarify the maintenance responsibilities for private and public drainage systems, as well as provisions regarding illicit discharges into the drainage system.
 all right what final comments do we have then all right here please call the roll stafford yes jones yes moore yes liedeker yes verna yes bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes good work y'all all right number four an ordinance to amend 155 appeals
 and 166.23 urban residential design standards of unified development code to modify development requirements associated with fields. Ken. Whereas in 2021, major ordinance changes were approved by the City Council to revamp drainage and development standards with the secondary goal of incentivizing infill.
 Whereas the staff audited the outcomes of these changes and identified four main areas that require revision and clarification parkland dedication project classification application of the tree preservation standards and the timeliness of variances and appeals now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal section 15502 form, time and place subsection A and enact a new subsection 15502 as follows. Form all appeals shall be submitted in writing referencing the applicable Unified Development Code sections and setting out the reasons the applicant contends the decision was an error and how the applicant is adversely impacted.
 Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arts Center by repeal subsection 15502 form time and place C3 and enacts a new C3 as follows. Building Safety Division Director. Appeals made to the Construction Board of Adjustment and appeals shall be filed with the Building Safety Division Director.
 Section 3. That the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arks are heard by a repeal of Section 16504, Councilmember appeal on behalf of resident and enacts a new Subsection 16504 as follows. A Councilmember may bring an appeal on behalf of any resident of the City of a decision by the Planning Commission to approve subdivision requests, flats, lot splits, and development requests, large-scale developments, large or small site improvement plans.
 Variances, compliance with applicable design standards, tree preservation plans, conditions of approval for any development shall be appealed as a part of the approval or denial of the development proposal. Variances, compliance with applicable design standards, tree preservation plans, and conditions of approval for any development not requiring approval by the Planning Commission or administrative approval by the Planning Division may be appealed independently.
 Section 4 that the City Council the city of a barclay hereby reveals section 1 to 5 0 5 appeals to City Council conditions of approval variances a 2 and an axe and new a 2 as follows conditions of approval and variances, etc a
 An owner of record may appeal the conditions of approval determined by the Planning Commission of any adverse decision by the Planning Commission concerning the applicable design standards, tree preservation requirements, streamside protection requirements, and variance requests as part of the conditions of an approved development request or the denial of such development request.
 Variances, compliance with APRA design standards, tree preservation plans, and conditions of approval for any development not requiring approval by the Planning Commission or administrative approval by the Planning Division may be appealed independently. Section 5, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 15506, Appeals from Staff Interpretations and Actions, A2, and enacts a new A2 as follows.
 The Zoning and Development Administrator's decision to deny a vacation of any public easement, whether constructed or not, or portioned thereof, may be appealed by the owner of record of the property. Section 6. If the City Council or City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby repealed, Section 16506 appeals from Staff Interpretations and Actions B-1 by enacting a new B-1 as follows. The Zoning and Development Administrator, an interpretation or decision regarding zoning matters.
 Section 7, that's the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 155.06, appeals from staff. I will continue. Hereby repeal Section 155.06, appeals from staff, interpretation of Action C-1.
 and an action new 155.06 c1 as follows the voting zoning and development administrators required dedications and improvements of section 8 at the city council the city of table arkansas hereby repeal section 155.06 appeals from staff interpretations and action c2 and an action new c2 administrative approvals and interpretations by zoning and development administrator
 section 9 the City Council city of favorable arcs are hereby revealed section 156 of
 appeals from staff interpretations and action c2a and an actual new c2a as follows a resident of the city or owner developer who is agreed by decision of the zoning and development administrator regarding development matters that are approved administratively as required by chapter 166 o2c may appeal the final development approval decision affected by this manner to the Planning Commission
 this appeal shall be submitted in writing to the planning division within 10 days of the final decision section 10 that the city council the city of fayetteville arts law your appeal section 155 06 appeals from staff interpretations and actions c4 and an action new c4 as follows zoning and development administrators interpretation or decision of other development matters
 an interpretation or decision of the zoning and development administrator regarding development matters including subdivisions large-scale developments parking and loading outdoor lighting compliance with appliance designs or any other development matters and section 11 that the city council city of fayette warkshire hereby repeal section 166.23 urban residential design standards
 D to 4G and enacts a new subsection as follows other architectural feature approved by the zoning development administrator that meets the intent of the code John Thank You mayor You're welcome
 if i may step back a moment take the council back to pre-2021 if you're not familiar with what development looked like at that time period when projects came to the city of fable they fell into one of two broad categories respectively single family homes duplexes and everything else
 And I sounds tongue in cheek and like a joke, but that was generally how it was. If you're building a single family home or a duplex, you're still subject to a very limited series of requirements. You weren't subject to any drainage requirements, any tree preservation requirements, a whole slew of requirements that did not apply. If you did anything else, including adding one more unit to a duplex, you're subject to the entire development code.
 What this led to is exactly what you would expect. We saw a lot of single family and duplex development, and we saw a lot of larger scale projects that could bear the costs associated with being subject to the entire development code. And as a result, staff took a hard eye to our ordinances
 And keeping in mind the kind of outcomes we're seeing around Fayetteville and proposed to council and council approved a sweeping series of changes to the development code that had an eye on two objectives. One was to move away from what could arguably be a false dichotomy between those two development types I described.
 and look at a more performance-based one, particularly stormwater. Fayetteville leading up to 2021 have experienced several large rain events, including hundred year floods, had a frequency of more than every 100 years.
 The second piece of it was a focus on appropriate infill to try to right size our infill projects that up to this point had been, as I described, one of two things, either very small scale projects or very large scale projects. And it did not appear to be meeting a lot of our community needs or our land use goals.
 Three years in, the planning, engineering, and other staff have begun evaluating many of these ordinances. The development timeline for projects is many years, and so oftentimes it takes many years to see the outcomes of changes we've made.
 And with that in mind, we brought forward four proposals to address some of those changes or to revisit them, amend them, clarify elements as well. The first includes parkland dedication. The council already saw this and in your wisdom amended that ordinance in May of 2024 to make sure all classes of projects that are residential are paying their share to our park system.
 The second piece, which is what we're on right now, item C4, I'll dive in in just a moment. The third piece is regarding tree preservation, which is the next item on your agenda. And the last and perhaps unsurprisingly most substantial has to do with development thresholds, which our planning commission will be considering at their meeting next Monday and will presumably be coming to council soon thereafter. As I noted, I'll first be discussing appeals, specifically the timeliness of appeals as part of this item.
 Currently, variances are only able to be appealed once an overall project is approved. That's a very broad statement, but generally what it means is when a project comes before the planning commission, typically in the form of a large scale development or preliminary plan, and variances are requested with that, after the planning commission approves that project, the variances and the project can both be appealed. It has to have that final approval to prevent those from occurring piecemeal
 And what we've seen be an issue with this was when it becomes associated with our administratively approved projects. These projects don't always follow a very firm timeline. It's subject to when the applicant would like to submit them for our review. There's not a series of public meetings that they have to hit, and as a result, if there's a
 element of that, either from the developer or the public that feels necessary to be appealed. There's a lot more difficulty in keeping track of where that project is, what its status is, to know when the appeal ought to be made or when it's ripe for appeal.
 Accordingly, staff's recommendation is two parts. The first is the most substantive one. I think you heard Mr. Williams read it in detail, but generally what it states is that variances can be decoupled from those administratively approved items. If a variance is approved, it can be appealed by the applicant of the developer, or it can be appealed by a resident as well immediately. It does not have to wait for some administrative approval in the future in an unknown time.
 This and staff's feedback has been a point of contention for both applicants and residents as the applicants don't know if an appeal is waiting for them in the wings of a later approval and residents because it's difficult for them to keep track of a project. Additionally, and associated with that is that a statement of adverse impact would be associated with that appeal request, whether from a resident or the developer.
 The second piece of the proposal is more on the cleanup side of things. Most of the references that Mr. Williams read were instances where we've used previous terms for our lead city planner, our zoning and development administrator. We're wanting that to be consistent across code.
 And finally, the proposal is to ensure that it's clear where appeals go in certain instances. Currently, our building safety group is listed as having its variances from its determinations going to our Board of Adjustment, which is our zoning board, where they should more appropriately be going to our Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeal. And...
 With that, staff is recommending approval of this request. We feel that it'll smooth out the appeals process for all involved. The Planning Commission forwarded this item by vote of seven to one. When it came out of the Planning Commission, it was packaged with the next item on your agenda.
 And from my, if I can characterize the Planning Commission's comments, that dissenting votes seem to be more to do with the next item, some concern about how tree preservation changes may impact development. The Planning Commission's main discussion point as it related to appeals was confirmation that the appeals process is not changing, just the timing, which is the case. Appeals are just the same as they were. They can be broken out though in those instances of administrative approval.
 Similar to that dissenting Planning Commission vote, there has been some public comment about these overall proposal of ordinance proposals. Most of those appear to be very specifically with concerns about changes to tree preservation, and I've not identified any of this point that are specific about this appeals piece. With that, I'm happy to take any questions, either about the history of how we got to this point or about the specific proposal, and I thank you for the opportunity.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this one?
 Thank you Jonathan for the explanation. I appreciate long range planning and the planning commission taking these on and your staff. I had a question in regard to adverse impact. Is that something that's currently a statement around adverse impact that has to be put in whenever someone is wanting to appeal something today? Is that new? And then if it's new, how are we defining adverse impact?
 That's a good question. That came out of conversation with our legal department, and I suppose I should have stepped back. This proposal is done in conjunction with our legal department. That statement of adverse impact came out of concern that the city could be a
 liable for being a part of a frivolous appeal. One of the first issues that many courts identify when considering an appeal that advances beyond our city is whether they're standing among the person making the appeal. So the concern there is that a resident
 for example, who lives in far west Fayetteville may appeal a project in far east Fayetteville and needing to ascertain or needing to establish that there is some standing to make that appeal and how they're being adversely impacted. Many court systems, if you are not directly impacted, either adjacent to it or downstream of a project, you don't have standing and it could put the city in a potentially legally compromised position to appeal.
 be working on the foundation of a request without some sort of statement of adverse impact or adversely being impacted. Thank you, Jonathan. And I might have a follow-up question that probably goes to our city attorney. I appreciate that explanation and example about being from one side of town to the other. But I think also our taxpayers have invested in comprehensive plans to the tune of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
 that I guess they could make the argument that something across town has impact potentially if it's put in place that's counter to those plans. And so I just want to understand if that definition was so rigid to being on different sides of town or if it does have more of that variability where it could be a different definition that would really show that somebody would be adversely impacted.
 An adverse impact is commonly used in the law in many ways to ensure that someone that is making a complaint has a reason to have a complaint and is not just someone that's going to complain about every development everywhere in the city just because they don't want development anywhere.
 And so you put a term like that, adverse impact, to show that this person actually has at least some adverse, feels like they have an adverse impact.
 And I don't remember ever turning down the appeal because someone, because we thought they did not have an adverse impact. It could happen and like so if we had some people going around that just didn't like the government, and didn't like development or whatever and decided to start appealing everything,
 that would protect us because they wouldn't have an adverse impact, that they were not really suffering anything from that. So that's a normal term that is used throughout our legal system to ensure that someone actually has a dog in the fight and it's not just going around there suing for no reason or appealing for no reason. Well, I think
 Council member Moore brought up a good point that I didn't necessarily think of before but say well let's take the the roadrunner Issue for example I could live on a different side of town But if I go through there if I travel through there Why use the trail through there or any development along the trail or anything that could cause me an adverse impact or perceived adverse impact It would that be
 I think the proof's in the pudding that actually was appealed to the City Council without a problem. Anybody else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any councilmen. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by then will speak after that. Who would like to address this that's in the chamber on this topic?
 Anybody on Zoom? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Then I'm going to bring it back here. Move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Warren?
 orange to men section 155 appeals and section 166 point two three urban residential design standards of the Unified Development Code to modify development requirements associated with appeals move that we suspend the roles and go to the third reading so good Stafford yes Jones more yes
 ledeker yes verna yes yes yes yes hertzberg yes in order to amend section 155 appeals and section 166.23 urban residential design standards of the unified development code the modified development requirements associated with appeals okay so we had a few technical difficulties there
 We're okay. All right. Any final comments from the council? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, I just want to say thank you for bringing this forward and making this a lot less confusing to the public. And so I think this was really a nice proposal that you have or a nice change to the ordinance. So thank you so much. Certainly. Thanks, Roadrunner Project as well. Yes, mine.
 And and I would also want to extend my thanks because this benefits everybody both resident with concern But also a developer Who would have to expend money and come up with a plan to pull a permit before there could be appeal in some instances? So this is one of those things that benefits everyone involved and I want to thank you for pursuing this Anything else care which please call the roll Stafford, yes
 Jones? Moore? Yes. Biedekirch? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirksburg? Yes. Okay, let's go to number five. An ordinance to amend 166.02 development review process 167.04 pre-preservation and protection of the unified development code to modify development requirements associated with three preservation requirements kept.
 Now, therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, and I'm afraid this is a table I will try to read it, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal Section 16602 Development Review Process E2 Level 2 and enacts a new 16602A as followed. And it starts with required mitigation measures and documentation by development.
 for, by development threshold, so for grading and development and stormwater documentation. So at level one is less than 1,200 square feet of impervious area. It's exempt from grading and drainage provisions except for those who still associated with the building permit process in the hillside, hilltop, overlay district.
 Then level two is 1,200 to 6,000 square feet of impervious area. The documentation must be a completed green stormwater practices worksheet. Demonstrating runoff reduction and better site design. And you must have two or more measures from step one of table two. That reduce runoff via a better site design.
 And you might have one or more green stormwater practices measures from step two of the table two as required to treat 100% of the proposed additional impervious and gravel areas and an abbreviated tree preservation plan. For level three, which is 6,000 to 10,000 square feet, it's same as level two.
 And then as needed, green stormwater practices measures from step three to further reduce runoff, referred to as extended detention and abbreviated tree preservation plan. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 167.04, tree preservation and protection during development, A11, and enact a new A11 as follows, building permits.
 Tree preservation requirements apply to all permit applications for developments greater than 1,200 square feet of impervious area. An abbreviated tree preservation plan as set forth in section 16704 H3 shall be submitted with the application for building permits on projects that are not required to go through the subdivision, large-scale development, or site improvement plan process.
 There shall be no land disturbance, grading, or tree removal until an abbreviated tree preservation plan has been submitted and approved, and the tree preservation measure at the site inspected and approved." Section 3. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas repeal Section 167.04, Tree Preservation and Protection During Development, A12a, and enacts a new Section 167.04, A12a, as follows.
 Persons seeking to construct 1,200 square feet or less of impervious area are specifically exempt from the provisions of this section, except when the land is located within the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District, then all the provisions of this ordinance shall apply. From Section 4.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Ortiz are hereby repeal section 16704, Tree Preservation and Protection during Development H3 and enacts a new 16704 as follows, quote, abbreviated tree preservation plan. Applicants requesting approval of development projects for between 1,200 and 10,000 square feet of impervious area that require building permits, grading or parking lot permits,
 but that do not fall under the requirements for developments required to go through the development review process of technical plant review committee, subdivision committee, and or the planning commission, shall prepare and submit an abbreviated tree preservation plan. The information for an abbreviated tree preservation plan may be combined with a site plan, plant drawing, or grading plan.
 The applicant is expected to show the general location of all existing groups of trees, individual significant trees, and to clearly depict the limits of soil disturbance to include all areas to be graded both on and off site, as well as the proposed location of utilities.
 Protective measures such as fencing, limits of root pruning, restriction on traffic, and material storage shall be depicted on the plan. A preliminary site visit with the urban forester is highly recommended before applying for any of the above-mentioned permits. The applicant should consult the City of Fayetteville Tree Preservation, Protection, and Landscape Manual for details and specific checklists.
 Applicants submitting abbreviated tree preservation plans shall not be required to submit an analysis report, nor shall they be required to hire architects, engineers, or landscape architects to prepare the abbreviated tree preservation plan."
 Section 5 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas repeals Section 167.04, Tree Preservation and Protection during Development, J4, and enacts a new J4 as follows, quote, A, subsection A, developments proposed as building permits under Level 2, as outlined in Section 166.02, E2, are eligible for contribution to the tree escrow account as an option.
 Section B. Residential developments which cannot achieve the base density tree requirements through preservation or mitigation shall contribute to the tree escrow account. The City shall use the money paid in the tree escrow account to plant trees within the development along the rights-of-way, detention ponds, common areas, or other areas where trees can be protected and have high probability of survival to a mature tree.
 This shall be accomplished once the development is built out or as approved by the urban forester. Section C. Money contributed in lieu of on-site mitigation or off-site forestation shall be paid prior to the issuance of a building permit on all commercial, industrial, or multifamily residential buildings and prior to the final plat acceptance for all residential and non-residential subdivisions.
 Money contributed under Section I may be used for canopy mitigation, including planting, site identification, tree acquisition, planting and maintenance utilizing either city staff or contract labor, and shall not revert to the general fund for ongoing operations.
 If it is not possible to plant trees within the development, planting locations will be sought in appropriate sites within one mile radius of where the original project is located. But if this cannot be achieved, the money shall be used to plant a tree in the park quadrant in which the development took place or pursuant to Section 16704 and Data extracted from the urban forest analysis shall be consulted when identifying appropriate locations to plant escrow-funded trees.
 The City of Fayetteville shall refund the portion of monies contributed under this section, including accrued interest, that has not been expended seven years from the date of the contribution. Interest shall be based on a 4% annual rate. Subsection G. Refunds shall be paid to the present owner of the property that was subject of the new development and against which fees was assessed and collected.
 Objection H. Notice of the rights refund, including the amount of the refund and the procedure for applying for and receiving the refund, shall be sent or served in writing to the applicant no later than 30 days after the date at which the refund becomes due. The sending by regular mail of the notices to the applicant shall be sufficient to satisfy the required notice.
 Objection I. The refund should be made on a pro rata basis and shall be paid in full no later than 90 days after the date certain upon which the refund becomes due. Objection J. At the time of the contribution to the tree escrow account, the urban forester shall provide the applicant with written notice of these circumstances under which the refunds of such fees will be made. Failure to deliver such written notice shall not invalidate any contribution to the tree escrow account under this ordinance.
 Section 6 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, I'll hear the appeals. Section 16704, tree preservation and protection during development, L1, and an action to L1 as follows, quote, large-scale developments, large site improvements, and commercial preliminary plants are required to dedicate a tree preservation easement if any existing tree is to be preserved.
 The tree preservation easement shall be the size of the minimum canopy preservation requirement if possible. If minimum tree preservation canopy is not available, the applicant will not be required to dedicate a minimum canopy preservation. The applicant will have to dedicate a tree preservation easement that is agreed upon with Urban Forester.
 in order to ensure that an applicant's heirs, successors, or signs, and any subsequent purchasers of the subject property are put on notice as to the existence and extent of the approved tree preservation easements, which shall be clearly depicted and noted on the easement plats for large-scale developments, large and small site improvements, commercial final plats, and any plats with a tree preservation easement,
 This shall be accompanied by a narrative statement describing the nature of the protection afforded and bearing the signature of the urban forester. If it is impractical to include the actual depiction of the canopy in a tree preservation easement on the easement plat or final plat itself, a note cross-referencing an accompanying document shall suffice.
 Okay. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. As you may have picked up on, this item is specifically about the application of our Tree Preservation Ordinance. As I alluded to in the previous item, one of the most fundamental pieces of the 2021 ordinance was the affirmation's classification of projects by stormwater standard, or their impacts on stormwater, rather than that distinction by land use, either single-family and duplex or otherwise.
 What this looks like specifically and in detail and is what Mr. Williams was referring to in the table he read is a tiered approach to projects. There are in large terms two different routes that a project can go. It can either be subject to our green stormwater practices if less than 10,000 square feet of additional impervious area is added. Impervious area, think of that as
 ground surfaces that can't be penetrated by water. So concrete, asphalt, compacted gravel. Within this standard are three different levels. Projects that have less than 1,200 square feet of additional impervious area. That number was not chosen arbitrarily. It lines up with our allowance for accessory dwelling unit size. The level two, which is the next step up, is from 1,201 square feet to 6,000 square feet of impervious area. And level three is 6,001 to 10,000.
 Once you get above 10,000, that gets you into that second broad category, which is our drainage criteria manual, which is effectively the entirety of our drainage standards. When you think of things like detention ponds, retention ponds, underground detention, a lot of the water quality elements that are seen in smaller detail or smaller levels with these green stormwater practices.
 When it comes to tree preservation requirements, they are currently enacted at two of those levels. When you submit a project that is also subject to the drainage criteria manual, think a large scale development creating more than 10,000 square feet of impervious area, it's also subject to tree preservation requirements. Similarly, there's level three green storm water practice projects between 6,000 and 110,000 square feet of impervious area are subject to our tree preservation requirements.
 As a quick primer, and hopefully not giving you too much whiplash, what are our tree preservation requirements? I'm going to touch these on a very high level. Both our foresters are in attendance online and able to go into more detail if you're curious.
 But our tree preservation requirements are based on the project classes that I just described you that determines whether you are subject to them or not. And then our underlying zoning designation determines how much canopy is required to remain on site. If you have less than that required amount, you're not required to plant up to it. But if you have up to that minimum percentage canopy, the expectation is that's your starting point and you ought not fall below it.
 How that looks when a tree forest or one of our urban foresters reviews a project is it falls into a list of prioritizations with the number one being that you preserve that minimum canopy percentage on your property. That's the number one goal. It has the greatest impact to the project and the future users of that project to have that canopy on site.
 Failing that, there's an option for on-site alternatives, recognizing that there are certain conditions, often urban ones where sites are tight, where other elements that you heard a resident speak to earlier, the potential for green facades or green roofs to be incorporated into a project.
 A third alternative or a third route for the foresters to consider is offsite mitigation or offsite alternatives. Those are instances where you need to clear below your minimum canopy and you can't replant it back on your property. You may need to go to another property you own and plant the trees there. Last is escrow. That's when trees are moved below that canopy amount. There's a formula in code that determines the dollar amount that goes into an escrow account the city holds, which is used for tree plantings.
 Taking us back to those project classifications, what this ordinance is proposing at its core is to add level 2 green stormwater practice projects to the tree preservation requirements.
 It does not however mean the full requirements of the tree, or the full scope of the tree preservation requirements in the sense that what we're proposing is an abbreviated tree preservation plan be required with those projects between 1,200 and one and 6,000 square feet.
 An abbreviated tree preservation plan is distinct from the tree surveys or site analyses that our foresters typically receive in that it's not a survey. It's intended to be possible for a layperson to create these documents to show the general location of trees, not the survey specific locations of trees.
 It needs to incorporate elements like how the trees that will remain on the property are intended to be protected, the areas that will be disturbed, and perhaps most importantly is that no professional credentials are necessary for creating these documents. For the higher classification of projects, you need to have a professional credential like a landscape architect to submit these documents, which often represents a very significant hurdle for a lot of applicants in terms of time or cost.
 The second piece of this ordinance that's proposed is really a matter of cleanup. You may have heard Mr. Williams mention it when his description of what is being proposed. And that's that our ordinance needs to specify that any money that is contributed to our escrow needs to return to the present owner of a property. The idea being that if somebody is paying for an escrow on a property, they're probably
 infusing that cost into the property and conveying it to somebody else. And so if the escrow has to be returned, it should go to the person who's holding the property at this time. With that in mind, staff in the Planning Commission do recommend approval. This was considered by the Long Range Planning Committee before the Planning Commission brought it forward. It was a seven to one vote to forward it to City Council. The dissenting vote and general commentary too was that there was a lot of concern about the balance of smaller scale projects.
 One reason that tree preservation was not included in many in these smaller projects is because those sites are inherently smaller and having a tree on a piece of property can have a much bigger impact than it does on a larger site. We have more flexibility to work around it. That's pretty consistent with a lot of the public comment
 that the commission heard, in addition to some of what you all received before the council meeting tonight, that it is a very difficult tension for the city has between our tree preservation priorities and goals and our infill priorities and goals. A lot of our land use documents emphasize the efforts to try to maximize our existing infrastructure and not expand outward. It's not just a question of whether we're clearing trees in the middle of the city or on the edge of the city.
 but we're also adding infrastructure on the edges of the city that also represent a liability when all is said and done. Lastly, I wanted to touch on a few items or questions that were asked to me at the agenda session. I was able to confer with the Parks Department and the Forester. We have two Foresters, if you all did not know that, one is in the Parks Department and one is in Development Services.
 They offered feedback in response to three questions, one of which is, does this ordinance proposal have consistency with the forthcoming urban forestry master plan, which is in draft form and being considered by various committees and stakeholders right now?
 Our foresters assert that it does. It can do it in one of two ways, either by preserving trees on site because of the extended application of these standards, or in the event that escrow is received, that can also work into some of the Forestry Master Plan's goals to have a more robust tree planting program in the City of Fayetteville. Second question was, will this have an increase in staff load?
 I think I offered a kind of glib response that the amount of time that our foresters spend speaking to residents may shake out if they don't receive as many concerns when some trees may be protected. A more nuanced response from one of our foresters was that
 They reviewed the last 60 days of projects that have come in and seven of them would be subject to these standards, which is not a terribly high amount. Additionally, a lot of those projects are already reviewed by our foresters to ensure other standards are being upheld, particularly our street tree planting standards. So they're already interacting with those projects in some way.
 Lastly, there was a question of canopy tracking. I was incorrect in saying that we do not track them by project we do, however we are behind. Unfortunately, that is one of the tasks that our foresters do have limited ability to work on when our development review cycle is at a higher pace. They need to focus on the tree preservation of individual projects rather than being able to keep track of those metrics as a whole.
 So I hope that closes the loop on those questions if you felt like I didn't adequately answer. And I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have? Bob. Yeah, I think I have a lot of questions, some of which I probably haven't developed yet. This one is not as easy to me as the first two that we just tackled. And there doesn't seem to be this balance here of
 infill versus tree protection, and both being very important aspects as we grow. I wanna make sure that we don't make it too difficult for a homeowner to do improvements to their property. You know, you mentioned the size was set at 1200 feet because that's the size allowed for an accessory dwelling unit.
 But even if I build like an 800 square foot unit, by the time I add the extra parking, the sidewalk to the unit, small patio, I'm back up to that 1200 square feet of impervious space. And so it's really affecting projects that are smaller than the size of the
 With a smaller unit size, it's affecting those properties as well. Because you need that extra parking space, you need that walkway, you need that patio. If somebody wants to build a shop and a hot tub pad, you're almost at 1,200 square feet there. And I don't want to...
 For me, and I hope we can leave this on the first reading because I think I really need to delve into this and talk to some more folks. I've had a couple of conversations in the last couple days. I had a short one with John Scott. I'd like to have a longer one. And maybe with Melissa also. I wrap my head around their side of this. I've been speaking with a couple of developers.
 Maybe we all did, but I've received at least four, maybe five people reaching out to me with concerns about this. One of my developers that reached out to me, I had a discussion with, he was contacting me about something else. But I asked him about it, and he said, you know, this isn't gonna affect my projects, because he works on bigger stuff, but he could see how it would affect smaller projects and homeowner projects. And when things do take time,
 They do cost money, even if it's a small thing. And while people may not need to be required to hire a professional, if you're just a laborer, you may need to. You may not have the skill set to wrap your head around how to even come up with the answers to these abbreviated questions and forms. So I'd like to take a definitely longer look at this.
 And I hope my other council members will allow that, that we don't go through all readings, all three readings tonight. And I will definitely be coming up with a list of questions and having more conversations. I already have a meeting set up on Friday to meet with three different people to get their input so I can understand this better. So...
 I think that's all I have now, but I'm sure I'm going to be reaching out to people with lots of questions and thoughts. What other questions do we have? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that.
 Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague. I live on East Spring Street. I appreciate the time to give a little bit of public comment.
 I'm a little bit concerned about the changes to the tree preservation chapter, as well as many people that I work with that are also kind of in the walkable city realm. I think the main concern is that it seems like it's a pretty good departure from other city plan goals, from incentivizing infill, discouraging suburban sprawl.
 I think I would just ask the City Council to question the data or know the data of what's the reasons for these changes. Is it complaint driven?
 by a handful of people with construction projects next door. I think it's natural for people to resist change. Typically, I don't like for things to change around me. And just ask, does it silence the voice of the thousands of city of Fayetteville residents who gave their input in the development of our current city plan?
 goals. You know, a lot of younger people, millennials especially, I mean they want more options to live, to work near walkable destinations. They want missing middle. They want more affordable housing. And really I think looking at the big picture of this at the end of the day, the most environmentally responsible thing to do is to not make any change to this and that
 You know, it's down in the weeds, but that is going to create exponentially more tree preservation in Fayetteville if we continue to steer and incentivize development and building at infill locations.
 If we want to approve these changes, it's going to create less, we're going to spread out, it's going to create less tree preservation, maybe a little bit more tree preservation downtown.
 I would encourage you to try to strike a better balance. I did email you some suggestions, trying to exclude some infill areas from these additional requirements, like areas within a quarter mile of a transit stop, but then at the same time, adding these additional requirements to other areas that aren't infilled. Thank you. Thank you. All right, who else wants to address?
 Rebecca LaTourette at 15761 Round Mountain Road, Fayetteville. But I own property in downtown Fayetteville, and my family owns property in downtown Fayetteville, and we have been adversely affected by a lot of stormwater runoff and created by infill development on the hillside and complete tree removal, and I'm talking about Church Street
 And the lots that were developed were almost completely covered with impervious surfaces. And even though standards were followed to try to mitigate that, there's still an ongoing problem because of how the site's slope was managed. So it's still all draining down.
 onto neighboring property. And it's not going to the city storm drain. And it's not being absorbed on the current property. So I feel that a lot of attention needs to be given to how our zeal for infill is affecting the quality of life of people who are long time Fayetteville residents, who don't have the money
 and the influence to put in more French drains and put in more pits around their places to deal with the runoff. This does address both tree preservation and storm runoff, because when you're removing trees, in order to fully develop the lot you paid $500,000 for,
 you're covering the lot all the water is running off and there are no tree roots to absorb anything so the two aren't tied together and as far as the comment that and i know i'm not supposed to do so i'm going to keep this general infill particularly in downtown sayaville does not provide affordable housing especially when the lots are going for half a million dollars
 Nothing that's going to be built on there is going to be affordable. So that's all I have to say. And I think that this ought to be thoroughly considered and consider the impact on long-time payable residents who are on Social Security who can't afford the mitigation caused by the runoff from somebody else's project. Thank you. Thank you.
 hi i'm sarah lewis this is my son isaac um i am a resident of fayetteville and a former city council member and his role as part of my role as city council member i championed along with a lot of other people in this community and some of you on this
 up here in front of me, the streamside protection ordinance. And I want to bring that up because it's very related to this. And we had a lot of the same kinds of questions of, you know, this is going to take away this, or this is going to slow something down here. And the way we looked at that and the way we brought people together on that, and we hosted lots of workshops and lots of stakeholder meetings on it, was that this is about
 about looking at, hey, it's not about don't build that hot tub and that sidewalk. It's about, hey, in this area, there are some very special things to consider. Our neighbors, these trees that hold the soil in place, they are helping us reduce impacts to us as a community. And it's worth taking a moment and saying,
 Is it worth cutting down that tree or is it going to be okay to cut down that tree? Or should we keep that tree? And that's what this code does. It doesn't mean that that person can't appeal or challenge that and say, hey, and just create a variance. We have a beautiful variance process in this town and they can do that.
 And we have that process. And that variance process creates that conversation that those trees deserve and those residents downstream deserve to have a chance to say, don't cut down that 70-year-old oak. It's holding the bank in place so that I don't have a flood into my garage. And that is our experience. And we live downtown Fayetteville, and we experienced lots of runoff from the development uphill because people cleared the trees.
 So this code does not stop infill. What it does is give a pause and say, are we collectively okay with removing these trees because of their function, beauty, and value they add to our community? That's why this is beneficial and you should pass it. Number two, on the topic of infill, on the trajectory that we are on right now, we are going to introduce something called environmental injustice.
 Because what you have in areas of infill where we clear the trees is an experience of very, very hot city urban heat. So having codes like this in small areas where we bring attention, because infill takes some careful puzzle pieces, right? And those trees should be part of the puzzle. And this code provides that.
 And without this code, we end up with environmental injustice in areas of high density infill, where people are too hot and are not getting to enjoy beautiful trees like people who have larger lots. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Scott Neely, Intersectional Mission and OR Road, Board 3.
 urge the council and the planning commission that the city earlier to preserve the trees as best can or not as best just consider the the trees first for the the mention the reasons that have been mentioned before air quality reduction of heat island effect storm water control prevention of erosion
 at the aesthetics that contribute to better mindsets and quality of life. I too was affected by construction up the hill from us and the water that comes down the slope from King's Drive to the property uphill had over several years ago was directed down
 off that property that used to be just an open field with trees and now it's covered with impervious surface. So I too have been impacted by what has happened uphill for me and I know it's it's a tricky situation to find the right balance, but I approve this change for evaluating smaller
 projects because we have been losing tree canopy because smaller projects have not fallen within the scope of what has been previously has been our previous policy so I give pause for the infill I know we need it there are
 was overwhelming support for what is planned for uh changing zoning along the the college school corridor um there's there's lots of potential for infill there on a strip that's all already heavily impacted so you know concentrate infill there uh uh
 The large parking lots up around the mall are hardly ever full anymore. The mall is kind of at the end of its day. There's potential for conversion to some kind of mixed use and housing in spaces like that. Just consider what's already open and what's already highly impacted with our infill as best we can. I know it's hard to thread the needle sometimes, but I appreciate the effort and the awareness to factor that in. Thank you.
 who else would like to address this okay who do you have i don't have anyone on zoom with their hand raised all right bring this back to the council this is an ordinance what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take thank you mayor i think this is a perfect example of where we have stated uh city goals and they
 you know, with infill and now we have, you know, some of the challenges that come along with that. As one of the speakers mentioned, when we did the streamside protection, we had educational, you know, meetings getting in the community.
 input and I don't know that we're there yet on this and I think that it's our job at City Council to put proposals out there get feedback from the community
 and then come to a final decision. So I would agree with Council Member Stafford that I would prefer to hold this and give the community some additional time to talk about it and come up with some possible alternatives, suggestions. I'm not saying I'm against this, but I don't think it's ready to go to a vote yet. All right. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I mean, I support this for multiple, multiple reasons. I mean, one, it doesn't preclude infill whatsoever at all. I think the whole notion of urban living, urban life, urban density by its very nature creates heat islands. And we're coming out of a week where the majority of our nation experienced that. And the value of those trees is futuristic.
 I don't preach equity very often in this room whatsoever at all, but there's something about neighborhoods having that opportunity to retain shade. The University of Arkansas is the only university in the nation to have two AIA gold winners. That's the highest award an architect can get. Fay Jones was our first gold winner, and Marlon Blackwell was the second recipient of the highest order
 of recognition given by the profession. I attended a lecture by Mr. Blackwell in which later in his career he had said, I have discovered that where there is shade there will be people and I did not incorporate that always into some of my earlier work and I have learned the value and the necessity of that and
 if I expect people to enjoy, appreciate, live in, and congregate around the projects that I have designed. I view it also as a water management issue in that the canopy simply slows down the rain. It's gonna rain more intensely as we get warmer as we have seen. You don't wanna live in the city of Houston because it's not hurricane water washing in, it's the rainwater that falls from more intense storms.
 The neighborhood I live in, the ward I live in, I really don't like it when we talk about my ward and this. We get elected by ward, we represent the whole city. But as an older portion of the city developed before standards were put in place for stormwater management, for things of that nature, it's a portion of the city more prone to flooding when we have intense rains.
 And so with infill being highly desirable, I think it's equally desirable and responsible and sophisticated of us to attempt to slow down rainwater, not just for the neighbors, but for that owner.
 and to provide some heat mitigation. It doesn't mean that you can't eliminate a tree. We're not gonna deny someone that says, gee, we had another baby, we would like to do a bedroom addition. They may, if they can't design around the trees on their site, they may contribute to an escrow account.
 I view that as a responsible, reasonable act for this city to pursue. And so for those reasons that I support it, the notion of adding a little bit of cost to infill, the most expensive land to build on in the city of Fayetteville is the land in the heart of the city. The cheapest land is the land on the periphery. The tradeoff from walkability, the tradeoff in...
 Closer access to be able to walk to locations is a part of what people purchase when they purchase and build on a lot that's yet to receive construction. So I don't preach it from just a social responsibility, from an environmental perspective. I view it as a quality of life principle.
 that raises the value of everyone that lives in that neighborhood and that we all want to embrace that appropriate responsible infill. And this is what I view personally as a way of being responsible towards our infill. So thank you, Mr. Mayor, for that opportunity. Sir.
 Thank you, Mayor. A lot's been said, and I'm probably in agreement with many of my council members, so I'll try to be brief, and that usually is followed by a long spill, so I'll try not to be that person. You know, I was definitely there was the ask of are we just being responsive to a few squeaky wells, but I will say I know that the
 the foresters and myself hear constantly from individuals who express concern and are always dismayed when you let them know, hey, this is following code. And so we definitely have something here to address. I think my pause in this conversation is that balance.
 act of looking at we do want infill and we also and we want the tree preservation but we want to be thoughtful about it I think that staff and the Planning Commission long-range planning had very extensive conversations I really appreciate them because I actually follow them and they kind of mired through and toiled through a lot of these conversations we're having tonight and kind of arrived at this place
 And so I think that there is much need to really think about those high value trees that are existing in our infill area. But I would also advise we probably sit. It's summer. People are on vacation. This is, you know, quite a different step that we'd be moving towards. And so I don't think it hurts for us to pause and to get additional conversation.
 That I was intrigued with the mentioning of a quarter mile to transit, but I will say that to me has some obvious pitfalls because so much of Ward 2 where we're at in the downtown is close in to transit. And so that would potentially be someone that would not have to fulfill those obligations. And that's where I get calls from.
 um strong reasons for potentially doing it but tonight i'd like to join what a couple of colleagues have said and kind of pause if we can all be on board with that and have this conversation in a couple weeks thank you mayor and um jonathan and your staff thank you for bringing this forward um in deference to um council member stafford and and more i agree we should probably hold this
 But when we're going back and reviewing this in the next couple of weeks, read the climate action plan again. Okay, because lots of things about this where we're creating heat islands. And, you know, if you've been to Dallas lately or Houston lately, those are really great examples where they don't have such an ordinance like this that we really need to think about.
 how trees play a huge cultural part in our view of the city of Fayetteville, and how we live, and who lives here. So I would just encourage all of us to do a little bit more, maybe scouting around town and thinking about will this really push
 development to the edges I don't think so I think it as it's written right now just provides a process and there are variances and there are a lot of different options that could be forthcoming under under this proposal thank you yes thank you I do think that this is going to take some some looking at and coming up with something balanced I'm not sure we're there yet
 how do we save our trees how do we grow the city in a way that that we don't cost for all my wife is kind of a counterpart in the county and they have to deal with a lot of rezonings now because the growth is also going out into the county and one thing she reminds me of sometimes is that for every tree we may save in the city that might cost us four trees in the county
 because for the growth that doesn't happen here, it does push out, it pushes out to the edges and beyond the edges. And so when they had to build a new road, speaking of heat islands, the road is a heat island. New subdivisions are heat islands. And I've heard some of the questions about equity. And so a lot of people I know, a lot of my friends are successful professionals, but
 We're in a situation with our housing crisis that people I know can't afford to move sideways. And so if you have a young family who can't afford, you know, and you just had another kid and they can't afford to buy that bigger house, their only option is to add that bedroom. I don't want to add additional cost, labor, time to that family. That's inequitable to me.
 But it sounds like we're going to leave this here, which I think is a good thing. I, you know, I'm not against this, but I just want to make sure we do this in a way that we don't end up with unintended consequences, where we don't end up with a situation where we do have a side effect that's worse, you know, than the problem we're trying to solve. Thank you. Anybody else? I'm sure we're going to leave this where it is unless you all want to keep batting this around.
 So we'll just leave it right where it is. I will have a few comments, though, in the next couple weeks because I was involved in the stream site protection ordinance very deeply. So let's go on to number six unless you all want a break because we're going to be here a while. I thought you better take one because we'll be here a while. All right.
 Let's get started again. Number six, an ordinance to approve vacation 24-09 for property located at 241 West Spring Street in Ward 2 to vacate a .017 acre portion of street right of way.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of the street right of way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of Street Right-of-Way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2. A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1. Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense.
 2. A 15-foot utility easement shall be dedicated for existing power lines along the property's southern boundary. 3. Existing water service on the west side of the property shall be removed and appropriately disconnected at the tap at the property owner developer's expense.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to downtown Fayetteville in Ward 2, specifically at the southeast corner of Spring Street and Locust Avenue. It is the former location of the Mid-South building, which burnt down a few years ago and has since been used as a parking lot, which the Planning Commission approved a condition to use for temporary parking use.
 The property owner has now come forward with a proposal to redevelop the site and as part of that has engaged with our planning staff to evaluate what the master street plan needs are as it relates to the existing right of way.
 In evaluating the request, it's identified that there is some excess right of way that is not necessary for meeting our city's master street plan needs. Specifically, it includes about 761 square feet along the west side of the property running due south from Spring Street on the east side of Locust. A closer look of what that looks like on the property's context can be seen here.
 In evaluating the request, staff did not find any issues. All the franchise utilities have consented to the proposal. And again, in looking at this request through the lens of our master street plan, staff has found that there is no intended public interest to be served by it, whether it's for sidewalk improvements or otherwise. We are recommending in favor of it.
 The Planning Commission felt similarly, unanimously forwarding it to City Council with three conditions that Mr. Williams outlined. But repeating those in brief, that includes that any damage or relocation of facilities in that existing right-of-way will be at the applicant or the developer's expense.
 Additionally, a 15-foot utility easement will be necessary to accommodate the existing power lines along the southern portion of the property today. And finally, that the existing water service be removed and disconnected, also at the owner and developer's expense. To date, we've received no public comments on the item. I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And Mayor, I believe Lindsey Hackett is available as the applicant for this item online. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? Yes, Bob. Yeah, how, Mayor, would you like to hear from the applicant first? Oh, I'm very sorry. Yes, the applicant's here. Anywhere. Online, yes. Oh, please go ahead. Yes, go ahead. Thank you very much. Lindsay Hackett, I'm here to answer any questions that you have. I think Jonathan and staff have covered all of the information very thoroughly, but I'm here to answer any questions you have. Okay. Okay.
 Yeah, Jonathan, what's the size of the sidewalk there? And today, that's a good question. I'm sorry, I don't have that immediately available. I believe that was on the ALTA survey. I think it's a five-foot back of curb sidewalk, but I'm not certain on that. I'd have to confirm. And the vacation would start at the edge of that sidewalk or?
 The vacation would extend into the property. The sidewalk as it is today, actually that may be a generous way to describe it, it's largely an uninterrupted curb cut on that property, if you may recall how that building was set up. Oh, even on that locust? On locust, correct. Oh, okay. If you recall how that property was originally accessed years ago, there was quite a bit of pull-in parking.
 along Locust both for this property and the one to the south. So yeah it does appear that it's a either a four or five foot sidewalk at the back curb. What staff is in support of vacating would effectively align this property's right of way line with the property immediately to the south of it.
 can you say that last pretty good the the they're they're compared to the rest of the east side of locust avenue there's an excess amount of right-of-way dedicated on the applicant's property got it and what the applicant is proposing what staff supports is to vacate that and they'll be consistent with the property to the south okay and that
 Now, you said it's a five-foot sidewalk? Yes. The sidewalk as it is today will remain in right-of-way. Additionally, once this property is redeveloped, there will also be adequate right-of-way for any sidewalk improvements in the future. Oh, there will be? Yes. That was my main concern, so thank you. Any other questions? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this topic? Anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council? I make a motion to suspend the rules and build a second reading. Second. We have a motion to second the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederkerk? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In order to approve DAC 24-09 for a property located at 241 West Spring Street in Ward 2 to vacate a .017 acre portion of a street right away.
 Mary make motions then the rules goes third and final reading second yes yes
 In order to approve the AC 24-09, we're properly located at 241 West Spring Street in Ward 2 to vacate a 0.017 acre portion of street right of way. Any final comments from the council? Terrence, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirksberg? Yes.
 Thank you all. Number seven. An ordinance to rezone the property described in its own petition RZN 2024-27 for approximately 6.43 acres located at 1440 South Curtis Avenue in Ward 1 from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C1, Neighborhood Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 John. Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to southeast Fayetteville, specifically at the...
 specifically at the northeast corner of 15th Street and Curtis Avenue it includes about six point four three acres of land that currently remains undeveloped and largely devoid of any tree canopy other than that along the north property line next to the adjacent residential uses
 The request is to rezone the property from C1 neighborhood commercial to UT urban thoroughfare. When evaluating the request from a land use standpoint, or land use compatibility standpoint specifically, staff finds the proposal to be consistent. This is an area of widely varying land uses from single and multifamily residential, manufactured home residential to the west.
 There's several light and heavy manufacturing facilities, warehousing facilities, office facilities, the city's fleet offices to the southeast. And staff contends that the Urban Therapeutic Zoning District with its allowance of the full spectrum of residential uses and one of the widest spectrums of non-residential uses is an appropriate fit at this location.
 Similarly, from a long-range planning standpoint, we feel that it matches the property's Future Land Use Map designation for the property of a city neighborhood area, which is intended to support a wide variety of land uses, which again, the UT Urban Thoroughfare Zoning District allows by right.
 While the infill score is not particularly robust, between a four and a six, depending where you are on the property, it does have access to several amenities. And one important piece, which is not necessarily captured in our infill score, which is a proximity to a large amount of employment opportunities in Fayetteville. Other issues that staff considered and want to drop the count.
 Council's attention to is we've not received any public comment on this item And also this will ultimately be reducing the tree preservation minimum on the site from 20 to 15 percent Again that may not be as much of a concern here If you have opportunity to visit the property that canopy is negligible as it is today most of this located along the northern property line where it would be subject to could be subject to review and consideration from the neighboring property owners as well and
 With that, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously with very limited comment, perhaps indicating their level of comfort with the proposal. And I'm happy to take any questions that the Council has. Mayor Payne Phillips is the applicant on this item. And last I saw, I believe he's, yes, he's online, Mayor. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council?
 good evening council my name is penn phillips i'm here speaking on behalf of the property owner and i'll be happy to answer any questions you may have thank you okay what questions does the council have for the staff of the applicant bob i'd just like to say uh this is a more one it's right around the corner from me i haven't heard anything from anybody i thought i had but i searched my email okay
 Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, I'm kind of going through here, looking at the permitted uses between C1 and UT. Are there some that really stand out?
 I'll be honest, my concern with this is that you can go up to seven stories. I know that area very well. I mean, there's a variety of uses as you described, but I don't think that there's anything over three stories in that area. And if there is, please correct me. I think it's mostly some housing and there's some industrial across the way, but it's not as tall or massing as would be allowed under urban thoroughfare.
 That's correct and I appreciate you bringing that up. That was a consideration of staff's. To compare the two, what's there today and what's allowed under UT, you're correct. UT does allow seven stories, C1 allows five. When staff was evaluating that and what potential that could represent,
 considered many of the adjoining properties. And if you had an opportunity to consider that zoning map, even the single family neighborhood to the north is all currently zoned for multifamily with an allowance to build to five stories today. So ultimately the entitlements are much higher than what is on the site and that reduced staff's reservations. Additionally, the Urban Thoroughfare Zoning District
 a form-based component that pulls buildings towards the street, and in that regard, any building construction would need to occur closer to 15th Street or Curtis and away from some of the lower single-story and two-story buildings immediately to the north. So with those considerations in particular, staff didn't have any level of concern.
 Thank you for going through your thought process. And I guess I missed that whole thing about the zoning to the north is multifamily, even though it doesn't look that way right now. It's not built that way. So thank you. Any other questions? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by zone will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber? Do you have anybody on zone? No, sir. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? All right. Make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Weedekirk? Yes. Arnott? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In order to rezone the property ascribed in the rezone petition RZN 2024-27 for property 6.43 acres located at 1440 South Curtis Avenue in Ward 1 from C1 neighborhood commercial to UT urban thoroughfare.
 or make a motion to spend the rules and go third and final reading second i have a motion second to go third and final reading care if it's please call the road stafford yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes vernon yes bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes
 An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-27 for approximately 6.43 acres located at 1440 South Curtis Avenue in Ward 1 from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Any final comments from the council? May I have a question? Yes. Jonathan, do you know the maximum height of the high point apartments that are north northwest?
 The high point I believe the existing ones are the ones that are under construction. Actually both. I believe the high point I believe is two stories from my recollection and if I remember correctly what's being built today the new ones are three stories but I'm not 100% confident I think that's how they're being built. Thank you. No I believe they're two stories I'm sorry yeah I was able to pull something up. Thank you so much. Anything else? Hey, Caravans Police, Calderon.
 Stafford yes, yes more yes, yes Yes, sir, yes, yes, okay, thank you all number eight
 in order to resolve the property described rezoning petition rzn 2024-26 for approximately 1.87 acres located west of 2910 north old wire road in ward 3. from nc neighborhood conservation rs f 18 residential single family 18 years break kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18 Residential Single Family, 18 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council city of Fayetteville are covered by men's official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Reflected zoning change provided in section 1 Jonathan Thank You mayor this request takes us to East Fayetteville Be a moment pull it up hi in Ward 3, this is apologies can you move him I
 There we are. Excuse me. This request takes us to East Fayetteville and Ward 3. We're about 500 to 1,000 feet southwest of the intersection of Crossover Road and Old Wire Road. This specific property is immediately adjacent to the intersection of Oak Bailey and Old Wire, which you can see on this property.
 It is characterized most prominently by a portion of floodplain that's in the southeast corner of the site, which you can see in blue on this screen. What the aerial does not reflect is that this property is currently under development. As the council may recall, in April of last year, this overall property was rezoned from its overall uniform zoning designation of RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to NC, neighborhood conservation.
 for the portion closest to old wiring outside the floodplain with the remainder of the property to be zoned RA, residential agricultural, as an indication of intent to keep it, the tree canopy as it is.
 Soon afterwards, in July of 2023, the property was approved for a preliminary plot request and work began on the property following a grading permit approval in January of this year where the subdivision is being built, the Livingston subdivision with approximately 50 lots.
 What is being requested today is for a portion of the overall property, totaling 1.87 acres, or about a tenth of the overall site, to be up zoned from its NC neighborhood conservation zoning designation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. To distinguish it there for you on the property, it's the strip immediately adjacent to the
 As reflected in the development plans, that is currently intended to be one tier of lots between Sumac Drive, which is currently being built, and Old Wire Road.
 Putting it in a different way of considering it, perhaps more clearly, the area of light blue you see here represents that 1.87 acres being proposed to rezone to RSF 18. And from a land use compatibility standpoint,
 when reviewing this request planning does find it to be consistent the rsf zoning rsf 18 zoning district while allowing a higher density and effectively more units per acre it does ultimately still come down to being a single family zoning district of which this area is almost uniformly so with that in mind staff finds that to be consistent regardless of the fact that the houses may ultimately be smaller than those in the area
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff found it to be comparable. This area's Future Land Use Map designation is a residential neighborhood area, which depending on context supports different degrees and different varying levels of residential housing. Given the proposal to singly include the portion adjacent to Old Wire Road for increased density, staff feels that's complimentary of the fact that it's adjacent to a busy street.
 Additionally, several of the infill elements we feel support that this is an area that can support some additional housing, particularly given some of the recent infrastructure improvements the city made to the Nia-Kasken Trail, which goes on the other side of the creek to the southeast. Some of the issues when staff evaluated beyond simple land use compatibility and land use plan consistency include true preservation considerations.
 The property has met its minimum tree preservation. I outlined those different priorities and options that a developer can work with our foresters on. And this project did keep to that area of RA as kept as canopy. And it's anticipated that no more canopy would necessarily be cleared with this request since the 20% requirement remains in place.
 An additional consideration is what is the ultimate net additional number of units that could occur with this proposal. For this 1.87 acres adjacent to Old Wire under the current NC zoning district, a maximum of 18 units could be built there. Whereas under the RSF 18 zoning district that's proposed, it could allow a maximum of 33 units with the potential for an additional 15 units.
 The applicant has indicated that given the existing subdivision design, it's likely not going to be that many more, perhaps 10 more, but I can let them speak to that, of course. Another item that the staff considered and which I believe Council Member Turk brought up at the agenda session was a question and concern about access management. A lot of the feedback that the council received about the previous rezoning and this one from the public was concerned about traffic and congestion and traffic dangers in this area.
 What you see here is a screenshot and maybe hard to discern what's happening, but what you see on the upper end of that is Old Wire Road. The area of the portion of the left side of the screen is heading off to the southwest, the portion on the right side to the northeast towards Crossover. The area adjacent to the street is currently intended for not just tree preservation, but drainage work as well.
 As a result, between that and our access management standards that restrict how many curb cuts or driveways you can have on a street of old wires classification, that is a condition that only the planning commission could issue a variance for. It's my understanding that the developer plans on honoring the design of the subdivision and connecting to these internal streets so that there still will be that single point of access on the old wire drive rather than multiple distinct driveways.
 With that, and as I alluded to, there has been some public comment on this item, multiple pieces of it. Of course, first and foremost was the concern I mentioned a moment ago about traffic congestion and concern about the potential for more conflicts with vehicles pulling onto Old Wire Road as the number of houses increases.
 There's also been some concern expressed about the amount of tree cover that was removed as a part of this project. I think it's important to note that one of our priorities, while it may not appeal, appearing to our residents is to preserve clusters of trees where they can serve the best benefit, a contiguous area of canopy rather than individual stands of trees that have less likelihood of surviving.
 So sometimes that's the result we see in our developments is that to preserve a standard tree or a large contiguous area of trees, a significant area is removed on the rest of the property to meet our standards. Another piece of comment that we've received is the concern that,
 This may be an incremental increasing in the requests that the developer may come back again. I've not seen any indication of that, but the applicant could speak to that better than I can. And finally, I believe it was this week a resident, I believe, reached out to the council with some concerns about drainage onto their property to the northeast that's resulting during the construction of this development.
 In conferring with our engineering group today, they shared that they've been working with the contractor on the property and the engineer on the property to make sure that's corrected. It was an unintended consequence of some of the development work or the grading work that's going on right now, and they believe they can contain that runoff on their property. With that said, and on the balance of considerations, staff is recommending approval.
 The Planning Commission did forward it to City Council, also recommending approval, albeit by a split decision. Those in favor of the request felt that this was a modest increase and that any changes would be subject to development review. What that means and what some of the commissioners asked questions about were, if we're adding the number of houses, doesn't that represent an increased potential for more impervious areas, for instance?
 The answer is yes, and as a result our engineering group and others would need to review that to make sure that all the assumptions made in the stormwater calculations are accommodated or revised to make sure that they address this change. The dissenting vote referenced largely their concerns with what they perceived to be a low infill score and traffic concerns that could result from increased housing in the development.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions from the council and mayor, I believe Blake Jorgensen is available online as the applicant for this item. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Yeah. Good evening, mayor and city council. We are actually proposing to table this for tonight and try to revisit this in two weeks.
 We've been working with the adjacent landowner on some erosion control issues that we've been working through. And as a development makes its iterations through implementing, you know, the infrastructure of the roads and the detention pond, we've not been able to achieve a complementary agreement to where we can get
 the runoff to not adversely affect his property. And we've been working with Mr. Jim Short for a while. It's just, it's a matter of a staging of construction. So we're going to meet with the city of Fayetteville tomorrow, Josh Picaccio and Dave Rowden. And, you know,
 We'd like to proceed tonight, but at the same time, we're okay just holding this tonight, if that's okay with the city council. Sure, it will be. I think we've got some folks that maybe came to speak to this. We will make some public comment no matter what. Okay, Bob. We don't have any updated aerial photos or satellite photos of this lot, do we? No.
 post the clearing? Yes, I can pull up our GIS right now if that's helpful for consideration. So the properties in consideration include this parcel and this parcel and overlaying that with, sorry, our zoning, you can see where the intent was met with preserving the area largely within the residential agricultural area and the floodplain associated with Neocascac Creek that runs through them.
 What's the pre-preservation level in RA? RA is 25%. Anybody else? Okay. Leave us on the first reading then. Well, I want to take some public comment. Now we take some public comment and everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage any
 one from the public or any council members stay on top please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zone will speak after that rob keys 2792 north rain tree drive i'm going to see if i can hit a curveball tonight after that uh comment from the mr jorgensen to mayor jordan and the council i appreciate the opportunity to provide feedback regarding this rezoning proposal as i think most of you will remember
 My neighbors and I discussed with you previously the rezoning of this larger development area. I trust you also remember that we were not anti-development or anti-density then. We are not anti-development or anti-density now. We understand the need for more and denser housing, but also remain hopeful that common sense can be applied. We don't live in a black and white world where density is a magic word that makes everything else okay.
 That's why we had hoped for rezoning from SF4 to SF8 rather than the NC designation that ultimately allowed 10 units per acre. Now we're back because the developer wants part of the land to be rezoned to 18 units per acre, which makes me wonder what he might ask for next. As you can imagine, we have the same concerns with drainage and traffic that we had before. I'm sure some of you drive past the new clear cut area from time to time and you can see what happens when it rains. It's a mess.
 Adding more and more impermeable surfaces is not going to make it less of a mess. If you drive on 2 Lane, Old Wire Road in the mornings or afternoon, you surely experience the same traffic congestion that we live with every day, and that's without the addition of the new neighborhood. When this was discussed previously, there was talk about the number of accidents in the area, or lack thereof.
 I would argue that waiting until there is a higher number of accidents or injuries is not the way to address traffic concerns. At that point, it may be too late for somebody. These are the reasons I'm asking you to reject this request. We've already increased the density for the entire area by two and a half times, and this is an area that's not even walkable. There are no schools, churches, shops, or businesses within walking distance of this development.
 This request, in my opinion, is based on a desire to maximize profits starting at half a million dollars per unit, according to the developer's website. We've heard only 10 more houses, only 15 more houses. I'm asking you to make a decision not based on the fact that you technically can cram more houses into this space. I'm asking you to make a decision that considers the quality of life of all those who live in this area,
 including those of us or I'm sorry including those who will move in when this development is Complete and please don't forget those of us who already live there who vote to pay taxes and help make Fayetteville Fayetteville We deserve better. Thank you. Thank you Who else would like to address us? Hi, good evening, I'm Julie keys. Um, it's better half 2792 North Range Free Drive. I
 I'm really encouraged with the conversations at tonight's meeting, like just the tree preservation, the canopy, the climate action plan. It just seemed like everything was just so in line with what I think Fayetteville is all about. So I appreciate your service. I appreciate all of your conversations and all the emails. And I can't imagine having y'all's job, but thank y'all. I appreciate it.
 This topic has garnered a lot of attention, obviously, for the past year and a half. And my concern is that this rezoning just seems to really challenge the character and the charm of the already existing neighborhood. It's just like, you know, I know it might be only 15 more lots or, you know, that. But it's also, that's a lot of money, too, if you're, you know, selling these lots for $500,000 each. It just seems like it's more financially, like, kind of maybe trying to...
 regain some lost money somewhere in the development because I see it every day it's in my backyard and they're pushing a lot of orange dirt and heat island all around back there I mean it's a lot going on back there it's it's been interesting to watch firsthand so I would just consider you know ask you guys to consider you know not not moving on this and obviously heard mr. Jorgensen speak as well so just appreciate the consideration thank you
 Who else would like to address this? Who do you have on Zoom? I have Nick Mote. Okay, go ahead. Well, he fell off, but maybe he'll be back. One second. Did you see him? Well, it looks like we'll be here for him to come back. I think he's coming back. Nick Mote, you'll need to unmute. I'm sorry. Okay. Anybody else?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council Okay, I mean unless you Nick mode is back. All right, go ahead Nick Nick you'll need to unmute your time. It's your time Nick. Yes It appears we just have technical difficulties, I mean that maybe mr. Moat does sorry, okay, I
 Well, Scott. Thank you, Mayor. Obviously the applicant is asking for it to be tabled, but, and I'm fine with that. But my concern with this is when this initially came to us, myself and Sarah met with the neighbors. We, at least myself, felt that walking away that.
 They were not anti-development. They were just trying to look out for their best interest, but yet understanding that the property was going to be developed. I felt like in good faith they...
 you know, met with the developer and this just feels wrong that they approved, you know, that we approved it. And then eight, nine months later, we're coming back and we're wanting to cram more houses in there. And that doesn't feel like it's
 understand you got to have a return on your investment I get that but I'm uncomfortable with not coming in that on the front end so everybody knows on the front end what what's happening because this just seems like it's not a not a good thing so that's kind of where I am but I'm okay with tabling that that's what everybody wants to do.
 Well, when was this originally done? I wasn't on the council yet, but I remember coming to that meeting. Was it a year ago? Not a year ago. April 23. And I remember coming to that meeting and seeing the presentation and actually speaking. I think I got up and I think I spoke in favor of it. And I remember the presentation. I'm going to rewatch it.
 I remember it being a lot greener. I don't think anybody expected the kind of strategy of developing this land that we ended up seeing. I understand that economics and everything, it's easier to cut stuff down and replant it.
 but man that that that was uh that was hard to watch uh but i do believe that you know that city council back then acted in good faith i believe the the neighbors did and i believe that uh the property was built you know that the developer got what they wanted with the project they had planned um and i think everybody everybody i've spoken to was shocked when we saw the the process
 and like i said i understand economics and there's easier cheaper to build this way than that way um you know i grew up in uh rolling hills and rolling hills was you know you had the cow pasture at the bottom down on loxley and everything and as you go up the hills yeah i'm telling one of my stories sorry
 You guys are going to know my whole life, buddy. You know, when we built, you know, I lived down in Loxley, where there was a cow pasture, but up the hill was all forest. And when they built Elizabeth, when they built around on the hills, on the hillside, they built into the trees.
 And I just don't know what happened between, and that's what I was expecting. And maybe I'm just ignorant, but that's what I was expecting. I just don't know what happened between, that was the 70s and 80s, and this is the 2020s, a long time. But man, I, you know, and I'm sorry I'm on a little tangent here. But it is because when we saw this happen, it's like, that's not what I saw in the drawings.
 That's not what I saw a city council vote for. And I think everybody was shocked and it's just hard to take as a Fayetteville native to see something like that. I'm ready to vote on this tonight. We could table it, but I'm ready to vote on it tonight. You know, since the applicant has asked for it to be tabled, I would like it to be tabled. But I agree with a lot of the sentiment.
 When we talk about, what is the tree canopy under NC, Jonathan? What's on the existing zoning, the new zoning? It's 20% canopy requirement under the existing and the proposed. Okay. And so what is so difficult is when you have a piece of property that is covered in trees, it's hard to think what it's going to look like with only 20% of the trees on there. And I...
 you know, when we walked around that property, I imagined something completely different. That they would save a few more trees. It wouldn't just be trees around the edge and nothing in the middle.
 And, but, you know, I guess they kept their part of the bargain with the 20% tree canopy, but it's a lot of trees have been lost over there. And I know we need housing and everything, but this is awfully soon, in my mind, to be coming back after we went through all of what we went through and we looked at the property and, you know, I don't know that anybody has really done anything that they shouldn't have done. I just think that it's too soon to be coming back and asking for...
 Another rezoning that would allow even 10 more houses. However, I will go with this with an open mind because that's what I'm supposed to do. That's why I make the big bucks up here. But those are my feelings on that. Now I'd like to table this item and also maybe hear from some more of the neighbors as well because we haven't heard from that many people. I've heard from people who drive by and are shocked
 and what's going on over there. And I've heard from people that talked about burning trees and stuff like that. So I have not heard from that many of the neighbors. And so I may be...
 regret asking for more neighbor input but I sure would like to hear from neighbor input you know neighbors input on this so anyway I would love to table this item and I'd ask for my fellow council members to consider my request thank you well you don't have to really table it because it'll be two weeks before you hear it again yeah it'd be better just to leave it on the first let's just leave it on this reading then I'm sorry I misspoke
 Okay. So what y'all want to do? Yes, please. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to request that, Jonathan, I'm okay with leaving it on the first reading, but in three weeks when we come back, if you could also have the topography and the slope.
 And to remind everybody that that area has got a fairly steep slope to it. And I think it was made much more apparent when they basically clear cut that whole area and started burning.
 I know this is not my ward, but I've heard from a lot of people over there just how awful it was. And so I think when word gets out that they're asking for more density, you might get your wish. We might hear from a lot of folks. Well, I think you might. Thank you.
 Well, I guess we'll just, yes. Sorry, Mayor. I have a request for the applicant. When we come back in two or three weeks, I would love to hear your plan for how you're mitigating the stormwater concerns that the neighbors have just now without the development and how you plan to mitigate that later on as well because I think if we're having...
 you know, these severe concerns currently, I'm not super confident that they will not be exacerbated by the development. So thank you. And I would just add that it's
 The neighbors were not anti-development. I can remember that with this went through three readings separately before it was adopted and that was really the impression that they left all of us with. I appreciate you coming out tonight and being succinct. I just think that this is an example of exhibit A of where even the city council isn't saying we're anti-development.
 We're just looking for sensitivity. We're just looking for sophistication in design, and we're looking for reasonable, appropriate infill
 And when that doesn't happen, it's kind of like the Supreme Court and pornography. You know, I can't define it, but boy, I know it when I see it. When we see something that is less than embracing the culture of the community, it's a little more obvious to us than just talking code generically. And so I would just ask us to all remember this when some of the code amendments come back to us.
 We're not trying to be unreasonable. We just want sophisticated sensitivity to the environment. Thank you. Well, I guess we'll leave it right here then. Alright, let's go to number nine. An ordinance to rezone the property described in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-28 for approximately 3.7 acres located east of Harmon Field on South Duncan Avenue in Ward 2.
 from RMF 40, residential multi-family, 4 units per acre to MSC Main Street Center. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from rmf 40 residential multi-family 40 units per acre to msc main street center in section two that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay jonathan thank you
 Thank you, Mayor. This request is in Central Fayetteville in Ward 2. It includes nine parcels of land that are divided by a piece of Treadwell Street right-of-way and an intervening property, but all of them are to be found on the west side of Duncan Avenue, totaling about 3.7 acres of land.
 The properties are developed with a diversity of housing types today, including single, two, three, four family and a larger apartment building on the northern end of the request area.
 specifically is to rezone the properties, which are currently zoned RMF 40 residential multifamily, 40 units per acre today to MSC Main Street Center, subject to a bill of assurance, which I will be circling back and talking about. But in a nutshell, this is a familiar bill of assurance. It is effectively identical to the one that you all received on a recent rezoning request for the city block immediately east of this property.
 which is to say it restricts the Main Street Center Zoning District to remove or prohibit the currently allowed uses in the MSC Zoning District of liquor stores, transportation, trades and services, which includes things like mechanic shops and small scale production facilities. If you think about things like microbreweries are probably the most common use under that category.
 Perhaps unsurprisingly, given the proximity to several of the amenities and several of the land uses that are found to the property immediately to the east, many of staff's findings were also similar to this request as they were to the property between Treadwell, Putnam, Hill, and Duncan considered previously.
 We do find the request to be compatible from a land use standpoint. The Main Street Center Zoning District allows all types of housing, which this area sees in abundance from very large multifamily developments to the north, segueing down to smaller and lower slung buildings as you go southward towards Martin Luther King to the south.
 There are also non-residential uses, not in the immediate vicinity, but they can be found further to the east and as you move northeast towards downtown and southeast towards MLK. From a long-range planning standpoint, staff finds the Main Street Center zoning district requested to be complementary of our Future Land Use Map designation. These properties are designated as a city neighborhood area.
 which envisions a mix of uses, which the Main Street Center Zoning District does allow. Even with the bill of assurance, the Zoning District still permits uses like offices and retail, which we feel can be very complimentary in a neighborhood.
 uh similarly the infill score for this property is very high uh it includes a lot of elements that you would expect to find in near the middle of fayetteville in addition to the the more expected elements of the infill score water sewer fire response has access to both our transit systems it's near the main university of arkansas campus uh fable high schools immediately to the west in fact this property abuts harman field the football field for the high school
 and it's within an area that has a very high intersection density which is a planner's way of saying there's a lot of connectivity a lot of opportunities to move in and around the area
 When considering it from our perspective, our growth concept map, you can see that it is within very close proximity to several tier centers that that document has identified. Those are areas that are intended for higher activities, and we feel that the Main Street Center Zoning District can complement the development of those tier centers.
 There are a number of additional issues staff considered with this request and again I apologize if many of these sound very repetitive, but I think they do bear consideration as every request ought to stand on its own. Tree preservation for this property will be reduced from the 20% that's required under the RMF 40 zoning district to 10% under Main Street Center. Staff did take into consideration the recent favorable housing assessment that was shared with the council last October.
 That document includes a lot of tensions, which seems to be the theme tonight. There is a great, great need for housing in our community, but there is also a need to preserve a lot of existing housing that can and is more affordable. And I think this is an instance where the Main Street Center Zoning District can accommodate a larger amount of housing than the underlying zoning district currently allows, but that would almost certainly result in the removal of that existing housing.
 Which gets the difference between the existing potential development on the property today? there are
 a few dozen housing units. The existing zoning district, RMF 40 zoning district does allow about 148 units by right if it were to be redeveloped. The Main Street Center zoning district does not have a density requirement. It's restricted by our development standards, whether that's parking, detention, building height, which is seven stories under the Main Street Center zoning district. So it almost certainly allow a greater amount of housing units by that metric.
 One item that was brought up also at the previous or with the previous request that's in consideration with this one,
 are our home protection requirements. This is a standard that was adopted years ago related to our downtown zone districts where there are certain height setbacks when a development occurs adjacent to a single family home. This is more in consideration with this project because it does not include an entire city block. There are single family homes immediately adjacent to this development area that may impact how tall those buildings can be or how far they must be set back
 Lastly, I touched on the bill of, or not lastly, also I touched on the bill of assurance that does remove many of the uses that I think would often be considered noxious to be in a residential area. And I think that has led to the staff giving it a more positive consideration. Finally, we received a fair amount of public comment on this item.
 This has been mixed and it has been ongoing as recent as I believe you all have a document in front of you tonight responding to some of the previous public comment in an effort to characterize some of that there is a ongoing concern that rezoning this property will in effect be leading to the demolition of the existing housing in the area the removal of the existing residents in those properties or potentially contribute to that
 There's also been concerns expressed about the, what's asserted to be a much more mature tree canopy on this side of Duncan that was found on the area where the city council considered previously.
 And also, I think what is most prominent, I think, in what came to you today is there were some assertions of the character of some of the interactions between the applicant and those property owners. And I think that's what the document in front of you asserts to dispel that there may be some misrepresentation in that regard. But that has less to do with a land use decision and more a question of the individuals involved.
 I noted I did want to touch on this in a little bit more detail. There are about 54 units in this area, just so that you have a hard number to relate to that. I think it was Council Member Whedeker asked that number at agenda session, if you didn't get a chance to hear that.
 They are in a variety of ages and a variety of conditions. Staff did want to evaluate the condition of those buildings and our most effective way of measuring that metric is with if any renovations have occurred to those buildings. We did identify a few, but not necessarily a substantial amount.
 And also as I discussed the home protection requirements, that is where a additional setback is required when a property or development is adjacent to a single family home. So what you can see here is that property in red that represents a discontinuous area to this request is a single family home today that would affect the setbacks if it remains going into the future.
 With that, on the balance of considerations, again, staff is recommending approval of this request. The Planning Commission did forward it to City Council recommending approval. It was by a vote of six to two. The dissenting votes mostly emphasized the loss of affordable housing that this rezoning may catalyze, and also the potential that there is an outsized amount of building height allowed under the seven stories of the Main Street Center Zoning District.
 Conversely, those in favor of the request felt that this property's very high infill score indicated that it needs to be used for a higher amount of housing, a higher use, if you will, and also acknowledging that there is currently a very high existing redevelopment potential and that the bill of assurance gives a certain degree of comfort to the commissioners moving the request forward.
 um and i wanted to refer to the bill of assurance one last time because you may have seen a message from our legal department uh in reviewing the bill of assurance following agenda session mr williams identified that there was some language in that bill of assurance that we
 that we feel is important to protect the city that was either removed or not included. That's not clear why it wasn't in there, but either way, the applicant, they offered up a bill of assurance that did include that language. So it does not appear to have been deliberate. So if the council would like to consider that, I recommend your first action be to amend the ordinance to include that revised bill of assurance.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor Chris Barabow is here as the applicant and person for the item. Thank you. CHRIS BARABOWSKI- Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. CHRIS BARABOWSKI- Good evening. Chris Barabow with Modestudio. Thank you, Jonathan and staff, for the guidance through this process for rezoning. Really just want to speak to the land use and then just the reasons we're asking for this. And then, of course, happy to answer any questions that I can as the applicant.
 In this designation and searching for the Main Street Center up zone here in this location really looking gives us the opportunity I believe for a mix of unit types. I would just I
 I would just posture and say that in the current underlying zoning of RMF 40, probably most likely development scenario is a lot of student housing developed at a four bedroom unit. By having the Main Street Center opportunity, because there's a chance to have a unit of mixed types that will come along with the design process. So one bedrooms, two bedroom studios, four bedrooms, etc. It really gives us that opportunity within this zoning type.
 It also gives a chance to create, similar to other recent projects that was before you, small instances of retail that can serve the people living here in the neighborhood. Nothing large, but on the lines of bodega, ice cream shop, coffee shop, whatever that might be. There is a significant amount of topography on the site. There's about 35 feet of topographic change from the east on Duncan down to the western edge of the property.
 and that presents a significant amount of challenges along with our goal for tree preservation because there are some nice trees on the site so again we're trying to go to this zoning so that when it comes time to design we can actually preserve those trees and those those pockets and those groves and then put that density where we need it elsewhere and then i guess i would just say overall connectivity on the sidewalks the road improvements are going to take place obviously this coupled with other recent rezoning
 It gives us the opportunity to extend the proper pedestrian and street corridor and sidewalk widths and street trees all the way from Center Street to the south to serve people living in this area and traversing to the university.
 So with that and I guess I would just say as an architect potentially working on both of these projects There's a really great place making opportunity here. There's this is an interesting kind of funny intersection along Duncan I think between these projects we have the ability to Calm traffic increase pedestrian activity and really make a place at this intersection. That's that's meaningful close to the University of Arkansas which
 of course is on a growth pattern and we really believe we should put more housing adjacent to the university. So with that, I'm happy to answer any questions. Can I get your name again? Oh, Chris Barabo with Motor Studio. Yes. Mayor, can I ask the applicant a question? Sure. We received an updated bill of assurance from Vicki Bronson, the attorney representing your
 applicant and I just wanted to make sure you are offering this bill of assurance to the City Council tonight yes sir okay thank you anything else yeah or the staff I think this is a question for staff Jonathan that that one single-family house that's that creates the disconnect between the I guess it's a northern and the southern portion of that
 it's not based on zoning it's based on the structure so if that single-family house was removed there wouldn't be theoretically you could go back would you go back in a rezone it or is it a separate zoning type right I'm confused here a little bit yeah that's a good question I'm sorry to dive deeper into it the home protection requirements is based on land use well it is
 It's based on zoning in the sense that whatever the building's height is being judged from is the zone. Let me stop. Sorry. It is based on the zoning district where the building is being built. So if a building is being built in downtown general or main street center, they are subject to these requirements if they're adjacent to a single family home, no matter what zoning district that single family home is in.
 Does that help clarify them? So to answer your question, if that building were to be removed, that standard would no longer apply. If that property rezoned but the building stayed, the standard would still apply. And so just to clarify just one more time, is that single-family home, is that part of this rezoning proposal tonight, or is it absent from that? It is not a part of this proposal. Okay, thank you. Chris, can you come back?
 You mentioned Main Street Center allowing you different varieties of unit types. Could you maybe expand on that? What maybe like you're thinking design wise? Sure yeah in general I think the way that things would work if only addressing or designing to the current zoning
 in the goal of densifying as much as possible that would probably lead to a multiple or only four bedroom units which is the maximum that's allowed you know to be designed and built but by having the additional density not having that 40 unit cap on the on the site and going to Maiden Street Center will actually allow a more varied mix of unit types so there can be more studios ones one bedrooms two bedrooms things like that because it gives us more flexibility
 Development wise, the other developments in the area, the one we just approved, are going to be more, let's say, monolithic. And by the nature of what we're looking at here, it's broken up a lot more. It's more of a corridor. Are we looking at different...
 like a series of buildings or are we looking at another skinnier longer monolith or honestly we haven't gotten that far into it really trying to get the land use understood first and you have mentioned about being able to save some of those trees because there's that tree line between the football field and I imagine there's a slope there too
 you know between the football field and what's there now is that kind of older like actually some significant trees there yes and have you had discussions about that would there be an effort to kind of save a line there or would you be going up as far as you could and so watching those fayville football games yeah having having walked the site and look at some of the trees and they're actually sort of multiple tiers of topography on the site multiple steps because
 And so what we've evaluated is that there's an opportunity to save larger clusters of those trees, meet the preservation ordinance, because those trees are not actually adjacent to existing buildings that would be removed from the site. And so you can actually save them without damaging them in the root zone.
 I thought I'd kind of caution you a little bit, Councilmember Stafford. We're talking about zoning here and not development. You really can't talk very much about this project, what it looks like. You have a bill of assurance that eliminates some uses, but it says nothing else. And so they're not bound to do anything unless it's in the bill of assurance, and we need to concentrate on the zoning and not the development.
 Yeah, I mean obviously we've talked about trees a lot tonight, so you have to understand going from 20% minimum to a 10% minimum. Can we ask for bill of assurances for things like that? We can't ask for a bill of assurance for anything. Bill of assurance must be voluntarily offered by the applicant in order to try to get their zoning approved. And then Jonathan, as far as...
 A main street center is going to allow seven stories again, right? That's correct. But this is a narrower space. Would they, with the setbacks, would they be able to reach that seven stories?
 Just practically? I think it could be achieved. I don't think it could be achieved across the entirety of the site. As we've described on other projects of this nature, I mean there's a lot of site requirements, not just tree preservation but parking. There's also the Main Street Center also includes a stair step element to it where you can only be five stories when you're near the street before having to step back before it's increasing to seven.
 And thank you, Chris. Thank you.
 At this point the new bill of assurance has been offered to the City Council. So I would ask that you number one file have a motion to amend the ordinance to include subject to a bill of assurance and also to amend or refer to the new bill of assurance that was presented today which does follow our form a lot better than the first one did.
 That would be an appropriate time to do it now so that when people want to speak, it's already in before them. Mayor, I'd make a motion to amend the rezoning ordinance to reflect the bill of assurance. Second. We have a motion and a second to amend the bill, put the bill of assurance into the ordinance. Any comments or anything? I don't care which police call the roll.
 Stafford yes down For yes, we did her yes Farna yes, butch yes, sir. Yes Hertzberg yes, and I guess I Understand that that motion also included that it was going to be the new bill of assurance that was right tonight. Okay, thanks soon
 Okay, anything else? Yes, Teresa. Mayor, may I make a request if we don't decide about this tonight, but Jonathan, in three weeks, could you provide a little bit of topography so that we can better understand that slope and how that lines out along the street? Certainly. Thank you.
 Jonathan, can you also include what the setbacks for the height increases would be for where they could do, like where the seven story might be if it was
 I can describe it in the terms of the zoning district which allows five stories up to the property line But then you can only increase the seven stories once you move 15 feet into the property beyond 15 feet into the property before being Increased to seven Beyond that I don't have enough Development details. No, that's That gives me a good idea
 Jonathan, sometimes, and I know we don't have a whole lot of development details, but a couple of times in the past we have gotten like a mock up, like a shadow of what the building, you know, what might be built on something, if it was the maximum, and at least to, you know, kind of see how it is in perspective to the buildings around it.
 I mean, I know we don't have enough, we probably don't have enough details right now, do we?
 think we could do something like that like a bulk scaling height bulk diagram I do want to caution that usually they look more alarming than often is the case to the point of I was describing that council member Stafford I can demonstrate what five to seven stories look like for the entirety of the property and then the reality that's not what could be done on the property
 So something like that would be helpful. We can attempt that. But again, I always like to give it with that caveat that it always looks worse than reality. Yeah. Okay. Alright. Let's just scratch that. I think it would be good for us to request a site visit. Because like the last time I think you all did a site visit and I went up there by myself. But it was pretty open and easy to get around. This is a lot of individual properties.
 And so I don't want to be walking through somebody's backyard that I shouldn't be in. I'm wondering, would a site visit be able to be arranged?
 From what I'm hearing, it sounds like it may be left on a reading tonight. With that in mind, if the council is amenable, we can schedule a tour at the next agenda session. I think that we've had a lot of success with that. That way we can have the tour as close to your next meeting as possible so that it's fresh on your mind. So I'll make sure to bring that up at the next agenda session if council leaves it on a reading tonight. Thank you. Holly? Jonathan, can you remind me of the building height maximum for RMF 40?
 It has a similar stair, well it's similar in that it also has a stair step requirement, however it begins at three storey, excuse me, it begins at two storeys before going
 then on to five stories and that's zero to ten feet allows two stories ten to twenty you go up to three and once you get beyond that you can go up to five stories so the overall height is less and there's also more of a stair stepping to it okay thank you I was just looking at the property across just to see what would be comparable so thank you okay now we'll take some public comment
 Everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration Don't engage anyone from public or any council member stay on topic Please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first those just paying by zoom will speak after Who would like to address this first? You know me pretty well these days Okay, so my name is Jasmine Nile. I live on South Duncan I
 So I just want to say you guys have already received an email from me today, but I still have a lot to say about this. Infill in this area comes with expensive student housing and that is contradictory to the stated goals of affordable housing for residents, discouraging suburban sprawl and the climate action plan that you guys just discussed earlier. So with that being said, I hope that you're ready to hear more about trees.
 You already know my concerns about traffic and parking in this area, but I haven't said a whole lot about the trees. Mostly because the last time that area, that three acres that was being rezoned across the street, or did get rezoned,
 That didn't have a whole lot of trees, so that wasn't really a big concern there. And it also didn't have that many individual houses. It had a massive apartment complex that was about half of the lot. But this one is very different. I would say only
 Only one out of nine of those properties is an apartment complex. All the rest of them are houses. And they were all built, other than the exception of one of them that was built in the 60s, I believe. All of them were built in the 20s and the 30s. And they're all actually in really good shape. Well, most of them.
 For how long or how old they are. So our neighborhood has a lot of old trees and a great canopy. I can feel the physical difference that you guys discussed earlier as well when I walk my dog under Duncan's tree canopy versus walking them on the hot Hill Street sidewalk next to atmosphere apartments.
 And developers will plant some saplings and they may save some trees but they don't really have to under Main Street Center.
 Those saplings don't provide enough shade or enough of the benefits that you guys discussed earlier. We are on a hill, so we don't have anything else towering around us to keep us cool. So it's going to be hot in this neighborhood if this is allowed to happen. And it will be unwalkable in the summers if those trees are all gone.
 As was said earlier, we need the balance. We need to find the right balance for the trees, the infill, the right amount of affordability for our housing. As a side note with the trees, I also kind of wonder what the loss of the tree corridor is going to do to the Fayetteville High School football field if that's just going to be flooded all the time when it comes to drainage issues.
 The last rezoning I objected to was much more self-contained. This one is much more invasive. It has an arm that reaches down into our neighborhood of houses and is right next to Fayetteville High School. So I just feel like this part of it is much more inappropriate. I think that the Harmon Apartments, I'm running out of time, the Harmon Apartments, that area would be appropriate for Main Street Center
 but that arm of houses on that left side. Would you like one more minute? Do you mind? I'd like to give them a minute. My colleagues don't mind. OK.
 Thank you. So that arm just reaches down into our neighborhood and is much more invasive. So that means the loss of trees and putting potentially a seven story complex between Fayetteville High School and a longstanding community. It doesn't fit, and the development isn't really worth what it will do to our neighborhood.
 It won't be hard for the property owners to sell their properties without Main Street Center zoning, if that's what they wish to do. Maybe then some more appropriate and diverse developments could come in. It doesn't have to be...
 an entire area of just huge apartment complexes. Also, just as a side note, based on the numbers that I was hearing earlier, it sounds like if it stays RMF 40 and all of that is developed anyways, you would still get about three times the units that are currently there. So I feel like that would still be appropriate and still be beneficial. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Thanks for listening to me again on this topic. Rebecca LaTourette, 15761 Round Mountain Road Fayetteville. I am reluctantly in support of this because I see the need for the development, but there have been many good points mentioned about how it will
 affect affordable housing because most of the housing that's up there right now in the apartments is affordable because it's older housing and I do question where those people are going to go because There aren't really they're not building new buildings that are going to absorb the people who are displaced from those units
 But as I said, I am actually in support of this because of the location and it does make a lot of sense. My hope is that the building that is built will be high quality, long lasting, and have sufficient parking because as a landlord myself in downtown Fayetteville,
 I can tell you that all of my tenants have cars. They drive three blocks to go to the small mart. They do not walk. So it's going to take some, it's going to have to be painful for them financially to give up their cars. So that's, you know, the comment that I have to make about, you know, the proximity to the university doesn't necessarily
 do away with the need for sufficient parking. I've just seen it over and over again. And on an emotional note, I know that this will probably get approved in one way or another.
 one of the houses that will be demolished is a home that's been in my family now almost 100 years, my grandparents' home, a home that I grew up in. And so it's very hard to stand up here and say, I realize this is probably the highest and best use for this, but I'm very sad to see so much of old Fayetteville raised for
 what we, because there just isn't that much of Old Fayetteville. It was a small town to begin with and we are losing a lot. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I remember me. My name is Joyce Jones, 65 South Duncan, apartment 6. I'm one of the people that's going to be put out on the street because I live there. I don't have the money to go and find another place. I don't have a deposit. I have nothing.
 I'm on the way to Social Security and I'm going to be put on the street. And this is what gets me. I have seen for years, I've seen big corporations buying up all the little low rental places and then putting up higher rental places there. I've seen it and was scared about it and then it happened to me. It finally happened to me and now I have to find a place and you can't find a place anymore
 As soon as they find the places up, that's less people, places that we can get. We won't get them anymore. They're not there anymore. And no one is planning for this. None of you are planning for this. What are we going to do when the low income and the middle income people can't find a place to live? Well, they're the ones that run the university. They're the ones that run the place around, help with the restaurants.
 and everything else, they're the ones that do it, and if they can't find a place to live, you won't have any workforce, and that's all I have to say. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? That's right. Hello. Hello, everyone. My name is Nicolas Alcureza. I'm a resident, currently resident, at 1036 South Dunn Avenue and apartment 403, Fabio, Arkansas.
 I'm a student at the university. I've been living here for seven years now. I've seen how much in seven years the city has changed and morphed into a modern city. And I cannot say as a student how much I've seen it change around me. With that being said, I know if this rezoning or property is
 done properly, it would have a big benefit not only for the students around it, but everyone that goes to the university has something to do with it. This place is a walkable zone that is closed for us that we don't have to rely on cars. That way we take the cars out of the street. I cannot tell how many students and people around it that are not only students would benefit from this if it's done properly and help us.
 not being reliable on cars to go to school and be around the zone that we want to walk, we want to be around the city of Fayetteville, we can walk to the trail, we can walk to groceries, we can walk to see friends and we can mostly go to school without being reliant on a car.
 So for me, that's a big thing. And I've seen it because over the seven years that I've been living here, every year we have to move around because there's not that many options and competition close to campus so that we can have the best option to choose that is not always paying the most expensive room or the most expensive apartment. So for me, I think this is very helpful.
 This is my experience and my opinion, of course. And I cannot tell you, again, talking with my peers and the people around this area, and I've been able to also live close to campus and see how much it benefits, not only the neighborhood, because you are, again, not only going to class, but you're also being involved in the neighborhood. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Okay, do you have anybody on? I do, Mayor. I have Morgan Russell. Okay, go ahead. Hello, are you able to hear me? Yes. Okay, so my name is Morgan Russell. I live at 65 South Duncan Avenue, apartment number 11, which is the Harmon Place Apartments. I would like to start by saying that as of July 13th, 2024, I received a letter from my property manager stating that the property has been
 The decision has been made to sell the property. I can only assume that it is to Moda Studios, the anticipated developer. This property is a unique property in that it is affordable housing for not only just students, but small families that can not afford the upscale living of apartment complexes like those nearby us, like the Atmosphere and the Cardinal, as those layouts aren't subject to
 the ins and outs of a family's dynamic, and that they are four separate bedrooms that share a living room, and they are intended specifically to be quote-unquote dorm style. I am a graduate student at the University of Arkansas, and I can understand the benefit that it would have to demolish all of the properties in the suggested rezoning, but that benefit is only for the university. It doesn't accommodate to the existing residents of Northwest Arkansas or Fayetteville,
 As a four-year, almost five-year resident of Fayetteville, I have seen a number of affordable housing be lost to development just because Fayetteville feels the need to have luxurious grand apartments while the current residents suffer because the university is ever-growing.
 I am all for the development of the university and I think it is an amazing concept to have a city that's so intertwined with its university but at the same time we are losing the affordable housing that so many of these graduate students or small families depend on because we want to satiate the university's need to expand. I know that the atmosphere and the cardinal have essentially become
 dorms that are operated by third parties rather than the university. I'm afraid that Harmon Place will be demolished so that another dorm-style situation can be opened up and we will lose the affordable housing that we have. I pay less than $500 a month to live here with my roommate. So finding an apartment like that's going to be near impossible, especially on such a low salary that the graduate students receive at the University of Arkansas. I make roughly $20,000 a year.
 that's not enough for me to be able to move i can't afford to move so with the rezoning of this property well i believe that since they have decided to sell that this property is going to be demolished anyways but i just feel for all those families that live in the homes that stretch further down south and just wish for city council to reconsider their ideas and possibility of rezoning um and with that i beat you done and you have no more on zoom there okay
 Alright, I take it the council wants to leave this on the first reading. I do have some questions that Jonathan may or may not have the answers tonight and if not maybe that's something that we can follow up on.
 Thank you for everyone that came and spent time tonight. I know it was a late night, so thank you. I wanted to go back and revisit to our housing study that we did and see if there's any way to extrapolate the amount or the types of units that actually answer for student housing, what we look like in the fall, and if there are any potential updates to what we think that number of what's needed of inventory, what we have versus kind of what our need is.
 And then I'm curious if we know how many total student type units we actually need, what the actual demand is based on what we know from the university. And then the other question is,
 With the number that we have in process, a lot of these projects that we're seeing and are coming down and we're getting word of are kind of proclaiming that maybe they're going to be answering for student housing. So it would be helpful to know how much is maybe in process. I think there was a recent, you know, looking at what we were seeing.
 rezoned on this hill already looking at those but also I believe that the property over by cross church I believe is now going to be potentially student type housing because one of the things that I
 I think that many cities are probably experiencing that, have colleges or this proliferation of this type of housing style that's coming in. And we have so many interested parties that are coming. And it helps us to get out in front of it in the kind of conversations that we're having. When I look at that map, and I'll encourage all my colleagues to really look in the time that we have of the map.
 of that hill area so look at where um you have that zoning that starts you know over at center street and go all the way down to like mlk to really look at what the hill looks like pretty much that whole hill outside of those kind of pockets of those denser or are is all rmf 40. um most of it is not utilized to its utmost and so the same argument will continue to proliferate
 but it is designated city neighborhood and so we have an opportunity to get out in front and to do some more strategic planning and so I would encourage that we do that I I appreciate that the student that just talked to Morgan you know spoke to University brings with it a lot of great things but one of the things that we've all talked about is they're not answering for housing and we get to decide looking around the entire
 entirety of the university property all around to be
 planning out where we can envelop those students. I don't know that any part of town needs to take on a homogeneous type of housing more than the others. I think there you know there's so many benefits to it that I keep thinking as we look at transit and things. I talk to students who in certain sections of the transportation you know can't get on a bus it's so busy and so are we continuing to proliferate part of that
 problem while the density can be great to some degree to build it so that you can get transit options what is that tipping skill and what's the cliff that you've run over when you put too much density and it's hard to really maintain the type of infrastructure needed because while that area that we're talking about today is close proximity to one part of campus if you're a student that has to go on the entire other side you know and go to like culture science
 you know, that's a challenge to get from one corner to the other. So it really depends on which point of campus is kind of your center universe. And many of us, depending on, you know, what our area study was, probably if we were at the university, we're in certain portions more than others. So and there's a big opportunity for us to think about other areas in this time that we have between now and then. So thank you for hearing me on that.
 Thank you, Mayor. I mean, it looks like we're probably going to hold this and Council Member Moore asked a lot of questions.
 So in three weeks, Jonathan, or two weeks when we have an agenda session meeting, could we also look at that projection of the so-called population cliff of university students and try and match that up a little bit with whatever, what other student housing that is being proposed or has been developed? I think that would be a really important thing for us to take a look at while we're at it. I also have a...
 This is probably a really dumb question, but I'm going to ask it anyway. So with this rezoning, were any of the current property owners, were they part of the rezoning request, or did this just come from an outside entity that made the request for this area to be rezoned?
 I think I understand your question correctly. I don't think any of these property owners independently have become a part of this request. They have all signed on to it. That is part of the application review process is to ensure that the property owners have consented to it.
 I think, does that answer your question? It does. I just did not know how that process worked. So thank you. So in order to, I guess in order to have your property rezoned, you have to consent to that.
 correct yeah okay and I can describe it broad terms the most common way that the council sees rezoning is when somebody's interested in buying their property and a sales contingent on the property being rezoned and so the property does not actually change hands unless the
 zoning action occurs and as a part of that the buyer is usually the applicant that you all see or or someone on their design team and the property owner is rarely before the council as a result thank you appreciate that I don't want to take up too much time and and I don't want to create busy work
 I have some concerns about this rezoning adjacent to the other rezoning, and it's that notion of, you know, gosh, if I had just known. So we're talking sequence here. I don't want to benefit one over the other just purely on timing. But if I had a magic wand, I would sure want to know how many beds are being proposed where for off-campus student housing
 And we may have trouble defining that other than large apartments near the university area, whether they're northeast or west of the university, just to see contextually where I might prefer to see such developments take place.
 and you don't need to take that as an absolute request if that's, your bosses get to tell you that crosses the line and that's an inappropriate request and you will have no grief from me whatsoever at all but I wish that I could see a map and see what you know is coming down the pike that we don't know is coming down the pike if that's a fair way to say it. I think
 The other thing is, boy, I sure wish there was an enrollment cliff, but by all appearances, some large state universities like ours are not going to experience that drop-off like many, many, many universities will. They are our lifeblood. I don't want to speak ill to them, about them. They make Fayetteville what it is. But at some point, I'm concerned about our residents in our neighborhoods bearing the burden of...
 creating the housing that they need for their financial viability and success. And so I don't, I'm not disparaging them. I understand the financial pressures they have. They're probably going to get less money next year from the state legislature than they got this past year. We want them to be viable. We want those graduates in our economy in this state. I'm just simply trying and struggling to find a balance.
 So thank you for allowing me to make that request. Feel free to ignore it. What else? Okay, we'll leave it on the first reading.
 Okay, that concludes our business one now one announcement mayor This coming Friday is the 17th annual CDBG in the park and your London her team and several city departments will be there there'll be it lasts from 10 30 a.m. To 1 30 at Walker Park and community resources will serve hot dogs cool drinks activities and
 there will be service providers there as well so it's the annual CDBG in the park thank you and when's the ice cream so August 17th
 Yes, the Washington County Historical Society's annual ice cream social on August 17th, the hottest day of the year, and everyone is welcome to buy a ticket and attend. Well, everybody will eat ice cream very fast. Yes, that or they'll break it. All right, we are adjourned.