I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of July 16, 2019. Senator, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I swear I still can't get used to that flag being moved over here. I keep turning...
 Okay, the first order business we have tonight under presentations. Paul Becker will give the monthly finance report.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is going to be for the month of April. I normally do this at the first council meeting of the month, but since I missed the last one, we'll do it now. So this is a little later than normal, but this is for the month of April, month four of our fiscal year. When I look at revenue, the sales tax revenue is starting to catch up a bit. We're still about a half percent under budget.
 But hopefully we will be able to catch that up by the end of the year. Permits are doing well at this point of time. They're right about on budget. We've got a little foreign property taxes than I expected at this point in time. So we're pretty well even to budget with what I had expected for revenue at this point in time. That's again for the month of April.
 As far as the parking fund is concerned, if you remember, we start out a little shaky, a little weak at parking at the beginning of the year. We are now up 12% compared to prior year. So we're doing well in the parking area at this point in time. I remember at one point in time I was a little concerned about that, but we're catching up very rapidly there. Street fund.
 We're up about 8% actually in street fund as far as turn back is concerned. That's in the $200,000 range. And that's due to the half penny on the gasoline tax, that state gasoline tax for half penny. That is up about $200,000 at this point in time. So revenue is doing well as far as the street fund is concerned.
 As far as parks development, that's HMR taxes. We're up 3% average at this point in time. Water and sewer is up 4% based on volume and demand.
 at this point in time. Recycling, the fees are up compared to last year, but remember we just raised fees and we had budgeted that fund as a deficit when we made the new expenditure changes pursuant to the new directives.
 that we had considered as far as the expansion plan had been concerned. So we're starting to pick up revenue up there a bit. The new rates have in fact been implemented. So we'll be picking up revenue between now and the end of the year. As far as that airport is concerned, we're up about 5% now compared to budget.
 That's good at this point in time. So all of our revenue categories are pretty well up as far as the airport is concerned. Remember, we've got some major capital projects going on right now, about $1.6 million for the, for major work on the runway.
 Hopefully we'll be able to recoup some of those costs that right now we have projected coming out of reserves, about another $160,000.
 So if you look at the financial statements, hopefully we can recoup that and get a reimbursement, but that won't be available. We can't apply for that until the project is, in fact, complete. So generally, I'll say at this point in time, on a revenue basis, we're doing well. We're over budget with...
 with every fund except the general fund. The general fund, we're about, even right now, after a rocky start as far as expenditures. We've still got a lot of capital expenditures out there to the end of the year, but there's nothing major at this point of time that hasn't been budgeted. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have from the Council on the Finance Report? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Next order of business we have tonight is a consent agenda. I don't know. I feel like I'm...
 It seems like I'm in a barrel or something. Everything all right? Can you all hear me okay? Okay, good. All right. On the consent agenda, number one, approval of the June 18, 2019 and July 2, 2019 city council meeting. Number two.
 a resolution to approve the 2019 community development block grant cdbg action plan to authorize mayor jordan to execute the cdbg agreement for 2019 any amount of seven hundred and two thousand four hundred thirty nine dollars when received and approve a budget adjustment number three
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $2,047 representing community development block grant program income received from a lien payoff and donations from citizens and local businesses. Number four,
 A resolution to award RFP 19-29 is to authorize a contract for the purchase of youth soccer uniforms from American Soccer Company Incorporated, DBA, school or sports, in the amount of $12.10 plus applicable taxes per uniform for the fall 2019 and spring 2020 seasons with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms. Number five.
 A resolution to approve change order number four of the contract with Crossland Construction Company Incorporated in the amount of $2,575,959 for additional trade packages associated with the Federal Public Library expansion project and to approve a project contingency of 14.5% to be held by the Federal Public Library. Number six.
 a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with craft and tullen associates incorporated pursuant to rfq 19-01 and the total amount of 110 400 for street drainage and water line design services for a portion of the ruple road project number seven
 A resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 14-01 and the total amount of $167,610 for updated street drainage and waterline design services for the Zion Road Vantage to Crossover project. Number eight, a resolution to authorize a contract with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program
 for the acceptance of a certified local government grant in the amount of $790 to pay for travel and training expenses and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve a contract with Multicraft Contractors Incorporated pursuant to Resolution 163-16 for repairs to the drainage system at the city transfer station in the amount of $67,364 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $6,124. Number 10, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of...
 $16,537.39 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from automatic engineering for the replacement of a mixer used at the Paul R. Nolan wastewater treatment facility and to approve a budget adjustment. I will accept.
 Motion and second to accept consent agenda is read Sarah so moved Sonia second We have a motion to second to accept the consent agenda as red son. Would you please call the roll? Yes, yes Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all
 Under unfinished business number one, a resolution to approve vacation and abolishment of a tree preservation easement dedicated as part of the large scale development for the construction of the J.D. Chano restaurant on Martin Luther King Boulevard in 2001, contingent on the dedication of two replacement tree preservation easements totaling approximately one acre. John. Good evening, Mayor and City Council.
 The latest on this situation, this request, is that we had met with the applicant on July 9th.
 and he has new representation and they're working on a counterproposal to counterproposal D, which I've placed in front of you all. And they'd like to be tabled at this time so they can work on that counterproposal to proposal D. Which, a recap on proposal D, and if I am, if I have anything wrong, please let me know because this is what I gathered from our site visit and chatting with you all during that time.
 is that you guys would allow some of the development. This whole site is 0.67 acres and the current tree preservation is 0.38 acres. The proposed modification would be 0.32 acres to vacate and then 0.06 to remain and that would be the area to the west which we had identified as the highest and most significant trees.
 And then 0.22 acres, new proposed relocated onsite tree preservation easement towards the back where there's some trees shown. And then in the front as well where there are some other trees that were significant. And the sidewalk and easement was moved inside to avoid those trees there. And then to also accept the offsite, the previous offsite tree preservation easements that they had proposed, the 0.28, two acres and 0.75 acres.
 So that's 0.95 acres of off-site tree preservation easement that was proposed. And then the total tree preservation easement would be 1.23 acres and that would be a net gain of 0.91 tree acres. And that's approximations and this information would need to be surveyed. But at this time they're asking to be tabled so they can come back with a counter proposal. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay, Sarah. Did they state a time frame that they would like? They did. Or should we just table it indefinitely? That's up to you. All right, I would move that we table it indefinitely. Okay, Teresa. Teresa.
 Hi, thank you. John, could you, these offsite tree preservation areas that were proposed, I don't recall seeing if there was a streamside or ordinance that would have protected those anyway. If you could provide that information, that would be very helpful. I can do that. Thank you. Sloan. Second. Sir, you have a motion to table indefinitely, and Sloan, we have a second. Thank you.
 before we table it is any public comment on this can bring it back to the council we have a motion to second the table for indefinitely okay all right any comments some please call yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, number two, an ordinance to amend 31.45C duties of the Federal City Code to affirm that the city prosecutor has the traditional inherent power to exercise discretion to dismiss most misdemeanor criminal cases. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Okay. Kit, would you like to read it for us then? Oh, I'm sorry. Sonia. Sorry. Yes. I'll move to go to the second reading. Sloan. Second. All right. Motion to second to go to the second reading. Second.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smoggin? Yes. Banch? Yes. Chard? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Modish? Yes. Sagan? Yes. Brady? Yes. An ordinance to amend Section 31.45C, Duties of the Fatal City Code, to affirm that the city prosecutor has the traditional inherent power to exercise discretion to dismiss most misdemeanor criminal cases. Okay. What discussion do we have from the council on this?
 Okay, all right. We will take some public comment then Here's the rules everybody gets one turn at the markets five minutes Duration unless City Council makes a motion and a second to give you more time We will determine how much time that will be or Council has questions for you to keep your comments directed to me don't engage anybody on the council anybody out in the public and
 And stay on topic. If you get off topic, I'll get you back on topic. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. There's no public comment? Okay. Good evening, everyone. I want to thank you all for responding so quickly to this issue. I really deeply appreciate it. Could you introduce yourself for the record, please? Oh, yes. I'm sorry. I'm Stephen Koger. I live at 2317 Yvonne Drive, 72703 here in Fayetteville.
 Just thanking everybody for moving so quickly on this justice issue. It's a question of racial justice, economic justice, question of justice for poor people, young people. So I deeply appreciate it. I am really moved and thankful to everyone that responded so quickly to this issue.
 Y'all may have seen it came out today that the city of Little Rock is going to have a police advisory board. I think this piece that y'all are doing tonight is a part of a broader tapestry that we need to see done. And, you know, we've got the four solutions in our report. And I just deeply appreciate y'all making the time to move forward on this. And that's all I'll say tonight. I won't use my full five minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening, Mayor. John Comstock, 22 Ravensue Road in Rogers. I'm really just coming in front of you as an attorney and a former circuit judge in Benton County that handled the felony criminal docket. And then for several semesters, I taught the basic criminal law course at the University of Arkansas undergraduate Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice.
 uh so i feel versed in the topic that you're considering here and and certainly the way it was phrased and read just now there's not anything controversial about it because it simply says what the state of recognized law is uh forever and a day it's always been this way but i would just like to point out a couple things to you that aren't mentioned one is
 A prosecutor has ethical responsibilities that are a little bit different than the normal advocate. Those responsibilities are not just to prevail for the side that they represent, in this case, let's say the city or the state, but to actually do justice. And that's carved out expressly in our Code of Ethics. And certainly, I'm not suggesting anybody's not doing that. I just wanted to point that out to you. Secondly, it says that he shall have the discretion to dismiss.
 I'd just like to point one other thing for you to consider, and maybe it'll come, maybe it doesn't even need to be in an ordinance, but the prosecutor has the inherent discretion to decide not to file. There doesn't have to be a charge filed every time somebody has a contact with law enforcement. A prosecutor could adopt either at his own urging or at your urging what's called a pre-diversion program.
 And it could be for any number of offenses, even felonies, but certainly misdemeanors, shoplifting, check charges, low-level drug offenses, possession charges, whatever. You can have a program that says, you know what, when you have contact with law enforcement on these, the direction, the guide that you would want to give your prosecutor who still has that inherent authority to decide to file or not.
 And it doesn't depend on, that decision doesn't hinge on, is there sufficient evidence to convict? Sure, that is a calculus that has to be examined before the prosecutor would ever decide to file. But even in the face of uncontrovertible evidence that, yes, I could file this charge and more than likely I could convict this person, the prosecutor still has the inherent discretion not to file both.
 in the interest of societal interest. Our Supreme Court and the U.S. Supreme Court has recognized that many times, that this is really integral to what a prosecutor's responsibilities to the community are. So obviously, well, I say obviously, I just want you to know they can make the decision not only to dismiss, but on the front side of that initial contact with law enforcement, you could have a program
 or the prosecutor could, that would say, instead of a citation to appear in court on a criminal charge, you could tell the person, hey, listen, here's a program. This is our first time.
 to have you in the program, we'll give you a notice, whatever, and you participate in the program, whatever it might be. And it might be eight hours of community service. It could be, it might go to be to go to a half-day program that talks about the dangers of drug use, even potentially the dangers of marijuana, particularly for young people below the age of 25. It could be any number of things, but it could be a program that
 with the assistance of others or your prosecutor would with the assistance of others and you have that option and I would just I would Just urge you to consider the societal cost to young people particularly but really anybody that gets involved with criminal justice if it's for a low level offense and
 I'm sure you're all aware of the effort, and I bet you have been involved in it, as it relates to juveniles, to try to cut down the number of juvenile incarcerations. What drives that is not just we think it's a nice thing to do. What drives that effort is studies that show unequivocally that that involvement with law enforcement and that incarceration effect,
 substantially increases the likelihood that that person is actually going to commit additional offenses down the road. It increases what they call criminogenic behavior. Same thing as it turns out we're all kind of weird animals in this way because the more we get involved with something the more likely we might actually do the very conduct that you and I don't want people to do. That's why sometimes when you hear people say well one way to get people out of jail is to put them on an ankle bracelet.
 And actually, studies show, no, not necessarily, because particularly if it's a low-level misdemeanor, you wouldn't want to put somebody on an ankle bracelet because that actually— I'm sorry. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, Mayor. My name is Monique Jones. I'm at 2620 Northwest Minster, Fayetteville, Arkansas, 72704. I'm also the president of the Northwest Arkansas NAACP.
 We've just been researching this topic as it's come on your agenda, and I wanna thank you again for having this on your agenda and addressing these issues. I've been meeting with the sheriff, going on some jail tours, and I know this will make a difference to our community. It will impact how the jail is overcrowded now. Just simple changes to be considered when looking at misdemeanors. And Judge Cobbstock, he's correct.
 It impacts somebody's life. Changes are simple. I'm a mother of seven and a grandmother of seven. My son was arrested when he was in the sixth grade for something simple. But because he has a family and a community, I went to that court and I fought and I told that judge, my son plans on going to college. He plans on having a career. This will impact his life. And I wasn't going to allow it.
 It was something simple. It wasn't even a marijuana charge, but he is right. Simple charges change the trajectory of children's lives for the rest of their life. Today, he's an electrical engineer. He's a graduate from PVAMU University. And it's because I stood up in front of a judge and would not accept a sentence, and I would not accept a plea. Mind you, he shouldn't have been there in the first place.
 But all it takes is somebody to say, we don't need to prosecute him. I'm a parent of an African American male that his life could have been changed by a city council or a judge's decision. And I'm asking you today to consider that it changes. He is now a viable contributor to his community because he doesn't have a record. Because somebody decided this was a simple mistake.
 And we don't need to take him down. But I cry for the parents that don't show up for the children, that don't show up to the court, that don't show up to the judges to contest when they think that something is not done right and fair that can impact the future of their children. So I plead with you today.
 Mayor, to reconsider this, to really think about who we're prosecuting, who we're developing for our future, because they are our future. We're dealing with some people that are just caught up in the wrong place and wrong situation, and they don't all have to be prosecuted. So I'm here pleading with you today to please consider, because the pre-diversion program is definitely a good recommendation. There's other things we can do and other ways we can address it.
 And it is an impact on the black community. And that's why I'm here today. And I'll continue to be here until we figure this out. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi, good evening, everyone. My name is Madeline Porta. Good evening, Mayor. I'm a Fayetteville resident. And I just want to say that I think that this ordinance is really in keeping with the 2008 ordinance that was passed by the Fayetteville community to say that marijuana should be the lowest law enforcement priority for all of law enforcement, for police and for prosecutors.
 That vote signified that our community believes that low-level marijuana arrests, misdemeanor marijuana arrests, do not constitute a threat to the public safety. So that's one thing that I just really want to stress, that this is really in keeping with an ordinance that was passed by popular vote 10, 11 years ago.
 I also want to say that this ordinance would prevent criminal convictions for an activity, again, that our community has said is not a real public threat. And those convictions, and especially considering that the average age of folks that are arrested for low-level marijuana, misdemeanor marijuana offenses, the average age is 25 years old. And convictions for marijuana possession...
 have to be reported when a person is applying for a job and could affect whether or not that person in fact gets a job. They can affect, that person has to then report those convictions when they're applying for financial aid. So it could affect that person's ability to attend higher education.
 And I just want to finish by saying that I practiced as a public defender and so I can say that I have seen directly from the clients that I represent how these convictions affect their lives. A person who wants to work for the Department of Education, a marijuana conviction could significantly derail that even if that person was arrested when they were 18 years old.
 So I just wanted to stress those things. I wanted to say thank you very much for considering this and for recognizing
 your role and also the prosecutor's role in having discretion on whether or not, as Mr. Comstock said, to even bring these charges to begin with. They certainly have the power to dismiss charges. They also have the power to decline to prosecute charges so that charges are never brought. So I would just say that in keeping with the popular vote of 2008, I think that this ordinance is right on track for that. So thanks very much. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Well, one of the things I said last time was that I thought this was a very good first step and that I hope that everybody on the council and the community thought of it as the beginning of a series of actions that we might take. I'm particularly interested, as that conversation develops, in investigating things like a pre-diversion program
 or other policies and procedures that we might be able to implement. I am interested in seeing the overall number of enforcement actions come down, both arrests and citations. And it sounds like we might have some avenues to do that. And I think that's important, and I don't want to trivialize it, but I also feel that it's most appropriate for us to focus on the disproportionality with respect to...
 race in the data. And I know there are a lot of people in the community that were shocked or not shocked even, but are at least troubled by it. And of course, I'm one of those. Last week I had the honor to be invited to attend a very small, small audience event
 a workshop on race and before i accepted it i thought it was really going to be kind of a hug it out cry it out kind of a workshop and it ended up being so much more than i could have expected and we had a couple other local leaders that that were there with me but i didn't know they were going to be there in advance and i can say um without qualification that um being in that workshop has changed uh my
 my worldview in every way that I can imagine. Minute by minute, all the conversations I have with anybody about race or about things that might be impacted by or might have an impact on race. And I said last time that, you know, I was kind of being righteous about it, and I said, you know, I thought that we should be ashamed over what we've allowed to happen over the last 10 years, and I felt some of that, but I think that was –
 frankly, the wrong thing to feel and the wrong thing to say. And I came to think that because of my experiences in this workshop, which I wanna share just a little bit of. You know, I think in a lot of ways, a lot of things we see out there are misdiagnosed with respect to race.
 I mean, I think it's really easy for anybody up here on the council or especially any officers that have been paying attention or the mayor even to see this data come out in this report, come out and feel like our integrity is being called into question. I think that's a real that's a real natural reaction. But the fact is, almost all of us have have grown up.
 and live our lives in an environment where things are a lot more subtle than they may appear. With respect to race, I learned about the study of this workshop of preschoolers, and I want to tell you a little bit about it, preschool teachers, where they put eye trackers on these preschool teachers and they had them watch videos and they said, we want you to figure out, we want you to identify all the misbehavior you see.
 But it was a big lie. There was no misbehavior in the video, but the preschool teachers were watching the black kids 70% of the time. They were watching the black kids 70% of the time, whether or not the teachers were black or whether or not they're white. And when they told the teachers afterwards, the teacher said, no way, I'm not biased. I spend so much of my energy trying to make sure that I'm not biased and I'm treating everyone fairly. I do this with intention. I put effort into it.
 I think that's a similar reaction to what I felt or what maybe a lot of leaders here at City Hall felt whenever this report came out. But those preschool teachers didn't even know. They didn't even know what they were doing. You know, I'll admit it. I'll admit it right now in public. And I first recognized this whenever I started driving. Yeah.
 And I had to commute a lot across the state. And I recognize I had a different reaction in myself if a black poor guy was walking next to the car than if a white poor guy was walking next to the car. And there's a part of me that wants to be really ashamed of that. And there's a part of me that's really sad, frankly, that that's always going to be with me.
 That's a product of my environment. There's something deep down in my brain that has internalized that and made it into a pattern that I cannot get away from because I'm adult now and I don't get a chance to change that part of my brain anymore. I think that when you look at studies like the preschool teachers or the experience I have and we reflect on that, I don't think there's a person in the whole organization of the city, in any company in the entire region.
 that doesn't have similar biases that are so under the surface. And so I don't think this is about one case of a prosecutor doing something that was unjust or another case from an officer making an arrest that was unjust. This is something that is different. This might just be putting our eyes in the wrong place more of the time and not realizing it.
 We use this metaphor in this workshop of fish, lakes, and groundwater. And we said, you know, if you see a fish belly up in a lake, you think, what happened to the fish? If you see a group of fish belly up in a lake, you say, what happened to the lake? If you see a group of fish belly up in every lake, you say, what is wrong with the groundwater? And we've got these exact same kinds of disproportionality that we see in our marijuana arrest data, in the health care system, in nutrition, in diabetes, in infant mortality.
 It's over and over. It's every city, every county, every state in the country where we see African Americans experiencing these kinds of disproportionalities. It's a groundwater problem. Now, I'm really pleased that we're doing this and we're starting this discussion, but I wanna be really clear from my perspective, and I hope by talking about this out loud, which I don't think is easy to talk about out loud for any of us,
 But by talking about this out loud, I hope that I can convince other people in power that this is only the beginning. And this can be an opportunity to use this data and this experience as a lens for deeper reflection and deeper study. Because these aren't simple, clear-cut cases of overt racism. That's not what this is.
 It's something else and it's something much more endemic in ways that we haven't realized and in ways that are very hard to talk about and are very hard to overcome.
 So, in any case, I hope it's the beginning. I hope that we don't use this as an excuse to become defensive. It's critical, in my opinion, that we take this opportunity to study the data and to benchmark ourselves with a diligent approach and with diligent effort.
 we cannot have a policy of defending disproportionality in any data that we have at the city that shows it. We can't. If the data shows disproportionality, it has to be the beginning of a conversation. And we're allowed to talk about it, we should talk about it, we should tease it apart and understand all the nuance. But if we were here with a PowerPoint tonight,
 just categorically defending the data that we have, it would be a mistake. So I hope that the citizens can watch this and agree that we're at least trying to get started on the right foot and that we're committed to it being the beginning. I think we can all get there together. I'm optimistic about it. All right. Anyone else? We're on the second reading right now. Sarah. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Kyle. Second. Second.
 Motion is seconded to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the vote? Scroggins? Yes. Clench? Yes. Church? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Tosh? Yes. Egan? Yes. Beatty? Yes. And the ordinance amends section 31.45c, duties of the Fayetteville City Code, to affirm that the city prosecutor has the traditional inherent power to exercise discretion to dismiss most misdemeanor criminal cases
 And even though I thank Mark Kenyon for sponsoring this, I did write a memo about this before that and said that the reason I thought that the city council should consider this is that there is a state law that says that my office will follow the duties as prescribed by the city council. And one of those duties said in the Fayetteville Code to prosecute all cases, whether civil or misdemeanor criminal cases.
 Now, of course, I talked about the traditional inherent power of the prosecutor, the city prosecutor, and I think he has that. But also I thought if we're looking at doing something that is apparently contradictory to what the duties are, I thought I shouldn't do that on my own. I should instead bring it to the council and let you speak about it. And so that's why we presented it, and I do hope that you will pass it, and I think that that just –
 assures that what the city prosecutor has been doing in some cases will be continued and Maybe even more expanded Because obviously we also put wording in there that directly related back to section 130.02 arrests and prosecutions of marijuana cases So I think that this is a good first step. I
 My understanding, you know, when I was a prosecutor, a deputy prosecuting attorney for the state and was prosecuting felons, a case did not begin until I filed what's called an information. So we didn't have any grand juries. You could start a case that way, but I never saw it in my five years. In this particular case, though, I believe that the citation itself that the policeman issues is the filing document.
 And so it can't be that the prosecutor then just does a diversion because the documents have already been filed, and I just wanted to assure the prosecutor that he had the right to request a dismissal of those cases.
 In the in the proper situations and that doesn't mean every misdemeanor marijuana possession case But in appropriate cases looking at the amount looking at the record of the individual looking at all the factors that he should consider So I appreciate all the comments we've heard up here and I do hope that you will pass this Ordinance. Okay. What are the final comments that we have in the council any? Okay, I have a statement I would like to make I want to start off
 by apologizing to anyone in this city who has ever felt marginalized or discriminated against. I want to start with that. At the end of the day, the only person responsible for the safety and security of our residents basically comes back to me. And I take that responsibility very seriously. I always have. I've spent most of my life fighting for equality, diversity, and inclusion, and I stand on that record.
 as i look out across the nation there are so many recent national issues that i see that call to mind our lifelong struggles and efforts to establish racial equality socioeconomic equality gender equality and immigrant quality that i cannot even count them all tonight i acknowledge and i understand the principles of cultural racism and implicit bias and the path that got us all to this point
 history and I can't always fix the past but I can guarantee you that I can commit to ensure that this city does not ever sponsor systems that support any type of inequality. About tonight's topic here in Federal, I have this to say I began visiting with my police chief about the city's marijuana enforcement numbers in early 2019.
 And I met with at least two, maybe three citizens, many of you have met with me that is in this room over these topics. And I've taken the following, have taken the following actions since the first of the year. First, I instructed Chief Tabor to analyze all numbers related to marijuana enforcement and continue to refine his reporting to me on a regular basis, that's every week now. Also, I asked him to visit one-on-one with council members
 and any member of the community that wishes to visit with him. He will also be bringing his full reporting to the full council for discussion at the next agenda session. My friends who I've been involved with, with Compassion Federal, specifically Patty Williams, recommended a book for me called White Fragility. After I read that book, my mind was opened up to new frontiers of equality and equity. It made me understand a lot of things I didn't understand even about myself.
 Last week, Matthew talked about the program that he attended last week. I sent my chief of staff, Don Maher, to the racial equity training last week, and we found great similarities between the book that I'd read and the points made in the training about cultural racism and bias in our culture. You see, my friends, we can all continue to learn about and become more aware of our understanding of this important issue
 the culture of this city is that we believe in continuous improvement and always seeking ways to be our very very best as far as the police department i want to make a statement about the 130 officers to get in their cars every day and every night to work a 12-hour shift and when they say goodbye to their families they all know that there's a chance they might not return but they say to you and to this community
 I'm going to protect your life, your family, and your property, and nobody's going to hurt you, not on my shift. I believe the Federal Police Department is trained especially not to target a profile anymore. Should we ever find inappropriate behavior, I can assure you we will take the proper action to address, to correct it. So I close by saying we will continue to endeavor to do better.
 By everyone in this community and make sure that everybody's equally and fairly treated upon that you have my promise And we will continue to work toward that. Thank you all some would you please call the roll? Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, all right. Thank you all very much All right number three
 an ordinance to enact chapter 75 electric motorized scooters and scooter share programs before we get going we uh listened to you all at last meeting and uh blake and peter have been working on an amendment which i handed out in this lane before you titled exhibit a that's the main change in the code
 And I'm going to let Peter or Blake, someone to describe exactly what happened. Not too many changes, but let them tell you what they have put down. Sure. And that was also sent out in a memo from Blake Pennington on July 12th.
 So essentially there are six changes included in the package of amendments that you all have. First change is in Section 7502 and it deletes the age requirement to ride the scooters and it moves that age requirement to Section 7511 which would put that age requirement on the scooter share operators. So basically placing the impetus of
 managing that riders of the shared scooters are 16 years or older on those operators. We recognized that there are some privately owned scooters that may be electric that are operated by people under the age of 16 and we're not attempting to regulate of that with this ordinance.
 The second change is in section 7510C, and that reduces the initial maximum number of scooters that can be deployed during the first six months of operation from 1,000 down to 500. It also removes the upper limit on the number of permits deployed.
 But this is done in conjunction with changes that would allow administrative approval of additional permits based on considerations for demand, safety, and other factors that would govern the safe operation of the scooter share program.
 Third change is in 7510 and it removes the requirement for a verified signature. We recognize as we began laying out our permit process that a verified signature was difficult to obtain through an online process. Fourth change is in 7510 .
 And it separates the application fee, so that'd be the $150 initial application or the $100 renewal fee from the per scooter amount that vendors would have to pay. So the idea there is as vendors are applying for their permit, they would pay the $100 or $150 renewal fee.
 fee to apply and then once their permit is approved or if their permit is approved then they would pay later that larger amount which is the $20 times the number of scooters That they are applying to have in the city of Fayetteville. Fifth change is in 7510 G that clarifies the administrative
 Adjustment procedure, it removes the limit on the number of scooters in the fleet, but still requires for rationale and analysis to provide for an increase in the number of scooters. It also allows for the administration to require the reduction in the number of scooters that are deployed if the vendors are not reaching a target average ridership of two rides per day per scooter.
 And then it also allows for the creation of zones where scooters are to be deployed. We would envision using or exercising that ability to create zones as part of the expansion after the six-month initial permit period.
 This would be done similar to what Blake talked about Austin having done in creating a downtown zone and then outer zones around the city. Then the sixth change is in 7510 I and J, and it essentially strengthens the ability of the administration to refuse to issue initial permits or to renew permits as well as revoking or suspending permits for violations of the e-scooter ordinance.
 So that's the summary of the changes. With that, I'd be glad to answer any questions you all might have on those changes or the whole of the ordinance. Mayor, I would suggest if these are fairly consensual changes that you deal with them in a group, and then if there are further changes, we deal with that now. But if these are not consensual, then we'll have to deal with them individually. So only you all know that.
 if these are pretty acceptable to everybody, this particular group, and then there could be, of course, further changes. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor.
 I'm in favor of all the changes, including the reduction in the initial amount that's permitted. I also especially like that there is some guidance about when the number that's permitted might be increased or when it might not be wise to do that, and the fact that it gives staff the ability to evaluate that objectively rather than coming back to the council for every little change that might, in the end, actually be pretty mundane. Teresa? Yes, sir.
 I don't know if this is the right time or not, but I actually would like the number to be reduced from 500 to about 250 and also adding bike helmets. I've gone through and done a little research here on the number of injuries in the past year and a half. There's been nine deaths attributed to rented scooter injuries.
 ER Emergency room visits in Salt Lake City have gone up 161 percent because of injuries and the CDC came out and said most of these Are many of these scooter injuries could be easily prevented by wearing a helmet? So I would I would like to add that provision well, what what you ought to do if we're not going to just I
 passed this one initially, then you need to make a motion to amend. First, I'd like to have a motion to amend the current ordinance to letters before you exhibit A and then you can make a motion to amend that. So if someone would initially make that motion so we can get that on the floor.
 I move to amend as presented by staff. Okay. Kyle. Are we prepared to identify the sections for individual amendments? Some of them I know were in different places.
 How hard is it going to be for us to pick those apart? We can do those as you go along and if there are specific changes, what we'll do is go back and insert that either tonight or first thing tomorrow morning. Make sure that it matches with the intent of the council and hopefully the exact language that you propose. Thankfully we're recorded so we can listen verbatim and make those changes as you suggest them tonight and as they're approved by the council. And if we were to try and go through them one at a time, you wouldn't let us
 That's great. Okay. No, you're on your own. Is there a second to? Yeah, I'd like to second that. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass what we have. The amendment, Exhibit A, but then that can be further amended. Okay. The motion is second. What public comment do we have on this bundle of amendments? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Okay.
 any other discussion well they're going to make i think there's going to be a an attempted motion to amend this one mayor for example i thought we were going to pass the whole thing and then come back and well i'd be happy to do that if that'd be okay okay that's that's okay i thought theresa wanted to i mean i thought that's where we were going we were going to pass the whole thing come back and pick and choose out what we want to kind of like a goodie bag all right um if everybody's in agreement sonny would you please call the roll
 Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now let's go back. And what do you want to change in the amendments? Start with that. Thank you. So the first one would be,
 I'd like to amend our new provision here to reduce the number from 500 and 250.
 And the reason why I would like to do that is because, you know, there's been a lot of cities that have experienced many, many problems with this. And I, I thank the staff for going through and being very thorough. This is a really excellent start and a really good list of requirements and and and regulations.
 But I prefer that we start really slow and so that we can make our mistakes and we can correct them. There are probably going to be a lot of unanticipated issues. You never get it right the first time. And if there's criticism, I'd be happy to take that on. So we started too slow rather than, oh, my God, we started too fast and we had.
 all these problems and the city was overwhelmed. There's ample evidence, Santa Monica, Austin, Salt Lake City, I mean, you name it, there's been Little Rock, so many cities that have had issues with this. So I think starting with 250 would be a very good way to go.
 Okay, that's 75.10C, but you might also look at subsection G, which talks about an initial person, company doing this would be able to use all 250. So is that your intention, or are you going to want to reduce that number also? I would like to reduce that number to 125. And that's all in the size limitations then, the numbers? Yes.
 So that's your amendments for the size of the fleet. Correct. And I think we ought to probably take this one at a time. So that has been your motion to change 7510C, so it shall not exceed 250 rather than 500, and then in G, that the operator's initial fleet shall not exceed 125 instead of 250. That is my motion.
 So, um, I guess I cannot talk about Needs to be a second Yeah dies for lack of a second what else do we have Tracy as I mentioned before I really think that we need to have bike hell a requirement that the users wore a bike helmet and
 there's just been a huge amount of injuries that have happened. And many of them have been vehicles that have run into people that were on the scooters. So it's not that the scooter user or rider has done anything wrong, but it's simply been a vehicle that has run into them. And the head injuries, according to this report by the CDC, are about 45%. So it's very high. These could be preventable.
 And I think again, I'd like to err on the side of caution as we move forward and Save some injuries some trips in the emergency room if we can And if that's not an issue later on this can be relaxed it could be eliminated But I think again we should start slow and be cautious about Scooters so my motion would be to I think I have this right I
 Actually to create a new section that would prohibit or that would require bike helmets be used by the riders. That would be subsection S in section 75.11. Okay. Sarah. Yes, I have a question for Peter. We need to see if we get a second. Is that correct? Before it's discussed, yes, there needs to be a second. Okay.
 That doesn't mean you have to vote for it eventually, but in order to discuss it, there should be a motion and a second. That's what I remember. Kyle. Yeah.
 I want to ask for clarification since this covers both, we've got a section for general scooter operations and we have borrowed or leased rented scooters. Are you intending this for for private ownership of scooters as well? Would that go in 7501 or are we putting it in 7510? It would just be for the leased ones. Do we have a second?
 Sonja? I second. We have a motion and a second to require helmets, basically, for the grid. Am I correct? Okay. All right. Now we can discuss it. Sonja?
 oh okay sure um i'm not in support of this amendment i would like us to keep in mind that we live in a state that doesn't even require motorcycles for our helmets for motorcycles um in in muni municipalities that tried helmet laws with their bike share programs they had very low adoption of bike shares
 You know, I think one of the advantages of these scooters is that they're a last mile solution when you get off transit. And to ask a person to carry a bike helmet with them through their workday and then come back and get off their bus and then get on the scooter, it's a lot. You would lose tourists, whom I think would benefit from this. You're going to lose the...
 the people who are wanting to have a park once experience downtown you know come down leave your car in one place and then take the little scooter to do your errands you know realistically they're not going to rent helmets with these because of hygiene issues so this is going to require anyone who wants to use these scooters to carry their own bicycle helmet and i think that that's going to be a barrier to the success of the program you know we're we're presented with this program in
 And I realize it's giving us a lot of logistical challenges of how to manage it, but I would really like us to see this as an opportunity to have a functioning system that helps with our transit issues. And if we limit the number to the point where they're not readily available, and then we require helmets, which is just a...
 It's an obstacle that I think that these are not going to succeed. And right now, our energy action plan says that we need to be reducing our car trips or our vehicle miles traveled by 25% in the next few years. And this is one of the tools we can use to get there. Let's try to make it successful and not put up a bunch of barriers to its adoption. Thank you.
 Okay, so yeah, I just wanted to clarify we with our bike share program. We do not require helmets. Is that correct? I
 That is correct. We also do not require helmets to be ridden by private bicycle riders. And I would just add that placing the requirement on the scooter share operators to require that their users wear helmets, I would envision very low compliance with that requirement, which would create, I think, a challenging enforcement requirement.
 arena for the city in enforcing an ordinance that has a helmet requirement in it that the scooter share vendors would not be able to adequately enforce on their riders, thereby creating nearly universal non-compliance ordinance as people are using the scooter share system, which I think when permit renewal would come up in six months would make it difficult to
 for us to just evaluate renewing scooter share permits because there would be such universal noncompliance with that provision of the code. Thank you. I'm all for safety.
 You know, I ride my bike sometimes without a helmet, and I rode it in the neighborhood the other day, and I almost hit a deer that jumped out in front of me, and I thought, I wish I had my helmet on now. But, you know, I think that when we think about enforceability of this, I think it's going to be almost impossible to enforce the helmet thing.
 If we add that and I think our biggest challenge is we'll be trying to get people to ride them in the places We want them to and not on the sidewalks in front of bars and restaurants and stuff like that And I think I won't be in favor of the helmet Edition, thank you I also won't be in favor of the helmet requirement and it's it's hard for me to come to that position because as a cyclist I
 I've been hit by a truck and bounced my helmet off the back tire. I've had my own little accidents and a gravel patch where I went over the handlebars and replaced the helmet after it was smashed to pieces on a curb and I don't ride my bike without a helmet because of those experiences. Part of the reason why it took me until two weeks ago to get on one of the scooter shares, or sorry, the bike shares because I don't have a helmet with me all the time.
 I did finally ride it down the flattest little part of the trail here because I was late and needed a three minute sort of boost. It made me nervous. But I want to put the nine scooter deaths we've had in perspective. Think about how many people are killed in vehicular accidents every day, even though they're completely encased inside several tons of metal.
 If one of our goals here is to get more vehicles off the street by putting people on scooters instead Then maybe while I hope we have no scooter deaths if we trade five vehicle deaths for one The math says that's an improvement. I Hope the ratio is better than that. I hope we get a lot more vehicles off that way That may be wishful thinking but I think
 Pound for pound here the the risk is a lot lower on the scooter than it is in the in the vehicles that we take for granted Okay Yes Thank you. I just wanted to add one more point that hadn't been voice although I agree with the comments so far in 2015 there's a really counterintuitive study that came out or maybe not so counterintuitive if you've ever observed some aggressive bike riders found that and
 People on a bike who wore a helmet behaved more aggressively than they did whenever they weren't wearing a helmet. And that was the second or third... Are you looking right at Kyle when you said that? That was the second or third study over the previous 10 years that had found that. Complementing that, in 2015 there was a study by some Danish researchers that...
 I wanted to see if there were other impacts wearing a helmet and found that drivers actually passed cyclists with less of a gap between their vehicle and the bicycle if the bike if the cyclist was wearing a helmet to the tune of up to six inches closer on average.
 So there are some counterintuitive impacts to wearing a helmet, and I agree with trying to prevent all deaths, but I think sometimes there's stuff beneath the surface and some of that data might shed some light on helmet laws for scooters or other modes of travel. Sir? I was just wondering, Matthew, if that study also included wearing Lycra. I don't know. I just don't understand that.
 Okay, well it sounds like I'm not getting much support here. I probably should have looked up our injury rate for unhelmeted motorcyclists here in Arkansas compared to other states because I would suspect that it's much, much, much higher.
 than in other states. So again, I think we should start out very cautiously. And if this program really is as good as it's touted to be, it's going to be successful whether you require a helmet or not. So that's all I'll say on that issue. Okay. Anybody else? All right. What public comment do we have on this? See, now to bring it back to the council. Now, we're on the first reading, aren't we?
 We need a motion and a second. Did I get an amendment to go to the second reading? Yeah. Motion. Yeah, amendment first. Mayor, you got a second on Councilmember Turk's amendment for the helmet, so I think you need a vote on that. Yes. Okay. All right. Sergeant, would you please call the roll? Coggin. No. Bunch. No. Tartt. Yes. Smith. No. Guterres. Yes. Marsh. No. Higgins. Yes. Cady. No. No.
 Okay, that failed. So we have the only amendment that passed was exhibit A, which was handed out earlier. All right, now we're... Tracy. I have another amendment, sorry. Okay, sure. 75.13 . It discussed a valid certificate of insurance shall be submitted at the time of issuance of the permit after 10 days. I'm probably not saying it correctly.
 And my question is, why not have it submitted at the time of application? In previous experiences, not with scooters, but in other areas, usually they're able to submit a COI at the time a permit is issued. So it just seems like to make sure that these companies are valid, that you would require that immediately.
 Sure, I don't think we would have any objection to either at the time of the application or prior to the issuance of permits. One of the changes we did was to separate the application fee from the per scooter fee. So another option you could consider is saying that prior to issuance of the permit. So once a company is approved.
 then we say, all right, now send us your check for your per-scooter fee and also send in your certificate of insurance. So you can either do it at the time of the application or prior to the issuance of the permits. That sounds good. I'll modify my amendment request to what Blake just mentioned. Okay. All right.
 So the amendment is, I want to be sure I've got my head wrapped around that. Do you want me to read that, Mayor? Yeah, please. So it would say, a valid certificate of insurance evidencing the coverage required by this section shall be submitted prior to the issuance of an initial operating authority permit. Uh-huh. All right. Do we have a second on that? Kyle? Sorry, Mark? I'll second that. All right, we have a motion and a second on the amendment. Sorry, I'm...
 I thought I saw one thing and something else kind of fucked up on me. Teresa needs to put her motion. Okay, we have a motion and a second for the amendment, whatever Blake read on that, whatever that might be. And that was, again, something...
 It was... The certificate of insurance will... Shall be submitted prior to the issuance of an initial operating authority permit. Okay, there we go. All right. Any discussion, anything other discussion, any public comment on it? Bring it back to the council. We have a motion. Did we get a second to pass the amendment? All right, so I'm...
 I guess this would be for staff. Is there any financial burden by moving this before they're approved? It wouldn't be prior to approval. So in the review process, it would go through staff review, and if we determine that it meets all the requirements of the ordinance, they'll be approved, but they also have to pay for the per-scooter fees and get the certificate of insurance to us before we'll actually issue the permit.
 So a company will have been approved conditionally, but they still have to satisfy those other two requirements before they actually get their permits. Okay, so there's no risk to pay a premium on some insurance policy? Correct. Yeah, I think one of the things is we don't want them to pay for something that they're not going to ultimately use. So once they get a notice from the city that they've been approved, we'll also say, all right, now you need to send in your per-scooter fee and your certificate of insurance, and then we'll get you your permit. Okay, that's something I can support.
 Thank you. Thank you for that question. It helped me out considerably. Anything else on that? All right. Someone please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Is there any other amendments? Yes, sure. Sorry, I have one last one. In terms of the data sharing, I think it's important to note that the data sharing is
 The one thing, and maybe this is just a minor issue, but I thought if there were any citations or any kind of arrest or anything that had happened that you would want to require the vendor to disclose that information. So that would be 75.14B, and maybe it's covered somewhere else and I just didn't see that.
 I think if the city is issuing a citation to a scooter share company or a user, we would have that data. You can certainly add that as a specific request. But I'm not sure that if a citation was issued to a rider that the company would have that information. So you're, are you asking just for citations that have been issued to a scooter share company?
 I was really asking for the riders, but if you're going to go ahead and data mine that when you go back and review their permit, then I'll withdraw the request if that's just going to be already part of the process. I imagine the mayor could request that from the chief. Yes, I can get that information for you. I can assure you of that. So that would fall under K. Any other report requested by the city? All right. Great. Thank you. I'll withdraw. Okay.
 All right, is there any other amendments? Okay, now I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading, correct? I think it's the third reading. Oh, sorry. I stopped you all to do amendments first. All right, well then I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading for real this time. All right, Senator, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance in act chapter 75, electric motorized scooters and scooter share programs. Okay. Is there any questions or discussion on the amended ordinance from the council? Okay. Is there any public comment on the amended ordinance? Okay. Now then, Sarah.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. All right, second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please go and roll? Spoggin. Yes. Batch. Yes. Chart. Yes. Smith. Yes. Guterres. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Keenan. Yes. Teddy. Yes. And Ordinance and Act Chapter 75, Electric Motorized Scooters and Scooter Share Programs.
 Okay, any final comments from the Capcom? I do have one question that I skipped since I don't see any of our scooter share folks who normally come talk to us Peter do you have any comments from them about the reduction in the initial reduction in in number of scooters in town?
 The two vendors that I have spoke with didn't have a strong objection to the reduction in numbers. They're both eager to apply, and I hope that they're able to get at least 250 scooters apiece. That's the indication I got. Anything else? Any final comments? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, the ordinance passed, but we need an extra vote, additional vote for the emergency clause, so this can be effective immediately before the state law becomes effective. All righty. So we need a motion and a second to do the emergency clause. Sarah? I move that we adopt the emergency clause. Senator? Second. We have a motion and a second to adopt the emergency clause. Senator, would you please call the roll? Motion. Who? Senator?
 I have them on my screen. Huh. There you go. It's time to go home. All right. All right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number four. Number four.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6666 for approximately .40 acres located at 119 and 127 Southwest Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Senator? I move we go to the second reading. Precinct? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Ms. Underwood, would you please call the roll? Is it second or third? Oh, sorry. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 And on its rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6666 for approximately four tenths of an acre located at 119 and 127 Southwest Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Clark. Mayor, I don't have anything to add. I believe the applicant Mr. Canfield is here and would like to discuss the item with you. Sure. How are you Mr. Canfield?
 Mr. Mayor, council members, thank you. I figure I'll just cut to the chase here and offer you all a bill of assurance on that property that would limit any development to occur within the 25-foot build-to zone, which is now in force, to not exceed three stories. And any additional development on that site,
 Would be governed by the height established by the building approved within that 25 foot build to zone. That makes it pretty simple and straightforward. There won't be five stories. It won't be seven stories. It won't be four stories. There will not be three more than three stories at the street. And I think that's a fair proposal. So.
 And I'd like to hear what you all think about it. Do you have the bill of assurance with you? No, but I can have it probably by the end of the day tomorrow. Okay. There is a form that the planning department has. I think you're probably well aware of that. And if you would, that's the only bill of assurance we can accept, one that's been properly signed and in writing. So that would mean we'd have to probably wait two weeks.
 In order to have the bill of assurance actually relied upon by the city council, it'd have to be done that way. Okay. Yep. I assume we're going to come back and discuss it again, but I figure that'll save us a little trouble right now. Okay. The next meeting, I believe, is August the 6th, and Mr. Canfield does have the blank bill of assurance. You tell me when to have it, and I'll have it, and I'll be here. Okay. All right? Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, I guess we will hold it right here, which is on the, will be on the second reading. I guess, is there any public comment on the project? It's going to be held for two weeks. All right. Okay, we'll hold it here for two weeks. On to new business. Number one.
 In order to amend Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Federal Unified Development Code to align the City's building regulations with current building codes and eliminate unnecessary requirements that have little or no impact on the quality or safety of buildings within the City. Whereas Chapter 173, Building Regulations, is more than 20 years old and is in need of updating and general housekeeping.
 whereas several provisions are outdated or are not useful in the administration of building codes and permits and the revisions proposed by staff are an attempt to align the city's building regulations with current building codes where possible and eliminate unnecessary requirements that have little or no impact on the quality or safety of buildings within the city now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend Chapter 173 by changing all instances of building safety division director to building official. Section 2.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby enacts a new subsection F3 regarding temporary certificates of occupancy in section 17301 general provisions as follows, quote, subsection 3, temporary certificate of occupancy.
 A temporary certificate of occupancy may be executed and issued by the building official to allow buildings or parts of buildings to be occupied before completion of the entire scope of work. Subsection A, Duration.
 Temporary certificates of occupancy are valid for a maximum of 30 days. Temporary certificates must be renewed at the expiration until the final certificate of occupancy is issued. Subsection B, request. A written request must be submitted by the building owner or permit applicant prior to the issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy. Subsection C, request.
 The building official shall have the discretion to issue a temporary certificate of occupancy based upon the circumstances of hardship beyond the permit holder's control, the past performance of an applicant to successfully comply with the terms of the temporary certificate of occupancy issuance, or an applicant's failure to maintain a previously issued temporary certificate of occupancy.
 In most circumstances, no new temporary certificate of block courtesy will be issued to a developer or builder, regardless of the builder or developer uses different corporate names or LLC names.
 who has one or more overdue temporary certificate of occupancy or has otherwise not complied with previous commitments, requirements, or terms of a previous temporary certificate of occupancy until the entire backlog of temporary certificates of occupancy with any problems has been remedied to the satisfaction of the building official.
 Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals section 173 o 2 B 1 B and renumbers remaining subsection accordingly section 4 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals Section 173 o 2 B 8 and an action new section 173 o 2 B 8 as follows quote issuance of a new of new building permit for unfinished project and
 No new building permits may be issued for property for which a building permit has expired unless approved by the building official for good cause shown by the applicant and adequate assurance that the project will be completed within the timeframe authorized by the building
 Section 5. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal Section 17303, Fire Zones, and renumbers the remaining sections accordingly. Section 6. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal Subsection B5, Miscellaneous Provisions, and B6, Neon Lighting of Section 17304, Electrical Code. Section 7.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend Section 17305, Gas Piping Code, by changing the instances of Arkansas State Gas Code in subsections A and B to Arkansas State Fuel Gas Code, Section 8.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 17306 plumbing code by adding quote if applicable unquote to the end of subsection b1b4 so that after the amendment it reads building permit has been issued if applicable section 9.
 That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend subsection C2 of section 17306, Plumbing Code, by changing Inspector to Building Official. Section 10. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 17308, Energy Conservation Code, by changing the instances of, quote, sticker in subsections B2 and B32, Label Code.
 Section 11, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal subsection B4 of 173.09, unsafe buildings and property nuisances, and enacts a new subsection B4 as follows, quote, unoccupied buildings or structures that are not properly secured, locked, or closed, unquote.
 Section 12 that the City Council city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby replaces the reference to 173 oh nine Unsafe buildings and property nuisances and an action new subsection b5 as follows quote unfinished buildings or structures under construction that have been abandoned or in or are Inactive for which there are no valid permits, and I think that's the end of the ordinance, okay? I
 Sorry, Kit did a great job of describing everything we're changing here. A lot of these are pretty straightforward. An attempt to... You might introduce yourself. Oh, I'm sorry. Matthew K., Building Safety Director.
 Again, an attempt to clarify and streamline our ordinance, remove redundant requirements that are covered in our other national codes, to clarify our requirements without affecting intent. The removal of the fire district, the fire zone was months of conversations with the fire department leadership and the fire marshal's office in order to resolve the issue.
 come to the conclusion that it's unnecessary and that it's more of an impediment to new development and redevelopment of existing structures in the parts of town where we really need it. That's it in a nutshell, and I'm happy to answer any questions if there are any. What questions do we have on that? Okay. Public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Senator?
 I'm moving except the motion this or maybe suspend the rules Thank you. All right, sir second most of the second to go the second reading Don't have a seconder. Oh my thank you. All right, so please call the row Yes Yes
 Yes, yes, yes Yep And orders to men chapter 173 building regulations of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to align the city's building regulations with the current building codes and eliminate unnecessary requirements that have little or no impact on the quality or safety of buildings within the city
 I'd like to acknowledge that Matthew is changing and shortening his title, not nearly as fancy as it used to be, Building Safety Division Director to now Building Official. So anytime you can shorten the code, I like that, Matt. There you go. It's all about efficiency in government. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you mayor movies spend the rules and go to the third and final reading slow second We have a motion in a second to go to the third and final read Please call the roll Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes
 In order to amend Chapter 173 building regulations of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to align the city's building regulations with current building codes and eliminate unnecessary requirements that have little or no impact on the quality or safety of buildings within the city. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Rogan. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two.
 An ordinance to amend 161.29 neighborhood conservation of the federal unified development codes change the lot with minimum for all dwelling types to 40 feet. Whereas section 161.29, excuse me, neighborhood conservation, provides for varying lot with minimums for single family, two family, and three family dwellings.
 whereas reducing the lot with minimums for two and three family dwellings will mitigate the potential negative impacts of varying lot widths and Will encourage attached and single-family dwellings to be in similar scale and neighborhoods Which which is consistent with goal one of city plan 2030 to prioritize? appropriate infill development now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 and
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal subsection D1 of section 16129, neighborhood conservation, and enact a new subsection D1 as follows. Subsection 1, lot width minimum, all dwelling types, 40 feet. Mayor, Jonathan Kurth from our planning division is here, and he's going to do the staff report. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. John McKerth of the City's Planning Division. I did read the ordinance proposal pretty clearly, so I'll just give you a little bit of the background as to why I'm here before you're proposing it today. This is what staff hopes to be the first of several steps to evaluate several of the zoning districts within Fayetteville with consideration for one of the city's primary goals within city plan, the city's comprehensive plan, and that is the encouragement of appropriate infill.
 When the neighborhood conservation zoning district was adopted as a part of the downtown master plan about a decade and a half ago, it was determined that it would be appropriate to include larger lot widths for attached dwellings. In particular, the two family dwellings would have a lot width requirement of 80 feet and three and four family dwellings would have a lot width requirement of 90 feet, as opposed to the lot width requirements for a single family, which is 40 feet.
 This has had a few unintended consequences, or perhaps intended, depending on what the perspective was a decade and a half ago.
 where developers and residents have seen situations where in order for a developer or somebody who wants to develop a property to construct the two-family dwelling, they effectively have to amass or accumulate two properties worth of land up to 80 feet. And as a result, having additional land incurs additional costs and they have to create much larger dwelling than you'd see otherwise. And that has seen
 several developments throughout the city that are out of context, out of size, not done with respect to the adjacent development because instead of having 40 feet of frontage, they now have to have 80 and they have to make that shake out through their performance and their financing.
 As a result, and because staff and the city have chosen to prioritize infill development and with particular focus on missing middle housing that is contextually sensitive to development. We are recommending that the lot width requirements in the neighborhood conservation zone district for all dwellings be reduced from the respective areas.
 80 and 90 feet for single family, two family and three excuse me, two family, three family, four family to the 40 feet that is currently required now for four. Excuse me for single family. This is an effort also to to.
 I would like to say reduce the frequency with which we see rezoning requests in large portions of the area. We do see a lot of rezoning requests that occur because a developer would like to create missing middle housing to create appropriate infill, but under this existing zoning requirements, it's not feasible as you have to create, again, we have to put together larger lots and create larger buildings to make it shake out.
 And so we've seen a lot of rezoning requests proposed to go to a higher intensity and density zoning districts that may result in development that is not necessarily compatible with adjacent properties. The other aspect of this that we think is important is, so on the one hand, offering developers a route that's not 10 to 12 to 14 weeks to go to the Planning Commission, the City Council to rezone a property. They could potentially go to the Planning Commission for six weeks.
 and request a conditional use permit. The flip side of this is as a part of the conditional use permit process, the developer would have to bring forward a site plan and building elevations where the residents, the staff and the commission all get to evaluate it in the context of the surrounding neighborhood. Whereas a rezoning, those are basically forfeited and the development rights and entitlements are granted as a part of the rezoning.
 That said, staff is recommending approval of this. The Planning Commission is also unanimously in favor of it. And again, we do hope that this is the first in several steps to reevaluate our zoning districts in light of the city's goals to encourage appropriate infill where possible. And with that, I'd be happy to take any questions the council may have. Okay, what questions do we have? Okay, what public comment do we have? Okay, bring it back to the council. Theresa.
 I think this is a big change, and I'd like to hold this on the first reading tonight to give the public ample opportunity to review this and to think about this. So that would be my request to my colleague. Okay. Senator?
 Think this is a great proposed change and one of the the reasons why is it will allow multifamily housing to blend in To what have traditionally been single-family neighborhoods if you walk around a lot of other cities you'll notice that they have stacked duplexes where you've got two flats and
 stacked onto one another, and they look like single family homes. You'll also see four plexes that way that you would never know they were four plexes if you didn't see the four mailboxes. And by making this code change, we'll enable that kind of stealth missing middle housing to blend into our single family neighborhoods.
 Right now, the duplexes really stand out because they have really long frontages. And so it's really obvious when we have multifamily housing, in addition to being more expensive to build. So I want to applaud staff for bringing this forward. I think it's a good change, whether we pass it tonight or if we wait. Okay. Kyle. Yes. I'm just curious, how often does this come up? Is it...
 something that's likely to happen several times in the next two, three, five weeks? Or is it something that we see a couple of times a year? Just for clarification, do you mean conditional use permit requests? The lot width, the multifamily lot width issue, yeah. It does not. The greater frequency we've seen as of late is people requesting rezonings as opposed to that. Okay, thanks.
 If council would recall the number of R.I.U. sometimes they're requesting it for something that actually could be accommodated with the NC district and a conditional use permit, so you would avoid those. Sometimes they actually want to take advantage of even narrow lots such as 18 foot. So it's not gonna eliminate all those requests
 But it does give an option, a much simpler option, to build a duplex or a triplex or a fourplex. I'm sorry. I realize this is covering multiple issues, and I was just asking about one, so I should have been more clear. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. I was curious. I haven't reviewed the history, but I was wondering if either of you had, if when originally adopted NC had the uniform lot widths or if the distinct lot widths were added later. It's my understanding that that is true. It was originally 40 feet.
 I was, I'm fine to hold it on this reading. I was wondering if we do that and if we come back, if you might present some of the other things that were changed about this ordinance in the time between when it was first adopted and today. We certainly can. Thank you. Okay, so I feel consensus is to hold it on this reading for two weeks.
 So I'm hearing from you all, everybody okay? All right. Let's move along to number three. An ordinance to amend Chapter 166.08, Street Design and Access Management Standards of the Federal Unified Development Code to modify the applicability access management and nonconforming access features regulations to remove barriers that discourage renovation and improvement of existing structures kept.
 Whereas certain access management regulations in the Unified Development Code are too strict and discourage renovations and improvements of existing structures, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 16608C and enact Replacement 16608C as follows, quote, applicability.
 The standards set forth herein shall apply to land which is proposed to be developed with new primary structures and all other developments where the creation of public streets are required or proposed or in which new or existing access is created or modified, or developments or expansions containing non-conforming access features which meet the threshold set forth in subsection G."
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals section 166.08.F.4 and an act of replacement 166.08.4 as follows, quote, reduction in separation distance in order to protect the ingress and egress access rights to a street of an abutting property owner.
 The city engineer may reduce the separation distance of existing and proposed access points where strict compliance proves impractical, provided that joint access driveways and cross-access easements are provided wherever feasible, and the egress curb cut is placed at the safest functional location along the property."
 Section 3, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-October, hereby strikes, quote, or improvements from Section 16608G1B, Section 4,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby enacts a new Section 16608G1D, which will add a condition requiring an existing non-conforming access feature to be brought into compliance as follows, quote, now D, with development of a new primary structure on the property, unquote.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the City Planning Division. As the Council Mayor called this is a follow-up to a previous amendment that you all saw in the Access Management Ordinance. That previous amendment sought to redress issues where
 Very low threshold projects were triggering the ability of the city to revisit the way those properties could even be accessed. That was a concern of practicality. I don't know if anecdotes were given to you at the time, but there were instances where someone wanted to add a bathroom to a building and suddenly all their curb cuts could be reviewed.
 and also presented a concern of legality where, as the city attorney's office may like to speak to, we as a city only have limited ability to restrict how much a property can access an adjacent street to it. And this is, again, this is an extension of that ordinance requirement or that ordinance amendment that was made to further reduce the burdensome processes associated with what we've discovered in this ordinance.
 Again, the crux of it, there's two pieces. One is to amend the ordinance to apply to new structures and expansions only, not renovations. We've found that it's very discouraging to small business owners and new business owners to take existing buildings and bring them up to code without hitting any of these thresholds and having to go through our city's variance process. Whether they could even be subject to having their driveways taken away, it added a month or longer to the ability for them to get a billing permit.
 The second big piece of this ordinance is to allow staff the administrative ability to review several of these proposed curb cut locations rather than run them to a public hearing. These would go to the city engineer and they must meet basically two requirements for the city engineer to be able to approve them administratively. The first of which is that any curb cut be at the safest possible location on the property's frontage.
 And the second piece of that is that any curb cuts be designed so that they're facilitating future cross access, which gives the city the ability as we move down a corridor to look at properties on a case by case basis and potentially make them safer by continually either reducing curb cuts in size or eliminating duplicative curb cuts and generally creating a safer streetscape.
 We are excited to bring these forward. There are a lot of these that go before the Planning Commission and end up just on the consent agenda. We feel that capturing this amendment will capture most of those that, as I've noted, would basically need to be required to be approved for legal purposes or just practicality purposes. And I'd be happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. What questions do we have? Thank you. What public comment do we have?
 okay bring it back to the council sir maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion and saying we go to the second rating son would you please call the role yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Yes. And your ordinance amend chapter 16608, street design and access management standards of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to modify the applicability, access management and nonconforming access features regulations to remove barriers that discourage renovation and improvement of existing structures. So moved. So moved. We suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to amend chapter 16608, street design and access management standards of the Fayetteville United Unified Development Code.
 to modify the applicability access management and non-conforming access features regulations to remove barriers that discourage renovation and improvement of existing structures any follow comments from the councilman thank you mayor i had a couple of phone calls from my constituents asking me to vote against this and a couple of notes forward i think to the full council today
 And because of those notes and also because I was the sponsor or the original ordinance that created the residential parking program, I wanted to take a second to explain why I'm supportive of the ordinance that's before us.
 And I thought we were on the access management. That's next. OK. OK. Well, we're starting. We'll be continued. I thought it gets one guy. Oh, I get two or three. I thought I'd missed it entirely myself. Anyway, I thought, oh, well, we've already passed the other one. OK, so any final comments on the street design and access management standards?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes now number four now we can go
 An ordinance to amend 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the city federal city code to invert portions of restricted residential only parking along Locust Avenue and Lafayette Street and portions of paid only on street parking along Vanderbilt Avenue, Lafayette Street, Church Avenue to mixed use parking areas. Okay.
 Whereas the residential-only parking zone on Locust Street between Spring Street and Center Street averages 21% utilization, and the residential-only zone on Lafayette Street averages 35% utilization.
 And whereas converting these residential-only spaces to mixed use will allow customers of the businesses located in these areas more parking options, will also increase the available public parking supply, which is consistent with the goals of the parking master plan.
 whereas converting the paid-only parking zones on Vandiver Avenue, Lafayette Street, and Church Avenue to mixed use would result in an additional 59 spaces where residential permits are valid. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby replaces the existing Exhibit A referenced in Section 72.18
 with the proposed Exhibit A attached to this ordinance. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fevelarks are hereby repeals and enacts a new Section 72.18F as follows, quote, mixed-use on-street parking. On-street parking spaces on Spring Street from Block Avenue to West Avenue, on School Avenue from Center Street to Spring Street, on Locust Avenue from Spring Street to Center Street,
 on Church Avenue from Dixon Street to Meadow Street, on Lafayette Street from West Avenue to Force Avenue, and on Vandiver Avenue from Lafayette Street to Maple Street, shall be available to the public for paid parking and to residents of the corresponding entertainment district parking zone for properly permitted vehicles free of charge.
 Justin. Thank you Mayor. Justin Clay, parking manager. One of the recommendations from Nelson Nygaard, our parking study consultant, that was put forth in our parking master plan is to increase the available public parking supply. So to that end we've spent about the last year or so evaluating various parking locations, determining their utilization, taking a look at the regulations associated with them.
 with that goal in mind. The item before you proposes to expand our mixed use parking program for some on-street segments, street segments within the entertainment district. Five in particular, the ones that Kit just mentioned.
 These are five street segments that we feel have low utilization on average. Two of them are currently residential only streets. The other three street segments are paid only currently, which we're recommending that they all be converted to mixed use. So there's essentially three types of on street parking designations within the entertainment district. Paid parking where anyone can park there.
 It's got the four digit space or the four digit number painted on the on the street. Payments required between 2 p.m. And 2 a.m. Second is residential only. It's restricted to properly permitted residents who live or own property within the boundaries of the entertainment district and
 who've applied for and received a permit from our office. And then the third is mixed use. It's basically a combination of the two. The general public can park and pay, and then residential permit holders can park in those spaces at no cost, just like they could at any of the restricted residential spaces.
 So this proposal would convert 22 spaces on that portion of Locust between Spring and Center from residential to mixed use. It would convert 57 spaces on Lafayette between Campbell and Forest from residential only to mixed use. It would convert...
 The rest of Lafayette, the western portion of Lafayette between West and Campbell from paved only to mixed use, along with Vanda Venter from Lafayette to Maple Street from paid only to mixed use and Church Avenue.
 between Dixon and Meadow from paid only to mixed use. So we made all of those changes that would result in over 70 additional spaces where the public can now park and 50 additional, over 50 additional spaces that would be eligible for a resident to park in with their residential permit.
 School Avenue and Spring Street currently operate in what we consider to be a successful mixed-use environment. And I feel like we can model that to some of these low utilization streets going forward.
 We do feel like it would have a benefit to businesses. There's a number of businesses that now operate, particularly on these residential-only streets that currently cannot park. Their employees and customers cannot park outside of their business because it's restricted for resident use only.
 And we feel like by converting some of the paid only spaces to mixed use, there are residences along some of those portions who currently can't obtain a residential permit in part in front of their residents because they're paid only and not eligible to participate
 So we sent out letters last week to the affected residents along Locust and Lafayette in particular. We've received a number of responses, mostly today. So staff is recommending that this item receive multiple readings so that you can consider their comments. I'd be happy to try to.
 characterize their comments if that's a feel like that's appropriate, but I guess with that I'll just leave it for any questions Yes, I have a question this deals with the call that I got from a really nice lady today That she lives on the intersection. I believe it's Campbell and Lafayette and
 And they have three reserved, it was my understanding they had three reserved parking spaces, residential reserved in front of the building. And I'm not sure about if they, I don't think they had parking anywhere else. And she was concerned about if these parking spaces were taken out, they wouldn't have just the slots that they would normally have. But what you're saying is that all that on Lafayette would be for everyone to use. Yes.
 but the residents could also have additional parking spaces that are now just reserved for, they're just paid? Is that? Okay, so the residents would still be able to,
 park in those spaces with their residential permit just as they always have. The change is that the general public now has access to those spaces. One point to make about the residential program, it does not reserve any particular space for a residence. It allows you to park in any number of the
 208 I think it is residential only spaces plus the 79 mixed-use on Spring in school, so they're not losing any reserved space because that's not how it works now It's just that the general public it's just that they might have to share them with someone else. Okay, correct and that was the general nature of most of the comments that we've received that You know, I think there was some
 a desire to somehow ensure that the spaces adjacent to a particular property or the ones nearby a person's property would somehow remain reserved for them. It was a pretty consistent theme. The different proposals and mechanisms to achieve that desire certainly varied.
 And again, what was the percentage, you know, you told us the percentage that were utilized, like, is it 35% on that section of Lafayette? On the residential-only section of Lafayette, so between Campbell and Forest. Okay. It averages 35% utilization, and that's based on a number of counts that we've conducted over...
 the past couple of years since 2016, we've conducted counts at various times and that's an overall average. So 35% on Lafayette, 21% on that portion of Locust. Okay, all right, thank you so much. Okay, Kyle. So I think at the agenda session, I asked you what the value of a parking spot was as far as the subsidy for a free resident permit.
 Kind of expected we would have some folks suggesting alternative programs for reserving that one spot in front of their house. Can we tell them what it would cost to do that? Well, we... I suspect it's more than the $100 a year or so that we were suggested in some of our emails. I'm just curious what the actual cost of a spot would be for somebody that really thought that was a worthy program.
 You know, really probably the best way to speak to that is through the pricing that we have around other programs that we offer. So we offer an annual permit in the entertainment district for $600 a year, the lecture park and any of the four digit spaces, the publicly available spaces.
 So that's $600 a year, that's $50 a month. So that probably doesn't fully cover the actual cost and value associated with that. And that's still a hunting permit instead of a designated spot waiting on you? That's correct. Yeah. Thanks. That at least puts a scope on it? Sure. Okay. Yes, thank you Mayor. How many total letters were sent out? Like how many people is this affecting?
 We sent letters to each residential unit along those portions of Locust and Lafayette that we're converting from residential to mixed use. I think the total is 82 units.
 Different addresses were associated with that, in addition to several permit holders that may have multiple properties, and that may not be their primary residence, but they are still part of the residential parking program. We also informed those folks as well. And we also received a number of comments late this afternoon from a portion of
 Locust Avenue between Dixon and Spring Street. So not one of the areas that we're proposing to make any changes to.
 Again at the risk of mischaracterizing people's comments Their concern was that the other portion of locust that would now be Available to the public as a result of this change would fill up and those displaced parkers within encroached on their portion of locust thereby limiting the available parking for them causing problems decreasing property values Trace
 Justin did you or did you send out letters to the folks on Church Avenue or was it just Locust and Lafayette? It was just Locust and Lafayette. I don't think we sent anyone to church because there I guess we were presumptuous and assumed that they would be that if there were resident they would be in favor of being able to park in the spaces on the street which they're not currently allowed to park in now.
 Okay. Anybody else got any questions? Oh, thanks. Now we're on a few shades lighter of red. I did want to take a second to explain my general position, but I'm glad that we are talking about it more than I thought a few minutes ago and that we're going to take a few meetings to think over it.
 I am generally supportive of the changes that are proposed, but I do want to reserve the right since we're going to take some time with it to tweak it based on feedback we might continue to receive. I have had some contacts, both by phone and by email, from people who are skeptical of the changes. But in general, I'm supportive of the thrust of the effort and for a pretty simple reason. The data just shows the space isn't being used very well.
 and that it can be used better. So I think that's important. You know, parking is a public good, and downtown is one of the areas in...
 in the city, maybe the only area in the city that I feel everybody gets to own a piece of, at least culturally, and that most people visit and spend time making memories in, even if you don't live there. I do happen to live in the area. I live on Spring Street. I'm parking in front of my house, and for blocks in both directions,
 a mixed use parking, both for residents and for visitors and patrons of businesses. And sometimes it's inconvenient for us, but most of the time it isn't. Sometimes it's inconvenient for our visitors, but most of the time it isn't. If I lived on Dixon, it might be more inconvenient for me, but being a couple of blocks away and a couple of blocks away from really the most active part of Dixon, it's almost always.
 So that's the reason I'm generally supportive, but I am glad we're taking time with it and more people are talking about it and reserve the right to suggest some tweaks. Mark? I also have received a lot of emails and phone calls regarding this, and so I have to evaluate and balance. One thing that is real evident is there's a lot of confusion about understanding what's happening.
 And I think one of the complaints that I get more than anything is no one can figure out our parking system and when they're supposed to do what. And this is adding another layer of confusion. And it's evident of that by the phone calls I'm getting. So if people hate parking down in the entertainment district because it's so darn confusing, do we really want to add more confusion? I don't know. It might be a good tradeoff.
 But again, I'm glad that we're taking time to discuss this so people can better understand the impact both on utilization of parking spaces in that area because they are valuable, but also protecting the nature of the neighborhood.
 Because that's what was promised to the neighbors in that neighborhood when we set up this program. And to come back and change it is a big change. It is a big change. And so I think there's got to be a lot more discussion on this and understanding the point of view, from the point of view of the businesses as well as the residents in the area, because they're the ones that face this.
 daily and it impacts their lives more so I look forward to more conversation on this but that's what I've heard from people that have called me may I add something mayor mark and to address the possible confusion I'm Justin you didn't mention but I know you have planned the door knocker it's actually an infographic that tries to represent the change and hopefully
 obliterate the confusion, but if you would talk about where you are with that. Sure, so in addition to the letters that were mailed out, we'll be putting door hangers out in anticipation that this would go through multiple readings to further educate folks on what the proposed changes are. I'm suggesting maybe we could send the council that infographic. I think that might help you be able to explain it when you get your calls.
 Thank you. Anything else from the council? What public comment do we have on this? Mr. Mayor and council members, my name is Katherine Corley. I'm here with my husband, Bill Corley.
 We are homeowners at 80 West Lafayette Street. We are at the corner of Lafayette and Forest, and we've been there for 15 years. We're very proud of living downtown. We love our home. We maintain it. We have beautiful flowers. We're really advocates of downtown living. We do have some concerns with this, and we have shared them with Mr. Clay. We have shared them with Mr. Kenyon. I'm having just a little bit of trouble hearing you. Could you pull the mic down just a tad? Thank you.
 thank you so um we do have some concerns uh with this proposed amendment and we've shared them with mr clay and we shared them with mr kenyon mr petty i'm sorry we haven't had a chance and so i hope to i appreciate you being an advocate for residential parking initially and i hope you know uh to be able to share our concerns with you
 And Mr. Smith, we live in a four to five bedroom house and we only have a very narrow driveway in the back. So we do need parking. And if you're going to build residences for families, they need to have appropriate parking. So our issue, again, we're on the corner of Forest and Lafayette.
 between Forest and Mock Street, there are three homes there. And none of us have garages. So we only have a back alleyway in the back. We only can fit two cars in the back of our house. There's probably maybe one to two that could fit next to the house next to us. And then maybe one or two in the house next to that.
 We can't block the alleyways, so anybody who's visiting or making deliveries or service repairs, they cannot get into the alley. So we use that front for additional parking. And until recently, we had three cars, so we used the front parking space.
 Our neighbor is a renter, and so sometimes he has multiple tenants, and so they need parking in the front and the back, and that affects their property value, as does ours. If we want to sell to another family that has four to five bedrooms, they're going to have multiple cars. The next house over, which is at Mock Street in Lafayette, was just approved for commercial business, so a CPA.
 and they were assured that he would have parking spaces for his clients, they were going to use the permits to help them have spaces close to his business. Now, so maybe we are disproportionately affected. Maybe it's, you know, if there's 57 spaces on Lafayette, there's probably six spaces I'm talking about that are from mock to forest.
 We're just hoping and asking that as you consider this that you could amend it to end it at Mock versus Forest. The other opportunity is that there is the Central United Methodist parking garage that's across from us, so a lot of people are able to park there. We are further away from the entertainment district than the rest of the spaces that are being proposed.
 We also, again, we have, like my housekeeper comes, she needs a place to unload, she parks in the front. We have yard maintenance service that comes, and so we're able to give them a tag to park in the front. We have deliveries. And again, like I said, until recently, we had three cars.
 So it really does diminish our quality of life as being downtown residents in the area. We're afraid it would impair our property value if we were to sell our house again.
 and there's a need for additional parking. And so I guess what we would request, and it sounds like what you're considering, is that there is time before a second reading to consider this, and we would like to offer our home to invite Councilman Kenyon and Councilman Petty and our neighbors to maybe discuss further how we might be impacted by this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, so I assume we're gonna leave it on this reading?
 Okay. All right. Thank you all. Let's move along. Well, is there any other discussion on it before I move this along? Okay. Number five. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6696 for approximately .28 acres located at 1960 East Hustle Road from RSF 4. Residential single family, four units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family four-units per acre to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Yeah, Mayor, this request is located on Huntsville Road, Highway 16 at Dockery Lane. It's presently occupied by a home with a detached garage. It is close to miscellaneous land uses, homes and churches and vacant lots.
 Please ignore the case map. It hasn't been changed. The original request was C1. It was changed by the applicant to Neighborhood Services Limited before Planning Commission. The surrounding zoning is Neighborhood Services Limited to the west. Actually, I said Neighborhood Services Limited. It's actually the request is Neighborhood Services General.
 and C1 to the west, strip, C2, C1 across the street, and the remainder is RSF4. It's designated residential neighborhood area in city plan 2030. Issues, is it a compatible use? The applicant's letter indicates they're seeking this zoning to establish an office use, a counseling service
 It is on Highway 16, a four-lane roadway, and the Planning Commission staff recommend approval to NSG. And I believe Ms. Trippity, the applicant, is present if you have questions for her. Would you like to say something to the council or just want to take questions? Oh, I've just never done this before and wanted to...
 No, it's fine. I was just asking if you had any comments. I have no questions or comments, no sir. Okay. Do we have any questions? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have any public comment on this? No. All right. I will bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Do we have a second? Sonia? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sonia, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And the ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 19-6696 for approximately 0.28 acres located at 1960 East Huntsville Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Teresa. Teresa.
 I'd like to hold it on the second reading so that we can give people, the public, enough chance to know that this rezoning is before us. So I think just holding it two weeks would be good. Okay. Second.
 I think this rezoning is consistent with our city plan goals. I've received no adverse public comment about it. And we're seeing a lot of rezonings along this corridor, which makes me think that it's time to take a more comprehensive look at this edge of the mayor's box and update our city plan accordingly. Thank you. That's in your award, correct? It is award one.
 and you all haven't heard anything. Okay. All right. And I would also note that the applicant is just, she's just making the request to change the use of an existing structure. So, thank you. Is there a motion? I don't know. Do we have a motion to go to the third and final reading? Do you all hold it on six? What are we going to do here? Sloan. I move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Okay. Sarah. Second.
 Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading, correct? Okay. Senators, please call the roll. Muggin. Yes. Dutch. No. Kirk. No. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes. And Teddy. Yes. That's five votes, Mayor, so you have a right to vote yes if you want to. I'm going to vote yes. Yes.
 Okay, it passes in an ordinance to rezone that property's cried and reads only petition RZN 19-66 96 for approximately 0.28 acres Located at 1960 East Huntsville Road from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general Yes No Yes, yes
 yes that passes okay thank you all number six an ordinary zone that property described in his own petition RZN 19-6703 for approximately 30.17 acres located at 535 South Boyles Avenue from RA residential agricultural to P1 institutional kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description to give it be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to P.1 Institutional. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 This is on city application on city-owned land to facilitate the continued restoration and preservation of the Woolsey Farm. It is surrounded by RA, residential agriculture zoning, and residential RSF1 across the street, a portion of it.
 To the west and south is in Farmington, but is zone residential. It is designated institutional, civic institutional, in the city's comprehensive plan. The entire parcel is city-owned parcel that the treatment plan is on. The only issue that was identified
 is because of a state law that requires coordination on changing zoning, where we share boundaries with other jurisdictions, require notice to Farmington, and they need to concur before this goes into effect. So Planning Commission staff recommend approval and then referral to Farmington for their consent. Okay, what questions do we have in order on this?
 Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? They bring back to the council. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sondra. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Foggin. Yes. Batch. Yes. Start. Yes. Smith. Yes. Guterres. Yes. Yes. Kenyon. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 And ordinance rezoning that property described in the rezoning petition RZM 19-6703 for approximately 30.17 acres located at 535 South Royals Avenue from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional. I have a motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. I have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Summary, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all number seven in order to do me in chapter 157 notification and public hearings for the federal unified development code by expanding the notification Public hearings on applications for developments annexation zoning map amendments conditional use permits and zoning variances and large site improvement plans kit I
 Whereas in many instances the impacts of proposed land use changes may affect property owners beyond those immediately Adjacent to the property on which the change is requested and staff recommends expanding the notification requirements contained a unified development code Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal section 157. Oh 1 B 5 and
 And an Act of Replacement, Section 15701B5, as follows, quote, In the event that the applicant fails to mail a notice to a landowner or otherwise fails to comply with the written notice required in this section, the landowner may waive such notice by submitting a written waiver to the Planning Division prior to the hearing or by appearing at the hearing. Section 2.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-O'Rourke shall hereby repeal Section 15702 and an Act to replace Section 15702 as follows, quote, Who gets notice? Notice of the proposed development shall be given to all landowners within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed, unquote.
 Section 3. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 15703B1 and an act of replacement of Section 15703B1 as follows, quote, Who gets notice? Notice of the proposed annexation or zoning map amendment shall be given to all landowners within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed, unquote. Section 4. That the City Council...
 The City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 157.05.B.1 and an actual replacement of Section 157.B.1 as follows. Who gets notice? Notice of the proposed conditional use permit shall be given to all landowners within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed, unquote. Section 5.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby strikes the reference to quote manufactured and mobile homes from section 157.05 c1 section 6.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 157.07b1 regarding notification for Board of Adjustment hearings on zoning variances and appeals and an act to replace Section 157.07b1 as follows, quote, who gets notice, notice of proposed variance or appeal shall be given to all landowners within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed, unquote. And Section 7.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal Section 157.11c1 regarding notification for large site improvement plans and an act of replacement Section 157.11c1 as follows, quote, who gets notice. Notice of the proposed development shall be given to all landowners within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed, unquote.
 Mayor and Council, this request, we're bringing it for your consideration to respond to an inquiry from a number of you asking how can we strengthen and make sure that effective property owners are notified. Kit's ordinance reading was rather long, but the two changes are real simple, and I'll try to describe them.
 The existing notification requirements, we give written notice by first class mail to adjacent property owners and we post onsite signposting 15 days before the Planning Commission hearing. The proposed change is to give written notice to property owners within a 200 foot radius of the request and the onsite signposting would remain unchanged.
 At the agenda committee, some of you asked for a map that would illustrate how these changes would affect who gets notified. So this was an actual rezoning request that you recently considered on 530 South Congress. This was a lot that was in question. The blue lots are adjacent.
 and the additional yellow lots would be notified under the proposed change. So it goes from, I believe, six property owners to 28 property owners. I'll show you another one. This is more of a suburban location. It is west of I-49, north of Weddington, and the lot in question is the triangular lot here.
 Adjacent property owners would notify four property owners, and the 200 foot radius would notify an additional 13 properties. So planning staff recommends approval. We think it's a reasonable method to make sure that affected property owners are notified.
 And we've been working on how we would do that in a way that wouldn't increase our workload. And I can explain that to you if you're interested. Okay. Thanks. Thank you, Mayor. I'm supportive of increased notification requirements. This does beg a question for me, which is simply why are we only notifying property owners?
 When a majority of our town is residents, can we also include amendments that require notification to addresses themselves that are within the 200 foot radius? You could. There is a greater difficulty in ascertaining
 who occupies those units. Yeah, to find property owners you can go to the assessor's list and get a list of the property owners that you're looking for for the parcel and they'll have a mailing address for the property owner. I don't know where you would go to try to find residents. There's another, you know, like let's say there's an apartment complex
 So are you going to notify the owner of the apartment complex, or are you going to notify the 200 residents that might be living in that apartment complex? So there are some problems with doing it and not the landowner, who, of course, has a primary ownership and responsibility for that property. But I think there are some problems. I mean, you all can try to do what you want to do, but it is going to be much more difficult, I think, for applicants to be able to certify they've notified all the residents.
 I appreciate that, but I actually don't see it as being a problem at all. We don't have to name the residents who the mail is intended for. We only have to discover the addresses themselves. That's trivial for us to do in the same manner that the list of addresses is proposed to be generated. The GIS system, and I'm not suggesting whatsoever that it's a either or question. It's a both and suggestion.
 I've always found it very curious that we never seem to hear from nearby tenants when we have a rezoning request put before us. We seem to only hear from people who own property, and it wasn't until this ordinance was put on our agenda that I even realized we have a policy of not notifying tenants in the city. I think it should be corrected.
 If you wish to do that, I would recommend that you not act tonight because there are some questions that need to be answered. I'll show you this map. This is a condominium complex. Right now, this property owner is a single notification. If you go to tenants, you need to define, do you want all the tenants of this entire complex notified?
 Or do you want just the 200-foot radius? If the 200-foot radius, that's going to be a difficult list to get and certify who's in and who's out. The 200-foot circle is efficient because the property ownership lists are readily available. Our frequent flyers know how to get it.
 For our occasional applicants that don't know how to get it, our IT department can assist. I really don't know the difficulty involved in getting the addresses of the tenants. We could do some research.
 I would like to do that research. My experience with the GIS system, it's trivial to draw a circle and see where actual addresses are located. I think as long as we're not certifying that mail was delivered to particular persons, but that it was delivered to particular addresses, I think we're in the clear. And my intention to answer the question that you just asked, Garner, was that 10% of the
 tenants within the 200 foot radius be notified, not necessarily all tenants on the quality line. Not necessarily the entire complex. Okay, gotcha. So would you wanna notify only the tenants or the tenants and the landowners? The latter. Okay, Kyle. I would concur with that sentiment 100% and I think this map is a perfect example. I've known a couple of owners in this complex and I was surprised to see this come up as one owner.
 I didn't realize that it wasn't subdivided. And they have an active POA and some very active owners. And I think there would be, in this example, there would be nine people who could be pretty upset to be left off.
 I did realize we weren't notifying tenants because when we were talking about the Prairie Street live down here, one of the tenants was next door was quite upset to hear that we were talking about that and he hadn't received notification. This is obviously a condominium regime. If they own real estate, they would get notified.
 They only the ground but if they only own the air rights and the ground is in common ownership That would be one notification So you're saying the way this is right now they would would or would not get individual notification would not would not But there are kind of many Complexes where they actually own a parcel of ground and they would then get notified. Okay, we definitely need to be talking to the the
 the nine or so people inside the circle and it seems like the the one owner on record is only one additional name to the list so i don't see why it would be a problem to do both and i can't find it now but i could have sworn that there was a layer in our gis that put little dots on every address i don't know if it's where the driveway is or where the mailbox is or or what but but i'm confident that we have this data and that this is not that complicated
 Sure. I would concur with that assessment. We have a lot of absentee negligent landlords in this community, and we also have a lot of
 Really caring engaged renters and they're the ones that will be living with these decisions day to day I would like to see us do more to break down this hierarchy between landowners and renters And I think you know in the interest of equity We should notify everyone in that 200 foot radius regardless of what their economic and more property ownership status is more I concur with these comments The all of us is we're on a campaign, right? I
 We did direct mail, right? Didn't we get a list of every address? It's there. It's pretty easy. And so I don't think that that is going to be hard to find. And what we know here in our community is more and more people are renting and not buying, and they should not be excluded into the conversation that's going to impact
 In fact, they know more better probably than the landowner the impact because they're living there. So I do think it's important to go ahead and do our best effort to get renters as well as landowners. Please. Thank you.
 I agree with everything that's been said by my colleagues. It seems like you could find the tenants through the water bill, right? I mean, is that not a possibility about an easy way to call those folks and certainly could use the addresses? We just got a...
 text from our IT director saying that they thought they could help. Okay great. But probably not through the water bills there's some there's some secrecy protections. Not through the utility bill but they do have a point file that he thinks could be activated. Excellent okay thank you.
 Yes. Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank Gardner for working on this. I was one of the people who requested that we notify more people.
 When we talked about doing that, I asked about renters and property owners. And so I would love to see, you know, let's just look into that a little bit further. So I appreciate all your work so far. I am myself a renter and wondered why I hadn't gotten notifications on things that were happening nearby. So that would really help me a lot. So I'm looking forward to just researching that a little bit further and would be glad to...
 help because I've used the GIS for the addresses as well. So thanks. Yeah, I also look forward to this change. I didn't know. I've gotten letters before. I just assumed they went to the address. I didn't know that it was because I owned it.
 So that's a good change. I do have a question to staff feel that they I guess understand the changes that we're looking for So I want to make sure that we don't come back in two weeks and then go This is what I'm hearing you want to notify any property owners that are in
 affected by the circle. And even though their property may extend outside the circle, which many of these do. And you want to get a list of addresses that are within the circle. So just because the property is in common ownership and there are addresses outside of the circle, those would not be notified, but only the renters
 with addresses that are within the circle. Please tell me if I got that right. That sounds great. Thank you. Okay, so I assume we're going to leave this. Is there any public comment on this? Collins Andrews, 808 North Park Avenue. I don't want to add any complexity, but I do remember the first time I met a council member bunch was when I lived on Birdie Street, which was right across from a large development that was done on Crossover.
 So how wide is crossover? I don't know. 75, 80 feet possibly. So I was three houses away and it wasn't notified when that, I did not get any notification when that rezone came up. So I wanted to make sure that, you know, for something as substantial as a road, like crossover, maybe we factor something like that in.
 for the notification so i know that my house at that time was uh probably not within 200 but if you went to the other side of the street it would have been any other public comment on this okay bring it back to the council i will make the adjustments come back in two weeks okay all right number eight a resolution to request that city staff study and develop an ordinance to regulate short-term rentals in the city of fed
 Okay, it's yours. Yes mayor this This request is is not presuming a policy solution or even launching the development of an ordinance this resolution is Is recommending that we convene? stakeholders and interested parties neighborhood residents and
 owners of short-term rentals and start putting together policy goals, which then would be brought back to city council. Let me suggest that there might be one exception to that, highly unlikely, but if we absolutely get consensus, we might just proceed to an ordinance. I doubt that.
 But I thought I'd talk a little bit about the facts, the benefits and problems, and the process we're proposing. There are between 500 and 600 presently operating in Fayetteville. Nationally, there has been a tenfold increase in the last five years. I suppose that that is close to the Fayetteville's increase.
 A critical fact here is that leasing less than a week is illegal by Fayetteville zoning code. The legislature just passed a law saying that short-term rentals that lease less than 30 days have to pay visitor sales tax. So they're obligated to pay sales tax like they were a motel hotel.
 but they're not allowed in Fayetteville zoning code other than if they have commercial zoning. There's been recently some movement by Airbnb to voluntarily pay the city's portion of sales tax, but national compliance estimates indicate that not all of the sales tax are being collected nationally and probably not in Fayetteville. They're asking me,
 10% of the entire sales tax, visitor sales tax, gets collected nationally. Short-term rentals come in two types, and I want to talk just a little bit about the two types. One is home sharing, where somebody has a home and wants to share a room or wants to rent the home when they're not there. They might rent the entire unit.
 when they're out of town. That was frequently done in Austin, where I used to work. Major events would happen in Austin, major concert, week-long concerts. People would plan their vacations to leave and rent their homes and pay for the vacation. So that's called type 1, when you're sharing your home with visitors for a fee. Okay.
 Type 2 is when you actually develop a business and have a house or a condominium or an apartment which you only list as a short-term rental on the various platforms. Benefits, supplemental income to homeowners, expanded visitor accommodations, increased visitor sales tax.
 And if people stay in Fayetteville rather than stay north of here, they're more likely to spend sales tax. So it has an economic development component. Problems include, I mentioned not all sales tax are being collected. I think that's reasonably conclusive that we're not getting all the sales tax. Also, it seems a little bit unfair for hotels and motels who have made significant investments.
 And this would, if we did a business license and collected sales tax, it would level the playing field. I think most homeowners rent their rooms judiciously. The vast majority of them do. And the visitors come and go almost seamlessly. But there's a small minority of bad actors there.
 And every community I've worked in had problems with parking, trash, party houses. And building safety. Again, building safety probably isn't as much of a problem for type 1 because you're assuming the home's going to be safe, but type 2 may need an inspection.
 The proposed process for developing the ordinance, we think we need to notify interested people. We've already been contacted by a number of people that are interested in participating in the process. And we need to have some community meetings where we invite everybody to come to the same meeting. We want the participants to talk to each other and hear each other. How many of these meetings are needed? I don't think we know. I know one is needed. Perhaps we need more.
 After the community outreach is completed, we would write a proposed policy goals for your consideration, and then you would give us direction, and then we would actually write the ordinance. That sounds a little bit of a number of steps, but I think it's the subject that going a little bit slow and making sure we touch all the bases
 and get the involvement we need both by you and the broader community, we'll pay dividends at the end. So you might ask, what's the schedule? I think it's going to take the remainder of this year and probably into next year a little bit to get this done.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. I know there's probably no official data for this, but do you have a gut feeling about the balances between your Type 1s and Type 2s, the people who are using this as an auxiliary out of a house they're living in and those that are running it as a business without a permanent residence? I don't have Fayetteville data. I know that nationally the Type 2s
 are the demand for type 2 is increasing and the percentage the percentage of type 2 is significantly uh increasing particularly in communities that are tourist destinations i i saw a presentation by staff from savannah and charleston and it's primarily type 2
 and they are actually ratcheting up their regulations for type 2. So you'd estimate it's more restrictive? More or less than half? I don't know. Okay. I'll see if I can get the answer to that. But this is what our residents would call absentee landlords, right? Yes. Okay. I think if you think about it,
 As this becomes more commonplace and it develops and it's here to stay, and it's how people live and it's how people travel, Type 2 can gracefully integrate into neighborhoods. And I think that the trend is to try to be as unrestricted as possible for Type 1. Type 2 is actually going the opposite direction.
 Austin, Texas is prohibiting type 2 without commercial zoning. Thank you, Mayor.
 So just to be clear on the definition, type 1, if you go away from vacation and you have somebody stay there, that's a type 1. What about in type 2, you're never living there whatsoever. But I know of situations here in Fayetteville where they're renting out an Airbnb that's right next door to them. So they're effectively on the premises. So they're kind of in that gray area.
 And I don't know if there's, I think that situation should be considered. And I don't know if that's a type three or a one and a half or what, but I think that's pretty common around here. And so it may need a different category. There are gradations between those two concepts. Yeah.
 Yes. Well, I applaud this effort. I think it's I think this is the right approach. Going slow, getting a lot of input from different different different communities is is is really good and well thought out.
 Sorry if you mentioned this, but I definitely want in this study a look at the relationship between I guess the type two and homelessness in communities. I do know that some people find it financially beneficial to kick out their long term tenants so that they can rent it out at football games and bikes, booze and barbecue.
 As a city, we're having issues with homelessness. So if we don't look at this and also look at that issue at the same time, I feel like we're missing something. So thank you. It's an excellent point. I think there's a public perception that short-term rental take housing out of the circulation. Type 2s may, if a new unit isn't built, if an existing residence is converted to short-term rental housing,
 yet may take it off the market for longer-term rental and housing for the community. A true type 1 actually doesn't decrease the supply of housing. It actually uses our existing housing stock more efficiently by sharing it with visitors. So I think that's an educational component that this process needs to talk about. Yeah, I agree. Thank you. What public comment do we have?
 Hello, my name is Angela Delford. I'm the executive director for the Fayetteville Housing Authority, also a resident just outside the city limits of Fayetteville. Thanks so much for considering this ordinance and beginning this research project, because anecdotally, we may not have done the studies, but anecdotally, I can tell you this has a huge impact on people experiencing homelessness.
 when you cannot find someplace to rent because this unit has now been converted into short-term rentals, especially smaller footprint homes that are going to be really great for the great price point for Airbnb. It has had a dramatic impact on our ability to house people over the last several years.
 You know that every time I stand at this microphone, I somehow find a way to say we should legalize it and tax it. But on this situation, we might consider it as a fee versus a tax. I don't know how that works, but perhaps maybe there's more latitude for the council to make a decision about
 I also would like to talk about, I don't think it's too early to say let's talk about how that money will be used. The city spends a large amount of money on homelessness, and we greatly appreciate that. And we couldn't be making the progress that we are toward ending homelessness without that.
 And there are some situations where we have the opportunity to apply for grants and there's not match money for that. So, for instance, right now, the continuum of care, there's a two hundred forty three thousand dollar grant that we can apply for and we'll need a twenty five percent match.
 which means that one of our organizations is going to have to fundraise private donors or somewhere to be able to find the match money. And what a great way to leverage this in being able to take this money and leverage it for further grant programs. Additionally, of course, assisting with housing. And we would be delighted to talk about how we could assist you with housing
 executing that housing assistance, because there are a number of communities that do private vouchers, especially for shorter term helping people get off their feet. So those are some ideas. Also when you look at inspections, the Housing Authority also has, we do Section 8 inspections all day every day, and so it's very much a livability standard and a housing quality standard that you might consider it might be a way for us to generate revenue.
 So this could have a lot of different wins and a lot of different impacts. My also perspective is that if a private citizen is going to earn money, I think that's beautiful and amazing, and I'm an entrepreneur at heart.
 And if them earning money is going to result in the government having to solve some problems, then I think they need to contribute a portion of that revenue that they're generating and the profit that they're generating to be able to assist the government in solving the problem that they're helping to create.
 So I am very happy and would love to be part of the stakeholder group and would be happy to help in any way that we can and offer our resources to be able to help convene people, get the word out, and of course connect you with homeless service providers and other housing authorities, whatever we can do. Thank you so much for your careful consideration of this. I hope it doesn't drag out for as long as you're saying, but thanks so much. Thank you. Any other public comment on this?
 my name is hannah tripodi i live at 4245 east broom stage drive in bayville and i am the owner and manager evidently illegally of a type 2 short terminal off of morningside drive and i learned that this was going to be an item on today's agenda like yesterday through a newspaper article that was shared with me and i thought well i'm already here
 So to give you some background, I bought a house in the beginning of 2018, a 1,000 square foot house that I could just generously call rundown for $90,000. By the end of 2018, the improvements that I put into it, the house was appraised for $200,000, over $200,000. Okay.
 On January 1st of this year, I opened the doors for an Airbnb and I, that same day, paid $51 in what Airbnb told me was local tourism and hospitality tax. Since that time, I've paid more than $1,500 towards that tax through that one Airbnb. So in the article that I read, it did mention that the focus would be on what I am, the type 2 full-time job.
 airbnb host or short-term rental landlord um and i wanted to kind of speak to that because i feel like there are some misconceptions um for starters i'm invested this isn't my supplemental income this isn't my side hustle this is my livelihood um i'm also invested in the city of fayetteville this is where i live this is where i raise my kids um and the reason that i fixed up the house in the first place is because it's what i do i love my city and i want it to look pretty
 So I've hosted a number of people from a number of different situations. I've hosted a lot of families who came into town to see their graduates walk across the stage at the U of A. I've hosted tourists who just heard about how awesome Fayetteville is and wanted to come see for themselves. And I've hosted Fayetteville residents who have for some reason or another been displaced from their homes and suddenly needed last minute accommodations for their families.
 I wanted to speak to a few things that I've heard here today too. As far as the significant investments of hotels and motels, I've invested significantly and I am invested significantly. And market disruption is a part of a growing economy that's, you know, we didn't say blockbuster whenever Redbox came into town for better or worse. I'm not an absentee landlord. I live close by and they're multiple times a week. I,
 pay income tax on the profits that I receive from hosting my Airbnb. And I'm able, I feel, to help my community in a way that I am not able to as a traditional landlord, which I also am. The article noted that the complaints that the city has received here were scarce, that there haven't been a lot of complaints.
 And I just wanted to ask that in the considerations of possible restrictions on this, that you also keep in mind that there are a number of benefits to the city and its visitors and its residents. And that's all. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Yes.
 Hey, my name is Logan Humphrey. I live at 122 West Meadow Street. I am a Fayetteville resident for the past five years. I have been a Type 1 and a Type 2 short-term rental manager and a short-term rental, well, sharing my home with people who are traveling. I started off that way. I'm here today as an entrepreneur who has started a Type 2 management company
 Here in town, there are a few management companies that operate in the Northwest Arkansas region. And I help a vast number of property owners to take their property and to make some income off of it, but also to allow them to live in Fayetteville part-time. So I have a lot of people who I help host their properties through the Airbnb platform, do business in the town temporarily.
 And previously they just had it sit unused. There's people that I've talked to, investors, who wanted to invest in the town. And as I've seen over the years, the tourism industry has increased significantly with a lot of trail systems and things that are going on. I do know that Fayetteville has entered with Airbnb into a voluntary collection agreement for the HMR taxes, along with many different sales taxes.
 And I would say 90% of revenue comes through Airbnb in this town. Other rental platforms, such as Booking.com, VRBO, et cetera, they don't require you to collect and remit. I specifically choose to use most Airbnbs through my rentals so that we can operate in different ways to help the city out.
 I do think that I'm in favor of regulations, but also a consensus for an agreement for people to be allowed to do this. Currently, it is difficult to rent out less than seven days, and most people that are traveling, as we probably know, all going to weekend trips, are interested in shorter than seven-day stays. I'm up here just to say that I want to be as much help as possible in the development of the code.
 and to say that I am in favor of regulations as a business owner who has multiple properties that I help host. I do more than just hosting, I also have a cleaning business. There are lots of jobs that are given in the area for this and there's many benefits to the city itself. So I'm just here to help out in any way possible. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council.
 Well, as many times as I think I've heard about these over the last two years of Ward 4 meetings, I'm surprised we didn't have any neighbor voices in the public input, but we
 some different perspectives. So I'm going to be real excited to support a study here. Our community has been telling us for years that it's time that these are regulated, and I appreciate staff's interest in developing the plan. So whether it is just policy goals or an ordinance, there's a couple of things I want to make sure that we consider during the study that just don't get overlooked.
 Sloan mentioned how short-term rentals can be part of the homelessness problem. But I want to make sure we also talk about how they can be part of the solution. I think Angela kind of alluded to that a little bit. And last week I talked about how residential short-term is different and distinct from hotel short-term rentals in a lot of ways. They market themselves with an appeal that's different from hotels. The people choose them.
 Because they want a different kind of experience and the impact they have on neighborhoods and our overall housing market That's that's where they're very very different I Definitely think they should be regulated and I also think that we should look at potentially taxing them differently as well. I
 Other things we already tax differently aren't nearly as different as these two items. If I want to enjoy some fried chicken, I can go to any of a number of places down in MLK and pay an extra 2% or I can go a little further down to the neighborhood market and skip that for almost the same product.
 Once upon a time I learned that I could go through the drive-in drive-thru window at McDonald's Save the dine-in tax take my bag inside and eat it at the table Because they were smart enough back then to To have figured out whether it was considered. I don't know That was an interesting little discovery for a high school kid. I
 It's not unusual, I think, for cities to apply different HMR rates to different services. Rogers has 4% on hotels and 0% on restaurants. Those are a little more different uses, I guess, than this, but I think it's something that we should definitely explore. Garner reminded us how many houses are taken off our market here, potentially 500, 600, 600.
 We don't know the balance of how many of those are type 1 or type 2, but, and I'm not going to run the math again, but I will remind you that we need about 500 new units a year just to keep up with our current rates of population growth. So we may have more than a year's worth of homes lost just to vacation rentals.
 That's not a small impact. So I'm not suggesting we shut them down and take the houses back. I think that's been clearly unsuccessful under our existing policies of just making them illegal. It doesn't work.
 But I hope that we will go beyond simple regulation and revenue collection and look at how we can start using the revenue to remediate the impact that short-term rentals are having on the housing affordability issues. We can't solve housing problems with Airbnb. My best guess based on what we're collecting from Airbnb right now, if they're a huge portion of the market and we...
 Did things that I don't think are politically reasonable we might get $175,000 a year out of them. That's not going to build a whole lot of houses, but it might Generate some revenue somewhere and
 to get us a start on something. Angela talked about taxes versus fees. She even gave us some options on how we could spend them. That conversation needs to be part of the focus groups so we can find a way to include the owner operators like Ms. Tripoli and Mr. Humphreys, bring their businesses kind of out of the shadows so we can address their impacts. I just want to make sure we remember this study as kind of our chance to get creative and put all the options on the table here.
 Sure. Thank you. I'm glad that we're looking at this. I do know of several formerly affordable apartments that have been taken off the market and converted to Airbnbs at quite exorbitant rates. And on one hand, that's bad for housing, but on the other hand, it's provided some economic stability for small landlords that own these units. So I think we need to take that into account. But I want us to look at it also from the perspective of tourism.
 I fortunate that I get to travel a lot and I've stayed in a lot of Airbnb's.
 And what I like about them is that it gives you the real experience of being in a community. You get to stay in a neighborhood and actually feel like what it would be to live there rather than being downtown with the tourists or on the side of the bypass where it's more affordable. If you think about if someone, like if my family wanted to come and visit me in South Fayetteville and stay nearby,
 there's not a hotel down there. You'd have to go maybe over towards the baseball stadium. I believe there's a suites over there, but other than that there are no hotel options down there. We have a very, we have a shortage of hotels downtown. In particular any kind of boutique hotel experience which you're more high-end travelers or you're
 maybe people associated with the university that would draw them. We really have a lot of kind of generic hotels, but not a lot that of offerings that really convey the sense of place and what makes us a unique place.
 So, you know, I think that Airbnbs have a lot of potential to diversify and enrich our tourism experience, but again, we've got these affordable units being taken off the market, and that obviously concerns me. So I'm glad to see that we're doing this, and I look forward to the results. I do hope that we can move a little bit faster than the suggested timetable. But with that, I would like to move that we approve the resolution.
 I just want to say that I'm, I'm also a big user of the Airbnbs. Um, and I'd love to get out of the tourist circle. So, um, it's a really great way for me to engage and be part of the community when I'm there. And so I liked the idea that visitors are coming and doing that in Fayetteville. Um, I do, um, I did get a lot of email and I did get, um, phone calls on this. Um,
 And what I was able to tell people was that as a user of Airbnb, there is a way for neighbors to report any issues directly to Airbnb. So I've been sharing a link that if that host has also an obligation to the neighbors and Airbnb is interested in hearing from the neighbors directly,
 So they have a way to connect directly to Airbnb and the host wants to make a good impact so they can remain a host. And so I think the majority of hosts are probably trying to just blend in and do their best job to remain a host. But I didn't I realized a lot of people didn't know that they could reach out to Airbnb directly as a neighbor directly.
 The other part that I think that might, that I haven't heard much about is the, what is the staff impact in terms of regulating these 500 or 600 that we know about? Maybe there's more that are happening and maybe more people will want to do it now that we're talking about it. So if that could be included in this or is that separate or how do we know the amount of time that we can, you know, that we're now going to have to spend to do that?
 The enforcement? The enforcement, yes. There is staff time involved in enforcing the ordinance, but it's highly dependent on the ordinance that is adopted. For instance, if Council chooses to require a business license, there will be more business license for the business license folks. If that business license requires an inspection,
 going to require more inspections by the fire marshal's office so yes it does require more staffing but it's dependent on the regulations that are adopted before I'd like to clarify a couple things since Paul in here he'd like to say this but I think I'll have to say it
 Sales tax is completely confidential. We don't know where it comes from. It's against the law to reveal it. Even our HMR taxes, which we used to be able to reveal who was paying HMR taxes, they have now removed that. The legislature has, and we can't say that anymore. So when you're talking about using the money you're getting from this, we won't know.
 And our HMR revenue also is specifically designated for two sources only. One is the A&P Commission, and the other is the Parks Department. Nothing for general revenue. We can't change that penny. And so we won't know what we're getting. Now, I will say that talking to Paul earlier today, he couldn't really even be definite, but he said so far it's not very much. Now, hopefully we'll get better enforcement.
 In the future, with now that we're having some of the state laws that's really requiring us basically to do this, because the state is going to work very hard, I think, to collect sales tax, because most of it goes to them. And then they will return our portion to us. So that I think hopefully that will increase sales.
 But I just want to let you know we have no money that we can earmark somewhere coming out of airbnbs It just we won't know where the sales tax came from and the H1 tax can't be used for anything But what it's designated for Since they're currently submitting their HMR by a voluntary contract Is that covered by the same confidentiality that it would be if they were?
 permitting it to the state good normal process I think it probably is it's still HMR revenue and you know all of our Businesses are rate almost all of them are doing it voluntarily usually not by contract is by regulation and we had we would have had difficulty in the past trying to just do it by regulation because they really were not operating legally and
 I think soon, one way or the other, they're going to be operating legally. We won't have to worry about the contract anymore. We'll try to enforce it not only with Airbnb but any other company that does the same sort of thing. So my recommendation to any of the city staff is treat it as its HMR revenue because it is against the law with some pretty stiff penalties if that information is released. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to very briefly add some additional context to the conversation about hotel, motel, restaurant taxes. We've been over at the A&P Commission for a few years now, and we get monthly reports on HMR collections citywide. Over the course of an entire year, we'll collect $3.5 million or more in total HMR taxes for our side of things. And, of course, the same amount of money is also collected nationally.
 on behalf of the Parks Department, and can be used for those purposes. I wanted to provide one point of information, put that in perspective for those of us who might be thinking that collections on Airbnb might be significant.
 And not to dash your hopes, but if you look at all of our collections, 85% of our HMR collections on any given month typically come from restaurants. Not even more than 15% comes from our entire hotel ecosystem.
 So if you if you put that in perspective, we're seeing somewhere around a four hundred thousand dollars per year Coming from hotels for every percent of HMR that we have on the books So it's not a whole lot of money and the grand scheme of things and especially if we're talking about a marginal increase in collections by adding a new sector like short-term rentals, it's not likely to be a whole lot and
 I don't bring any of this up to discourage us from the study or for talking about short-term rentals with respect to other issues. And I'm excited to see if we can get creative about other revenue sources. But if you're planning to lean on tax collections and existing mechanisms, it's not likely to amount to a whole lot. Okay. Okay.
 We have a motion and a second. Oh, Kyle. Sorry, just one more thing to add in response to that because it's a really good point, but we will continue to hear voices from the community asking us why we didn't talk about it unless we talk about it in this study. If the result is an answer that says it's not enough to be worth it, that's a valid outcome. I just want to make sure the conversation is had.
 for the sake of people who could benefit from it if the answer is different or the sake of people who are calling for it if that's if that's the real answer okay anything else we have a motion to say in the past resolution okay so i would you please call yes yes yes yes yes yes yes all right thank you all that concludes our business what uh announcements do we have
 Mayor, I have a few announcements. The city is delighted to welcome the new business development manager in our economic vitality department. Working with Devin Howland, Chung Tan has been appointed, and we are really happy to have this resource. After an eight-month search for staffing, we found her, of course, right in our own backyard, and we're delighted to have Chung.
 A few other announcements, reminding residents about just some animal reminders. Please lease your pets, pick up the waste, and watch out for the hot cars and the hot pavement. We've been having some complaints coming about residents who've witnessed some animal issues
 There are two new surveys, actually three, but two new project areas on the Speak Up website in the plastics and polystyrene survey, which we've had in a week, incredible responses to. I think almost 1,000 by this time in that survey.
 And then since last Friday when the stormwater utility survey was launched, we have had over 100. So we're moving right along. That tool is picking up steam. And I'd like to encourage residents who have not yet read about those two projects to please take a look at Speak Up Fayetteville. And then let's see. We do have a couple of questions.
 Some events, of course, the dive-in movies are still on this summer, and you can check out the schedule on the website. The Slow Roll Fayetteville Summer Series, there'll be one slow roll this Saturday at Tricycle Farm, so check that out.
 And finally, some road closures. As you all know, work has continued on old wire road improvements. And right now and for the next several weeks, there will be several side streets closed as the work commences. And those would be Amber and Elmwood Drive, Cardinal Drive, Overcrest. There'll be a media release going out about that tomorrow. Thank you.
 But those closures will be happening from now until the end of July.
 And then finally, the CDBG in the Park, annual CDBG in the Park will be held this Friday between 1030 and 1 30 at the Walker Park Main Pavilion. It's free and open to the public. There'll be over a dozen providers of services and community programs and all of the different programs that are available from the city and these other over a dozen providers. And staff will be there to talk to residents about some of our special projects.
 and there will be food. So welcome to everyone at the Walker Park Main Pavilion, 1030 to 130, this Friday. Thanks. Okay. Any other announcements? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.