I would like to call the City Council meeting of July the 17th 2018 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Here. Batch? What's here? Present. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. First thing that we have tonight is on reports. Paul Becker will give the monthly finance report.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm going to modify this report a little bit. I'm going to talk a little bit first about the 2017 audit, make a couple of comments, then I'll talk about the last month for which we received sales tax and have completed the month, which is the month of May.
 As far as the audit report is concerned, as you'll recall at the agenda session on August 28th, BKD came forward to talk about the performance of that audit and any recommendations. For 2017, we've talked about how we did many, many times. General fund was up about $1.8 million. We reprogrammed that to four salaries this year.
 net position, so it was an overall good year for the city, but the things we need to concentrate on are the external auditor BKD reported to you that we had a clean opinion. That's unqualified opinion, so we had no clarifications in that opinion. No legal violations either federal or state. Those reports are in the audit report and
 No significant deficiencies no material weaknesses and no significant Adjustments to the report you should have all gotten the report Electronically and hopefully a hard copy also if there any questions in the future I'll certainly be happy to answer any if there any now. I would be happy to answer them also But that's one thing that we should have done the meeting after
 After that agenda session, let's just talk about what the auditors report. And again, BKD did address you at that time, so you more or less heard the word from them how the audit went. I'll answer questions if you have any at this point in time, and certainly I'm always available. It has been posted online. It's been posted with the federal government, so we're done with the 2017 audit. Okay. What questions do we have for Paul? All right. All right.
 Thank you. The next order of business is the consent. Well, I'm going to also talk about the month of May and performance. All right. Also. Okay. I'm sorry. As far as performance year to date, in the general fund, overall revenues are up about 4.3%.
 We're holding in sales tax up four point eight percent. We've discussed that before that's good Remember to mark that I was looking for for our salaries was in the five percent range so we're Looking pretty good. Their building permits are doing very very well this year and
 Actually, they're up about $300,000. This is being driven by a lot of residential construction. They're very, very busy over at Planning and Building reviewing those plans, but we're up $300,000 for the year so far at this point in time. Again, we're up over 4% for the general fund in total, so that looks very good when we put that in view of the –
 the fund balance that we went into to generate the raises for this year and that earmark statistic I looked at Earlier as far as the expenditures were just about on time. We're just about on schedule for Where we expect that remember compared last year. We had a couple of things We had to take care of on the capital side this year they are squared was one of them and also the purchase of
 of Millsap Mountain. As far as cash,
 We're pretty well fixed in the cash situation. We have roughly $20 million in the general fund. Much of that is committed to other places, but we do have a lot of liquidity. As far as the fund balance at this time, we're going to be running between $5 and $6 million by the end of the year. That's my estimate, if nothing changes at this point in time. So we're doing well in the general fund. As far as the street fund is concerned, we're down slightly in revenue from the state.
 down roughly 2%, but that doesn't concern me at this point in time. But we've got sufficient cash there and we'll end up the year with about $2 million in fund balance in the street fund. Parking funds down about $50,000 this year. We're doing a little better than we were before. We'll see how that plays out at the end of the year. Expenditures are pretty well flat compared to last year.
 If I take out the capital and just look at operations, we're pretty steady compared to where we were last year. And as far as the debt service payments are concerned, I have no reservations about that roughly where we should be there. So I see no problems with the parking fund. Parks Development Fund, we're up about 4.4%. And we're...
 in HMR taxes, that's about $66,000. Our expenditures are just about in line with where I had planned. And we'll have a fund balance in the neighborhood of $5,000 to $750,000 by the end of the year. That's my projection at this point in time. Water and sewer, now remember we're talking about May.
 So as of May, revenue was up about 2.8%, and our increases were actually up 3%. So we're pretty flat with last year, but we're going to pick that up in June and July with that hot period kicking in.
 As far as expenditures, our concern operations are in line with expectations. Remember, we've got roughly $20 million worth of capital out there programmed that we'll be getting into. So that's doing well at this point in time. Trash and recycling. Recycling.
 Revenue is pretty flat compared to last year expenditures are up about two hundred thousand dollars But that's be expected because we've expanded operations at the at the council's direction most of those increases are in some equipment that we bought and a couple of positions that we had at that point in time far as the airport goes Aviation gas
 purchases are way up this year. They're up 36 percent compared to last year. I'll be bringing forward a budget adjustment later this month or next month asking for an additional appropriation and
 And aviation gas fuel because we got to buy the fuel to spend it but uh, but those sales are doing very very well For us and at this point in time, I don't see any problems in the airport fund So as of the month of may that's my report By uh the next council meeting I should have june numbers and we'll be Discussing june, but at this point in time see no problems and we're progressing very well. I'll be happy to answer any questions Do we have any questions paul on this?
 Good. Thank you, Paul. Now before I get into consent tonight, we have a walk-on item, I believe.
 Sarah, I believe you're bringing a walk-on item? Yes, I would like, I would move that we suspend the rules and add this resolution to the agenda. This is dealing with the Fayetteville Housing Authority issues. As some of you may be aware, they've been without water for two days, and while repairs are underway, I think we've seen a lot of things that are concerning with the management of the public housing. And this resolution would...
 um, allow for, let's see, can you help me here? Um, let me read the title of the resolution just so that they know what you're asking to be put on. It's it. And I have handed out a copy to all the city council, but the public hadn't got a copy yet. It's a resolution to express the city council's recommendations to them, to mayor Jordan concerning the fable housing authorities, 2018 annual plan and rolling five year plan.
 Thank you. And this will give us an opportunity to review their five-year plan and make comments on that to the mayor. And while he will ultimately be the decider on that, it also allows for some public comment as well as our input, which I think is imperative at this point. And if I could add a comment just for Council Member Marsh's explanation of this, with the packet you have before you is the –
 Certificate request for the mayor to sign and approve the Fayetteville Housing Authority's five-year plan. It is also a copy of the...
 CDBG five-year plan because those two plans need to be in coordination and so you have a copy of that as well to be able to compare those and you have an analysis memo from our assistant city attorney that has highlighted some of the items that we are aware of that the mayor and the council members who have spoken with us before might have want to address within the plan that are areas of concern that have been expressed
 previously in the public. So those are the documents in front of you and the packet for you to review for this future discussion. Okay, we have a motion to add this to the agenda. Do we have a second? Kyle? I'll second. All right, we have a motion and a second to add this to the agenda. Shall the motion pass? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Kipp?
 Yes. Yes. Okay. Mayor, may I just read the body of the resolution so the public will know what it is? Whereas the Fayetteville Housing Authority has requested Mayor Jordan to sign the Fayetteville Housing Authority's 2018 annual plan and rolling five-year plan, and whereas Mayor Jordan's approving signature is necessary before such plan can be submitted to the Housing Urban Development Department,
 And whereas several items of this plan have proven somewhat controversial to Fayetteville citizens in the past, and Mayor Jordan would appreciate the City Council members and the public's comments and suggestions concerning the various parts of the plan before the mayor determines whether it is in the best interest of Fayetteville to approve this plan,
 And whereas the plan might be able to be improved through public comment, which comments could be taken into consideration by the Fayetteville Housing Authority to refine and improve the plan. Now, therefore, be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby recommends that the below portions of the 2018 annual plan and rolling five-year plan be reconsidered and modified by the Fayetteville Housing Authority before Mayor Jordan signs as approving the plan and Then I just have some blank spaces for you all to fill in the blanks basically, okay What discussion shall we have? Mayor?
 Well, speaking for myself, having just seen the plan itself tonight, I'd prefer to table this personally. We just got handed this? I haven't gotten through it either. I just got it today, really. I've gotten bits and pieces, but I haven't got it all. But I wanted you all to know I haven't signed anything yet because I want to hear back from you on what you think about the plan this time before I sign it.
 We've had some issues in the past and I think I want to hear from the council on this. So it's not like I have to sign it tomorrow or there's a deadline. But we can table it for two weeks and have it on the agenda for discussion and give you two weeks to read through this. It'll give me time to read through it a little more carefully. Well I think the idea though was to get it out in front of the public and have some comments from them and certainly not necessarily to pass any resolution tonight but to get it out into the public so people can comment.
 I need to know about the people who don't have water for two days Is there some connection between us passing this resolution and then getting water? Okay. Here's what I know John I think I call the executive director today John was in a room kit was there Paul was there and according to her they have been working on the line since 630 yesterday morning and
 And she said that she believed it would be repaired either by tonight or early in the morning. They had to order some sort of part or something. And they do have, I understand that they're working with 2017 budget money, so there is some funds there for repairs. So, you know, that's all I know. That's all I can tell you.
 So we're not, by tabling this for two weeks, we're not making these people live without water for two weeks. No, and John, if I have to, I will, we're not going to let 40 people be without water. Okay, good. I already told the staff that. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 and i would like to thank the many volunteers and the staff at our yvonne richardson center that have been working with residents to uh to bring water to them to bring food for them they've been showering at the yvonne richardson center and then they've also been offered the opportunity to stay at the salvation army and have dinner there but as far as i know there have been no transportation arrangements made um and they were to have notified staff by 3 p.m today if they wanted to attend so
 So there's a lot of concern. We need to be paying attention to our housing authority board and we need to be listening to the residents and we need to be inviting them to come and share their concerns with us and their experiences with us. And by tabling this for two weeks, that will give them an opportunity to either contact one of us or show up at a meeting and make their voices heard because I feel like they've
 their interests have not been represented well um through the housing authority board and we have to step up because we have some of our most vulnerable citizens living in crisis right now so um i'm glad that we're going to review this five-year plan i think that that's
 The first step or the least we can do at this point, so I encourage everyone to read this and give feedback I think some of the areas a particular concern that you'll want to pay attention to our plans to demolish existing properties plans for a rad conversion And it is also interesting to note the amount of funds that have been available and the resources that have been available to improve the properties that have not been accessed so
 i'm sure it'll be interesting reading but i want to thank the many people in the community that have reached out in concern to advocate for these residents thank you
 Mayor, I just want to add to the council that what will be critical in terms of the timing of this discussion is that obviously to receive HUD funding, the certificate of the plan approval has to be submitted prior to the annual funding fiscal year. So you have the document that the mayor will ultimately need to sign will need to be processed sometime in September so there is no gap in funding.
 Otherwise, it just exacerbates this problem of not having continued funding. It's not something, however, though, that don't feel like there's a gun held to your head that's got to be decided today because there are things in it that may be inconsistent with the overall plan that you want to get back or see revised before the mayor actually signs it. But there is a timetable. So this can't just be continued to be tabled and continue to be tabled or it will affect
 the funding from the federal government. So, I guess we said all the same, it really won't be going anywhere until I sign the document. So it just is where it is now. But it can't go on forever either because they're going to have to have some funding to operate. And I do want to make that clear that this is not funding necessary to operate in 2017, that funding is received.
 um this is the for their capital money so for these types of repairs like this emergency repair this type of money could be used on that but it will be for the 18th fiscal year which is we're not sure if it's october 1st or september but we know it's one of those two months that's a question that we can ask the board when they come forward yeah yes and just for clarification on our schedule it's three weeks till our next meeting isn't that correct
 that is correct because this is a five week so we'd be tabling until then and that makes no difference August the 7th would be our next week at least sometime in September the executive director said they were going to repair what's damaged right now okay that's all I know I was just clarifying thank you just to the timeline for preparing this plan what when are there meetings do we have
 We have no information on their meetings. We have no information on their items until you all talk about this and the various parties are available to you to answer those questions. I'm going to open it up for some public comment if anybody's here to discuss it tonight before we table it.
 Who would like to? Everybody gets five minutes into the microphone. You get one turn unless a council member brings you back, asks you questions. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage anybody on the council or out in the public. You can get more time with the council by a vote. It gives you more time. So name and address and who would like to be first to address it. Hello, I'm Olivia Trimble. I live at 2031 South Klein Avenue.
 I have been at Willow Heights a lot this week. The next meeting, for anyone who asks, is the 26th. It's here at 530. I know that we have this plan to approve, but I hope that before that happens, I hope that everyone gets a chance to go up to Willow Heights and kind of walk around and maybe talk to some residents. The conditions are terrible. They're really bad.
 Yesterday I ended up bringing a ton of food up there because the people who live there probably can't do takeout for the multiple days that they can't cook so Well, I know that everyone on council is very engaged. I think it would be imperative to go speak with these residents before any plans are approved and it might also be helpful to watch some of the past meetings to get an idea of
 the attitude and the issues that have been brought up um so that's all i have to say okay thank you thank you who else would like to address this on this all right see none i'll bring it back to council soon may or motion to table is next mark i'm sorry i also want to encourage everyone to take the opportunity to look at the uh options that were prepared by the uh
 Community Design Center where it talks specifically about the location and why it might be necessary to preserve public housing in this location and it also offers three options of on how to utilize the current property and so I think that if you're looking at
 whether this is demolition or for looking at utilization of the property because of the importance that was identified in this document. It's going to give you an insight that's very broad, and it's based on unbiased analysis. And I think that having unbiased analysis from an outside group,
 is important whenever we consider the options that are in front of us. So if you'll take an opportunity to do that, I think that you'll see that there are options that are available. Okay, and so thank you. This may remove the table is still the next meeting. Sarah. Second. We have a motion second table it for three weeks. Is that right?
 Okay, and if anything occurs between now and then water wise We may be visiting again or I may make a decision So that being said Would you please go? Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, okay the next order of business is the consent number one approval of the July of
 third 2018 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution approved purchase of a rowing dock the canoe and kayak launch area from jmh marine incorporated dba accu doc in the amount of thirty three thousand one hundred and eighty three dollars and seventy four cents plus but tax percent to a federal
 General Services Administration go off to purchasing contract to be installed at Lake Federal and to approve a budget adjustment. I would like just to take a moment to say something before I go on with the consent. I want to recognize the Federal Rotary Club. I know that Dr. Rome is here, and I would like for them to stand. If you would like to say just a word before I go on with the consent, I'm going to give you the podium.
 Don't everybody look surprised? It's not a big thing. It'll be a wonderful thing. All right. Rotary Club? Good.
 So we are thrilled to be working with the Fayetteville Rowing Club, whose idea this was and brought it to Rotary. And we are thrilled to be a part of what you're accomplishing here at the city. I think it's going to be a great addition to Lake Fayetteville. I learned so much about what's going on out there that I never knew through this process. So thank you for moving this forward for the citizens of Fayetteville. Is the Rowing Club, do they have a representative here that wants to say something? Yes, come right on up. Okay.
 And as she comes to the microphone, we might note that the Rotary Club and the Rowing Club together donated $13,000 for this doc. Hi, I'm Meredith. I'm with the Rowing Club of Northwest Arkansas. We are also very, very, very excited. We've been waiting for this for a while, and we started a program with some high school students this year, and they're not here tonight, but they're also, after having used the existing doc for a year, they're overjoyed. So thanks so much.
 very well if you all would stand one more time and we'd like to uh stuff rome and uh everybody stand up and i'd like to give you a round of applause thank you very much now go on with the consent number three a resolution to approve a change order to the contract with the field shop incorporated little rock to expand scope services to include the purchase
 and installation of audiovisual equipment for City Hall room 111. Number four, resolution to approve an agreement with Central Arkansas Recycling and Disposal Services, LLC, for the hauling of solid waste and recyclable material in the City of Petal. Number five, resolution to award bid number 18-36 in the authorized contract
 with TriStar Contractors LLC in the amount of $743,491.93 for the construction of the Hickory Street, Jasmine Lane and Skelton Street water line improvements and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $74,000. Number six, a resolution to approve a contract with Curtis
 Curtis Construction Incorporated in the amount of $578,708.86 plus a contingency of $29,000 for construction of the regional park slope reconstruction project and to prove the attached budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Second. So moved. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Union. Yes. Eddie. Yes.
 yes yes yes yes yes okay under unfinished business number one an ordinance rezone that property described in resumption RZN 18-6206 for approximately 0.35 acres located at 1760 North Walnut Avenue from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation
 adele i move we go to the third and final reading justin we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading senator would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes
 And, Your Honor, it's the rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6206 for approximately 0.35 acres, located at 1760 North Walnut Avenue from RSF 4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Okay. Go ahead, Your Honor. Do you have anything? No.
 No? No, Mayor. I don't have anything to add. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. Does the applicant want to speak to the council tonight or take public comment? Yes, thank you. Zarin Ederman, 849 South Washington Ave. So first I'd like to go over some of the issues that were brought up by you all last time and some of the neighbors. The street is too dangerous.
 stormwater drainage problems. The site's too steep and it's a spot zoning that's not compatible with RSF4 neighborhood and it's not appropriate infill. So I'm gonna address all of those but first I'd like to take us cross country to Euclid Avenue in Berkeley and
 Here's a street scene in Berkeley, and I lived just right off of Euclid Avenue in graduate school. And I'd like you to notice the street scene, the cars, the apartment buildings. And what I'd like you to know is that this road is in most parts steeper and more curvy than most streets in Fayetteville, and carries more traffic by way of cars, bikes, buses, and pedestrians than most collector streets in Fayetteville.
 Here is an example of a typical house on the street. It's on a hill. And if you can't park on the street, you need to back out of the driveway onto a slope with a considerable amount of traffic. Here is another example. Some houses on there, but here you can see the biker going up the traffic. This is a street that has a lot of multimodal traffic.
 And over here, again, you can see the bus. It's just off the page there, but we've got walkers, bikers, buses, cars all going up this steep and windy street, and it carries a lot of people. But what I'd like you also to think about is that in Berkeley, this is a university town that has had roughly 112,000 people in 2010 census. It's not too different from our population projection in the 2030 plan.
 However, it does this in an area of roughly 18 square miles, as opposed to roughly 50 square miles in Fayetteville. And what that means is there's an abundance of public transportation. And with the exception of Berkeley Hills, every single neighborhood in Berkeley, except for
 Berkeley Hills has is it within walking distance to grocery store a pharmacy Multiple restaurants and public transportation and what this also means is that not every single adult needs a car So I want to keep that in perspective And when we think about our 2030 plan an hour our 2040 plan going forward. So let's come back to Walnut Avenue, so, you know, the first issue was was safety and
 So I didn't see this presented last time, but I got this from the engineer's engineer staff. So at 25 miles per hour on a 9 percent grade, the stopping distance is 173 feet, which is 173 feet. However, there's only 137 feet there from where the where the turn is to the property line.
 What I'd like you to note is that that is actually at the property line and it's not where the driveway would likely be as development occurs. If you had a 40 foot minimum width and had the 16 foot driveway on the south side, it would be an additional 24 feet. So we get it to 161 which would be pretty close to 173, not quite.
 What I'd also like to add is there is already a driveway there. It's a steep driveway. And so actually, if we were to build, it would be on the south of that house. And so new driveways would actually not be any closer than that, and they would be further than the 173 feet. But I'd also like to bring up another point here. If you can see just on the right, you can barely see, but you see a sign that says, uh,
 15 miles an hour. You also see you may be able to see a little deer sign there. And so if we if we looked at the speed and the distance needed for stopping at 50 miles an hour, it would be 85 feet. So which is considerably less than 137 feet. Even if we went to 20 miles an hour, we would be at 126. So we would we would meet that speed.
 Well, engineers may argue that we need to look at the design speed, not just what it says on paper. We're not just looking at the speed limit. Let's look at what a design is like. Well, I drove the street numerous times up and down to kind of get a feel for what it's like to drive at 25 miles an hour on the street. And I can tell you it's not a reasonable assumption. It's not safe to drive at 25 miles an hour. There's a reason there's a 15-mile.
 mile per hour speed limit. And that's my opinion. So let's look at the data. So from 2011 to 2015 report, there were five accidents on this street. As you can see, there's a red Hyundai. Well, I guess you can't really see it on there, but there's a the first one, a Honda accident versus tree. Second one is a scooter versus a deer.
 The third is a one vehicle motor vehicle accident. The fourth is a white Mazda versus a gray truck. And the fifth one is a Ford Focus versus a tree. So we've got a deer and two trees and a one motor vehicle accident. So I want to know, you know, what was going on with the two that weren't tree or deer. So I got the accident reports. And if I could... So...
 What I can tell you is that on the one motor vehicle accident, you can see on the last page, the driver is going up the hill driving 25 miles an hour. And what happened was he didn't pay attention and he kept going straight and hit a tree. So he ran off the road. And then on the other accident, it was two car. It was what you can see was at 11 o'clock in the morning. Again, it was a driver going up the hill and he was drunk 11 o'clock in the morning.
 So, I mean, I think when we look at SAFE, we need to look at the data and see. But I'd also like to comment not just on driving, but on biking here. So if you look, you know, as you can't see on the right there, there's a bike paint. So this is a bike lane in the street. And what you can see also is...
 There's no space for that biker there on that curve. But yet on our maps we show this is a bike route, a safe bike route. Here's our maps, another look.
 And just so you can see again, the right side there is actually a lane there, the left side there's coming down the hill. There is no space there, there's just a painted bike. And so what I'd like to say here is that if we're saying that we don't want houses here, we don't want people living here because there's issue of traffic, yet we're saying it's safe to bike across town on this road, then I think we should take a closer look at that.
 So next I'd like to talk about drainage issues. So no doubt there's a lot of stormwater runoff on this hill and that's the main reason why the house is in the condition it's in and why the foundation is failing. But this is not an area that has the major flooding.
 We have drainage, Fayetteville is a hill town, we've got drainage issues all around town. And this is in the HHOD. And so when we build, we have to follow those rules, which means we have to deal with stormwater runoff, we have to put up retaining walls, we have to do a lot of things. Another thing I'd like to add about drainage is when we think about building, and we think about building close into town somewhere that's close to services,
 You know, people have the opportunity to walk. They have an opportunity to bike to places. When we think about building outside of town or potentially take public transportation, if it's available, if we think about building outside of town, let's think about where the and I don't have a problem with people who want to live outside of town. I think that's great. But let's just consider this. When they go to work, they need to drive there and park their car.
 when they go to the grocery store they need to drive there and park their car somewhere else when they go to the doctor when they go to pick up their kids at school they need to drive their car and they need to find a parking space and so those those parking spaces they are paved and they cause drainage so let's just just keep that in mind as you think as we think about drainage uh issues in the future so
 Let's come back to building on HHOD. This is Marks Mill Lane, the neighborhood conservation zoning, which is what I was proposing. It's also an HHOD, and it's a subdivision. And these are the two houses that I picked that have been built and that are on the north side of the road, meaning that you have to drive back into the hill. This is a
 just off Township and it's about equal distance to College as House Unweldman would be. Now I want to come back to another well-known hill in Fayetteville. This is where the Willow Heights is. And let's take a look at the slopes here. This is not zoned RNC, but this is actually zoned RMF24.
 and it's in HHOD, and what I'd like you to note is that the slopes on Center Street are not 9%, but they're actually 15% grade. But let's take a look at what the Community Design Center actually designed for these sites as proposed. So here's one that faces Center Street. As you can see, it's a steep hill. You've got cars there. You've got, you know...
 THE STREETS. SO YOU HAVE A STEEP SLOPE. HERE'S THE OTHER PROPOSAL. SO HERE YOU'VE GOT THAT 15% GRADE AND YOU'VE GOT THE BUILDINGS BACKING WITH CARS BACKING OUT ONTO THE STREET. SO NEXT I'D LIKE TO COME TO, YOU KNOW, WHETHER THIS IS SPOT ZONING AND WHETHER IT MEETS, YOU KNOW, IT'S APPROPRIATE INFILL.
 Mr. Smith, last time you said that you wish there was a plan, you know, the College Avenue plan was pure, you know, before we made this rezoning. But what I'd like to point out is we have a lot of plans. We have the city's plan 2030 in place. We've had it in place for a while, and I think we can really look at that and see what it says. We will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priorities, right?
 We will discourage suburban sprawling and we will grow a livable transportation network. And as you can see, this location here, it is in the downtown outer core, just on the edge of the downtown inner core. Keep that in mind.
 let's look at uh the transportation so as you can see the circle it's it is right next to the ozark regional transit and just keep in mind you know where where that transit shows up on the map in fayetteville and where it doesn't it shows up in the core of the city it doesn't really show up on the east or western parts of fayetteville maybe it will hopefully it will someday
 We've got the active transportation plan. We've got the mobility plan. These show the bike routes, the routes that we want to build there. It shows the routes that we wanna build to Woodland Avenue so that people can walk or bike to Woodland Junior High, excuse me. Even in our energy action plan it says we wanna reduce the per capita vehicle mileage traveled. We wanna achieve
 25% bike walk transit mode share. So just coming back to putting this rezoning in context, I just want to highlight some of the things that we have in City Plan 2030. We will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priorities. We'll recognize the benefits and cost savings of utility and road infrastructure that exists in the core of the city and develop a fee structure that benefits infill over green fill development.
 we'll promote densest development around logical future transit stops and we'll adopt a tiered impact fee system where the fee varies depending on where the development is proposed we haven't done this one yet but i'm hoping that that'll be coming soon we'll discourage suburban sprawl we'll develop alternative development patterns that encourage efficient use of land we'll direct capital improvements into infrastructure that encourage and supports infill and revitalization
 we will support a livable transportation network so we will support rezoning proposals that result in increased density around logical future transit stops rail corridors and major transportation corridors communities that design should precede an outranked traffic planning and we should make walkable cyclist-friendly road designs with slow design speeds and commit to all evolving a rich menu of transit choices including city-wide and regional mass transit
 Thank you. All right. Thank you. Do we have any questions? All right. All right. What questions do we have in the council? Comments before I open up a public comment. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. And so, Mark. That's a very beautiful presentation. I will say that. We have taken a look at this specific property.
 and we have to look at this specific property as it is today, where it's located and look at the context of the property. And so I think that the arguments that came up last week are, or two weeks ago are valid. Uh, there might be a point in time that we can come back and revisit this, but this is not the case on this specific property. If you have been there and if you traveled this area,
 it is not a 25 mile per hour speed zone that is a caution sign on the corner that is yellow that is not a speed limit so that is our 15 miles per hour per hour it is suggested um the reason the bicycle is there because it's a cautionary device that we have in our city because we don't have East and West corridors it doesn't say that this is
 the ideal situation is saying caution be on the lookout for bicycles and share the road so we've been given a lot of information here that is pulling the argument away from the fact this is a highly sloped property it is in an area that this would be spot zoning the way it is currently and we need to look at the the
 area if we want to do something differently. This is not an ideal lot for higher density the way it is currently. And we've looked at the current site. And so I think that we can speculate and we can use hypothesis and we can look at Berkeley and we can say so and so is saying it's safe and so and so is saying it's not or whatever.
 but the fact of the matter is anyone that travels this regularly and anyone that knows the property by walking it there are challenges to this property at this time in history at this point and that's what i'm going to consider whenever i'm voting on this and i certainly have the right to change my mind in the future if we have a plan that comes back that looks at this whole area
 and a way to manage the challenges that I see in this current property, then I would be happy to look at that. In fact, it would be a nice thing to see. But we're looking at a specific piece of property that has challenges that I don't think it's appropriate to rezone at this time. Okay. Who else? Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 Well, one of the great things about politics is that reasonable people can disagree. I've walked the property and driven the road. I know the applicant has walked the property and driven the road, and I think both of us and perhaps others have come to different conclusions. The rezoning to me seems very modest. I don't think it's really accurate to characterize it as high density. It's a higher density, but only in a technical sense. We're still talking about single-family development.
 so i think it's more or less the same the numbers that we looked at last time said this was about uh two what was it less than 100 square feet shy being able to lot split into two lots and that's just an arbitrary line in the code that's not theory that's a reading of the code itself those are just the numbers that are there and nobody up here on the dice today made up those numbers those are something that we were given and that we're dealing with um i think that the what
 One of the things that I was trying to put into words before, and I think that the applicant did better than I probably could with the presentation, was pointing back to all the plans we have and all the precedents we have.
 you know the the alternative transportation master plan is there because it's it's supposed to memorialize what we want in the future what we want to be on the ground in the future and we've made a decision for better or worse i happen to think for better that this is an important route for improvements to our east west connectivity for people who might not be able to be in a car or who might choose to to use a different mode of transportation
 And that's not saying that it's adequate today, but it's pointing the direction that we want to go. And we can say the exact same thing about our transit plan. There's talk today, very active talk and advocacy to do a bus rapid transit pilot up and down the 71B corridor
 starting in 2020 and to run that for a couple of years. And that's what we could do to jumpstart a real regional transportation system. And adding more housing is fundamental to making that plan successful, period. That's not theory either. That's fact based on endless case studies of every other transit system that has worked or has failed in the country.
 You have to have people living nearby. We've also got numerous sites that meet or that match or exceed the topography of this site, that match or exceed the hydrological challenges of this site. Overall, I don't see anything unique at all about this site, except for that it is the only site that is on this particular piece of ground.
 But if we just want to add up the conditions, there are lots of other places that look very, very similar where we have done more than just one house. Where we have done more than just one house. And the law we have on the books today says that this is about 100 square feet shy of just being able to do two houses. You can't even do two houses there.
 So I'm prepared to vote and I think, you know, reasonable people can draw different conclusions, but those are the conclusions that I've drawn based on a study of the site, not mere theory, and we'll see what happens. Okay, any final comments from anybody else? Okay, if there's no other comments, Senator, would you please call the roll? No. Yes. No. Mr. Chair? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. All right. Now we move on to new business. Number one, a resolution to name a previously unnamed right-of-way connected to West Old Farmington Road as South Centennial Park Lane. Keith, who has that? Mayor and council, the item before you denied is to name a currently unnamed road that is right south of the new Centennial Park.
 The road was a private drive and it was the landowners in that area petitioned that to be dedicated or the right-of-way dedicated to the city and then we After that paved the road and that was in September of 2016 And then recently was brought to our attention that we didn't name that road when we dedicated the right-of-way so with the we were kind of in discussions with the landowners when we I
 uh purchased centennial park and due to that we're recommending changing the name or actually naming the unnamed right away to south centennial park lane okay what questions do we have for keith on this i have one more question sure
 This doesn't change any of the Old Farmington Road naming that's already there? No, it doesn't. Well, there are six people that are currently addressed off of West Old Farmington Road, and they will now be addressed South Centennial Park Lane. But the existing Old Farmington Road will stay? That's correct. Okay. Thank you very much. Any other questions for Keith? John? Yeah.
 All the neighbors are in consensus? They agree? No. No. Okay. In a word? Yeah. I do believe, and I don't know if they will, they were invited to attend tonight's meeting. We did receive one communication from a property owner.
 who felt that the naming of the park Centennial Park Lane would increase an increase in traffic in this area, accessing Millsaps Mountain, which we would expect when the park becomes activated, there will be an increase not only on this potential street, but on a northern entry into the park that would be planned as well. We did name it Lane, so it would be clear that this is not a through road at this point,
 currently is the most accessible way to the property. We haven't master planned the mountain yet. The remaining property owners, we did talk with the individual who gathered the original signatures, and there was not objection on their part that it was named. The suggestion given was that we could name it Centennial Lane and leave Park out of it. We just felt that it would be more descriptive to call it what it is.
 So the only objection was it would cause more traffic, the name would cause more traffic? For accessing the part, the new part. Okay, thank you. They may be here in case they have other items, but that's what was communicated in the email. Okay, thank you. It's always good to hear two sides of the story. All right, so we have a question, comments? All right, let's open it up for some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn at the microphone you get five minutes unless council member brings you back up to ask you questions or you can get more time if there's a motion in the second in the council by majority vote of the council i see you got me on five minutes
 it gives you more time by voting council keep your comments to me and don't engage anyone on the council or out in the public it was your payment address and please stay on topic who would like to be first okie dokie i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes the council john
 i'm going to pass the resolution adele i second that we have a motion and second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council son would you please call the role did you hit motion sorry sorry my fault that's my thank you all right son would you please call the role okay
 Eddie. Yes. Kenneth. Yes. Otero. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay, number two. An order to resolve that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-62-27 for approximately .34 acres located southeast of Eagle Street and Oakland Avenue from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo, from RMF 40, Residential Multifamily, 40 units per acre, to RI-U, Residential Intermediate Urban, Section 2.
 If the City Council or the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Mark. Yes, Mayor and Council. This is also a one-lot rezoning request. I think all these one-lot rezoning requests are an indication that our infill policies are working well.
 This one is located between Leverett and Garland, just one block north of Cleveland, and it's the southeast corner. It is designated in our city plan as city neighborhood area, and it encourages a variety of residential and non-residential building types. There are many different residential building types in this immediate vicinity.
 proposed district and the district on which it comes the Existing districts are would be considered form-based There were no issues at the public hearing at Planning Commission with the exception of a very large oak tree and If this is looking Southeast this is the lot right here in the large healthy oak tree is on the corner of the lot and
 uh the opposite direction you can also see the tree and here's the lot that is being requested for rezoning with that uh planning commission staff recommend approval and i'd be happy to answer any questions you might have what uh what questions we have for garter on this and then i guess we need to hear from the applicant is the applicant here i believe the applicants representatives here yes good evening
 so we are requesting this rezoning to put Michael Campbell sorry about that we are requesting a down zoning of this property to not put townhouses or duplexes or additional apartments adjacent to the residential neighborhoods that exist now our desire is to put three single-family houses on this property
 And so we have cleared the lot with the intentions of preserving the tree that's up for discussions now. That's been our intent all along. And we would like to preserve that. The units that we've designed on that corner are trying to accomplish that purpose. I can't guarantee that it will live, but that's our intent because it adds beauty to the property. Okay. What questions do we have? That's good news about the tree. Thank you very much.
 Questions? I guess I would just ask what measures do you have planned to help ensure that it does lift? So we've talked to the urban forestry group about that and want to have their assistance with making sure that we cordon off that area while we do construction as well as any side trimming that needs to be done during the process of construction to make sure that we do that in the right manner.
 What public comment do we have? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Adele. I'd like to have our urban forester come forward and talk with us about the likelihood of being able to put the three houses on this property and not disturb the tree. Without seeing a plan, good evening, first of all. Without seeing a plan, it would be hard for me to make that assessment. Okay.
 I have seen developments, there's one across the street which is an excellent example of preservation of a large tree that's down the road where they did manage to build around it and they were successful. I've seen it done successfully and then I've seen it fail. So without looking at a plan it would be hard for me to make an assessment, but using proper techniques for tree preservation it is possible.
 what are some of those techniques using tree preservation fence along the perimeters making sure that people are in the area during the construction of the homes they're not stored or during construction they're not storing anything doing proper trimming if they do any trimming around the root system they could use an air spade and do proper root pruning techniques and if they have to go over the roots themselves they can lay
 mulch and plywood down to drive over the roots for some heavy equipment so it is possible with proper techniques. But you have not seen the plans at this point? I have not. Thank you.
 Mayor, if I could ask John to address a few items that came up at agenda session. One is would this tree qualify as a significant tree under our tree ordinance? Absolutely. And would that designation in any way protect that tree in this development situation? It would depend on what they're building there and the zoning. So it's not in the HHOD. I wouldn't have an official review of it.
 Um, if there have a building single family homes that would not have an official review and it would not be protected. Okay. So that's the answer to the question you got to ask of agenda. It's my understanding that the current zoning is, is the same. There's not a protection of the tree because of correct the current zoning. So, um, this tree is,
 It is what it is on whether it's the current zoning or the future zoning, but I do think it's imperative that the tree is – we do everything we can to save this tree since it is a significant tree. And I just wanted to state that for the record because I think there was some misunderstanding from calls that I got that it was currently somehow protected, but it is not. It is not. Mm-hmm.
 Kelsey it isn't protected if they choose to develop it for single family it isn't for its duplex yeah duplex if they chose to build an apartment complex uh they would need to protect it is it isn't that correct it would be under our review and we would urge them to protect it during the design yes okay but three single uh family dwellings
 Is what makes it not be protected is that correct? I believe so especially if they are planning on lot splits Is that correct? Is that an intention? That's why understanding that they intend to do the three three lots which they can do by right Yes, that would not protect the tree and it would not come under review from the urban forestry Mayor I'd like to have the developer come back to them. I
 Yes, we'd like very much for you to get to build those three homes. Now, you did mention, didn't you mention an urban forester a minute ago in your presentation?
 yes i mentioned i spoke with the city staff when it went through the planning commission i was contacted about the tree and talked to them about tree preservation and the fact that it wasn't protected under the existing zoning but that our desire was to try and save the tree with whatever means possible that we can but you haven't spoken with this particular person yet no i have not it was with a lady in their office and i don't remember the name of the other person that's
 I did speak with her, and Dave Jorgensen, the engineering firm, spoke with her as well. So you have already learned some things you need to do to preserve it. Is that correct? Yes, ma'am, that's correct. And those things are?
 Things I mentioned earlier, trying to fence off the area while we're doing construction. I want to work with the urban forestry group to side trim the tree. There's some dead branches that need to be removed and so we want to do that in the right fashion to not have a negative impact on the tree. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes. Yes, thank you Mr. Mayor.
 You mentioned earlier in your presentation that it was your belief that the tree added value to the lots or to the development you had planned. Could you expand on that? Sure. Just from a visual perspective, it was the most...
 predominant feature on the property when we bought it. So there was a lot of other scrub brush. There was an old house on there that was condemned, actually, at the time that we removed and cleaned up the rest of the property with the intention of leaving this as kind of the view that you see when you come on the corner, as you can see from that picture. It's old and actually is a quite attractive tree. So that's our desire to do our best to preserve it.
 mr campbell in general have you developed other places or other problems yes sir do you find that most people like trees on their property absolutely okay i i find it extraordinary that the tree has probably not been protected ever in its life yet it has grown very enormous and i would urge us to grant this zoning request and i think
 just the market itself. People want trees. I like trees. I want trees on my place. I built a swimming pool into two trees, and I spend my days dipping leaves, because I like trees, okay? And I like swimming pools with shade, not just out in the sun. Well, what I'm saying is, everybody likes trees. I think most people like trees. I mean,
 But now, if there's a tree and it's endangering my family and it's a danger of falling onto our house and it's getting old, I want to have the freedom to take out that tree to protect my family. I don't want to bear that risk. I want to decide if I want to bear that risk on somebody else's signing. Anyway, I support your efforts. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, do we have any other questions? Thanks for your consideration. Well, shall we do it?
 Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Adele. Aye. Second then. Laura. We have a motion and a second. We'll go to the second reading. Senator, would you please come up? Kenyon. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Santa. Yes. Ben.
 Yes. Yes. Right. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6227 for approximately 0.34 acres located southeast of Eagle Street and Oakland Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adele. Aye.
 We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kimyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 In ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6227 for approximately one-third acre located southeast of Eagle Street and Oakland Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Is there any final comments from the council? Okay. Assembly, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number three an ordinary zone that from those properties described as on petition rzn 18-6239 for approximately 3.58 acres located northeast of oldham drive and broils avenue from r.a residential agricultural to nc neighborhood conservation and from nc neighborhood conservation to r.a residential agricultural
 A bid ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal descriptions, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to N.C. Neighborhood Conservation and from N.C. Neighborhood Conservation to R.A. Residential Agricultural.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archery are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garth. Yes, Mayor and Council. The Sloanbrook subdivision is nearing completion. It's located between Broyles and Ruppel, just south of Owl Creek. This is sort of the end of the lots that are being developed. It's been planted for some time.
 And they went under a study to change the flood map. It's called a Lomer fill. The present zoning boundary follows the existing 100-year flood, which is this squiggly line. And the map change creates a straight line that follows the existing planted subdivision.
 And so that is the reason for this adjustment between these two zoning districts. There is also a parcel here that's proposed to go from NC to RA, but it is part of their retaining pond. The adopted plans, it's a residential neighborhood area where the subdivision is. It's a natural area where the floodplain is.
 um of course the neighboring conservation zoning is a farm-based district there was an issue and i think council member smith asked about the flood the building elevations that would be required if the map amendment and the zoning change is made as requested
 their building elevations would still be required to have the two-foot freeboard that Fayetteville requires. And that's both for the six lots that aren't planted. They're planted presently as unbillable lots. I'll show it here. I've got a better map.
 This area right here is not planted. It's planted as unbuildable, but it needs to be replanted, and I understand they want to create six lots here. And the other lots also would be subject to the Fayetteville's building elevation, which means two feet above the regulatory elevation. Planning Commission staff recommend approval, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have regarding this? Oh, sorry, Mark.
 garner you mentioned that they they're looking at low impact development that's a reference to the uh the the limit adopted future land use plan that recommends low impact development for natural areas it's just a recommendation out of that particular designation in the land use plan we haven't i just want to make it clear that we have no
 We're not going to demand this. It's just still part of our. But in this particular instance, it's part of the flood plain is unbillable. And it's part and it's in the 100 year, that entire area, it's not entirely relevant to this particular application. But that is a definition of the natural area designation from the plan.
 uh oh i'm sorry or did you have another question no i just wanted to be sure that that was clear thank you mayor um garner we've talked about this a little bit i just
 This is kind of a similar process, I think, to what happened in Salem Village before it was built, down in a nice soggy area that now they occasionally put sandbags out on the front porch when it rains. I just would like a little more understanding of the process they go through and the review that our engineers do when we redraw a map like that. You're taking me to the edge of my expertise rapidly. Chris Brown is here.
 So if your property is in the floodplain, you are allowed to fill your property up to the point so that your property is higher than the floodplain elevation. When you do that, you can submit a request to FEMA. The LOMR F that Garner mentioned, the F stands for fill. So basically you say to FEMA, I've filled my lot.
 up to the at or above the flood elevation, and you request that it be removed from the floodplain requirements. That's pretty routine, and typically for a small amount of fill, it's really not a big issue when that happens. When that does happen and you're removed from the floodplain, then none of the requirements of our floodplain ordinance apply anymore to that lot.
 So the concern is when that happens is that you're out of the floodplain, but you're right at the edge of the floodplain. So if that changes or a bigger flood than a 100-year flood occurs, if you just build it to the minimum...
 then you know you still could have a flooding problem and that's sort of what happened in Salem Village so what we're saying is What we've I believe gotten confirmation from the developer is that they? Still intend to build the house to two feet above the floodplain elevation that that adjacent floodplain elevation So they will be meeting the requirements even though technically they don't they don't have to per the city ordinance
 What the net effect of this, it takes them out of the floodplain, reduces the need for flood insurance, or eliminates the need for flood insurance. So that's really the goal of what they're trying to accomplish. So when they fill for six lots worth and they've raised theirs out, that's going to displace other water? Does the process take into account the impact downstream? It really doesn't. I mean, basically –
 Kind of in a nutshell, the whole theory of the FEMA process is you have a flood plain which is a 100-year elevation where the water spreads out to in a 100-year storm. The floodway is the area that's a theoretical area. So if you basically start building a wall at the flood plain elevation and you start bringing that wall in, the point at which the flood plain increases by one foot
 that's the floodway and you and we cannot restrict that you can't fill in the floodway you can't do anything in the floodway but the FEMA regulations do allow that fill to be be placed into the floodplain up to that floodway line it's not always the best situation and in a large scale you know if somebody's filling a whole bunch of that floodplain it could impact
 other properties in this case it's such a small amount it's right on the fringe of the floodplain it's really not going to have a huge impact okay no no impact on the plans Trail between the these houses in the floodway right that's all the degrading and everything uh has all been worked out in the master plan for that trail is kind of incorporated into this plan
 Okay. So that should be okay. So Chris, for the public, one of the questions that we got asked was what is different about this situation than Salem Village where we had this happen but we still see flooded property? Right. So what they did in that case is they did the same thing. They petitioned to be removed from the floodplain, which allowed them to build their houses at a lower elevation and not be impacted by that floodplain.
 they ended up building at or near the floodplain elevation. Then as can happen, the larger than theoretical storm occurred and those houses that were at or below the floodplain elevation flooded.
 The ones that were in the floodplain that we required to build two feet above, they had water around their house, but they didn't have water in their house. So that was really a situation where the developer that built that and the petition to be removed from the floodplain sort of did a disservice to all of the future property owners and the
 They ended up building those houses too low if they had left the floodplain as is built at two feet above We probably would not have any flooded houses out there. So it's a situation where it's allowed and
 but it's not always the best thing to do. But again, in this case, the developer is agreeing to continue to build two feet above, even though they're not going to be in the floodplain. Right. So I guess my point is just to make this discussion is great because, again,
 when we've identified $15 million worth of flood mitigation improvements that need to be done to handle, we need to make sure we're not adding new properties into those numbers and the funding cost to handle them because it will come, ultimately it comes back to the city. Just like on that list, if you look at the complaints, we get significant complaints in Salem Village of flooding when we do have large storm events.
 Mayor, can I ask Chris a question? Sure. Developers doing the right thing in this particular case didn't do the right thing in Salem Village. Shouldn't we maybe or the city council consider regulations so that any time someone does this filling that they in fact still keep the same requirements of the two feet of freeboard so that we don't run into problems like Salem Village when another developer might want to cut costs?
 That certainly is something that could be considered, yes. Typically with the subdivision, the platting process, we can work with the developer to require elevations on those finished floor elevations on the houses. There may be other scenarios where we don't have that regulatory tool. But, yes, there are some...
 Changes to the floodplain ordinance that could be made that would Would would help reduce that the possibility of that happening again? there are some
 some even more restrictive things that some cities do is that they just say you can't you can't fill in the floodplain you have to totally stay out of the floodplain that would be above and beyond the fema requirements um but it's something to consider as well so yes there definitely are more restrictive actions that could be taken um
 that would eliminate the possibility of that Salem Village situation occurring again. As city attorney, I would be nervous about telling people they can't build in the floodplain if FEMA would allow them. I think that could cause us some liability issues, but I don't think requiring them to elevate as this developer is would be any kind of regulatory problem for us. It certainly just makes good sense for everybody in the long term. Okay, and we can look at that.
 FEMA allows communities to have additional requirements in addition to their one foot free board many communities Just use the one foot I was so happy to see that Fayetteville uses two Because two feet is a world of difference from one foot in terms of water the percentage water damage Last question for you
 We call it a hundred year flood, but that's the the theoretical storm you're talking about how many times have we? Had that kind of storm in the last five years I get that question a lot And it's a little bit difficult to answer because it is a theoretical And there are hundred year storm events so you get a hundred the hundred year rain You may not actually get the hundred year flow or elevation if it's really dry You know you don't may not see those elevations so I
 But to answer your question, in this last event in 2017, we did see rainfall, 24-hour storm, the inches of rain that exceeded the 100-year storm, kind of in the northwest part of the city. As we went south and east in the city, it was only a 25- to a 50-year storm. We did see that.
 I don't know looking further back. It's probably similar to that, you know Parts of the city get much higher levels of rain and those kinds of storms So it's kind of spotty but you know, you you could probably see storms in excess of the 25 to 50 year event and
 since 2004 at least four or five times yeah it's pretty significant events you don't have to go back to 1917 to find another one right exactly thank you mayor Chris taking the elevation from just at the floodplain to two feet above as a percentage of total cost of the development what are we talking about how much expense is there
 Yeah, I mean, if you think about it, just in building a house, each block is eight inches tall, so you're talking about three blocks worth. Three blocks, three feet worth of fill. It's not free, but it's very good insurance, and it's really relatively cheap to get that house up just a little bit. If I bought a house from a developer,
 and it flooded every other year, I'd feel real bad about that situation. I'd be talking to my attorney for latent conditions. But this is something we need to do, I think, as a city, is require developers to say, look, if you want to develop in a floodplain, fine, all good and dandy, but you've got to be at least two feet above or whatever the safety zone is.
 then i don't like regulation but i would have you favorite that is fayetteville's requirement right that is that that is our requirement okay yes and we can we can apply that how does salem village get away with it the the there are six slots here that are labeled their planet is unbillable and when they come in for a replant we can require that
 They got away with it because that requirement wasn't there until the council that, at the time, Alderman Jordan and others representing that ward brought forward. Sure. Yes, I am. That's a reasonable regulation? Yes, it was. I learned about it. I saw it. It was a little different. I thought of all the ways you can bill, this is not the way you need to bill. So now you deal with it.
 that's your area of expertise you know that yes thank you Sarah thank you um
 I live in the floodplain in a house that's elevated and it's it's not ideal but it does work and I do believe that one can responsibly build in a floodplain But I am NOT I would like to go out and see this property I've not had the opportunity to do that So I would prefer that we hold it on this reading and have have some time to consider this So I think every situation is different when you're dealing with flood and I do worry about elevating too many of these Lots and
 So I'd just like to go take a look for myself. Is the applicant here today? Good evening. Thank you for your time this evening. Justin Jorgensen with Jorgensen Associates. And if that request is what it takes, then let's do it. It is what it is. And if you have any questions for me, I feel like, oh, Chris Money or something, you did a really good job of explaining everything. But if you need anything else, feel free to contact me. Okay. So is there any public comment on this? Come on.
 Hello, Sun Scroggin, 3509 North Sand Hyper Drive. When we start talking about rivers and creeks, I think a lot of times, I see this on Planning Commission and also on City Council, that there's some confusion about which direction water's gonna be affected by. If you're gonna neck down a river,
 it's going to affect it upstream because it's basically creating a dam. And then if you're going to add impervious surface, it's going to affect mostly downstream.
 So as we talk about that, I think that's important. So if there's an area that's flooding already upstream, you don't want to neck down. But if it's not flooding upstream and it's flooding downstream, then you might actually, that neck down may help. So as we look at these issues kind of in the future, that might be something to look at. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, gonna bring it back to the council. I assume we're gonna leave it right here. Okay.
 Mayor, a couple of announcements. First, I saw Denise come in when she left, our executive director for the housing authority. But it's our understanding that the busted pipes at Willow Heights have been fixed. So hopefully they have access to water now. I just wanted to update you on that.
 Also, the city is seeking volunteers to conduct our annual Keep Fayetteville Beautiful Litter Index. That index will be taken on July 25th between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. We're looking for citizens to be members of that tour. The training for that will be that morning from 8 to 8.30 on how to score. It's a part of our Keep Fayetteville Beautiful Tour.
 and obviously we want to identify litter problem areas and solve those situations, so this is a part of that assessment.
 Also, just a reminder that next week, since we won't meet before the next Gully Park concert series, July 26th is Barrett Baber. He's a Fayetteville native. He was on the ninth season of The Voice. He will be at Gully Park on July 26th and hopes this will come out. That's the next to the last concert for the summer series, so mark that on your calendars as well.
 Also remind citizens that we're still taking input and feedback on the parks master plan The second survey that's out which is helping set get gather input to determine Priorities that citizens would like to see in our parks and recreation system. So please visit the website And look for various events to get access to that. We'd love your input anything else
 I would like to say that we have begun the expansion of the library today. So they're doing the demolition. So we're going to be building on that real soon. So that was a big, big day for us. All right. If there's nothing else, we're adjourned.