Here. Here. Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, under our reports tonight, Paul Becker has the 2016 audit report. Good evening, Mayor and Council. The 2016 financial audit and comprehensive report has been published. Again, this was for the year ended December 31, 2016, so we've really discussed most of these numbers before. I want to just make a few brief comments, as has been said,
 indicated to you already we have a clean opinion. We had no significant findings. We had no material weaknesses found by our external auditor. As far as the statement of activities, and the statement of activities are roughly income statements for business entities.
 We had an increase of $24 million, $24 million in expenses, excuse me, revenues over expenses for the year. That's if you consolidate everything. Now, what we have to consider, of course, is that much of this is restricted and only can be used in certain places.
 The general fund was up $3 million at the end of the year. So at the end of the year, after all commitments were made, 60-day reserves, monies for the pay plan that you adopted after that, money for rebudgets, there was roughly $9 million left at that point in time.
 sales tax so far this year has looked pretty good so we're right around that level at this point in time now as far as the statement of position is concerned and that's the equivalent of a balance sheet in the public sector our net position is 590 million dollars which really looks good however we have to remember that
 522 million of that dollars is in reservation for fixed assets, for our roads, for our equipment, for everything like that. So unrestricted, we have 42 million dollars in the business type activities. That's water and sewer, airport and recycling and trash.
 our net position is a negative six million dollars in the governmental funds generally this is because if we bring in our debt and we bring in our pension fund liability that drives us into the negative however on a cash flow position if we look at the modified accrual position which are back in the governmental fund statement sections uh... were in good shape now if you want to look at the analysis or members of the public want to go out and view
 the uh... audit it is in fact posted on our website we have posted uh... to the clearinghouse uh... as of today also the federal clearinghouse i would uh... direct everybody to begin a page thirteen page thirteen
 is where we began the management discussion and analysis of the report and the financial statements for the year and that gives you a quick synopsis of some of the high points of that. I could go on
 uh... indefinitely but i'm gonna leave it there and be happy to answer any questions it's been posted for viewing it's been uh... been posted at the uh... federal clearinghouse as far as the uh... as the grant and single audit uh... reports are concerned and again i'll entertain any questions you may have do we have any questions for paul thank paul thank you alright next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda
 Number one, approval of the July 6, 2017, Senate Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of ammunition as needed by the Federal Police Department from various manufacturers pursuant to the State of Arkansas ammunition contract through January 22, 2018, and as renewed by the State for up to four additional one-year terms. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $72,321
 as the developers share to widen Rupert Road, install stormwater drainage, and construct a trail at the total cost of $143,973.20. Number 4, a resolution to approve the renewal of four special needs assistance
 Program grant agreements with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in a total amount of $305,348 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents and to approve a budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to approve and certify participation in Kimball Mechanical Systems Incorporated.
 and the Arkansas Tax-Back Program and to agree to authorize the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration to refund city sales tax back to Kimball Mechanical Systems Incorporated for qualified purchases. And number six, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to accept a 90-10 matching grant from the
 Federal Aviation Administration to provide funding in the amount of $137,520 for the taxiway B widening and rehabilitation project at Drakefield and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. We have a second. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, okay an unfinished business
 Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5803 for approximately 10.86 acres located east of the intersection of Old Missouri Road and Rolling Hills Drive from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Allen? So moved. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 17-5803 for approximately 10.86 acres, located east of the intersection of Old Missouri Road and Rolling Hills Drive, from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. Andrew?
 Yes, sir. The one point of clarification I would like to add on this rezoning is that
 There's been some misinformation that this project would be leading to the development of Rolling Hills extension through the property, and that is not the case. This is simply a rezoning to change the zoning map from RSF4 to NSG Neighborhood Services. So for the council's discussion and consideration, it's really a zoning decision. We're not looking at development, and that's not part of the consideration, although the property does have
 Planned extension of rolling hills through it on the master street plan. That's not really for Discussion at this point. Thanks. Okay Any comments Justin First of all, I want to thank the council for letting this set for another couple of weeks I think this piece of land and this rezoning itself is a
 Certainly worth taking our time. I'm good with voting on this piece of it tonight, but I want to thank the council for coming out the ones that could yesterday in the cool breezes that we're having now out there by a very busy street to look at this property. And I do want to thank city staff for making that clarification. I would also like to ask city staff to clarify for the record.
 This rezoning is in no way tied to any sort of work on Rolling Hills or any sort of plans that may or may not even be in the future for any changes in Rolling Hills Drive itself. That's correct. That's correct. And I want to thank some of the comments that were made yesterday at the tour. I think this particular spot is...
 is a good thing for us to do, but I also think we need to pay attention to the intersection itself. And I will be looking to push for some changes to that intersection. We were there yesterday,
 couple of kids tried to cross that we're not even in school time right now but I think the mayor ended up having to stop traffic for the two little kids to that's another thing you get to do is is play crossing guard but it was it was apparent to us at least to me that we need to make some significant changes to the intersection I know it doesn't have anything to do necessarily with this
 but as we develop anything around there, I think we need to look at the intersection. Alderman Marsh also made a really good point about the sidewalks along Rolling Hills and suggested sort of what I consider to be a similar thing that what we're doing to the old wire area where we're making some significant improvements for pedestrian and biking for our citizens. And I think
 that area of Rolling Hills, once that old wire part gets finished, we can really see the benefits of that and then maybe a council in the future or maybe even this one in the future can look at doing the same thing along Rolling Hills because I think that would make that intersection go a lot smoother.
 I don't know if the answer is stop signs or a stoplight or much better signage in that intersection, but I certainly wanna push for that. As far as this rezoning itself, I think it's,
 It's calm the neighborhood that I've talked to for the most part that this is not the entire piece of property. Who knows what will happen to this entire piece of property? But for right now, I think doing our due diligence on this piece, we did. And I thank the council for doing that. So I'll be in favor of this particular rezoning with certain keep an eye on the rest of it because it's it's a great piece of land there in that part of the city and certainly will be.
 I think looked at in the future, but I think we're doing it the right way to do it this way. So thank you all very much. All right. Thank you, Jess. Council member Bunch. Yes. Yes. I'm really glad that we took time to go out and visit the site as well. I think for,
 for people who don't drive through there on a regular basis or aren't in that neighborhood on a regular basis it kind of gives you a little more insight as to just the sheer volume of the traffic that does go through there um and you know it always amazes me when i when i see a piece of property right in the middle of town that hasn't been developed yet it just you know blows my mind that they're still out there
 But on this piece of property, I think that the rezoning is in order. I think it meets with, you know, we talk a lot about infill in the city, and I've heard several complaints about, you know, from neighbors about, we don't want infill in this area. We want just single-family homes.
 but it's also tied with a traffic complaint usually. And I think this is going to be the type of, if we rezone this, it can allow the type of development that would benefit the neighborhood and make it a more walkable neighborhood. Right now you have to drive, I believe it's about a mile down to College Avenue or over to Joyce or over to,
 maybe crossover road area, to get to any amenities that you might want, like shopping or anything like that. And this makes this, if we rezone this, I think it allows for the type of development that as I said would encourage more
 walkability and scream ability I guess any anyway I think it's a good reason I think it it ties in nicely at some point down the road with adding a light or stop sign or something there I also like the idea of if this is redeveloped if this is rezoned that it ties in and allows a better
 better connectivity between Butterfield School and Gully Park and because right now there is no way to get from the neighborhood around Gully Park safely down to Butterfield School so if your kids want to walk to school there's really not a good crosswalk there. There's also no way from kids to from or anyone from around Rolling Hills to safely get to Gully Park so I think
 that that this may be rezoning will be the catalyst that will start this down the road better connectivity for all this area over there so I'll be in support of this tonight thank you okay you know the comments from the council now we take some public comment now keep in mind on your public comment with the new rules that we have in place everybody has five minute limit and
 And there'll be a timer, so when your five minutes is up, unless the council members make a motion and a second to give you more time, that's all the time you have, okay? Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage anyone in the audience or a council member. Give us your name, address, and who would like to be first to address us on this. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Justin. With that, I'd like to spin the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay.
 Council Member Marsh. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? The mover and seconder, please. I'm sorry. Justin and Sarah Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5803 for approximately 10.86 acres, located east of the intersection of Old Missouri Road and Rolling Hills Drive, from RSF-4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Inyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Next order of business tonight is new business.
 a resolution to approve a one-year contract with the boston mountain solid waste district in the amount of 36 790 dollars with automatic renewals for up to five additional one-year terms based on a rate of 50 cents per residence per year for solid waste services provided to the city of fable as a member of the district jeff yes sir good evening mayor and council again this is a resolution to pay boston mountain solid waste district annual fees for local contributions the council memo
 The background reads, the City of Fayetteville is located in the jurisdiction of the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District and we are the City of Fayetteville. We are, that includes Washington and Madison counties. Member governments in the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District are required to pay the annual fees for local contributions based on regulations adopted by the district in prior years. I would also say that these fees are a state requirement as well.
 The purchasing division recently, well, in the first quarter of this year brought to our attention the staff that the local contributions paid to the district were over the threshold of $20,000. So as I talked about in agenda and committee, this is really kind of a financial compliance, financial housekeeping matter that we're discussing.
 Wanting to resolve so we're coming we're now coming to council to be in compliance with city policies regarding payments over 20,000 These fees are also paid by other member governments inside the district Which includes class one cities in Washington and Madison counties and the county governments of both counties the fee is assessed based on Population is charged at 50 cents per person per year. Okay What questions do we have for Jeff on this? Okay, I?
 All right. Does anyone from the public like to address this? Remember, there's a five-minute rule. If you have five minutes and at the end of that time, the only way you get more time is if a council member makes a motion in the second to give you more time, which will take a vote of the city council. So everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Address your questions to me, and please give us your name and address and who would like to be first.
 Louise Mann, 629 Gray Avenue. Has this been an automatic renewal in the past? It has. It was initially adopted as a resolution by the district, the board and the district itself in 1993. Okay.
 So that was the mechanism that kept this in place in the payment. So we've been paying these fees since 1993 based on that resolution. But again, to be in compliance, and I think this holds true of some of the non-profits, there's been an effort to bring everything into compliance with our purchasing policies, and this is one of those. Okay, thank you.
 Jeff, did you know I was the first educator at the Solid Waste District and that money helped pay my salary? I encourage you guys to review closely the budget for the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District before handing over this money. I know Robin well and I know she does good work and I trust her.
 However, a solid waste district that spends half a million dollars on an office building while allowing one of the best tiny town recycling facilities to be closed may need to review priorities. The St. Paul or Dutton facility, your county, Lionel, Madison County. Yes, ma'am. The St. Paul or Dutton facility has allowed citizens to not only quit burning or filling haulers with their waste,
 It has also encouraged people to take responsibility for their discards and physically handle them. Much like the local food movement teaches citizens to take responsibility, a good recycling program allows people to use their hands and become more self-sufficient. The three R's are about so much more than recycling. They're about continuing education and continual involvement.
 Please do not be a participant in destroying citizen involvement. Do you really think spending half a million dollars on an office building will solve our garbage problems? Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Robin Reed with the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District. And I do appreciate you all taking the time to hear this resolution and to support us in the many different ways that the city does. The St. Paul issue, I think, is a Madison County issue. Their county judge and their staff evaluated it. And it's been a lot of discussion. And the center has not been closed completely. They're adjusting hours.
 And other than that, I don't know that I really do it. Mayor, would you like me to go into an explanation as far as what you're? Well, you have four minutes and 20 seconds. Okay. You can go into whatever you want to. You know, I'm not going to. It's hot outside and we're all kind of tired, but I'm more than happy to if anybody does have any questions. Thank you. John. Robin, I have a question.
 Do you have any buildings? We are in the design phases and we have a meeting tomorrow with the construction manager. So hopefully we will start building one soon. I don't know, I believe you've been out to our facility before and it's... How many times a year do you build? Yeah. And so it's pretty old. It's pretty ran down past its age. Half the outlets don't work and we have a lot of critters inside, including a snake in my office last year.
 You know, we're really excited about having a new facility. Congratulations. Yeah, thank you. Okay, is there any more public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. John? John?
 Okay, Mark. This has been to the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee and was reviewed. We looked at the services that were offered specifically to the city of Fayetteville and the relationship that we have with the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District, as well as our
 responsibility to stay in compliance and so it has been reviewed and supported by the water solid waste committee. Okay any other comments? Alan? I'm just curious what the amounts previously paid in the past years has been? Robin you probably need to address that in the microphone please.
 I'll answer for all of them if you want, Robin. It's the same per capita rate, 50 cents per resident that provides services in the city, too. It's been the same since 1994. Do we know what the exact amount is that we paid per year? That's what I was more wondering. $6,790, I believe, is what the resolution is. That's the current. I'd have to go back and get the populations for you and those other costs. It's based off the 2010 population census. Thank you. Okay, John. One more question. Sure. Sure.
 Don, the 50 cent assessment per capita, is that passed on to our citizens on their water bill?
 I believe that all of our fees are in our rate studies when we do them. Remember, this is a rate study that hasn't been updated since 1992. Excellent. And will be on your agenda in the coming last quarter of this year. But it would be included in that along with any other capital requirements. Okay. I just wanted to highlight that. This is a fee that the people of Fayetteville pay this every month. I pay it. You pay it. Everybody pays it.
 Okay, it's not coming from the nebulous city of Fayetteville. It's coming from the people of Fayetteville. And it may be a good investment. You know, we do, I guess I will go into the services we provide that I feel like this fund goes towards. We support the household hazardous waste programs that are offered in our district. So the South Fayetteville, Washington County household hazardous waste, we pay for all the disposal of that as well as Sharpe's disposal program.
 We provide electronics recycling as well as waste tire management. We handle a little over a quarter million tires a year. And we also have two full-time educators on staff that, you know, along in partnership with the City of Fayetteville and Washington County provide environmental education. I'm planning to vote for your resolution. I'll take the suspense out of this. But just out of curiosity, if you were to cease to exist, how would these functions be taken care of? Who would do this if you weren't there?
 If the district wasn't there or myself? If we and every other municipality contributes to your well-being, your financial well-being, if we all said, no, we're not going to fund this anymore, we'll do our own thing. Would there be other sources of these services for hazardous materials? I'm sorry, Robin. I asked the mayor if I could respond to that. There would not, with respect particularly to household hazardous waste, we do not accept household hazardous waste. The Springdale? No.
 Spring they accept use motor oil and batteries at their recycling facility, but we pay for the disposal and we collect those and Prepare them for shipping Okay, thank you, okay sir I
 I just wanted to clarify that this is 50 cents per resident per year that's not 50 cents a month that's 50 cents per year and we heard during our waste reduction
 diversion and recycling master planning that everyone wanted to see more of an emphasis on education and this is a big part of the education that our citizens were asking for is that Boston Mountain solid waste does provide a large portion of that education so I think this is a really good value for our citizens we've had a great relationship with the solid waste district and I with that I move that we pass the resolution okay mark
 I'll second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Oh, I'm sorry. Is there any final comments from the council? I apologize. Okay. Now, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Indian. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Munch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much.
 Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5837 for approximately 0.23 acres, located at 521 North Shady Avenue from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to NC neighborhood conservation. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. All right. Andrew.
 This property is at the southwest corner of Isla Street and Shady Avenue. It's in the Wilson Park neighborhood. It's about a quarter acre parcel that was developed in, I believe, the 1930s with a multi-family building. It's currently zoned residential single family, so it's what we would call an existing non-conforming use. The applicant proposes to rezone their property to NC neighborhood conservation. That's a little bit of a higher density form-based single family zoning.
 staff recommends in favor of the request we feel like would be compatible with the other traditional patterns single-family primarily with some mix of other uses in this area in addition it would be supportive of the number one goal of city plan 2030 which is we will make appropriate infill our highest priority and the Planning Commission recommended in favor of the request thanks
 Yes, sir, Mayor. Daniel Asme with ESI on behalf of the applicant. Be happy to take any questions any of the council members you may have. All right. Do we have any questions for the applicant or the city staff? Everybody good? Thank you. All right, so any public comment on this? Everybody gets one turn to the microphone. We have a five minute limit. Unless a council member decides to give you more time, and that takes a motion to second the council and a majority of the council to do that.
 One, turn at the microphone, keep your comments to me. Don't engage a citizen or a council member. I don't think I've left anything out. Who would like to be first on this? Okie dokie. That took longer to explain it than to get the public comment. All right. I'm going to bring this back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Eddie. Yes. Jenna. Yes. Dutch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Brad. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5837 for approximately a quarter acre located at 521 North Shady Avenue from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to neighborhood conservation. And so.
 What's the, Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Saundra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tanner? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Latour?
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 17-5837 for approximately a quarter acre located at 521 North Shady Avenue from residential single family, four units per acre to neighborhood conservation. All right. Any final comments from the council? All right. Good looking infill project. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number three, a resolution to thank the Walton Family Foundation to approve the grant agreement with the Walton Family Foundation in the amount of up to $1,361,428 as a 50-50 matching grant for the construction of a Model 2 vehicle.
 cycle track along Old Wire Road and to approve a budget adjustment. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. As you're all aware, improvements to Old Wire between Mission and Crossover are underway. Some of that is complete. The intersection with Old Wire and Mission is complete. We have another portion under construction. And this segment that we're talking about tonight is under design right now. The...
 The proposed cross section for the section between Ash and Gully Park is a two-way cycle track, which basically separates the pedestrians and drivers from the bicyclists. It creates the safest potential, the safest facility for all users.
 The bike the cycle track will be an enhanced bikeway that will include several enhancements for safety and efficiency including bike signals at Township Street
 other safety improvements at other intersections and at all driveways. And really we're intending to construct a world-class facility that we can use elsewhere in the city and also be used by other jurisdictions in the region. The city's partnered with the Walton Family Foundation on multiple projects over the years for alternative transportation and other projects that enhance the quality of life in the city.
 And this partnership is just furthering that. It's really the next opportunity to continue to further those efforts. The proposed grant is a 50-50 matching grant, up to $1,361,428.
 And it will pay for the cycle track and all the necessary appearances including those bike signals at Township The safety markings at other intersections There's a concrete buffer plan between the street and the cycle track which again will separate the the uses And multiple other elements many of which we're still working on in design The grant is payable in two installments upon completion of right-of-way acquisition and permitting which is expected in about a
 by March of next year, and then at 50% completion of construction. The city's portion of the matching funds will be through the transportation bond program. And we're very excited about this opportunity. This is one that really the Walton Family Foundation –
 Provided some leadership in this they came to us and said we really wanted to do this, right? You know, what are the elements that we need to include in this project? And and how can we help with with making it happen? So very appreciative of the Walton Family Foundation. I'll answer any questions Just a comment mayor I'd like to express my personal appreciation for the Walton Foundation and
 for the Walton family that set up that foundation and how they're supporting our community. I've said it before, I'll say it again till the day I die, aren't we glad Bud and Sam took a risk. A business person is just like a turtle, we make no progress until we stick our necks out. We have to take a risk and it certainly paid off for that family, for all the communities that they touch and we certainly appreciate the fact that they touched ours with this grant. Thank you very much.
 Any other comments, questions? What public comment do we have? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Mr. Mayor, I recognize we seem to have someone coming to the microphone. Just when you thought you'd get away. That's right. Yes, Jeremy. Mr. Williams made me, so I made a few notes. Jeremy Pate, 422 East Lafayette Street. I'm here representing the Walton Family Foundation tonight. Nice to see all your faces after a bit of a hiatus.
 The foundation can be pretty discerning in projects that we choose to help sponsor in our sense of place initiatives here that improve quality of life. We prefer them to be catalytic in nature. We believe this to be one of those projects. Just as Chris mentioned, it provides safe transportation options for cyclists, pedestrians, and motorists that will travel Old Wire Road in this area.
 We're also pleased because it's in close proximity to Rood Elementary, as Bunch mentioned earlier, a connection over to Butterfield Trail eventually, and Gully Park. I have personally taken my children and bike to Gully Park for the Gully Park shows at times and it's dangerous. I never did it again. However, this will correct that and we're really pleased to be able to partner in that project.
 We have a significant focus in Northwest Arkansas, as you know, on transportation options, and this project provides an exciting option for all users.
 We sponsored a delegation to Copenhagen last year. Chris Brown went on that delegation. We're also pleased, honestly, when we talked about this in our committee when we approved grants, that those lessons learned are being brought back and physically implemented here in the region. That's the purpose of those delegations. And so I want to thank Chris and his team and his staff and also the Active Transportation Advisory Committee for really kind of digging into the details of this project and providing a good recommendation of cross-section for you all.
 He's not here, but I also want to thank Bobby Farrell, the former alderman from this ward. He really pushed for the improvements along Old Wire Road, particularly pedestrian improvements. And it's not something Bobby was always popular for doing, but in this particular area, he certainly carried the mantle. And so I want to thank him for that. City's been a great partner on several projects in the last few years, and the foundation is pleased to be your partner in this one as well.
 John okay Sarah March I move we pass the resolution all right Alan I'll second I have a motion and a second what final comments do we have in the council okay I too want to thank the city staff I want to thank the Walton Foundation Jeremy you tell those folks we really appreciate you partnering with us you all been a great partners for us and and the staff did a great job too so this has been a
 This has been a truly a really good partnership. So thank you all again. So would you please call? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. OK. Thank you all very much.
 Number four, a resolution to authorize the addition of one full-time equivalent position to the police department to provide a second crime scene technician two full-time equivalent positions to the recycling and trash collection division to provide two route drivers and a temporary part-time position in the finance and internal services department and to approve a budget adjustment. Paul, I believe you have this. Lionel, this affects three departments.
 It's for position control. I believe it will not cause an increase to this year's personnel budget for several reasons, and I'll go over these in order. One is for the police department. What this request is is to take a senior crime scene technician,
 and make two positions out of it. The two positions will be at lesser salaries. One of the major issues that the police chief had is the senior crime technician, there's only one of them, and has had to be available 24-7. And obviously with a lot of investigations, a lot of causes wears a person down. And after a while,
 it certainly gets to be too big of a burden. And that's one of the issues that he had when he conducted an exit interview with the senior technician at the point in time. So this would give two individuals at lesser salaries
 And of course that they could be backups for each other. There is sufficient turnover within the police budget this year to be able to afford that with no increase in cost in the 2017 budget. The second positions I'm going to talk about is in recycling and trash collections.
 It's a request for two positions, additional positions in that department. One of those would be a brand new position. These are route drivers. One would be new, and that's to help accommodate certain changes in collection, et cetera, that was requested with our changes this year.
 uh... one of them would be to allow the availability of uh... us to hire an additional person while one individual in that division has done and deployed uh... in the military we have to keep that position open for that person when the person returns therefore this position would be to replace that uh... moving forward it would add
 to the budget in twenty eighteen for one position uh... in a proximate amount of thirty five thousand dollars depending on where the opposition's higher in at last request is uh... for my division for finance and internal control
 The basic reason for this request is my payroll and accounting manager, who is second in command at the accounting department, has indicated that she is leaving at the end of this year. That position has to see that the payroll is paid and processed every other week period. It affects everybody.
 There's a lot of technology involved. We've had a new ERP system. We're still working out some of the bugs in it. We're progressing very, very well. But there's a big learning curve, and it's going to take some training for a person to take over that position. In addition to that, at year end, we're also working on audit. We're working on closing the books. We have to produce W-2s. There's a lot going on. So this position would be...
 to train to take over that function in the next year. I would also ask that this position be continued at part-time through 2018. What it would do would be create a position which would be called a project coordinator
 project manager would be under my jurisdiction would uh... serve on projects that i would appoint i would select the projects i could use them in each of my divisions budget billing and collection and accounting
 trash who is leaving us with our accounting manager is very very technologically skilled she could be shifted in and out to uh... to help with issues there they're still a lot of things happening in the air p which we need to concentrate on one reporting one of the biggest reasons that we've replaced the air p system was to he's reporting right now
 Under the old system the reporting was very difficult. We've got to create reports. We've got to look at how that module works We've got work to do there We're making some progress, but this would certainly speed that up also One of the things when you come in with a new system because comprehensive it is You have to change your processes your operating processes both in accounting billing and collection and in budget and
 We need somebody to analyze that and help us create the new procedures and processes that we need for successful functioning. So this is the reason that request is made. That will be covered in the 2017 budget, as we do have an open position in budget transferring that money over. Going into the 2018, I think I said 18, I'm sorry, that's 17, we'll cover it in, in 2018,
 The manager who replaces that position will come at a lower salary, if we remember correctly. We do not pay into retirement for the first year, so we'll have some savings there. The individual that we select will come in at a lesser salary, so I believe we'll fold that in for a very, very little cost. Those are the reasons I'm requesting these new positions, and I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay. What questions do we have for Paul on this? What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we approve the resolution. Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all. That concludes our business. Not quite. We had an Orders Review Committee meeting, and maybe the chairman wants to give us a little summary, and I think maybe we're going to remove something from the table. Okay. Yes, Mayor, and...
 Sorry. Thank you, Kit. I actually thought that this was tabled to the next meeting, so that's why I didn't ask. Well, it is, but if you want to remove from the table tonight, you can if you're going to refer to the Planning Commission rather than waiting two more weeks. Okay. Well, that's what we'd like to do, Mayor. We had an ordinance review meeting. All the members attended. We discussed at length the...
 the idea of the Urban Thoroughfare Light zoning district and made some minor suggestions, but in the end decided that it was best to take it off the table and send it back to the Planning Commission for their review and also to look at it a little more in depth.
 And I think that's what we need to do here to really even see if we need this new district or if maybe we can incorporate some changes to the current zoning. Some ideas even around making things a little more confusing than needed to make another zoning district. So with that, I would like to move to take it off the table and refer it back to the Planning Commission. Okay.
 John? Second the motion. Okay. So we're basically going to take it off the table. We have a motion to take it off the table and send it back to the Planning Commission for further review. Correct. Am I good on that? All right. Okay. What discussion do we have among the council on this? Everybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Let me get the motion in there. Oh, sorry. I thought I did. Sorry. All right. Justin and John, you second? Yeah. Okay.
 Okay, Sandra? Got it. All right. Please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Clature? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. That concludes our business now. Is there any other announcements? Okay, I have one. Did you have something? I do, but I want you to do that one first. All righty.
 The Compensation Study Committee, I want to call the first meeting for next Monday, July 31st, 4.30 p.m., room 326. It's two Mondays from now. I'm sorry? Two Mondays from now. Ah, so it is. Two Mondays from now. The 31st. However that all works out. Okay. So, that will be, I will be at the first kickoff meeting, and then I'm going to turn it over to the committee. We have Council Member Adele Gray. Okay.
 Council Member Mark Kenyon, Council Member Sarah Bunch, and Council Member John Latour on that committee, correct? All right. From the Fire Department, we have Jimmy Vineyard. From the Police Department, we have Leonard Graves. From Staff Senate, we have Barbara Fell. From the Management Rep will be Paul Becker, and the Mayor's Representative will be Chief of Staff Don Maher.
 The only, and then when we kick off the meeting, I will lay out some recommendations that I would like to see from the committee, and then your recommendations go to full council. Okay? Mayor, and just for those employees watching, the only voting members of that committee are the council members. That's right, because you all are the elected officials. You will be the voting members of that council. Okay.
 Time of placing in there? It is room 326, 430, July 31st. Okay? All right. On to the fun announcements. We have a dive-in movie this Thursday at the Wilson Park Swimming Pool. Gates open at 715. It's free admission. There are concessions available. The movie begins to be shown as it gets dark. And the movie for July 21st is Finding Dory.
 Also, if you are driving on College Avenue or on North Street, you are aware of traffic delays due to lane closures for asphalt work and repaving that's taking place. College Avenue is being done and maintained by the state of Arkansas, Highway and Transportation Department. North Street...
 we are doing the asphalt milling and overlay work. And so plan that into your commute time because there are delays particularly around rush hours. And then we wanna continue to remind people that the city is seeking input from all of our citizens and all the wards, our drivers, our walkers, our bikers, our parkers, anyone who is our transit riders
 we have a mobility survey it's on the city's website thank you all for whatever encouragement you all did because we saw a nice jump the last time we did this announcement and we are seeing really good representation from all four wards and we want to continue that so if you think you're not being miss if you think you're not being represented in your issues around transportation please fill out the survey so that we can get your input and that's available on the city's website
 Okay, anything else? All right, thank you all. We're adjourned.