I would like to call the City Council meeting of July 21, 2015 to order. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Chopmeyer. Here. Walter. Present. Long. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Pledge of Allegiance to the flag.
 of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all good evening everyone um under the uh mayor's announcements proclamation recognition city council meeting presentation reports and discussion items we have city council presentation the 2014 annual audit report presented by paul becker paul
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Essentially what I do to report this is to advise you that the comprehensive annual financial report has been completed, is published, is on the website, and you all have an electronic copy. I could go on infinitum of what the report contained.
 However, what I will say it is positive on a governmental statement basis, our total net position increased $6 million last year. So it was a pretty good year. This of course audit was audited by Grant Thornton, our auditors. We had an unqualified or termed a clean opinion.
 on the financial statements. They ensure that in fact we apply generally accepted accounting principles. They use governmental accounting standards to do their audit. Again, there was a clean opinion.
 Within here it publishes the financial statements of the city. There are two types of statements essentially presented in it. One's called entity-wide statements, which more or less consolidate everything together, and government-wide statements, which break out the various funds, etc. They're done on different accounting basis, and that's why sometimes you see two different financial statements, but you'll see a reconciliation with each. Again,
 This did have an unqualified opinion by Grant Thornton. There were no internal control major findings by Grant Thornton. It also contains a single audit which in fact addresses the grant funds and any question costs.
 within the grant funds. So in other words, it certifies to the government that the grant funds were used properly, which is part of the audit. So with that, like I say, it is posted on the website,
 And we did receive a clean opinion and it was positive results for the year and I'm more than happy to answer any questions. The last thing I should mention is when it comes to the comprehensive annual report, it's more or less a historical document as we see it's already June.
 Those numbers were already factored reasonably within last year's budget when we did the budget last year. So results of that were factored into last year's budget coming forward to this year. I'll be happy to answer any questions if you have any. Any questions for Paul on the audit report? Everybody good? All right. Thank you, Paul. Great job. All right. On the consent agenda tonight, number one, approval of the July 7, 2015 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 number two resolution approved budget adjustment the amount of eight thousand seventy seven dollars recognizing funding from the Homeland Security investigations task force for the purchase of new forensic computer system by the police department number three Resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of a hundred thousand nine hundred ninety three dollars recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement forfeitures and procedures
 Proceeds from the sale of a used vehicle on govdeals.com. Number four, a resolution to authorize acceptance of the 2015-2016 Justice Assistance and State Drug Crime Enforcement Grant for federal and state funding in the amount of $242,610 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to approve a contract extension with InstaForm Technologies Incorporated
 Any amount of not to exceed $330,000 for sewer rehabilitation using cured in place sanitary sewer linings. Number six. A resolution to approve the annual renewal contract with Gallagher Benefits Services in the amount of $57,600 with a provision of the City Employee Benefits Broker Services. Number seven.
 Resolution authorized acceptance of a general improvement fund grant through the Northwest Arkansas Economic Development District Incorporated, the amount of $50,000 for the purchase of soccer goals for the regional park and to approve a budget adjustment.
 number eight a resolution to prove task order number three with garver llc in the amount of twenty three thousand five hundred dollars for design bidding and construction oversight services for the airport airfield marking rehabilitation project to accept a 9010 grant from the arkansas department of aeronautics in the amount of 179 880 and to approve budget
 And number nine, a resolution to award bid number 15-39 into authorized contract with Goodwin and Goodwin Incorporated. The amount of $755,654.50.
 with the construction of the Mission Boulevard and O'Wire Road intersection water and sewer improvements project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $113,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept consent agenda as read. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes.
 All right, thank you all. Under unfinished business, number one,
 The ordinance rezoning that property describing the zoning petition RZN 15-5044 for approximately 16.02 acres located at 4065 East Huntsville Road from RPCD 08 3071 residential planned zoning district Ridgedale Plaza to RSF 7 residential single family seven units per acre NS neighborhood services and CS community services. This was tabled until tonight correct?
 I think it was, but I also, go ahead, Jeremy, did you get another letter? It was tabled at the last meeting at the request of the applicant. We did receive before the agenda session last week a request to table this until August the 4th. So if you would be so inclined, please table the item. Okay. Motion to table indefinitely. Second. Until August the 4th, correct? August 4th, yes. That was the request. Is that your motion? Okay. Okay. All right.
 We have a motion to table this item until August the 4th. Any discussion among the council? Is that good? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. Next order of business we have tonight is public hearing.
 I'll open up the public hearing and it's number one is a resolution to authorize the city attorney to seek condemnation in possession of certain lands owned by bear state bank formerly known as first federal bank Are its assigns and the garland and georgia reading trust needed for the extension of ruble road from persimmon street to martin luther king jr boulevard Yes, thank you mayor Sorry
 This is for the Rupert Road Extension Project from Persimmon Street South to MLK. We have that project out for bid right now. We'll be receiving bids on the 24th, this Friday. We do have two property owners who have not been able to negotiate a settlement for right of way and therefore requesting condemnation action on these properties. The city attorney has been communicating with the property owners.
 We're still continuing negotiations. We haven't really heard a lot from these two property owners, so we are requesting authorization to go ahead and file the condemnation, get the order of possession so we can move on with the project. Okay. Is the applicant here? No, that's us. I'm sorry. But you can open up for public comment. Yeah. Do you have any questions for Chris on this? Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this?
 See none. I'll bring it back to the council. I will just agree with Chris that we will continue to attempt to see if we can work out some sort of settlement on this. We might not be able to. And I also should note that Bear State Bank is possibly going to sell their property, and so this condemnation authority will be going.
 It will be against whoever actually is the owner at the time, so if it is assigned to some other person, then that's who we'd have to file the condemnation claim against. What this does is allow us to obtain possession of the property so that construction can begin. Okay. Next one.
 Well, ordinarily, I think condemnation is a very heavy-handed approach, but it sounds like we're doing all we can to negotiate and gain the property. I strongly support the effort to do that and hold condemnation as a last resort. So I applaud your efforts, City Attorney. Okay. Any other comments? Move to pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance to establish and lay off East Mission Boulevard multipurpose property owners improvement district number 34 of Federal Arkansas. Kitt. Before I read this, Mayor, I received notification that they had difficulty having their property
 The banker agreed to allow this and therefore they have decided to ask that it be tabled indefinitely. I move we table it indefinitely. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to table this item indefinitely. Any discussion on that? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Lature?
 Number one resolution to approve a payment of $170,000 the Arnesaw Highway and Transportation Department The additional cost of a shared use path on highway 1 to 12 bridge across interstate 49
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. In September 2014, the Highway Department had a public meeting on this project. This is the project that's essentially widening I-49 from Porter Road through the Van Ash Bridge. So it's all of that interchange area, the Highway 112 bridge, and all of the area around the Bayville Auto Park.
 So it's a very large project. One of the things that we were concerned about was the cross section of the bridge over Highway 112 and it is being widened to five lanes, the Highway 112 bridge.
 The original design was 12 foot wide driving lanes, five of those, five foot wide bike lanes on either side and a six and a half foot sidewalk. So the city requested that the state reallocate the space that they were providing for bikes, put that into a shared use path on one side and take off the bike lanes and also to reduce the width of the driving lanes.
 So the state did that and they came back with the proposed 11 foot driving lanes, a 14 foot wide shared use path on the west side of the road and a 5 foot buffer distance between that shared use path and the back of curb. The state as part of that requested the city pay what they've calculated to be the additional cost of this change, the $170,000.
 At the council agenda session, also at the Transportation Committee, there was a question about separation of the shared use path and methods that we could use to separate the shared use path from the driving lanes. What we proposed, what we looked at and what we talked to the Highway Department about this past week were lighted bollards that would go near that five foot buffer zone, so about five feet off the back of the curb.
 to separate that shared use path, bicycle and pedestrian path, from the driving lines. Presented that to the Highway Department. They agreed, thought that was a good idea. They proposed or agreed to include...
 any of the conduit installation, pull boxes, that sort of thing. If we need the electrical service, they would include that in their project at no additional cost. So, we feel like this is a good proposal. I have visited with Alderman Petty about this and I believe he's also in agreement, so we would propose to include that as part of our request. Okay. Matt, do you want to say something? Yeah, I'd just like to thank our City Engineer, Chris, for
 hearing me pulling this from consent and working more with the department I think we end up with a solution that I think is about as good as it can get so thank you and I guess we can take public comment or I make a motion to pass it. Okay does any of the council other council members have any questions for Chris on this? Okay what public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, see none. I'll bring back the council. Move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments on this? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay, number two.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 15-5078 submitted by City Staff and property located east of 4148 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate undeveloped street right-of-way. Kent. Kent.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of the street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates and abandons the following street right-of-way described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached and labeled exhibit a Shall be filed in the office of reporter of the county and recorded indeed records of the county City staff has prepared this proposal for the council consideration of a vacation of existing right-of-way in which there's no streets or utilities It's located at the southern terminus of where these new South Drupal Road extension will occur just north of Martin Luther King Jr Boulevard
 There's an existing unnamed and undeveloped right of way for the Hollands subdivision in this vicinity. As I mentioned, there's no utilities. The street is not there. It's simply a paper right of way. As part of the negotiation process to obtain right of way for the new road, we agreed to submit this for council consideration, and therefore we're following through on that commitment. Okay.
 The request for his approval to vacate the entire portion of right-of-way, it's never been utilized. It's not needed for public utilization. We submitted all vacation forms to utility departments as we normally do. So we essentially follow the same process as a private developer does in the vacation process as well. The Planning Commission voted nine to zero in favor of this request. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Good. All right. What public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes.
 An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5078 submitted by city staff for property located east of 4148 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate undeveloped street right-of-way.
 maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading the motion is second to go to the third and final reading i mean lisa yes john yes sorry i'd like to just stop here and say this is an example of an ordinance where i can support reading all three readings in one meeting because it's non-controversial there are not strong emotions on both sides people don't need time to digest and see what we're doing it's something that's fairly routine this is a good thing to do all in one meeting
 So I appreciate you all doing that. Well, thank you, John. Sure thing.
 All right. We have a motion, a second, go to the third and final. Are any correct? Yes, we do. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. In order to approve VAC 15-5078, submitted by city staff, are properly located east of 4148 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate undeveloped street right-of-way. Okay.
 any final comments from the council on this please would you please call the roll gray yes marsh yes kenya yes petty yes shotmeyer yes mature yes long yes okay
 Number three an ordinance to prove vacation 15-50 80 submitted by Riverwood homes were properly located at where and Salem roads to vacate where road right-of-way and portions of existing utility easements within the Holcomb Heights subdivision
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described street right-of-way and portions of utility easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates and abandons the following utility easements and street right-of-way described in Exhibit B attached here to be made a part hereof. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached and labeled Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office and recorded with the County and recorded in the deed records of the County. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions of approval.
 Any damage or relocation of existing facilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Number two, the applicant shall receive approval from Washington County for portions of Weir Road right-of-way that are within Washington County jurisdiction.
 Okay, Jeremy this is a property located at the far northwest corner of the city's limits It's actually adjacent to the Washington County as mentioned by mr. Williams in the ordinance a condition of approval of the development Project for the subdivision was to relocate weir Road to align at Salem Road in gypsum Drive in a four-way intersection as opposed to an angled intersection and
 That has been accomplished and was approved. Final plat was approved in March in 2015. The final condition of approval was simply to vacate the no longer utilized right-of-way where Weir Road used to be. And so that's this subject, a vacation request. Planning Commission voted 9-0. Staff is recommending approval. As mentioned, in the conditions of approval, they'll also have to petition Washington County for the portion of right-of-way should they wish to take that property as well. Any questions from the council on this item?
 Okay, do we have any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. May we go to the second reading, please? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance approved VAC 15-5080 submitted by Riverwood Homes for property located at Weir and Salem Roads to vacate Weir Road, right-of-way, and portions of existing utility easements within the Holcomb Heights subdivision. We will go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lester. Yes. Long. Yes. Yes.
 In order to approve VAC 15-5080 submitted by Riverwood Homes for property located at Weir and Salem Roads to vacate Weir Road right-of-way and portions of existing utility easements within the Holcomb Heights subdivision. Any final comments from the council? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay, number four.
 A resolution to grant the appeal of Ken's signs and to approve the requested variance for the length of neon lighting for Raising Cane's building. Jeremy? Jeremy?
 The property in question is located at the southwest corner of North College Avenue and Millsap Avenue. It has been recently approved and constructed for a new restaurant called Raising Canes. That building is under construction, almost complete. Staff has also improved installation of neon lighting within what the council's approved code allows, which is up to 75% of the entire building facade length.
 The applicant is requesting approval of a variance of Chapter 176, which is a portion of our lighting ordinance, to allow additional neon lighting around the building. This would total approximately 218 linear feet or 84% of the building length. Essentially, when the Planning Commission and City Council adopted the outdoor lighting ordinance, there was a section that allowed for an exclusion for lights to not be shielded or directed downward, and neon lighting is considered an accent lighting.
 That lighting, however, was limited. Because it's not shielded, it was limited in the amount of percentage of the building facade. So the requirement currently is 75%. The test for a variance in this particular application is to find a hardship that needs to be established. The applicant stated in their application to staff and what we reviewed was that the neon was needed to preserve the uniform brand for raising canes and to improve visibility from College Avenue. When we reviewed those two,
 potential hardships, neither of those in our opinion presented an undue hardship for the applicant. They are currently placing 138 feet of neon on the east, north, and west elevations. It does allow them to install an additional 56 feet of lighting on the south elevation if needed. This, in our opinion, was a sufficient amount of lighting if improved visibility was needed and also allowed the applicant to provide similar lighting plan as other restaurant locations within this area.
 The Planning Commission denied the variance request. It was a split vote, five to four, and staff also recommended denial of the request. Okay. Is the applicant here? Would you like to come up and address the council? Good evening, everyone.
 I am here to request an additional 25 feet of neon lighting. Our building is under construction. We're set to open on the 6th. We're very, very close. We are new to this market, so we really wanted to maintain our brand. That way when we look at other locations here, as we are doing right now, that we have a uniform look across the city.
 i did um put together just a very small presentation just so you can see some other locations that we have and our what the neon lighting does look like we have three locations here and then as you can see on the site plan it's the one elevation where our drive-through is that we're short so we would like to add the additional 25 feet so we could have visibility going down college both directions
 There's again the elevation right now. We are in a very competitive area, great area, great restaurants around us and so we just want to make sure that we have really good branding for us. Okay. What questions do we have for the council, for the staff or for the applicant?
 Thank you, Mayor. Well, you're very welcome. Jeremy, if we go from 75 to 84 percent, that's an 8 percent increase, could I tell a difference? If I have a building with 75 percent lighting and a building next to it with 84 percent lighting, can I really see or discern in just passing by at 40 miles an hour?
 Would I notice much of a difference? Probably not. For the layperson, this is a technical requirement. The Planning Commission and Council simply had to draw a line. They felt like they had to draw a line when they created this ordinance, primarily because it's an exemption to the requirement that all lighting has to be shielded and directed downward. Anywhere else that we allow exterior lighting in the city, you can't actually see the bulb
 source of the light always is shielded directed downward uh... to prevent from blinding light or to prevent people from uh... being distracted as they're driving by and in some ways that safety issue uh... that's why we don't allow
 screens that move and flashing, blinking, things of that nature. And so that's one of the purposes of that ordinance. And the council felt 75% was an allowance that they were comfortable with to be exempt from the full cutoff fixture requirement. Okay.
 But you would agree that by its nature neon lights are meant not to be shielded I mean, it's the outer side of its outline of the building sure and we've seen both applications We've actually seen some that are shielded and sort of reflected from an interior mirror type system Which seems to work pretty well, but we've also seen exactly what you've stated several restaurants in our CMM Business Park have a
 me on, they all meet this requirement. I don't know that you would also be able to tell that 75% versus 84% the other way of your question. Right. Thank you. I would urge my colleagues on the council to accommodate raising canes. It's not a very obvious difference.
 And this is a way we can show the business community that we're in favor of business and we're glad you're here and we want to be a good neighbor to you. Not that we want to let you run over our rules and abuse our rules, but I think going from 75% to 84% is not an enormous leap, and it would accommodate something that the entrepreneur, the business owner, feels they need. And I would like to defer to them on this issue. Okay.
 Jeremy, just out of curiosity, how many other variances have we granted with neon lighting? I just have to copy your head. I don't recall any, but my gut tells me there's been at least one before the Planning Commission and Council, but I can't recall what that might have been. Colliers on Dixon Street seems to...
 I feel like that got a variance and essentially they were replacing an existing fixture, an old 50s type fixture. I feel like that might have gotten a variance, but I can't recall to be honest with you. Not very many. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the council to the applicant or the staff? Thank you, ma'am. Is there any public comment on this? Okey-dokey. Bring it back to the council. I have a question. Yes. As far as city attorney, we've been doing this for a long time.
 considered exemptions to the sign ordinance in the past? This is not actually part of the sign ordinance. This is part of our outdoor lighting ordinance. Okay. Well, my question is still relevant. When we discussed the sign ordinance, you talked about how exemptions may weaken the ordinance in our defense of it in court. Do you feel that that would also be true for our lighting ordinance?
 It's a different issue, really. The signed ordinance is being, you have to look at that in relation to the First Amendment and protections that people have for communications. This is a lighting ordinance, so it's not the same thing. I mean, you can always say that you should treat businesses the same and other businesses have had to comply, but I don't think it weakens the ordinance necessarily if you do grant a variance. We do allow a variance procedure and that's what is being attempted right here. Okay.
 Any other questions or? I have a comment. Sure. I'm real familiar with this intersection and it is a tough intersection to navigate because of Shiloh and Millsap and the addition of the flyover and I don't, I would like to consider granting this because it does help their brand but I'm not sure that
 This is a place to do it because it's already such a tough intersection to add any more distraction I think is something we have to consider from a safety issue. I don't know if the police has anything about this, but there are a lot of accidents at this intersection. There's only one entrance and exit to this off of Millsap, so it's going to be a precarious
 undertaking anyway. So just because I see the number of accidents and near accidents here in this specific, because where my office is located, I don't think that I could, I would like to accommodate it because I do think it is part of their branding. On the other hand, due to the precarious nature and safety issues in the, that very tough intersection, I would not be able to support it.
 Anybody else? Yes, Mayor. Yes. I drove by there today and looked very carefully. So...
 help me understand, we're wanting to put more lighting, more length of lighting, or brighter lighting? Help us understand, Jeremy, exactly what kind of changes they want to make. Sure, and I'll let the applicant probably speak to it more in detail, but essentially the length of the lighting is a question, so there's a certain amount allowed, they simply want to go 9% more than what's allowed by our codes. There are specific ways to make sure that
 call attention to your building with lighting. You could place all the neon lighting on one side of the building, for instance, on the most visible sides. If you have seen this property, the most visible sides are the east side and the north side. The west side is really only visible if you're approaching eastbound on Millsap. The south side really is not very visible because you have an entire tree line that's located along an easement in that location. It's my understanding that it's the drive-through side of this property that they would like to add
 more neon and the applicant may be able to speak to that more clearly, but it is the length. It's not the brightness or anything of that nature. It's the length of lighting, overall lighting that can be allowed on the property. And so I guess I need the applicant to come back up. So is any of the neon lighting on there now? It is not on the to-go side, no. It's not on the...
 both directions of Millsap and then I believe coming south on College. And it was it was turned on today during the daytime? Did not notice that was turned on when I was there today. What I noticed and what stood out to me was the emblem just like what you have on your shirt, what's on your logo up here and and to me that's what brands came and
 So thank you very much. Mayor. Yes, John. I, like Alderman Kenyon, share his concern for safety, and public safety has to be one of our paramount responsibilities and duties as a city council. But our planning director has already testified that there's not much discernible difference between 75% and 84%, 9% increase. Excuse me, bad math. So I don't think it's going to raise a big safety issue.
 Since it's not discernible. If we're talking about giant signs and or just an ungodly amount of neon all on one side of the building, that would make a very glowing glare at night. Maybe that would be too distractive and things like that. But if we can't really discern the difference between two buildings with 75% and 84% right next to each other, I would think that the safety concerns would be minimized. So I wouldn't be concerned about that.
 Yes, sir. I think something to take into consideration is that this is an appeal. And Jeremy, remind me again, how did the Planning Commission vote on this issue? It was a five to four vote and I think to your point,
 Our test is whether there's a hardship. That's part of the variance. That's how we apply consistency to all businesses and provide a predictable environment. One business has to apply and they have the same test as any other business. What our recommendation is based on and what I believe the planning commission's ultimately their decision was based on was there a hardship proven by this application and we simply with materials submitted could not find in favor of that. I don't view brand identity as a hardship.
 that would be worthy of an exception in this case. I drove by the property, this was before it was even on the agenda session, I noticed it, I thought the signage was very apparent. I don't think that there's any visibility issue and that we need to be better about holding all of our businesses to the same standards so that people can know what to expect and there's no,
 allegations of favoritism or anything like that. So I think that we need to be consistent in our application of the law, and I don't see a hardship here, so I will not be voting in support of the appeal. May I see it? I'll move we deny the appeal. Second. Okay. Thank you.
 motion and second to deny the appeal so yes mr. mayor this is a resolution well there must be a motion to pass the resolution because it takes five attorney votes to pass the resolution and a motion for it or against it there should be a motion to pass the resolution mr. mayor I so move there needs to be a second to the motion to pass
 So yes vote would be for the appeal and no vote will be against it, correct? That's correct. All right. Any final any other comments from the council? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? No. Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTour? Yes. Long? No. Motion, uh, the resolution fails. Okay. Thank you all. Number five,
 North result of that property described was on a petition RZN 15-50 66 for approximately 3.98 acres located at 13 38 and 13 26 West Cleveland Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and our SF4 residential single-family four units per acre to DG downtown general subject to a bill of assurance kit I
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the following inscribed property from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to downtown general, as shown on exhibits A and B attached to and made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby accepts the bill of assurance from the applicant relies upon this bill of Assurance in making this rezoning decision the bill of assurance is attached as Exhibit C to this ordinance and section 3 that the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 above and I should note for the record that the bill of assurance referred to in The ordinance was the one we just received today Okay
 Chairman, I'm sorry. Mr. Mayor and Council, this is an appeal of a decision by the Planning Commission to recommend denial of a rezoning. It's a 9-0 vote. The properties are located at the northeast corner of Cleveland Street and Razorback Road. There are two existing single-family homes built in the 1920s.
 four acres in total. The zoning is three quarters of an acre, RMF 24, and about three and a quarter acres zoned RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. The property is surrounded by a variety of land uses and zoning designations. To the east is an engineering fraternity house on a large piece of property zoned RMF 24.
 To the north and west are single family homes, almost exclusively zoned RSF4 on large lots. And to the south, as you know, across Cleveland is the University of Arkansas, which is zoned institutional, although the university does not follow our zoning ordinances.
 The applicant has submitted a request for a zoning district called Downtown General. This zoning district is a mixed use zoning district including a wide variety of residential and commercial uses. It was created as one of our first form-based codes following the adoption of the Downtown Master Plan. It was first implemented in the downtown as part of the 300 plus acres of our downtown area boundary.
 The City Plan Future Land Use Plan, City Plan 2030 Future Land Use Plan designates this site as a city neighborhood area. And from the City Plan Neighborhood Area description, they are described as more densely developed than your typical residential neighborhood areas and provide a varying mix of non-residential and residential uses. This designation supports the widest spectrum of uses and encourages density in all housing types from single family to multifamily.
 The staff does support a variety of housing types in a lot of our city neighborhood areas and even an increased density, in our opinion, over the existing four units per acre on this property due primarily to the transitional nature of the property next to University of Arkansas, a fraternity, and also large lot single family neighborhoods. We feel, however, the most appropriate path for the owner to obtain development and entitlement rights on this property would be a planned zoning district.
 We felt like the proposal for a downtown general district is inconsistent with our basic zoning policies. Rather than creating clarity through a standard zoning district or a comprehensive plan zoning district that's essentially customized for a project, there's a request here with the bill of assurance to modify the zoning district such that it's really not a downtown general any longer. It's a residential district. We did not feel like it was appropriate for that property.
 In our opinion, utilization of Downtown General in this area creates an unwanted precedent. Each zoning application that you all see is considered uniquely. Everyone that you see is considered by its own merits. However, the context of surrounding zoning and the land uses there are taken into consideration each and every time.
 compatibility for instance with adjacent land uses and adjacent zoning is one of the primary considerations. We believe the introduction of downtown general as a district, not necessarily development proposal itself, but the district itself could facilitate the erosion of this neighborhood integrity adjacent to university with future policy decisions. So not just relying upon this policy decision, but those in the future.
 to reiterate we do believe that a project with a higher density and situated more compactly on the property could be appropriate if designed appropriately would you not believe downtown general to be that appropriate designation and the appropriate vehicle to get to the resolution of a
 of a development on this property finding it finding an incompatible district to my knowledge downtown general has been exclusively utilized in our urban downtown core or in the mixed-use neighborhoods directly adjacent to the downtown such as walker park along south school college avenue and directly west of downtown east of the university i'm not aware of any other zoning downtown general being utilized outside those parameters as mentioned in the um
 The City Council ordinance that Mr. Williams read, there is a bill of assurance attached. I want to make sure that we all are clear about what's being offered in the bill of assurance. It's been modified several times. Planning Commission's considered one bill of assurance, which is what is attached to your original packet. Another draft bill of assurance, I described at the agenda session, and I believe today a newly revised and signed bill of assurance has been offered that would replace any of those.
 That bill of assurance, just to clarify because what you've done is probably a study of the old one, it removes any reference to the development itself. So there's no reference to a master plan or a concept development. So you may have seen references to some tree preservation areas, the street layout, the parking from behind, the development concepts. Those are no longer as part of this bill of assurance.
 Meaning we cannot also discuss the development tonight. We can't see project site plans or discuss that that's consistent with any zoning application They've also removed multifamily dwellings as a permitted use so if you'll notice there really are only five uses allowed now within the zoning application as Clarified by this bill of assurance single-family dwellings and
 two family dwellings, three family dwellings, cottage housing development, and home occupations. So they've removed anything multifamily dwellings. So for you all, what that means is three dwelling units is the maximum in any one structure that could be allowed on the property.
 There's also taken out statements referring to a majority of the internal units being single-family that was in one of the original original bills of assurance And then added a limitation of 54 units before there was no density downtown general doesn't have a density limitation And so they've limited the density to 50 a maximum 54 units on the property
 What has been consistent here is the development of the property will be limited to construction of new buildings that do not exceed 30 feet in height. That's well below the RSF-4 requirement and obviously well below the downtown general allowance of, I believe, 56 feet, if I remember correctly. Okay.
 That's the bill of assurance. Planning staff, as you probably heard from the recommendation, we do not recommend approval of this rezoning to downtown general. We do feel like the planned zoning district is a better approach for what the applicant is pursuing, and the Planning Commission voted 9-0 against that. We did receive public comment at the Planning Commission meeting. All were opposed from the neighborhood that were present, and I think we've included everything we've received from both the applicant and neighbors since that time.
 Okay. All right. Do we have any questions for Jeremy? Yes, Mark. The bill of assurance goes with the property and the zoning and it stays with it regardless of the sale of the property, right? That is correct. It runs with the land is what we say. So essentially it does not matter who the owner is, what plans they have. The bill of assurance runs with the land in perpetuity unless the city council votes to change that. Because there are certainly some accommodations in this new bill of assurance that I think is comforting, but
 All in all, I don't, I probably cannot support this. Let's wait and we'll get some discussion. You're right. I'm going to get the applicant to. I wanted to be sure that I understood that to be the fact.
 You said that you may support a higher density than RSF4. I know to the east it's RMF24, now to the west it's RMF4. So you think somewhere in the middle? I think so. I've been asked that question many times, what's the number I'm going to support, how many units. That's very difficult for a staff person to answer.
 The details are what matter. I think a project that's appropriately designed with the surrounding context being considered, when you transition on a property, even four acres can make a big difference. So where adequate buffers around single family are provided, and then density along Cleveland adjacent to a high-rise apartment building,
 I think certainly something that we could look at in terms of a transitional district higher than RSF4, in our opinion. Okay. As another question, so you're recommending a PZD on this property. I'm wondering if you could take a few moments to explain kind of your theory on what sites would lead you to think that a PZD would be required. Sure. So PZDs were created for a couple different purposes.
 and how we apply them. Generally staff tries to find a zoning district that meets whatever the needs of an applicant is. So when we have someone come in, if they wanna do a PCD, we really try not to encourage that because it really is more work on staff ultimately in the long run because it's a custom zoning district different than anything else that we have to apply only those standards to. So,
 From the outset, we try to find a district that fits whatever the applicant's proposing to do. That's not always going to be the case, though. We found in the mid-2000s a lot of mixed-use type zoning districts
 were coming forward as pzds because we didn't really have any districts that fit what they were trying to do so we created form-based codes community services urban thoroughfare and so none of those now have to be a pzd that can all come through that that form-based district so that's one reason is that you don't you have a project that doesn't really fit necessarily into any zoning district that we have and we believe based upon the discussions thus far that's part of what makes us recommend a planned zoning district in this case
 The second part of it though is when you have either a property or a project or a neighborhood that is contentious or controversial for some reason, whether it's a lot of times it's a transitional property. It's going from one use to another pretty quickly and there's something in the middle that an applicant would like to see or it's really out of box project, neighborhoods are concerned around it.
 That's one of the other purposes for the planned zoning district was to allow for the public to see what was going to be, and ultimately the council, to see what was going to be proposed. Because as you know, as I stated, a straight zoning request doesn't guarantee any type of project, the character, the development quality.
 quality, any of those things, a PZD can get more to the crux of the development itself. And so that's really the two primary reasons that we generally would recommend a PZD. And we really see
 portion of both of that in this particular property. I think we also recommended the same thing, for better or worse, on the Cleveland site to the east of this. The original request was to go to a zoning district and we didn't feel like that was an appropriate call and again, in the transitional nature of that particular piece of property. Thank you. Yes, Deb. So can you give us some idea?
 of what you think would work? What do you think would be a good plan? Honestly, I think the plan that has been developed and even discussed at the Planning Commission level is a very good start. I think it's just a matter of the manner in which it's presented, the details are what matter. So how can that project even work or another project even work on this particular property? RSF-4,
 probably relatively easy to develop a project it does not make financial sense is what we've heard from the applicant on this property and so you know i think because of if this were a
 a lot into Sunset or off of potentially Oliver. I don't think we would be recommending anything more than RSF4 because it's very clear where that boundary is. Along Cleveland is a little different in our opinion. I know we have some disagreement with the neighborhood on that because some of the neighborhood certainly believe Cleveland should be the line that's held. But we feel those changes have been made with previous policy decisions.
 And so we feel like we could support something higher than the RSF4. But to that point, I'm making that statement, but I'm also making the statement Downtown General can lead to further policy decisions even more into the neighborhood. And so how much that's encroached is a concern for us because it is a strong neighborhood, we believe, surrounding the university that we don't feel is changing in the near future.
 So help me understand then if we have one of the right to the east is 24. So help me understand how that works as a transition. So the RSF4 to the north and the west and the RMF24, it's not developed anywhere close to 24 units per acre. It's a large property with a relatively small engineering fraternity house.
 But it could be. It could be if someone purchased it, yes. And that zoning has been made. We didn't recommend that. That's been 20 plus years ago, I believe, that that was, that zoning decision was made. Would we recommend that now? I would say no. I would not recommend RMF24, but it's there now, so we'll honor the zoning that's in place. And whatever criteria comes with that zoning is what we support as terms of the development. We meet our standards for that. Thank you.
 Okay, I want to hear from the applicant tonight. I'm sure they want to now on the presentation Applicants asked to give a presentation now We have not allowed to show the layout of what you're going to do We didn't do that with the neighborhood market and so they couldn't show what they were gonna do. This is about rezoning Correct kit Jeremy that's correct. Okay, so we got to stay within the confines of that result. All right, let's take a
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. I'm Brian Teague. I'm with Community by Design. I've been representing the owners of the property, the Jeske family, who is Arkansas Legacy LLC. It's four siblings who grew up in the house there at 1326 West Cleveland. I've been working with them for about 18 months now, developing the master plan.
 It's been quite a long process and the bulk of that process starting out originally was a lot of consensus building with the family members, getting them on board with the city plan 2030 goals, with the future land use plan goals. In the end, I feel like we've done a good job of incorporating all of that into our proposal.
 Could I ask you a question, Mayor, before I start through this presentation? Sure. It was just in regard to your comment about— Well, we don't usually show the design or the plans. Okay. We stay with the ReZoning. I know that the neighborhood market was in here, what, six months ago? They wanted to show their plans. We did not allow those plans to be shown because we were talking about ReZoning, not the plans. Is that— Yeah, when you first submitted a bill of insurance that had—part of that was
 design, kind of a site design, and you was incorporating that into your bill of assurance, then at that point in time that could have been shown. But now that you've removed that, that's really no longer part of the zoning decision and so our rules have always been for many years that you can't show that. Could we show the scale of the buildings that we're proposing since we're limiting the height to 30 feet and we're limiting the use to single and two, three family?
 Potentially you could show I guess the height of the building. I don't know. It's kind of hard to make a decision without seeing your slide and seeing what you're trying to do. Jeremy, have you looked at their slides? Do you know what they're going to present? I have. It's basically the same presentation as the Planning Commission for the most part. There are site plans relative to the development that you've all seen, so it's no secret what that is.
 I think the scale, perhaps the elevations would bring that most to the character of the height limitation, but I would limit comments just to the height and I guess the single two and three family units. Okay. All right. Thank you. Okay. So what I'd like to...
 the big ideas i guess concepts that i would like to discuss in my presentation the city neighborhood future land use designation on the property just exactly what that encourages i think jeremy's art mr jeremy's already done a good job of describing that um get it into a little more about why we were requesting the downtown general zoning category a big question why we couldn't make a pzd work for the property
 We proposed the bill of assurance to alleviate try to alleviate concerns of the neighbors would like to go over that although mr Pate's already I think done a good job of reviewing Where we are with the bill of assurance and then also if I can try to explain in more detail how we feel like we're incorporating the city plan 2030 goals Into into our proposal so
 The property is located right at the intersection of Cleveland and Razorback Road. It's four acres owned by Arkansas Legacy LLC, right across the street from us, the University of Arkansas. More specifically is the Reed Hall Dormitory, 12 stories.
 Looking at the existing zoning on the property, three quarters of it is zoned RMF 24, 3.25 acres. I'm sorry, three quarters of an acre is zoned RMF 24 and 3.25 acres zoned RSF 4. This would allow us to currently build approximately 40 dwelling units on the property.
 If you look to the west of Razorback Road, to the west of the property, you see it's pretty much all zoned RSF4. However, if you look to the east of Garland, it's pretty much all zoned RMF40. And that, you know, I've...
 if you will, that sets up a transitional area between Razorback Road and Garland. You have the university, you have Leopard Elementary. To the north of Leopard Elementary, you have RO zoning, you have commercial zoning. At the corner of Hall and Cleveland is the Project Cleveland PZD zoning, which allows 45 units to the acre to be built. To the west of that is a good chunk of RMF24 zoning.
 And then to the west of that is our 3.25 acres, which currently is zoned RSF4. Taking into account the future land use designation on the property that encourages more densely developed neighborhoods, our logic was to try to create that transition, starting with Project Cleveland at 45 units per acre down to...
 existing zoning that allows 24 units per acre and that led us to propose approximately 13 units per acre. So stepping down from 45, 24, 13 down to 4 we felt like that might be an appropriate transition. 54 dwelling units total, that's 14 more than what is currently allowed on the property.
 And 150 feet to the east of our property is the Project Cleveland PZD zoning. And we just want to make it clear that we're not doing this, we're not proposing anything like it. We feel like our proposal at 13 units per acre is quite humble compared to the Project Cleveland PZD zoning, which allowed 45 units per acre, a seven-story apartment building.
 Some of the folks that's looked at our plan and have supported our plan kind of see it as a way to ensure that if we were to get our project built, that it would keep something like Project Cleveland from ever happening on the property.
 The development pressures in the area are pretty high. Just in the 18 months I've been working with the owner, we've had two college housing development companies approach us looking at buying the property. We've also had a development company that was looking for a place to build a fraternity house. They approached us looking at the property. So we would like to be able to find a way to get what we're proposing built and not have to sell the property.
 Again, looking at the future land use plan, it designates the property as city neighborhood area. The designation encourages more densely developed neighborhoods with a wide spectrum of non-residential and residential uses.
 And I think there's some questions been raised that if we were to allow Downtown General on this property, that it would create a precedent to the west in the University Heights neighborhood. But that's not true if you look at the city neighborhood, or I'm sorry, the future land use designation area.
 In University Heights on the map. It's a completely different color. It's it's yellow. It's low density single-family future land use plan designation Any kind of development proposing more than five or six units per acre? I would think will be highly unlikely to ever get approved in that neighborhood We're in a completely different future land use designation category so talking about the
 More densely developed neighborhoods encouraged with a mixture of unit types. We went to the zoning code and we tried to find an existing zoning category that would work. When you look at the purpose of the downtown general zoning district listed in the zoning code, we felt like it married up quite nicely with what the city neighborhood area was encouraging us to do.
 the purpose downtown general is a flexible zone it's not limited to the concentrated mix of uses found in the downtown core or main street center downtown general include includes properties in the neighborhood that are not categorized as identifiable centers yet are more intense and used than neighborhood conservation there's a mixture of single-family homes row houses
 apartments, and live work units. Activities include a flexible and dynamic range of uses from public open spaces to less intense residential development and business. So we just felt like that the purpose stated in the zoning code married up with the city's long range planning goals. We've heard comments that
 The Downtown General Zoning District, it's not appropriate to use it anywhere other than in the Downtown Master Plan area. However, if you look at the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan that was developed by staff in 2006, they proposed about 50% of that neighborhood to be rezoned to Downtown General. The council approved that at that time.
 we felt like that really set the precedent for using downtown general in areas other than in the downtown master plan you look out on morningside almost all of its zone downtown general it's a lot further away from downtown than than our property is so we feel like there's precedent for what we are proposing this slide just tries to summarize the reasons why we're asking for for downtown general we feel like the precedent's been set with the walker park neighborhood
 It's consistent and really encouraged, I think, almost by the city future land use plan. It would allow the property owner, the developer to construct traditional densities. The lesser lot area and street frontage requirements would allow us to build these densities using single family and two family unit types instead of big apartment buildings, which is typically the case.
 We feel like for an infill location that the tree preservation requirements attached to downtown general are appropriate and then lastly approval would create the certainty that the bank needs in order to give us financing to To create detailed development plans for for a large-scale development process on the other side of the coin why were we not able to make a PZD work and
 At the end of the day, we just felt like the development process was very unpredictable. We tried to make a PZD work. We tried very hard to do that. We feel like the increased tree preservation requirements of a PZD are inappropriate for this infill location.
 At the direction of planning staff, we went and met with the urban forester. We presented our tree preservation plan to him. I pointed out that I've tagged 244 trees on the property and we're proposing to preserve about 166 of those trees. However, that would put our tree preservation at about 14%, while a PZD requires 25%. The urban forester...
 agreed with this that for this infill location, it's often difficult, if not impossible, to meet the pre-preservation requirements of a PZD. He also, well, so we took that memo that we got from the urban forester, the tenure packet, and we met with staff and we're planning staff and we, you know, kind of put it put on the table that we're almost willing to do a PZD, but we had to understand what densities would we be talking about and
 We had four or five meetings with the neighbors and asked those same questions. We proposed 54 units, but we never could get any feedback on what density would be associated with the PZD. So the whole thing just seemed very, very unpredictable to us. We didn't know what we were getting into.
 Lastly, a couple other points. Even if we were to propose a concept PZD to the council and council were to approve it, then that wouldn't give us the entitlement that we would need to move forward because we'd still have to come back and present detailed development plans and request the variance from the PZD requirements. So Jeremy already did, I think, a really good job.
 reviewing what's on the table for the bill of assurance. We wanted to attach the master plan. We felt like that would alleviate a lot of concerns from the neighbors.
 But at the end of the day, there was a lot, I think there was a lot of confusion whether or not that was enforceable. The city attorney thought it was enforceable. Planning staff didn't think it was enforceable. They were asking us for grading plans, utility plans, a plat in order to get them on board with that master plan so they could say that it's enforceable to attach it to the bill
 But what's left, we've proposed that we will only build single, two and three family on the property. So single, two and three family use is allowed. We removed multi-family, so multi-family would no longer be allowed to be built on the property.
 We simply restricted the density on the property to 13 dwelling units an acre or 54 total. And then we also restricted the height to 30 feet. We talked about the bill of assurance requirements would run with the land. So if we sold the property, another developer wanted to do something different, you would have to come back before the council and essentially ask for a rezone to make any change to the bill of assurance.
 So one of the this I could think this really hits on one of the big reasons why we felt our appeal was appropriate is because planning staff making the statement that our proposal is very Inconsistent with the city long-range planning goals We feel like it's we just don't understand that and we feel like it's very consistent with the city's long-range planning goals You look at city plan
 2030 and we've incorporated all of these items almost into our plans and our proposal. Appropriate infill, suburban discouraging, suburban sprawl, traditional town, making traditional town form the standard, creating opportunities for attainable housing. We feel like we're doing all of those things. One of the objectives of goal number six
 to encourage a mixture of housing types and sizes, allowing residents to age in place. So our goal is not to create a monoculture or a big apartment building, but it's to build a range of different unit types that will provide the opportunity for somebody to really live out their entire life in the neighborhood.
 Another part of goal number six is to make housing more affordable by reducing the cost of transportation. So you look at our location, across the street we have the university, right down the street, Leverett Elementary, a Harps, Walmart, restaurants, all within a five minute walk.
 Especially if somebody worked at the university, they could feasibly not have a car and do quite well. Also, the Razorback Transit Stop is located adjacent to the property. So all these things are completely, I think, in line with goal number six of the city plan. So I think the next...
 the next few slides talk about how how we are meeting the the city plan goal of traditional town form but i don't think i can show you those slides because those are more development details and there's also a slide in there that goes over our tree preservation plan and you know so if there's questions about
 why we couldn't meet the tree preservation requirements of a PZD, then we could try to answer those without going into any kind of development detail. None of those slides probably are appropriate. I was going to skip through them real quick. Then this last couple of slides, this talks about the building height restriction and the restriction to one, two, and three family use. This would be,
 what that would look like. In the middle there, that's the existing house, and that's the scale that we would be proposing. That's what would be encouraged by that bill of assurance. We feel like this creates an appropriate transition from the neighborhood to the west over to the university.
 so in closing i just like to say that we feel like our rezoning request is in line with the city's long-range planning goals it allows us an economically feasible way to develop the property if downtown general zoning was was granted with the bill of assurance attached it will encourage development that is compatible with the property's surroundings keeping the scale down to 30 feet one and two family unit types
 We asked the council to work with us to find an existing zoning classification that would create a predictable and economically feasible way to develop property. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Teague. What questions do we have for Mr. Teague? Mr. Teague, if you're not allowed to develop the property, what do you think is the most likely result of that? What would happen to the property?
 Or if you can't do it economically. If you can't generate the rate of return, you want to generate for your owners. Right. The family's really emotionally tied to the property, and they want to do something that creates a legacy that they could be proud of. But at the same time, they're ready to do something with the property, and if we aren't able to find an economically feasible way to do that, then we would likely end up selling the property. Right.
 And who would be most likely to buy it? I can only tell you who we've had conversations with over the last 18 months. Two college housing developers we've been talking to. And again, the company that was trying to develop a fraternity house. Thank you.
 Is anybody else? All right. Yes. I just have one thing. Brian, I'd like to point out, you did mention with the, you mentioned that during the Ward 4 meetings you weren't able to get any information from the constituents there, but we met twice for over three hours and I provided you a very valuable time period in which to present questions and receive information and I feel like that statement is somewhat disingenuous
 We offered you a large opportunity there. A lot of information was given to you. They offered information on tree preservation. They offered information on parking. They offered information on the desire to go with the PZD. A lot of information. So I think that saying that you could not get feedback is not a very accurate way to describe those meetings.
 We had a very long conversation about this over the phone last week. One thing that you didn't tell us that you wanted was more of a consensus on the density that you want on the property. We broke this down and unpacked the entire situation over the phone. The two things you said you needed to find out were if you could have an assured variance on the tree preservation portion and if you could have an assured density. That's why you weren't able to go with the PZD option.
 That's fine, but that's not something that was described to us before we came into the ward for meetings So I just want to be very clear about that and for all of the ward for constituents here from the neighborhood We do appreciate you coming to those meetings and giving that input and I think it's very valuable So thank you alderman long if I could I was referring to the question that I posed at the last board meeting We asked
 what density that the people that were at that meeting, what they felt would be appropriate. So we could take that back and work on it. But we didn't get an answer to that question. To be fair, I mean, I didn't tell you prior to the meeting, you know, it was a day or two days after the Planning Commission meeting, and so we were still trying to figure things out. However, we still wanted to talk to the neighbors, to discuss, and we've been,
 we've offered to meet with the neighbors to discuss the project different aspects since the ward meeting but the neighbors have told us that since downtown general is still on the table they won't meet with us mr mayor yes well and and i'll clarify i i don't want the council to take that at face value either when when the neighbors said that they did not want to meet because i did try to arrange a meeting it wasn't because only because downtown general was
 The only thing on the table is because I was told very specifically that you as the developers and the property owners no longer wanted to talk to parts of the development or elements of the development that you had previously offered to speak of. You only wanted to discuss the rezoning at that point, so I'm not sure what benefit
 would be added in just discussing a rezoning if they can't discuss elements of a development, which even though that we don't normally do during a rezoning request, we've had a presentation on that tonight, which is odd. But I just wanted to make some clarifications on those points. I have quite a few more, but I'll hold off for now. Thank you. Okay, thank you Mr. T. Now we'll take public comment on this. Now everybody gets one turn to microphone.
 And keep your remarks directed to me. Don't engage anyone in the audience or a council member. Just state your name, where you live, and okay? Good evening, Mr. Mayor, council people. You know me. I'm Ken Gardner, 909 Hall. I couldn't meet with the developers last week. I was vacationing in Sarasota, Florida.
 And I think meeting to discuss a bill of assurance on zoning that we oppose would have been a waste of time and I didn't want to cut my vacation short. Scrutiny. We were presented with the plans at Leverett Elementary a few months ago. The original concept had significant parking on Cleveland. Cleveland is a no parking street.
 When we calculated the number of parking places per home or per bedroom, it appeared that there were an insufficient number. And the question was, how are we going to accommodate all of the residents to meet this particular density? The developer wanted to know what density we support.
 I can't tell the developer what density we support because I don't know how many parking places can be put on the four areas to accommodate the homeowners and their guests. The PZD process does address that.
 Walkability. I challenge any of you, I'll meet you and we'll walk from the project to Harps and back. I jog, I ride a bike, I rode a bike to Botanical Gardens and back last night. I don't like that walk. It is steep. We are not opposed to JSQ's development, but the scrutiny of the PZD process, I think, is very important. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us on this? Good evening, Council Members. Hi, my name is George Hamilton. I live with my family, my wife, Sarah Burningham, and our two kids in 1400 West Cleveland, which is the property directly next door to the property in question tonight. I have a few words written down to address you guys. This is obviously a very, very important
 subject and having attended many board meetings and the planning commission meeting, I did want to cover a lot of things. Before I want to touch on that, there was a few things that were said by Brian that I just want to clarify that I didn't know if I was 100% aligned with.
 We've really tried to research this and really understand what's the right thing for the community, what's the right thing for the area, and try to work for the right development. It's given you a bit of expertise in what's going on. There's a couple of things I just want to clarify for the record. When we talk about the Walker Park,
 development that was brought up several times as a precedent setter. The key difference there was the community was very supportive of this development. If you go back and look at the records and the opinion of the time, the community unfortunately is not supportive, unanimously not supportive to my knowledge of the rezoning here.
 The other point that was made about Project Cleveland and that demonic picture of the skyscraper is put up from time to time. That is all you all know. You drive past it. It's in fact a parking lot. It's the lowest building in Arkansas, I believe, which is actually zero feet high.
 So it is not, you know, kind of that eyesore, you know, as it's put up there. So just to kind of, you know, set the record straight on those couple of things, it's very important that we look at this objectively and seriously and all the facts are on the table. So to that point, I just want to add a couple of thoughts because there's a lot being said here and there's a lot of time and effort from a lot of people being put on this and most of it, you know, with all the right intentions.
 There's really the what they're trying to develop and how Brian and Paul and the team are trying to develop it. The what part is what we didn't really see today. And there are many issues with it.
 uh you know some of them were just spoken about you know there's parking and traffic and whether there's a stub out and there's tree preservation and no easement or to the two of the street and i'm convinced that so many of these things can be looked at and worked through as a as a uh with the planning staff with the developers with the community with the council if necessary as we go through the pzd process and that's what the process is there for
 Every development, I'm sure, has its ups and downs, and that's why you have some situations like this where you just need to give it more scrutiny. And that's why the process is here, and that's why unanimously the Planning Commission voted to deny the downtown general. I think most of them spoke up in favor of the PZD, and that seems to me to be eminently sensible.
 And this brings me on to the how. Really, since you're on why downtown general, it seems wildly inappropriate in my mind. Not only is it far from downtown, a mile and a quarter or whatnot or more, not only is it going to be spot zoning, this conversation about transition seems to be a little bit semantic. I think one could say anything's a transition in one sense. So it would be an island of downtown general
 way away from downtown and it would set a precedent you know and it would be very hard I think maybe if it's not to deny the next one and then finally on the bill of assurance and
 I have four copies printed out of the bill of assurance, and I don't know whether that was the maximum. I think there was only four that I saw. There may have been a fifth one. We're not quite sure. But it's gone from very vague to a little bit more specific to very vague and then a bit more specific again. It just worries me that this being such a central document to the proposition that,
 that is bouncing around all over the place. How can we be sure that this is the final one, or what exactly those intentions are? And it gives a great concern, a great concern of the community when such a significant property has been developed, and then that starts to erode a bit of trust.
 So, and that's where the PZD comes in, you know, a bit of assurance that it shouldn't be a substitute for a PZD. PZD will actually kind of like go through these points and address them all, and then we can all have a property which hopefully we'd all be proud of, and would be addition to what a town that I've only recently moved to three years ago, but absolutely love, and I'm very happy that my children are growing up here. Yeah.
 sorry sorry for the long comments but uh this one is quite serious and i thank you very much your time i appreciate it thank you who else would like to address us on this thank you mr mayor members of the city council i'll try to be briefer than george was although i appreciate everything he said and agree with him i'm archie shaffer my wife beverly and i live at 1404 west cleveland which is uh just to the west of george and sarah
 We have been meeting with Brian and the Jeskies for a number of months talking about this project. We have said from the beginning, and both my wife and I have been quoted in the newspaper, is saying that we are not trying to stop development of this property. We understand it's valuable property that probably should be developed, and we hope that it can be developed in a way that the neighborhood can support. But we just think the downtown general rezoning is totally inappropriate.
 Brian said that Downtown General has been done in other parts of the city to encourage residential development, but with the exception of the Walker Park area, which is immediately adjacent to the downtown core, the only other places Downtown General has been used to encourage residential development has been the high-rise student housing projects that
 have been built at the corner of Center and Duncan and a few other places. We just think that putting Downtown General on the northwest corner of the campus is a terrible precedent to set and will lead to many other requests for Downtown General that once you have granted that to this project will be very difficult for you to do in other places.
 We hope that you will vote against this rezoning. Mr. Latour asked what will happen if they're not able to develop this property, and we're not suggesting they shouldn't be able to develop it. It just needs to be developed in the right way, and we think the PZD process is the right way to do it and can be done that way.
 At the Ward 4 meeting that Brian made reference to where he asked the neighbors what density we would support or could live with and what have you, nobody had an answer for that, as he said. It's not our job to figure out how many units they can put in there. But I asked Brian at that same meeting how they arrived at the 54 units that they think is appropriate,
 for that property and his response was that's what we need to put there in order to make the money we want to make on this project and i just simply don't think that's you know the way the decision should be made if we go to a pzd process and everything's put on the table hopefully the neighborhood will be able to support what they try to do and we look forward to working with them on it thank you all thank you actually thank you mayor i have a question mr shaper
 I have a question. I would just like to have a picture of what the neighborhood is envisioning for, you say you don't want to stop the development. What type of development do you envision there that you want to see? Not the process, but what do you want to see there? Well, the type development that they have proposed is something that we think would be appropriate if it's done the right way.
 I know they have taken their master plan off of the board right now, but the master plan that everybody has seen and we all know about includes only one way in and one way out of this development. I mean, the way they have it drawn, all you have there is a glorified cul-de-sac, which I think the city stopped approving cul-de-sacs a long time ago.
 But it looks to me like all that really is is a cul-de-sac with about 130 bedrooms on the cul-de-sac. And we think that, you know, that is just not the way to do it. But the basic idea of putting the kind of buildings they're talking about on there, I think, is something we can support. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Good evening to you all. My name is Paul Jeske.
 I grew up at 1326 West Cleveland here in Fayetteville. Our family lived there for 60 years. I currently reside at 2820 Riverside Drive South in Salem, Oregon. I submitted some written comments to the city. I guess, do you have those packets in front of you? I've got copies if anybody doesn't have them in front of you. But I wanted to quickly go through those, kind of summarize those.
 I want to say thanks for your stewardship here on the city council. I think it's great. I guess one of the key things that I'm concerned about is losing neighborhoods. Okay? I've seen neighborhoods along Dixon Street that aren't there anymore. I guess can anybody tell me where Buchanan Street is? It doesn't exist anymore. I used to deliver papers to a nice neighborhood that was on Buchanan Street, and that's where the College of Business is right now.
 Okay? I've seen what's happened on Cleveland Street. I don't find a parking lot as a desirable thing that contributes to the neighborhood. Okay, so, and I know that Project Cleveland doesn't contribute. I guess what we're trying to do is to contribute to the neighborhood. I guess one of the key things
 I want to do, on the first page there, I think things that the neighbors and I share. I want to thank Councilman Long for having the ward four meetings and having us together for the discussions. I think they were very helpful. I want to thank the neighbors for taking the time. I guess I care about the neighborhood. I think they care, and I think we're trying to work together for that. I think we're concerned about the neighborhood disappearing.
 We want to make a strong neighborhood. I think we want to work together. I guess in the part I put down there at the bottom of the first page is the best way to protect the neighborhood is to grow the neighborhood, I guess. And I think what we're trying to do is to contribute to that. So I won't go through all the things. I think I don't like the label downtown general either. I think it immediately gives the impression that we're turning the area into downtown.
 That's not what we're trying to do. I think with the Bill of Assurance, we're trying to say very clearly this is a residential neighborhood that will contribute to the neighborhood. I think on the second page, talk about how we got here. I think we've worked with the engineer to say how do we build a sustainable neighborhood? How do we contribute to the city plan 2030 goals? I guess we were concerned about
 Yeah, the Project Cleveland. We've been through that. We don't want, I guess, that kind of building or the other massive high-rise, I don't think is what we want to do as a family, and that's not what the neighbors want. By the same token, as I mentioned, I don't think the parking lot is what we want either. And I appreciate Councilman Latour's question about it. If we can't figure out a way to do this that will work for us economically as well as contribute to the community as well as meet all the environmental protections...
 then you're almost forced into looking to sell it to either the university or private developer. And so that's the reality. And I guess those are both bad alternatives, I think, for the neighborhood. And I guess I'd like for the neighbors to be on board with this. I'd like the planning staff to be on board with this. I'm sorry, Jeremy, that you were asked twice about what kind of density you think is appropriate, and you dodged the answer both times.
 That's the same thing we've had to deal with. Stay with me. Just please. I'm sorry. Well, we've gone. Stay with me. Well, I appreciate Jeremy's work. I guess I appreciate the difficulty of planning. But somewhere along the line, you know, we've got to get some feedback. And I guess we never, we looked at all the different planning categories, you know, the
 RSF tends to lead you into the typical suburban neighborhood. The RMF leads you into the apartment houses. We looked at PZD, and that's kind of a shared planning concept, and we, I guess, we'd like to have an idea of what kind of endpoint we'll end up at. And we could never get an answer on
 what kind of endpoint we could expect to be. And I guess why would I ask for a zoning category if I don't even know what my outcome is going to be? And I guess the second thing there with the tree retention requirements, we had the letter from the urban forester that said PZD requirements probably aren't appropriate there.
 We could never get feedback from the planning staff. How do we incorporate that? Would they acknowledge that and drop those down? So I guess again, I guess if we know that the standards for tree retention aren't appropriate there then why would I ask for a zoning category that I already know won't work? So I guess we heard from the neighbors that we should consider planned zone development and we heard from the planning staff we should do that too.
 And I think we seriously looked at it. We took that into consideration. But I guess I didn't think we ever got a clear answer. So I needed to move forward. So I think one of the key things that we suggested to the neighbors, well, maybe we should do a downtown general. And they said, well, what if we give you the zoning change, but then you can sell it to some developer from Chicago and they'll come in and do what they want. So that's where we ended up with the bill of assurance.
 And we were, I guess in good faith, we were trying to meet the neighbors' concerns. I guess, and yeah, we had the master plan up there as a way to try to communicate what we were trying to do. And now here at the end, yeah, we're getting into discussions about where the streets should be, should there be enough parking, and those are all very good questions. Those are good questions, but it was probably detracting from the initial zoning change reading.
 discussion. And so that's why we said, I guess in the last version, let's keep it simple. Let's not get into the development plan, long-range, large-scale development questions, and focus on the zoning change. And so we have that to give us a little bit of certainty, a little bit of a target. We can have, we think, 54 living units is a good number on there. We can make at least, hopefully we won't go broke trying to do it with the cost of
 streets and everything nowadays, but we think it's a good investment. It's a good contribution to the city, and I think with the scale and the limits on strictly residential use, I think it's a good deal for the city. It's a good deal for the neighborhood. I guess, and I talk about, I guess, at the bottom there, the appeals concerns. I guess in my previous life, you know, the public record's important, and with the Planning Commission, I don't think they ever saw
 the letter from the urban forester saying that the tree retention requirements weren't appropriate for the site. And I guess I think that had some pretty significant information in it. So I guess to me, I guess I don't want to give you guys a frivolous appeal. I think that letter was important, not having the public record complete, is an important thing to consider. And I know with our bill of assurance there are things that are going back and forth, and we were trying to be flexible with different versions, but we were getting different messages.
 The city attorney said the bill of assurance was enforceable. The planning staff said it wasn't. So anytime you get a mixed message like that, I think it's appropriate to raise to you guys to consider. I guess the planning staff was saying, well, is it just in the urban core for downtown general, or is it okay to use other places? And I guess, yeah, we looked at Walker Park, and it's a long way from downtown. Okay.
 And I guess that one thing I skipped over, I guess why we end up with downtown general, I guess for the density, for the traditional town form, we need to have more flexibility in the lot size and the street frontage requirements. And so it fits, it works for us. And I guess that I'll just mention this here in terms of the appeal. I guess it's fine with us if
 I know this is hard for all of us, I guess, kind of a birthing process, but if we go two to three readings, that's fine. I guess I understand. And then on the next page, I talk about why we think downtown general is appropriate. The language is there. You know, it says a wide range of residential uses. The precedence is there. That map in blue that talks about the city neighborhood designation,
 that basically goes right down our property line and goes to the east from there. So I think that recognizes the unique location for there, and downtown general is used, as I understand it, you see it in a lot of other places where that designation, that blue part, is on the map. So just help me understand there, I guess...
 In my past experience, the kind of basic decision-making test is, first, you have to have a legal basis. Yeah, okay, we have a legal basis. Do we have a rationale for where downtown general is clearly, where it's appropriate? And so I'm hearing two different messages, or I'm seeing two different things. One message being it should be in the urban downtown core. The other message, well, it's down here in Walker Park. I guess to me, if I look at...
 The Weddington-Garland intersection is kind of a small commercial core. And if I look at the commercial development along Garland Street, we're close to a commercial development or a small downtown core. We're very close. So I guess just help me understand, I guess, what the rationale is, and it needs to be consistent, I guess. And right now, it doesn't pass the red taste for me, red-faced development.
 test for me of being meeting those three tests so i understand we're trying to do something completely well as i understand bills of assurance have been done in the past in the city yeah it's a little bit out of the ordinary but not completely so i know for organizations it's when you try to do something a little different it's sometimes tough but i think it it's it can be done and it makes sense i guess to make this project a reality i guess
 The comment about the city in the city planning staff saying our proposal was inconsistent with the city plan 2030, I was floored by. You know, I wrote, you know, it says the very first goal says appropriate infill and revitalization are highest priorities. That's exactly what we're trying to do. It says in the second one, discourage suburban sprawl. Again, that's exactly what we're trying to do.
 Number three, make traditional town form the standard. That's exactly what we're trying to do. It seems like we contribute significantly to those long-range goals. Sustainability, I guess as I understand sustainability is that you need to have an economic component, you need to have an environmental component, and you need to look at your social system. So it's kind of three sides of the triangle.
 I think the environmental concerns will be taken care of by all the city's standards for protecting water quality and tree retention. I guess the economic component is that we need to have those 54 units. I guess that's the reality. I think we've made significant concessions already in the Bill of Assurance, and we aren't trying to do anything like Project Cleveland that's at, what, 45 units to the acreage.
 So I think we're trying to build it at a scale that will contribute to the neighborhood. But we need to have that economic certainty. And I guess we need to have a target that we know that we'll be able to reach for. And that's, again, as I mentioned with planned zone development, we never got an answer. So that was a real struggle for us. And I list out, I guess there's 18 reasons why the zoning could be approved. I just mentioned the first one. I guess I think it provides for thoughtful growth.
 You know, that's really what we're, you know, a strategic growth in a very sensitive area, the very number one. I think number two, I think it protects the quality of life, and that's a real concern. I think we're trying to meet those objectives. Number three, I think we're trying to build a sustainable neighborhood. We're trying to have our economic return, our investment that we think we can get, as well as contribute to the neighborhood and bring families in. You know, I think Project Cleveland, I think that wouldn't have fit in with the neighborhood, and it doesn't.
 But I think what we're trying to do here, the scale and density will contribute to the neighborhood. Number four, contributing to the 2030 goals. I think that's very important. I'll skip down to number 10, I guess trying to provide limited and strategic growth in an area. I think that's especially for people in that ward. I guess I still consider myself a kind of a resident of the ward, even though I don't live there right now. Number 16.
 I think we're trying to encourage an economic investment into the community. And number 18, I guess we need a level of predictability. I guess I'm sorry, we just haven't gotten it yet. We've tried, we've looked into the PCD. I guess number 19, I'll add there that's not on the list, we wanna be taxpayers. We wanna contribute to the tax base of the city, okay?
 That's number 19. It's not there. And number 20, I'll repeat again, I think the best way to protect the neighborhood is to grow the neighborhood. And number 21, I'd maybe, I guess, put down there again, consider the alternatives. We want to do it, but we hope it doesn't end up as a parking lot or hope that two years from now you have a proposal from a developer from Chicago. I guess that in closing, I'll just mention that stewardship is something that's very important to me.
 This is our family home. We want to be good stewards of it, but we need to, I guess we need some help. I think that's it so far. And I think we have a solution that I think it's a good solution for the city. I think it does meet those city goals. It uses an existing planning category, and I think it's a good thing. It's a good deal for the city. So thank you all. I know it's tough. Mr. Chesky, could I just ask you a few questions just so I can get some answers? Sure. Okay.
 Now, if I understand, and correct me if I'm wrong. Sure. What I heard was you said you felt that you all were encouraged to do a PZD from the staff. Yes. Is that fair? I'm just trying to be sure I'm— That's fair to me. Yeah, I think so. Okay.
 Now you said though that the urban Forester told you they didn't feel that the PZD would work with tree preservation The tree requirement that the tree canopy requirement of 25% Okay in the PZD was appropriate, and I don't have a copy of that It's but you said that letter was not submitted to the Planning Commission. I don't think so. I don't know I
 It's okay for what they, I don't think they saw it. Okay. Chairman, you know? I don't. I mean, we can certainly check the packet. It's not something that's typically included in a zoning application, but we can certainly look. If they had been asking for a planned zoning district, maybe it'd been included, but they weren't asking for a planned zoning district. I see. I see. But it kind of answered the question of why not, or at least part of that answer. I'm just trying to get it in my head, all the events that occurred.
 Okay, I'm good. Thank you. Thank you. I know it's tough for all of us. I think neighbors as well. Yes, Al. Paul, thanks again for coming. I want to just look at a couple things. You mentioned one of the things that was really important to your family was certainty going forward in this project. Some degree of predictability. Right. Like we discussed last week, you know the really only certainty when it comes to zoning
 where you're at right now. I mean, no one, you mentioned that planning staff couldn't give you a density that would be approved. They couldn't give you the tree preservation amount that would be approved. They couldn't give you the number of parking spaces if you did go with the PCD that would have to be required. Well, that's because they can't approve those things. Right, I understand that. Okay. I just wanted to make sure you really understood that because I know we talked about it on the phone but I didn't know if
 had really processed that yet and i understand they make recommendations to you and i think ultimately it's appropriate for the city council to make that decision but i think they could provide a recommendation this is where as a professional this is what they think is appropriate or you know this is what they would recommend to you so i think that's an appropriate staff role for in essence managers
 I know you were there at the first Ward 4 meeting where we discussed this, and that was months and months ago. It was a long time ago. Yes, and you all brought your development proposal to that when we were talking development at the time. We all appreciated that. It gave the neighborhood an opportunity to give a lot of valuable feedback. From that, if we're talking about the process.
 The neighbors gave a lot of valuable feedback and I remember discussing it with you one-on-one and with in the Ward 4 meeting and And on the phone afterwards about the parking and then about the tree Preservation and again the things that you asked planning for information on and about density they did talk about that but then when y'all came back about a month ago, nothing had changed and
 Except for possibly the on street parking. I can't remember but we're not talking about the development proposal because y'all best to just talk about the zoning now and that's fine, but nothing had changed. So when in a in a major sense anyway. So when you say that you didn't get a lot of direction, you know, I apologize if if we didn't get the right direction for you.
 But I think there was a lot of direction given. I agree. I think there's a lot of good comments. I appreciated the comments, and I guess I take responsibility for not clearly communicating back to you or other residents of this is where we're at, and this is what we're at. Some things we didn't know what to do because of the Planning Commission report or the recommendation of the Planning Commission as well as other things. I guess in my discussions with Brian, there's the...
 fire requirements and the street requirements and other things. I guess I apologize for not giving feedback back to the group. And I certainly want to be in discussion with the neighbors. And I want to contribute to the neighborhood. I guess I thought PZD wasn't going to get us there because I didn't know where we would end up. Why would I ask for a zoning change if I didn't know what it would get me?
 Why would I ask for a zoning change if I didn't think I could meet the standard for tree retention? I'd have to come back for a variance if I do that. So I guess certainly, I guess to answer your question, I think you did a great job with the ward before meetings and helping us and inviting us there. I always want to be in those discussions. So I think I want to try to be open to alternatives and I need to explain, yeah, we've looked at this or we've looked at this and why not.
 Thank you. Okay. What other questions do we have? Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Mayor, before they go forward, we have the urban forester here and I think there's been a little bit of confusion.
 when he talks about the variance. Obviously, there's tree mitigation things. So I think there's some misunderstanding how the tree ordinance would work here, and it might be good to have her. Well, I'm fixing to get to that. I want to see if anybody else wants to speak on it before I was going to bring the Air Force up after everybody was done. Any other public comment on this? No, Mr. T, you've already had your turn. The mic list. Council Member Branks, you have questions. Yes, come on in.
 uh hello i'm james mccartney i'm a homeowner in the neighborhood that we're talking about we call it university heights it's rsf4 i purchased a house here about four years ago primarily because of the zoning because it's primarily it's entirely you know single family homes primarily owner occupied and i think this i'm against this rezoning because i believe the
 the density of this project would lower my property value, actually. The reason I moved to this area is because we're close to the university, but it's a nice family neighborhood. There are lots of other neighborhoods adjacent to the university with different zoning for this type of development that I think is available for people who want to do this type of development. The majority of this parcel is RSF4.
 The idea or the argument that if we don't allow this density, there's going to be even greater density, it's not really good. It's a specious argument. If the university buys it and makes it a parking lot, there's really nothing we can do about that anyway. So I don't agree with either of those arguments. Thank you. Anyone else? Aubrey Shepherd, live on South Duncan. I could show you right now
 Endless acres that have recently been cleared of all their timber. And that area where you're talking about tonight, from there over to Leverett School and downhill, I remember when there were quail, bobwhite quail. Every state in the United States, including Arkansas, is trying desperately to bring back to a level. We don't need to allow so many huge standing trees to be destroyed.
 I don't know how many places right now in the city and in the outskirts are being cleared, but it's real easy to find them. One today, I noticed one tree that was left when the sale barn property was rezoned to allow those monstrous apartments that were later named The Grove. Only one tree on that site remains. Guess what? Today I looked at it, and it's dead as a doornail. Because?
 i made pictures all during construction that one tree was selected to stay and they parked machines under it under its you know the heavy machines that operate their pickup trucks everything on those routes so go by and look it's right in the corner when you turn come up government avenue to the cemetery and turn and there it is in the corner of those apartments and it didn't live so
 I'm hoping to hear what the urban forester says about this problem. Yes, we need to, the goals for 3030 are interesting, but some of the older goals like the tree ordinance, the stream side ordinance, the hillside overlay district, the protection of the watershed, honor as a city, it's a wildlife community, a healthy habitat community,
 One thing that's on the minds of quite a few people is there ought to be a zoning that protects soil, soil, rich soil, not clearing every lot, red-dirting it, and getting rid of the soil where people can grow a little garden. It's popular nationally. It's not just a few places in Fentonville where people are putting in gardens to grow groceries as well as protect wildlife habitat.
 So all these things go together. We don't want it to be just a super hot city when 2020 comes. I won't be here. Maybe several of us won't be here. But anyway, will people really grow up? You know, right now all these people love apartments, student apartments, infields, great thing, practical purposes. But if we don't keep the soil, we don't keep the mature trees and keep them protected, you can't allow it.
 destruction of the roots. You've got to leave a wide berth around a healthy tree that you're trying to protect. It's got to have soil around it that will allow the water to soak in. It's got to have a range out there of its roots. The general rule is as wide as the canopy. And you know that won't be possible if you're building however many units we're talking about on this land. And it's pretty nice timber back there. I haven't walked back there in a long time.
 But anyway, I don't know. I guess if it were my family property, I'd be trying every way I could to keep the family together and some member of the family live there in that home site and protect the good qualities of that land. So I certainly disapprove of rezoning it to something that could allow what downtown general. This is a pretty amazing...
 that's been protected for a long time for good reasons. We can't just go forward thinking about Enfield as the only goal. Discouraged sprawl, sure, but traditional town form, it doesn't turn out to be so good if the street gets so narrow that a fire truck can't get down. And you've got parking on each side of the street and all those things.
 You've got to look at the whole picture. What will be the comfort level for people there in the future, not just how we can get more revenue pouring into the city. That's a fine goal, but you drive down MLK in the last two days and you've got a wonderful new burger place and police had to be out there directing traffic all day because it was so popular.
 i don't know if i'll be able to afford one they may have raised the prices after they see how desperate people have been payable are for them anyhow thank you i i just want want us to think ahead of the whole picture brought not just these limited things about zoning and so forth there ought to be zones that protect nature thank you albert anyone else
 Hi, good evening, Mr. Mayor. I'm Theresa Turk. I live at 1408 West Cleveland, which is three houses down from the proposed area we've been discussing. Tonight, I just wanna share some of my concerns about issuing a downtown general permit. I think it's the wrong designation. I think a thorough review process needs to be implemented through the PZD process.
 I am very sympathetic to the landowners and I respect that they want to do the right thing, but this area already is very dense. There's already a lot of traffic, it's very congested. Having one entry and one exit area right there with 54 units is going to be, it's going to add to the safety problems that we already have in that area.
 And you know there's also this is going to start to erode the neighborhood further We have a lot of single-family dwellings in the university heights neighborhood there's some that are old historic homes and this kind of development further erodes our neighborhood and creates an edge effect and
 So I just really would ask that you all deny this permit, the downtown general permit, and think about retaining the integrity of that neighborhood. That's the last area surrounding the university that is made up of single-family dwelling houses, primarily. Okay.
 Now, there's some exceptions, but that really is the last intact area around the university, and we really need to preserve that. We need to keep that kind of culture there. I believe it adds to the city of Fayetteville, why people want to live here, and I believe it adds to the university presence surrounding and draw. So thank you for listening to me tonight. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the first reading right now.
 What's the wishes of the council? Are you going to let the urban forester maybe... Oh, I'm sorry, Kent. I stand corrected. Yes, Kent, would you like to address that situation about your recommendations? Thank you, Kent. Sure. Through questions or comments? Well, just tell us... Basically, the intent of the memo, I'm not sure if you've read it. I don't know that it was included in the Planning Commission packet, but Brian did use it in making the same presentation before the Planning Commission.
 The intent of the memo, I met out on site with Brian and he went over the plans for the project and I embraced the plans. I thought it was very good plans for development of that site. Working within the PCD zoning designation, that does require 25% canopy preservation,
 Perhaps may be the communication problem because when we're saying 25% preservation, that does not always work out that way. That's the starting point. But there are other avenues within the ordinance to allow development to occur and still be able to work within that zoning designation. There's, of course, what we want to see is 25% preservation on-site.
 But on a small site in an inbuilt location like this, it's difficult. And I believe that's actually what I said in my memo. I never said that it was not appropriate. I just said it was difficult to achieve. In lieu of 25% preservation, there's other avenues. There's mitigation on-site. There's mitigation off-site. There, council approved recently mitigation in city parks nearby.
 And then the final option available is anything that cannot be accommodated in any of the above categories can be paid into the tree escrow fund. And that accumulates money so that trees can be planted elsewhere within that quadrant of the city.
 In speaking to Aubrey's point, when I first began this position, I was certainly looking for as much preservation as I could obtain, but development and preservation of mature trees are not compatible. We can do what we can to try to ensure that those trees will survive, but many times years later the trees...
 Well, they pretty much make our efforts in vain when they decline or die. That's why we do have those other options. And what I did say in the memo is I am happy to work with the developer and the consultant to pursue any of the other options and make this an acceptable project.
 Through any of the projects that I have been involved in the city, I have never denied a project based on tree preservation requirements. There are the other options that can be available. Does anybody have any questions? So you basically advised them that it would be difficult but not impossible to make a PZD work? Yes. They actually did.
 Approach the downtown general at that time and I believe my comment was that I didn't feel that was appropriate and based on staff suggestions of a PZD I felt like That was certainly
 not only planning staff but urban forestry, that gives a process and a means for us to work with the client and the consultant to make sure that it goes through. Okay. And basically something would be able to be worked out. It wouldn't be impossible or even all that difficult because Ken has worked with many, many developers
 Oftentimes mitigation measures must be taken or preservation off-site if they own other land or something like that. So as he says, he hasn't actually turned down a development because of the tree preservation ordinance. So it would be more difficult, maybe more expensive if they had to pay into the tree escrow fund, but not where the project could not be built.
 In fact, there are some projects similar to this that wound up with no actual on-site preservation. Other projects with very limited on-site preservation, but that total preservation was met through the other options, the other means. Yes, John. Ken, I was just curious. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm sorry.
 What's the charge if I'm developing something and I can't make the tree preservation requirements on site and I decide I just want to pay into the escrow fund? Is there a charge per tree? Is there a charge per percent?
 And I kind of have to give you an idea of the process. The way that we determine the canopy coverage is actual, the shadow of the tree if the sun is directly overhead. Everything that is directly beneath canopy, that's the square footage of that total site.
 We then take that square footage and depending on the priority of the tree species, if they're high priority, mid level, or low priority, we assign a divisor factor to that. High priority is 218 and basically that's saying that that is a pretty much 200 trees per acre is what it is for high priority.
 So we take that overall square footage, we divide it by 218, and that gives us the number of mitigation trees that have to be planted back in place of that lost canopy. And also along the same lines of the number of mitigation trees, if they cannot be planted, then they are paid into tree escrow, and that number is $675 per tree. And that number was come up with in 2012,
 And that is based on a private contractor's charge to the city for the planting of a two-inch tree and the maintenance of that tree for three years to make sure it survives. So one acre could cost $135,000. I can't do that math that quickly. I can't either, but my calculator can. Okay. Okay. So that's a pretty hefty investment.
 If I were going to develop an acre piece of ground and there were high priority trees on there and there are 200 trees per acre times 675 is 135. Except that you don't have to preserve 100% of your tree canopy. It varies. For example, downtown general only requires 10% where planned zoning districts, which are the most required, require 25%. You're never required to save 100% of your trees. We could take 25% of 135,000.
 Assuming you totally clear the lock. Okay. Thanks. Mr. Teague, not unless Council Member brings you back up. Okay. Is there any other? Chairman. I had a couple of clarifications just for the public. Project Cleveland, which has been talked about, that property was purchased by the university. Their approval has expired. It's no longer a property.
 It's no longer an approved planned zoning district. Zoning is null and void, null approvals are no longer in place. So I just wanna make sure that's clear. A concept PZD, we have two types of planned zoning districts. One is more conceptual in nature, so you show a concept plan, but you create a zoning district and your zoning district establishes your zoning criteria. A development plan then is submitted to the Planning Commission, must be approved under that zoning criteria as long as you meet that zoning criteria.
 So it does provide entitlement for the project. The second type of PZD we have is a detailed PZD, which is the PZD and a development proposal. The development proposal is reviewed concurrently with the zoning. It's approved by the Planning Commission and the next meeting you all consider the zoning. So certainly more investment because all the details worked out front in the detail. Both actions are an official zoning action that provides the entitlement of the property
 And ultimately the Planning Commission must approve it if it meets that zoning requirement that you all have approved. And then lastly, consider the alternative question. Any private development by someone else on this property, whether it's sold, would have to come to you all for the same exact standard of review. Thank you.
 Okay. Yes, Sarah. Jeremy, can you tell me how tall is the building across the street from this project? It's on the university campus. It's like a tall dormitory. It is. I think someone referenced 12 stories, perhaps. Twelve stories.
 And then can you describe for me a little bit about what type of scrutiny a project is subjected to in the large-scale development process? Which this would have to go through, right? Even if we still approve zoning change, it still has to go through the large-scale development process. So it would have to go through either a large-scale development or a subdivision process. Essentially what happens in that process is the
 the review standards are those established already by a current ordinance. So as long as the applicant meets the zoning criteria and does not create a dangerous traffic condition, meets all of our development criteria, then it must be approved by the Planning Commission and City Council, ultimately, if it were ever appealed. There are some, I guess, relatively subjective requirements in there about traffic and whether
 creates a dangerous traffic condition, but ultimately you're looking at that to the zoning as well and so we would we would consider that you're considering that as part of this request too. So really that is their very basic standards as part of a subdivision or a large-scale development and application process. Virtually all the discretion the City Council or the city has is exercised during the zoning decision not during large-scale approval because if in fact they're properly zoned then they're going to be able to build their project.
 Anything else? We're on the first reading. Yes, Alan. Yeah, and Sarah, you did ask the question about the building across the street, the old University of Arkansas dormitory. It's about two acres away. It's a pretty good distance. There's a large parking lot in between two. Actually, there's
 Enough room for about five houses with full yards in between so there's there's some good space between there the other comment I just I wanted to bring up and it's been mentioned that what could happen if we don't reason this Well, you know anything could happen really but we shouldn't make bad zoning decisions because of that it shouldn't be a a
 and either or decision for the neighborhood. Do we get good zoning here just because the university could buy this? That's not how we should make our decisions. And the other comment I heard was that, you know, this is a step down zoning. It was Project Cleveland I heard, and then RMF 24, and then this, but it's really a step up. Because we have a parking lot where Project Cleveland was going to be, and the University of Arkansas is planning on a parking lot staying there. Then we have a fraternity house, which
 Doesn't have that great of a density and then boom we would have 54 units on a very small area of land So it actually be a step up not a step down So I just you know from my experience of this area, which is the last ten years of my life more It's just not a good fit for here downtown general. Just wouldn't work We're still on the first three. Yes, Matthew. Yeah, I respect that We're still on the first reading I feel it's um feel there's some things that I'd like to get out so we can all chew on and
 So, let's see. Well, I guess first, just in a point of fact, you know, this happens every time density comes up in any kind of conversation, it begins to dominate the conversation. And I really wish it wouldn't because when we start to look at examples around the community, we find that really our perceptions of what density is and how it impacts us.
 frankly just aren't aren't based in in our everyday experience and what I mean by this is you know we may say this is thirteen and a half units an acre it's gonna be really bad it's much different from the neighborhood that we know and love but it may not be it really depends on how that density is built there's certainly good ways of doing it and bad ways of doing it if you look at the
 Washington Willow Historic District. There are many blocks in that district which are between 12 and 14 units per acre It's one of our most cherished neighborhoods So there are certainly good ways of doing these these densities and I'd even say if they're done right they create neighborhoods with very traditional characters That those kind of those are kind of neighborhoods that make up cities that we all love to visit and
 because those are the neighborhoods that are so rooted in their culture. But aside from density, so I bring that up to say, well, I don't think we should be scared of 13 units an acre if it's done the right way, and that goes to the zoning. And I'm going to be very careful today, and if this goes three readings even at the next meeting, to not make strong statements, because I'm really trying to take pause right now
 on the zoning consideration, because I hear the neighborhood's concerns about striking a precedent, and I see that the bill of assurance does a lot to limit that precedent from running away from us. But more than all that, what I see is a failure of our own zoning codes. What we have is a proposal that by all accounts, the neighborhood, the developer, the staff,
 The plan that we've all seen, everybody says is reasonable, add some kinks, but is in general a reasonable plan. And what the impasse that we've created for ourselves because of our code is there because our code is inadequate to address a plan like that on a transitional property. We've got downtown general by many accounts is allows too large of a scale for a property in transition, but we don't have a
 one, uh, zoning classification that's one step down from that that might actually be transitional on this property. And that's what the bill of assurance is trying to address. And so, you know, I, I talked about this and I've talked about this before because I really hope that, um, you know, as we add one more tally mark to the list of proposals we, we have that fit this condition of us not having any appropriate zoning designation for the
 I really hope we'll start to take this seriously as we enter into our long-range plan. Maybe we're going to have to make a decision on this on whether or not we accept a bill of assurance as a compromise or whether or not we go with a PZD as a compromise, but the fact of the matter is the next time we get a proposal, we should be prepared with the zoning classification that deals with it. We shouldn't be forced into making one poor decision or another poor decision.
 And so this all may seem like inside baseball, if all you care about is the zoning proposal before us today. But I think that it points to a deeper problem in our code that, frankly, isn't sustainable and needs to be fixed. Okay. Well, we're on the first reading. I move that we leave this on the first reading. Well, I mean, do you all want to leave it on the first reading? Yes. Okay. All right. We will leave it here for two weeks. Thank you.
 All right. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't have a lot myself right now. Number six. Thank you all. Number six, a resolution to express the City Council's intention to investigate a possible purchase of the Federal Chamber of Commerce building on Mountain Street. Bill, I believe this is something you and Mark.
 Right. I feel that this building that is adjacent to our property is a property that is up for sale and I feel that we need to study that property and study our needs and the long-range plans of our city and city staff and city work before we allow this to be sold out from
 maybe a long time before we ever have a chance to buy this property again. So I don't know that it is necessarily the right thing to do. I'm just simply saying that I think it needs to be thoroughly investigated before we allow it to be sold to someone else. And that's all I'm asking is that we have a committee to—
 explore and look at perhaps who would be who would be a good group to move in there etc I just think there's a lot of exploring that needs to happen before we say that we do not want to buy this property I pretty much feel the same way we own all the adjacent property to this small parcel and
 for continuity and for future planning I think that it it would be wise to take a look at if there is a value and that's that's what I'm asking rather than walking away from it because the opportunity is there at this point so that I mean it's evident if you look at the location that we own all the adjacent property and it can offer connectivity it can offer the opportunity for us to have
 continuity of services in a single location without a break. So that's something that seems like would be valuable. We have to look at the cost and what the return we would get at the cost and that's what I want to see presented to City Council. Okay, I can tell you what's occurred. A few months ago Mr. Clark approached me that he was going to buy property up on Square.
 he said i'm going to buy this property up on the square and offered to sell the chamber of commerce building to the city at that point in time assigned staff to look in the feasibility or the needs of the city if we needed the building and the space i signed that test paul becker he spent paul you can come up the microphone he spent several weeks with the staff studying whether we needed the building or not just to
 But it what the prices that we were looking at was nine hundred thousand dollars and we had weighed Look at it down at our facilities management to I told mr. Clark at the time we would evaluate what we thought and
 It would cost to renovate the building. I think the cost was around $300,000. Between $200,000 and $300,000, depending on what we would do with that. So that would be an investment of about $1.2 million of city money. I had Paul look into whether he felt like we needed the space. We just remodeled all the basement of City Hall, which provided us with office space. I talked to the police chief, and you can ask him about the building.
 about whether he felt like that it was the type billing that he wanted. He did not feel that they needed it. There was a study done in 2011 that Chief of Staff does have about our future space needs for the next 25 years. Is that correct? Yes, sir. Okay. So when the staff came back, they felt like that we did not need the billing, in which case I met with Mr. Clark before. It was around late June and told him that I didn't feel that we needed to bill it.
 So, that's what I know until last Tuesday when you all introduced the resolution. So, we have looked at it and Paul, you can tell them. Sure. If I may, I'll make a couple of comments. Obviously, Lionel assigned it to me because facilities management does report to me that's one of my departments and also because any funding plan would have to come through me.
 As Lionel said, back in 2011, when we were approached to buy the old Bank One building, we did an analysis, and this is 2011, this is an analysis we did on what we thought that potential expansion of staff would be necessary. I'll give you a brief summary on this. We asked staff what they felt they may need through 2025.
 Bottom line is, and of course it's on the high side because staff is going to tell you what they like, not necessarily what's going to happen to conditions or what they absolutely need. That was a potential 40 positions throughout the people who were housed on the campus down here. If we look at what has happened since 2011 and today in 2015,
 We have not added staff down here. Actually, we have .7 FTEs less than we had back then. If I look forward to what I believe that we can afford going through 2025, I do not believe we're going to have major staff increases in the administration down here. We will very likely
 have to have some expansion in public safety, in the police department and in the fire department. Fire department would be housed out in the current stations or we would have to look at other space, nothing specifically down here.
 I can let the police chief talk to potentials about space, et cetera. And if we remember in the CIP plan, we do have a request, an unfunded request, because we don't have a plan at this time to finance a new police facility at some point in the future. Based on that information, based on what I foresee, we would have to do to purchase that property, and I believe we would have to take that out of existing funds or a fund balance.
 which is possible, however we are in the budget process right now and there are other priorities. Based on that I recommended to Lionel that I believe we did not have immediate need for space and that immediate need, what I'm talking about, is going through 2025.
 We have the parking facility downstairs, or excuse me, down on Dixon Street going in. We will have a couple of unfinished liner buildings we could use for staffing, could move the parking people from here down there, that's potential. I don't see our billing collection units expanding as much as we had thought at one time because we're starting to go more and more with electronic servicing of customers.
 We have talked about parks. Parks doesn't feel that splitting that department at this point in time would be efficient, and we do have a long-range plan when the regional park is completed to move them out there. Obviously, fleet and transportation, it doesn't make any sense to try to move any of them down there. So I thought that we gave it a pretty good look on what we felt were the needs
 of the city, I made that recommendation to Lionel. Lionel certainly factored it in to what he considered he may have as priorities in the future, and that's why I made that recommendation to him. Like I said, as far as
 staffing. I think we did that in 2011. We did a pretty exhaustive study. We got what departments felt that they would like to have in the future. I see absolutely no way of funding that. That's how I came to the conclusion. I think it's important for you to know that.
 I don't think it's something that Lyon and I just cursory looked at and said, no, we're not interested. And I felt we did take all of those factors into consideration. If you do have questions for me, I'll be happy to try to answer them. If I could add a comment or two.
 This year, in 2011, I did the assessment when we considered 1E Center on the square. And I believe in going back and looking at that report, which only four of you would actually have, because four of you have come on the council since that time period, but four of you haven't.
 When we looked at it, we don't think there would be much difference other than the fact that we would probably be projecting out further the headcount increases that the city would have rather than being 2025 because we simply haven't seen that employee headcount growth in the last five-year period when that report was initially done. You also had a letter that was handed out tonight that I want to speak to specifically that talked about spokespersons of the city indicating that the city had short-term, you
 needs for space as well. And I think that's a misinterpretation of an article that took place on July the 3rd, when the city was contacted by the Northwest Arkansas Times reporter Joel Walsh, who asked me as the chief of staff, should the city purchase this facility, what would be the potential uses that would be considered? And the response to that question was, potentially the Parks Department in terms of
 I'll call it front public space where we had talked about that at 1E center presentation rather than sending people to an industrial site for park interaction that would be one potential use if we had ended up with it. The other would be the only department where we saw immediate growth.
 in the future was the police department. I think the chief has been very clear that he prefers a new facility on I-49 for access purposes as opposed to a downtown expansion
 for multiple reasons and that's in the master study of the police department report the second thing I would say is if we did do that in fact in the future then we have a 12,000 square foot building sitting right behind us with future needs that would be able to be expanded upon so we didn't see that there was any need to pursue additional space as a part of that and that article if it was misinterpreted that we were having
 an immediate need for short-term space. We don't. I'm gonna be very clear about that. What we communicated was a hypothetical, if we had it, what would be potential uses? I think Paul's comments, and I'll recap the rest of the evaluation. Okay. One question, yeah. Yes. Did you examine any revenue generating opportunities? Revenue generating for?
 if we were to purchase the building did you look at any scenarios in which we were to lease portions of it until we needed the space for ourselves i did not sure um so just to clarify if the city were to purchase this building then we would no longer be collecting property taxes off of this property is that correct that's correct it would be we would file for an exemption that's correct okay so yes sir
 So in looking at this building, it really doesn't have that many offices. I mean, it's just basically one large room with a front office and one set of offices down the side, right? Yes, we would have to, depending on...
 If a decision was made to purchase it, we'd have to do some remodeling in there, and we would have to kind of split it up depending on exactly what we would do with it. We would probably have to build offices in there. Like I said, the estimate there would be between $200,000 and $300,000 in how we did it if we did it in-house, if we farmed it out to do it.
 Yes, Mayor. Yes, ma'am. So, I have a question, I guess, for the Chief of Staff. So, we have added back all the FTE that we got rid of during the recession? No, we have not. But you don't have any plans to? Well, I guess my point is, is that in 2011 when we did the assessment, our head count actually today is about three-quarter of a head count less than when we did the last one without any particular need.
 The direction that we have gotten from the council is not really an increase in any area other than in our public safety area as we evaluate the statistics moving forward the growth of our city. Those individuals aren't necessarily...
 targeted within our downtown campus certainly not our fire department which is out in multiple stations or any new station location from quicker response times from the police department the long term strategic plan of the city is a future police center if you will that is more located centrally to i-49 for access issue because of our growth on the western part of the city
 There wouldn't be any advantage to the police department of using that until at which time, 10 years down the road, we get to build them. I think the Chief should answer that question of the police department. Of course, I had not planned on this being this kind of a discussion.
 I had hoped that we would appoint a committee and look at it, but if this is the way we want to handle it, we can. Chief, can you answer that question? Oh, sure.
 I'm not sure where to start. I'll start with something Don said. I don't want to sound greedy, Don used the word, I'd prefer to have a new building. I don't know that new, would I love to have a new building? Absolutely. But could I use a used building as long as it was the correct used building? That's, I would take a used building. So when we had the space need study done, I think it was in 06 or 07, it said we needed somewhere around 60,000 square feet and five to seven acres.
 And to me, that's my goal. The way it is right now, we are very inefficient. We have officers assigned at four different locations. We have equipment at two others I can quickly think of. If we were to temporarily move over here, now we've got people at five different locations. Just makes us very, very inefficient, you know, as far as moving information, running and getting this, running and getting that. If you remember in 2010, the new court building was built.
 At that time, a conversation was had about adding a second story to that and putting some police officers over there. That was decided against for the very reason I'm talking about, just being inefficient and everything. So when court left in 2000, I think it was in 2010 if I remember correctly, that left about half of our downstairs building for us. So we were able to expand into the room where the court was at. That building totaled 24,000 square feet. It's 12,000 feet tall.
 per story. So that left us about half of downstairs or you know, some of the ballpark is six or 8000 square feet. After we made that move into the old court space, then we remodeled the upstairs. So sitting right today, you know, we can survive where we're at today. I'd rather us survive where we're at today than divide once again and have the inefficiencies that that causes.
 of course what i was thinking is that this building is so close but it is another building so you know but it's so close to your present location um so that you know okay i i have i've had an entirely different message from some folks in the police department that it's very very crowded so maybe that's
 Before the remodel or something. Well, you know, and I think Paul said, I mean, at some point in the future, that's going to have to be looked at, definitely. Well, certainly. You all deserve a new wonderful building on 49. As soon as we can do that, I'm all for it. I just have not seen it in any plans in the next year or two. So I was thinking perhaps it would be better to have some other. Anyway, I'll let Mark speak.
 I think whenever I thought about this, I didn't see it as an immediate use situation. I saw it as an investment and a future use opportunity more than an immediate use opportunity. And the property itself probably is more valuable than the property. Well, the property in the building has value, but in the long range,
 growth of downtown and the central core and city services in my mind it's like does it make sense to have continuity of all the property here or at least to look at that so that we had the opportunity at least to to grow if we needed to and the opportunity is it may not be there in the future
 So, mine is not a short-term view of the property to use as it is now for some type of urgent need so much as an investment in continuity of property altogether as well needed in the future. I think that it should be looked at as a revenue generating opportunity if we're not going
 And I don't know, like I say, the intent of the resolution is not to say this is what we're going to do. The intent of the resolution is to take an objective look at a global situation. And obviously there was a lot of information given tonight that I didn't have. Good. But I think that there's more and there's a broader way to look at it in a broader sense of how it would work.
 be opportunities in the future if we had continuity and all the property here off the square which is the central core of the city so but I keep coming back to the 2011 well I'm not wait a minute I'm not talking about 2011 I'm talking about global and growth and the opportunity for an investment on property that we may never have again so that's how I'm looking okay what else
 Yes, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sure. So I'm torn on this and I'll tell you why. Number one, I see the logic in essentially banking this land away for future needs, but I only see that working out of course if there's a way to cover the carrying costs in the meantime. So I'd be skeptical about making any kind of an offer that didn't have the, you know,
 an end-to-end plan in place to do that. So to that end, I'm inclined to vote for studying that. I know in the past that even members of this body up here have made strong statements that the city should never be a landlord. I happen to disagree with that in certain circumstances. Every city hall I've visited in a larger city has a coffee shop and often an independent convention and visitors bureau on its ground floor.
 I'm not opposed to that in strict circumstances. All that makes me inclined to vote for it, but I'll tell you why I'm inclined to vote against it. It's because even with the long view, there's another two acres, two and a half acres that's just a parking lot across the street that I know we own. There's another two and a half or three acres that's south of that, that a quasi-independent body authorized by the city to exist owns.
 and another two acres or so if you want to walk another block that's owned by the same body the off street parking improvement district so i don't see there really being a risk of not having land to exist on yeah so in any case i'm torn i don't know how i'll vote whenever the vote gets called yes now you know i'm just thinking about this and not talking about short-term goals is what you were talking about mark and adela i know that was your intention um
 and i'm kind of torn like matthew said because i know that we have to think of the best ways to leverage our assets right now yes if we're thinking about short-term goals versus long-term goals i don't i just i don't know what i think at this point i know that though there are a lot of a lot of urgent needs that the city has i i'm with matthew i don't i don't know how i'll vote on this one right now but i appreciate the intent of what you brought this forward for sure
 I'm trying to look at this from the lens of community vitality and what we can do to ensure that we have a successful downtown and what kills downtowns are empty storefronts. And right now, I know that I can almost always find a parking spot in front of City Hall because not many people use the street because there are no storefronts on it.
 And after 5 o'clock, it's really dead on this street compared to, say, Block Street or Mountain Street or Center Street. And so ultimately, whatever goes into that building, I feel like needs a storefront.
 with retail, commercial spaces. I know there's a shortage of small office space for startup businesses. And I think that that would probably, having either retail or restaurant in that space would be much better, not just for the tax base, but for bringing people to downtown and giving them an opportunity to spend money and enjoy Fayetteville.
 Additionally, I have some serious concerns about taking another valuable downtown property off the property tax rolls. We've eaten up a lot of land, not just from a municipal standpoint, but from a university standpoint. And I feel like it's not just this potential $1.2 million to buy the property and renovate it, but also that ongoing loss from the tax revenue.
 But then also, I have other funding priorities for this year that if we take this $1.3 million out of reserves or wherever it's going to come from, you know, how are we going to support great projects like the library or, you know,
 transit system or the other things that our community has really designated as being funding priorities for the city. So I'm not opposed to taking an objective look at purchasing this, but I'm going to need a lot of incentive to support purchasing this property. I don't think it's the right choice for the city to make at this point in time. Okay. Anybody else? Could we just table this until the next meeting? Okay.
 I mean, I don't want to drag this out, but I mean, I don't want to discount Alderman Gray and Kenyon's proposal either. We do have some serious concerns, but is that something the Council would be interested in doing, to think about it more? I wouldn't mind tabling it, but again, I want to get back to the intent of the resolution is not to say we want to buy the building. The intent was to really...
 have some time to think about it and put together and i know that we have this data that's based on past information i didn't have it when i suggested this i mean i knew that it existed but i still think that there's an opportunity the chambers already say they'd be happy to rent it maybe there's other opportunities that we don't know about because we haven't stepped back to take other
 There might be a creative solution to meet more needs that I don't know about right now. That's what I was looking at alternatives. You can never manufacture more property. Property is valuable. It's an asset. But I also understand the funding of this and if there was a way to fund it in the long term rather than just say here's a million dollars, that's an option we might want to look at also.
 Yeah, I'd be happy to table it because whenever I saw it was for sale, it's like, well, holy cow, we own all the property all the way around it. There's some continuity here. There's some opportunity. We should look at it from a lot of points of view. I wasn't saying run over and buy it. I'm telling you that right now because if you know me, my pocketbook is tight. But I do want to know the value in a broad sense of the word.
 I also want to know what the Chamber would offer if we had some kind of open negotiation, which I don't know if we have or not. It could be the Chamber says, hey, look at this good deal. I don't know. Anyone know? That's the intent of this was to start a dialogue and to have a public dialogue and to have more time to look at opportunities and options. Really I would like to see it be vitally used as an expansion of the discussion.
 of a storefront type situation, that would be fine. I don't know what that would be, but it's because I don't know what that would be is why I think it would be good to, and so let's table it, and then we obviously we've started dialogue. That's all I wanted to do, and we've done it. So here you go. I don't mind tabling it once. I move that we table it. Because I think John Latour has some ideas in his mind over there that he's
 You know what my idea is? We sell our whole complex downtown to Hilton Hotels, let them build a 20-story hotel, we tack the heck out of it, and we all move to the bypass. There you go. That's interesting. We have no second table for two weeks? Sure. Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latorre? Yes. Long? Yes.
 Okey-dokey. That's all the business. One announcement, Steve, you have. Mayor, just a couple of announcements. I want to remind the City Council on the special meeting this Thursday to discuss the Council's input on the contract for the city's next economic development contract. It's at 5.30 p.m. in room 326. And Gully Park concert this Thursday at 7 p.m. And the group is called Groovement.
 So we hope you'll come out and enjoy that concert. Anything else? We'll have a Ward 4 meeting Monday the 27th, room 111, City Hall, 6 p.m. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Very good. Thank you all.