I'd like to call the meeting of the July 20th, 2020 City Council to order. Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Present. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Smith? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Thank you, Kara. Do you now join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Beville City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff.
 Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer. Susan Orton, Chief of Staff. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. And two representatives from Federal's IT Department. City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone.
 Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Fedmark, and we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting, including contacting City Council members, City Clerk's Office, or City staff prior to the meeting.
 Viewing through federal's government channel online or city's YouTube channel. Joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment.
 i will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized when recognized please state your name and address for the record public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of two, of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers may only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The city council may allow both a speaker additional time
 and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent for majority vote. So now let us begin. And the first order of business we have tonight is the appointment of the city board of health officer. I believe that's gotta be added to the agenda. Is that correct, Kit? That's correct. We need a motion to suspend the rules to add this to the agenda. Mayor, I move we suspend the rules and add the appointment of the city health officer to the agenda. I second that. We have a motion and a second.
 to add the appointment of the City Board of Health Officer. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. I am pleased to announce the nomination of Dr. Marty Sharkey as the City Board of Health Health Officer. Dr. Sharkey will be working directly, if approved, with the City Board of Health and as a liaison to my office, the City Council, and the public. At this time, I have a resolution that I have brought that Kit will read, and we'll take it from there.
 Thank you, Mayor. Whereas the City Board of Health recommended to Mayor Jordan that he appoint Dr. Marty Sharkey as a Fayetteville City Health Officer, and whereas Mayor Jordan spoke with Dr. Marty Sharkey, who agreed to accept the Mayor's appointment of her as a Fayetteville City Health Officer, and whereas the, quote, appointment shall be approved by a majority of the votes of the city or town council, unquote,
 to become effective pursuant to aca 14-262-103 now therefore be resolved by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby approves pursuant to aca 14-262-103 mayor jordan's appointment of dr marty sharkey as fayetteville city health officer
 Okay, and we also have the chair of the City Board of Health, Dr. Hershey Garner, is with us. Dr. Garner, would you like to add anything? Okay, well, all right, let's just take it from there then. What questions do we have? Our comments. A comment, I have a comment. Sure. Sure.
 Yeah, I was very impressed with Dr. Sharkey's resume. I appreciate that request coming out or I saw it come through from Matthew. So I appreciate that Matthew, Council Member Petty
 very impressed with the Merck Award for infectious disease. So the entire resume was very, very impressive. And so I just want everyone to know that this is an excellent appointment. So I hope you support her appointment. Anything else from council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Do we have any public comment? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. We'll second that. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right, Tara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Congratulations, Dr. Sharkey. We will see you tomorrow. All right, the next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of July 7th, 2020 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 20-51 and to authorize a contract with Diamond C Construction Company in the amount of $148,928.05 for improvements to the Razorback Greenway tunnel under the Fulbright Expressway and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $25,000.
 Number three, resolution to approve an amendment to the contract with Tyler Technologies Incorporated for the purchase and implementation of electronic citation software and hardware in the amount of $90,711 and to approve a travel expense reimbursement to Tyler Technologies Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $1,500.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 20-01 in the amount of $41,200 for design of the Wilson Park Trail Bridge and Promenade project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000.
 Number five, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a warranty deed conveying about 5.48 acres to Dan and Anita Spencer in exchange for the land.
 for the 17.60 acres the city acquired to install a force main to carry water from Lake Sequoia to the city's sewer system. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mr. Mayor, I think the very last one had to be amended. And so the actual conveyance that we're doing, as was explained by Tim Nyander,
 is about 23.65 acres to Dan and Anita Spencer in exchange for the 17.6 acres from the city. Oh, okay. Hang on. So we need an amendment to make it instead of 17.6023 point? Yeah, we actually put it in the...
 The final agenda like that, we discovered that mistake at the agenda session, so I don't think we need an actual amendment since it was decided that way in the agenda session. Do you want to read that or do you think— Well, you read it all perfectly except that just the acreage was different. Okay, so the acreage is 23.65. All right. Okay. All right. Now I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda. So moved. Second. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Carol, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 All right, let's go to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-7080 for approximately .205.
 Acres located at 360 North Arkansas Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to DG downtown general subject to a bill of assurance. Gardner, I understand that the applicant is asked to table this indefinitely. Is that true? Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Yes, we do have an email from Mr. Jargeson, the applicant's representative, asking that the item be tabled indefinitely.
 Okay. All right, Council, what's your pleasure here? Mayor, I move we table this item indefinitely. Second. We have a motion to second the table indefinitely. Any discussion among the Council? All right. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Froggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number two. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7086 for approximately .513.
 Acres located at 1278 West Hendricks Street from RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. This is on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the call? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Aye.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. And the ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7086 for a proctoring half acre located at 1278 West Hendrick Street from RSF 8 residential single family eight units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay Garner I believe you have this.
 Yes, Mayor. I do not have anything additional to add. I'd be happy to answer any questions. The applicant, I believe, is Mr. Fugit, if you have a question for him. Okay. Mr. Fugit, would you like to address council? You have 10 minutes. Okay, I'm going to bring it back. Can you hear me, Mr. Mayor? Yes. I don't have anything to add other than what we've already discussed.
 So, but I'm here for any questions. Thanks. Okay. What questions do we have in the council on this? Okay. All right. Let's take it to the public. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this from the public? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 we're on the third and final reading final comments from the council yes uh mayor yes um i just want to reiterate that uh we did hear from these uh neighbors not so long ago about their
 feelings that they would like to not see increased density in this kind of zoning in their neighborhood. And so I just wanna reiterate that we remember what they spoke out for.
 I also, in viewing the packet, see that Commissioners Garlock, Sharpen, Paxton, and the Planning Commission did cite that they felt there was a lack of appropriate pedestrian infrastructure for this upzoning, so I just feel like we need to, I won't be supporting this rezone. Okay, and you have comments from council? Yes, Mayor, I have a comment. Sure.
 You know, we just heard this property was just rezoned about nine months ago or so, not very long ago at all. And I don't think much has changed between nine months and today. I this, as I said before, this is a very stable, modest neighborhood.
 And I think upzoning is not appropriate in this area, especially for RAU. I could see taking it one step forward like we did last year with an RSF-8, but to go to RAU with this kind of high-density system,
 in a very stable neighborhood and the street adjoining it or one street over is also very stable and modest. And this will be a dramatic change to this neighborhood. We've heard from the neighbors, we know they're opposed to it. And I think we should really give consideration to those folks that have been there a long time and invested a tremendous amount of their money and heart in their investment.
 in this neighborhood. They, you know, when you buy a piece of property, you don't assume or you shouldn't assume that you can change the zoning. You know what the property is zoned when you purchase it. And so to be able to dramatically up zone in this fashion, I think is just not appropriate. And we should really think about our long-term residents. Thank you. Okay.
 I have a comment or two also. Okay. I also want to mention that we have just rezoned this property. And to me it's almost like they're sneaking it in now that we are in this COVID era. And there's nothing that's changed.
 I think that we zoned it correct nine months ago. I think it was a generous zoning. I think it was a step that allowed the developer to move forward, but now they're back asking for more. I don't forget that and I want the neighbors to know I don't forget that. This is in my ward that I represent and these neighbors have been struggling to protect their neighbors.
 the encroachment into the neighborhood with zoning that is not compatible with what the neighborhood is. I think this neighborhood does have an identity. I think that it's valuable to prevent or to
 preserve the identity of this neighborhood. And I think that the neighbors that live there that have worked so hard to define their neighborhood, represent it well, deserve the respect that they are being heard. Also, like I say, it's only been a few months since we've already offered a rezone and to come back in less than a year, I think is a little bit presumptive. So I will not be supporting this. Okay.
 any of the comments okay care which please call the row it terrace no marsh yes canyon kenyan muted somehow no petty yes scroggins yes punch no turk no smith no it fails mayor okay thank you all very much let's go on to number three
 an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-7089 for approximately 2.0 acres located at 11 39 12 13 12 37 12 51 and 1283 west hendrick street from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre
 I will entertain a motion. This is on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. Well, I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 20-7089 for approximately two acres, located at 1139, 1213, 1237, 1251, and 1283 West Hendricks Street, from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Margaret, what do you have on this?
 Mayor, I think as we discussed two weeks ago, staff does support the RSF 18. We believe that it allows small-scale single-family, the lot which goes all the way down to 30 feet, and we think it represents
 a gentle density that is largely reflective of this neighborhood. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Is the applicant here? I believe the applicant's name is Glenn Marks. Is he here? Yes, I'm here. Mr. Marks, would you like to address the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Mr. Mayor, thank you and thank you, Council, for recommending the change to RSF 18 from the previous zoning request. I believe that some of you have reached out to the community in that area and have found that we still have the support of the community. I'll be here for any questions that I can answer. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have from the Council? I have one question. Sure.
 Mr. Marks, when we were discussing two weeks ago the RIU zoning, you had a bill of assurance to go along with that. I think you mentioned that your intent was to build single-family dwellings within that area. Is there also a bill of assurance with this new zoning designation that's before us?
 There is not, and we're not allowed to ask and try to negotiate and get bills of assurances. They have to be offered totally voluntarily. So it's really something that the applicant would be offering in order to try to get the zoning that he has requested or she has requested. But we really shouldn't be going out and asking developers, why haven't you given us a bill of assurance this time or something? I think it's better just to let them come forward themselves.
 Mayor, if I may, the RSF 18 is a single family district. So it does have the possibility of asking a conditional permit for additional, to consider a higher density, a duplex, but it's a single family district by right. So it's a different,
 the R.I.U. where the bill of assurance restricted it to single-family isn't necessary since that's the, it's already restricted to that use. Okay, so what you're saying, Garner, it's already restricted to single-family homes. Is that correct? Yes, sir. Okay. All right. What other questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's get some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What final comments? We're on the third reading. What final comments do we have in the council? Mayor, I have a comment. Sure. Sure.
 I do also want to point out from our packet as well in the discussion that there was, it's quote says ample public comment and opposition was made prior to the meeting and phone call discussions with staff.
 So there was, even though we're not hearing any public comment at this time, I would just want to point out that that public comment was received through the staff and the planning commission and not necessarily here. So I just don't want us to forget about those neighbors. And then I think there was only one comment that was made in support of the rezone. They're on page three of our package.
 Okay, what other comments do we have? Okay, if there's no further comments, Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. It passes, ma'am. Five-three. All right, thank you all very much. Okay, number four. Okay.
 An ordinance to approve a commercial plan zoning district entitled CPZD 20-79-3 for approximately 128.54 acres located northwest of Dean Solomon Road and Glory Drive to allow a mixed use development that includes city parkland and 602 multi-family units with associated parking. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 So moved. Second. You got it, Kara. For record purposes, I have the first is Gutierrez and the second by Smith. Okay. All right. Would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Yes, and I'd have made the motion, but I couldn't find my mute button in time. It's a real skill.
 Okay, an ordinance to approve a commercial plan zoning district entitled CPZD 20-7093 for approximately 128.5 acres located northwest of Dean Solomon Road and Lurie Drive to allow a mixed-use development that includes city parkland and 602 multifamily units with associated parking. Okay. Jonathan, I believe you have this one.
 Thank you, Mayor, and good afternoon, Council. I don't have anything particular new to add. I do have a little piece to comment on as a follow-up to Councilmember Smith's question about tree preservation from agenda session. Our forester was able to make a rough estimate of the canopy on site, and granted, this is not based on a formal tree survey that would typically come with a development, but aerial imagery that we have available.
 And she estimated that there's about 13.5% canopy on the property today. So why that could be important is because the applicant has proposed a 20% canopy, whereas code requires 25% for a PZD.
 And with there being significantly less than 20%, it more or less makes no difference as any trees that are required or any trees that are moved would only have to be brought back up to that approximately 13.5%, not up to a 20 or 25% level. So I just wanted to share that piece of information with y'all and I'm available for questions. And I believe Mr. Underwood is here from the applicant to speak to the item, thank you.
 Okay, the applicants have 10 minutes to speak to the council. Who would like to be first? I would. Craig Underwood here. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. All right. Thank you very much, and thank you to council for your time. As mentioned at the last meeting, when Laura and I purchased this property in 2017, we anticipated holding the land for three to five years on the short end, but fully comfortable holding it for eight to ten years,
 Knowing that as a mayor's box gets completed, this land is going to continue to increase in value. And also knowing that we can build up to 400 single-family homes on the current zoning. And I showed you an illustration of what that looked like at the last meeting.
 Today's proposal is not based on our timeline, but at the request of individuals from the city who recognize the massive deficiency of park space that's on the west side of Fayetteville. And you saw this last week in Ted Jack's presentation, and I believe that presentation slide deck was in your material this time as well. And while this proposal is on a quicker timeline than what Laura and I anticipated, we're happy to do what we can to help out.
 As you all know from the last conversation as well, when we purchased the property in 2017, we went to Mayor Jordan and asked for advice. And one of the things he suggested is that we should meet with as many experts to educate ourselves about the property, about potential directions for the property and potential options for it. And we received some great feedback. And here's just one example. The very first city council member we went to was Matthew Petty. And this was in October or November of 2017.
 And as we discussed the different possibilities for the property and what he saw, the long-term direction of the city and what was going to be growth areas, he also knew that we were co-developers in the Cliffs apartment community. And one of the things he said is he would strongly encourage us not to do garden-style apartments like we had done at the Cliffs. He said we should consider a more compact design if we ever did consider multifamily because this helps...
 neighbors interact with each other and also increases the quality of life. Well, two years later, here we are in the August, September time of 2019, Council Member Kyle Smith and Parks Board Member Keith Tinklee have come to Laura and I to ask if we consider doing more land than just the 30 or so acres we had originally expressed interest in.
 and we remembered the conversation we had with mr petty two years earlier and this one conversation from two years earlier helped us in three ways one by increasing the density in a certain area the land and reducing it all together in another area it gave us opportunity to give more parkland it also appeased the neighbors by placing the multi-family closer to highway 49
 And then it also helped the multifamily, once that's done, have a better quality of life because of the interaction they have. Now, this is just one example of many that we had where we have a collaborative effort of people from all areas, from the community, from the neighborhood, from the city, working together to put this proposal forward.
 At each point along the way, Laura and I tried to do what worked for the property, what worked for the community, and what worked for us as landowners. And by going forward with this proposal, you're going to have brand new multifamily intermixed with brand new single family, which is a Crystal Springs neighborhood immediately to the west, intermingled with duplex neighborhoods that are already built immediately to the east.
 There'll be brand new business opportunities along Dean Solomon with new job opportunities and all of this will be intermingled with a brand new 65 acre community park. At this point I want to turn the presentation over to Joe and Tom at Kraft and Toll. Thank you. Hello this is Joe Pfeiffer with Kraft and Toll. I'd just like to take a minute and just touch on some of the conditions of approval that are in the packet today.
 um in regards to the condition of approval number one uh regarding the tree preservation percentages um originally we wanted to rezone the property as craig said at the recommendation of the city we we brought this through as pzd so each of the planning areas mimic a particular zoning either ro nsg p1 and rmf really the only changes that have occurred throughout the process were based on staff recommendations
 So we're really just wanting the opportunity for the tree preservations required by each of these districts. Currently on site, the preservation requirement is only at 20%. So realistically, all the planning areas as proposed will meet the 20%, which is great.
 which is required now or it'll be higher within that planning area three. As Jonathan stated, you know, the total percentage is at 13%, but certain areas, you know, whether it's planning area one or two, will likely be split off in the future, just depending on how the development plays out. Each of those lots will be reviewed separately.
 individually so if if we had five here and and one of the lots turns out to be 25 we'd be required to put 25 back just like for you to keep that in mind and conditioner approval number two regarding the variable density again this is with within planning area one which is based on the RO zoning
 We were proposing to limit the density to four units an acre. And this was a result of some meetings we had early on with one of the leaders from the adjacent neighborhood. They were more comfortable limiting the density for a period of time and then having it revert back to the 24 units an acre after 10 years. Condition of approval number three in regards to improvements on Dean Solomon.
 Due to the large value of land being donated with the PZD, we feel that our clients shouldn't have to bear the cost of the road improvements along planning area four only. It's 650 feet out of the total 2200 linear feet along Dean Solomon.
 So by code we'd only be required to dedicate 12 acres of parkland based on the proposed 202 units of plenty area four. We're proposing that 15 will be banked for future development or future parkland requirements. If you look at the remaining 37 and a half acres that we're donating it would equate to around a $1.8 million donation of land.
 If you compare that to the cost of the 600 linear feet along Dean Solomon, which would be a neighborhood link, it's in the ballpark of only $150,000. So if this plan is approved, realistically, planning area two, which is the rest of the frontage along Dean Solomon, will be assessed during the development review for these improvements. In regards to conditions five and six from Planning Commission,
 uh we we went back and revised the pzd to require a minimum buildable frontage of 50 of the lot width for for all the planning areas and also added a note that both parkland and right-of-way are considered frontage additionally we updated the planning areas building setbacks to reflect the zero to twenty twenty five foot build two zones and added just added the distinction
 that if a lot had frontage with both public right-of-way and parkland that the build to zone would apply to either as proposed by Planning Commission if you realistically so the total park perimeter is only was around 10,000 linear feet if you look at the perimeter that would be developable right now it's not along Dean Solomon or not already developed to the north side of the park
 we wouldn't have any option but to front the park. And there's areas within planning or along planning area three where you've got a 15 foot on berm and you've got tree rows that wouldn't make any sense for the future developer to have to front. So our proposed changes, we feel it would allow the future developer the option to choose based on the location and the nature of the project. So we'd be happy to answer any questions if you have any.
 Okay, thank you all. What questions do we have from the council? Mayor, back to Jonathan and the calculation of tree canopy. This is a big chunk of land and it's going to probably get subdivided into pieces and developed in phases. How is that calculation done? Is it on the whole area that we're considering now or does that get recalculated in smaller pieces later on?
 That's a good question. It's kind of the developer's choice. We've seen both routes and they're urban foresters willing to be flexible. If you want to master plan a piece of property and go for those high priority contiguous tree canopy areas, which are generally the highest quality, you can do that. Set it aside at the beginning of a project and then withdraw from it, if you will, like a bank account as you go through the project. Alternatively, you could go on a site by site basis. So either route is available. Okay, thank you.
 What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment then. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this first from the public? Mayor, Keith Tincleave is up. Okay, Keith you're on.
 Sorry about that. This is Keith Tinkleve. Can you hear me now? Yes. Sorry about that. My name is Keith Tinkleve. I'm a member of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. We voted unanimously for this project. As the park staff illustrated, there's a big need in West Fayetteville for a park of this nature, a community park that really serves the people of this area. You know, whenever I ask people, you know,
 that question the need for a for a park of this type in this area i ask them where they take their um where they take their friends and family when they come visit and ask them if that would be anywhere any of our parks over in this side of town and and the answer is always no uh our parks are just not um of the caliber of of goalie wilson walker like fayetteville and and i love our parks in west fayetteville uh and and fayetteville in general uh but we we are in
 in bad need of this park and so um this proposal allows us to change that it's a big deal um for this area and this side of town which is you know as y'all know is the fastest area growing area of town so i thank the underwoods for trying to use their investment to help this community um in this part of town um kyle smith has worked tirelessly on this to help ward four and i appreciate his work and and the underwoods have even worked with
 uh, the neighbors and trying to make sure that this was a proposal that fit the needs of the area. And JS bull was, uh, um, he was involved in the, in the former, uh, opposition and he had came out in support of this, uh, through working with him over the last, uh, working with the underwoods over the last year. So, uh,
 I ask you not to look at this as a multifamily rezoning. This is really a park that will impact generations. And so I ask for your support tonight in helping us get this thing across the goal line and accept this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, it's on the second reading. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, I have the motion made by Kenyon and seconded by Marsh. Okay. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay.
 An ordinance to approve a commercial planned zoning district entitled CPZD 20-7093 for approximately 128 and a half acres, located northwest of Dean Solomon Road and Lurie Drive, to allow a mixed-use development that includes city parkland and 602 multifamily units with associated parking. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? I have a comment, a question, Mayor. Okay.
 Sure. So there are five conditions on here. And I thought in our previous conversations, we had talked about sort of splitting those up. But my understanding right now is all of those are in this one bundle.
 I don't know if we want to kind of pull back a little bit and review those one by one, or if we want to go forward with the whole package. I just thought I would bring that up as a point of discussion. Okay. Jonathan, do you have anything on that? No, Mayor. I think that would be the council's preference. We put it out there, and if the council doesn't wish to discuss them, then I guess we...
 I will leave that up to you all. Mayor, I would like to echo briefly a little bit of what Keith Tinkley said and thanks for all the people that have been involved in this over the last year and the conversations that the Underwoods have had with the community. We started this in the early 2000s and we have been doing this
 A while back, and a lot of the issues that are in those conditions have been talked about several times, and not here in this setting, but they've been negotiated by the people who are gonna be most directly impacted by them.
 and and i will say that not every condition in there is exactly what i would want but on the whole i think this is a a fantastic compromise it is worth it for what we are getting it's going to be an incredible asset to the city and i will support this the way it is presented to us okay any other final comments or discussion or whatever
 Mayor, I would love to hear a little bit further detail from Councilmember Turf if she would like to maybe highlight any of those items from those five, the list of five, to bring that to a discussion. Thank you, Councilmember Gutierrez.
 I guess what I really wanted to hear a little bit more clearly from the applicant are the park perimeter frontage conditions and the minimum buildable street frontage. I know they discussed that a little bit, but I did not really clearly understand if that was doable for them or if it was going to be a bit of a challenge. So if they are still here and are willing to address that, I'd appreciate it.
 Yes, Councilmember Turk, I appreciate the opportunity. This is Tom Hanley with Kraft and Toll. Just for clarification on the on the park frontage change that was made as this project went through Planning Commission.
 what we had proposed was considering both the street frontage and if you consider the parcel along Dean Solomon would be a good example. That has frontage along Dean Solomon. It also has frontage with what would be parkland. And what we would like, what we're proposing
 is that, and the Underwoods are not developing that property, they'll sell those lots off to other developers who will bring large scale developments through. And what we're proposing is that each individual developer be given the opportunity to choose, do they want to front Dean Solomon, or do they want to front the park, based on the type of business or development that they're proposing before planning commission.
 We are still requiring, as is required in the, and I think Joe mentioned that all these,
 planning areas were mimicked off of existing zoning districts. And so NC is what we mimicked the parcel, the zoning district that's that front Steen Solomon. And so we all we wanted it to have still cover 50% of the frontage of that lot.
 but it could front either Dean Solomon or the park. And the reason we don't want to accept Planning Commission's recommendation is because, as Joe stated, there's 10,000 linear footage, linear feet of park frontage roughly. Of that 10,000, roughly 5,000 is already developed or on property that we don't own.
 That leaves about 5,000 feet of this zoning area that fronts the park. And the condition of approval, as it's stated, would require every parcel in this rezoning to front the park.
 And there are portions of it where it's just not applicable. There is a berm on the pond. I don't think anybody wants their building fronting an 8- or 10-foot berm on the pond or some old-growth timber on the southwest corner of the pond. We don't want anybody fronting that. They'd have the opportunity to choose as each development.
 comes through so that's that's one of the conditions that we would like reviewed and then just to expound and i don't know whether this even applies to your question but to expand on the tree preservation condition um
 We didn't want to bring this through as a PZD. It was recommended that we bring it through as a PZD just because of the complicated nature of the project. Currently, we've got 25% tree preservation as an aggregate over the entire site. Or I'm sorry, 20%.
 And we just, while we're asking for us to be able to keep that 20% and not be penalized another 5% for bringing a PZD through. We'd like to keep it at the 20% that it is now. And as Jonathan stated,
 with urban forestry's assessment as a whole if there may only be 13 percent coverage but there could be a lot developed off of one of these zoning areas that had 30 percent coverage and they would be required to to uh preserve 25 or bring it back up to 25 so um
 Although there is only 13% coverage on the whole, it's beneficial to our client to have that remain at the 20% that it currently is. I hope that answers your question. Yes, thank you very much. Procedurally, is this the appropriate time if I move to amend one of the conditions?
 I guess you can amend any time you. Yes you could. I would like to make one comment about his last comment about the 25 percent required for tree preservation protection when it's a PCD. That's part of unified development code. There's not a provision in there that says the unified development code can be amended by a PCD. You know it that is a high requirement. PCDs require more than any of these other zones.
 But that's not something that can be just picked and chosen by the city council say, well, because of this PCD, you don't have to follow the Unified Development Code. We can't just waive the Unified Development Code. When it is enacted, we have to follow it until it's changed.
 So I really think that that very first condition that the applicant would like to see revised back to 20% is simply in violation of the Unified Development Code, and I don't think that is possible. Now, the other ones that they're talking about don't have that kind of legal problem, but I thought I should probably bring that up in case someone wanted to change that and where I don't think a PCD can change the Unified Development Code.
 Thank you, Kit, for that clarification. I would just like to move to amend the first item that the applicant brought up to be able to give them the option on which side, either the parkland side or the street frontage side, to give them more flexibility. Second. Okay, so we have an amendment. You got that, Kit? I'm not sure exactly what the amendment says. I'm sorry, Teresa, could you...
 Is this number four or number five, your suggestion to amend? You know, there's so much information right here. I believe it's number four. Let me just scroll back and check on that. Jonathan, could you help me with this? Sure.
 Certainly, that's where, of course, it complicates things because of staff's typo, but it's listed in the staff's report as condition number five, even though it's numerically number four. So, yeah, so that's come back to back me again, I apologize. It's a little tricky there. I had to scratch out the numbers. Yeah. Okay, so item number five. Thank you. And to allow them to have more flexibility in which side they choose to front.
 So you'd want to remove the language that says with the prioritization on parkland and just give them the building funding to establish either to public street or parkland and then end it right there? That's correct. Okay. Yeah. Susan, which one is it? Okay. I'm just trying to get my bearings here. We're down to just pull the bill here. All right. We got an amendment. You got the amendment, Kent? Yeah.
 Yes, it would just be basically to strike everything after the statement, all planning areas shall have 50% minimum buildable frontage requirement for lots with contributing built frontage established by adjacency to either the public street or parkland, period, with the rest of that just omitted. I believe that would satisfy that request. Okay. What discussion do we have on the amendment?
 I have a question. I think I'm supportive of the intent, but it seems as though as read, it may be removing more language than is required for the intent. I'm asking a question about the last sentence that says that lays out a way to reduce the requirement, it provides flexibility for the applicant.
 says that reductions are subject to staff approval and variance is subject to Board of Adjustment. If we strike that sentence, is it going to increase the relative burden on the applicant? If this is in fact a zoning requirement, it would only be subject to variance is subject to the Board of Adjustment. It would not be subject to reduction subject to staff approval because the staff can't approve zoning changes by themselves. So I am a little,
 confused exactly what they were trying to say on that. If it is a zoning requirement then the variance must be subject to the Board of Adjustment consideration only and cannot be done by staff. Mr. Mayor?
 Yes. Jonathan Kurth from Planning. Just as a clarification on that one, there is a nuance to zoning code when it comes to built street frontage that the council, when it was adopted, wanted to ingrain certain allowances within it to lighten the burden on developers. So if your property had floodplain or...
 like an easement associated with some overhead power lines, that wouldn't count against you. And those are the staff reductions that we're able to grant without it going to the Board of Adjustment. That was the reference. And the main reason that was included was just to distinguish it from the previous condition, which would be a development variance subject to Planning Commission consideration. My question is, in striking that final sentence, are we in any way reducing
 the flexibility for staff to treat unusual situations the same way they might if this were a standard zone. Staff's interpretation would be that it's a zoning requirement that goes to the board, subject to reductions we can give. So I don't think striking it would have any effect. It was intended to be included as a clarification. Understood, okay, thank you.
 If you would prefer, we could just strike only the language with a prioritization on parkland use.
 Jonathan, would you think that would be the proper thing to do or should we keep the last sentence in? I think it may be helpful. PZDs are sometimes difficult for staff to keep track of. There are dozens and dozens throughout the city and they all have their own details. Any breadcrumbs that can be dropped for future staff is always helpful.
 With that in mind and recalling that I can recall several applications in the past five or ten years where we've had trouble determining what was intended when the original PCD was passed. I can support the intent of the motion, but only if it's limited to the clause in question with respect to prioritization. Thank you.
 I guess I should ask, is that acceptable to the motioner? Could you please reread that one more time? I'm sorry. Okay, let me just read this sentence the way it would be. Without it, all planning areas should have a 50% minimum buildable frontage requirement for lots with a contributing built frontage established by adjacency to either public street or parkland.
 That would end that sentence, but then there would still be the last sentence, this shall be a zoning requirement with reductions subject to staff approval and variances subject to the Board of Adjustment consideration. So the only thing that amendment would do would remove the prioritization on parkland and really allow the developer to decide whether he wants to have the frontage on a public street or the parkland. Okay, I'd like to leave the language as you just read it. Okay. Okay.
 What other discussion do we have on the amendment then? Everybody good? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? And who was the seconder on that motion? I don't remember. Who seconded? I believe I seconded. Okay. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Smith. Yes. Okay, that amendment passed. Okay, now we have the amended ordinance. Any final comments from the council on that? Okay, seeing none, Caravage, please call the roll. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Let's move along to new business. Number one, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Cleland Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $85,894 to provide construction phase services and materials testing associated with Zion Road, Bain's Crossover,
 to cross over project and to prove a budget adjustment this is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects Chris I believe you have this thank you mayor this is one of two items we have tonight related to Zion Road improvements this project as we as we go through this project
 as we've talked before, was included in the previous bond program for design. We did not have construction funds available to do it at the time, so we carried that forward into this bond program. So we had the project mostly designed. We refreshed the design and changed a few things, but are now ready to move forward with construction. So this item is for our design consultant to continue with construction phase services.
 to provide any engineering support for change orders or plan revisions that may be necessary during the construction. And also for materials testing services to verify that the materials meet the requirements of the specifications. So this is an hourly rate contract, so it will be on an as needed basis up to the contract amount of $85,894. I'll answer any questions.
 Okay, what questions do we have in the council on this? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of two, three, and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this first? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is resolution. Move we approve the resolution. Do we have a second? Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 Carol, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's move along to number two.
 A resolution to award bid number 20-39 to authorize a contract with TriStar Contractors LLC in the amount of $6,820,075.20 for the construction of the Zion Road Vantage Drive to Crossover Road project to approve the project contingency in the amount of $341,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is another one of our 2019 transportation bond projects.
 Chris, you've had this one too. Thank you, Mayor. This is the second of the two items, of course, for Zion Road. This is the construction contract. We did take bids on June 24th and received six construction bids. TriStar Contractors LLC was the low bid, and it was a very good bid, about 20% below our engineers' estimate.
 About $4.4 million of this contract are transportation bond funds related to the roadway. We also had some significant water and sewer upgrades included in the project. So about $2.4 million of the contract is for water and sewer improvements. This is a relatively long construction time, about 17 months is allocated.
 in the construction contract. That's due to the water and sewer improvements that have to be done in advance of the street work and also due to some significant alignment changes have to be made on the western portion of the project. If you know that,
 that road at all you know it's pretty uh pretty steep and uh has some has some sharp curves towards the west end those will be flattened out so there's some alignment changes and some road closures and other things that will have to happen uh during this construction project which again extends to the time but uh it's an exciting project it has uh um
 facilities for all users, pedestrians, bicyclists, and vehicles. So we're excited to get this project moving forward as one of our bond projects. I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have for Chris on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor who would like to address us. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is a resolution.
 I have a comment, Mayor. Yes. I'm very excited about this project. I find that road pretty rough when I've used it over the years, so I'm very excited to see this, that the voters support this.
 It's a pretty rough road to ride, and I'm glad to see that we're gonna bring those improvements for the north side of Fayetteville, even though it's not my ward. I have, I do use that Veterans Park area. So I'm pretty excited about it, and just wanna thank everybody for their work on making these improvements and supporting the project. Thank you, Son. All right, this is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution.
 I'll second that. We have a motion to second past resolution. Any final comments from the council? I will tell you that we were talking about the Zion Road improvements when I was on the council, which has been a while back. So I'm glad to see this coming to fruition myself. I know if Bobby Farrell is watching tonight, probably Justin Tennant, too. They remember working trying to get funding for this road also. So, yeah.
 Here we go. All right. Any other comments from the council? All right. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number three, a resolution to approve utility relocation agreement with the American Electric Power in the amount of $45,377.06 for utility relocations related to the Church Avenue Meadow Street sidewalk project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is another one of our 2019 transportation bond projects. Chris. Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is related to the work that is ongoing right now that the Transportation Division is working on, sidewalk improvements to Church Avenue and Meadow Avenue. Between Mountain and Spring Street, we've negotiated this proposed contract with Swepco. We will be installing the conduits needed to put the wires underground. Swepco's cost will be to provide the wire
 and do all the labor to get that wire installed. So this is another one of our downtown sidewalk improvement projects, part of the bond program. And it will certainly clear much more pedestrian space and allow us to have a much nicer sidewalk and streetscape by putting these wires underground. So looking forward to get this, moving forward with this as well. Okay, what questions do we have in council?
 Okay, we'll take some public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address us first? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we pass the resolution. Second. I do have one comment.
 Sure. Just for improving accessibility, this is such an awesome project. So I want to again, thank the voters. I work, have worked very closely with people who need this accessibility. So I'm very excited to see this project come to fruition. I'd love to see more of these so that those people who have those accessibility challenges can continue to get around our city. So very excited to see this.
 Absolutely. Absolutely. Any other comments from the council? We have a motion in the second to pass resolution. Any other final comments from the council? Okay, Terry, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, I have the first is Smith and the second is Kenyon. Would be correct. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, number four. Resolution to approve change order number six to the Federal Public Library Expansion Project contract with Crossland Construction Company Incorporated in the amount of $165,363 and to allocate unencumbered contingency funds to the project for a portion of the library's contract scope. Wait.
 Thank you, Mayor. As the title states, this change order will be funded with the unencumbered project funds that the city's been holding as a contingency. The project is on schedule with the substantial completion in October. Therefore, there's no need for the city to hold any additional contingencies. Per the change order, the city will assume some of the library scope, including polished concrete floors, overhead door and dock equipment,
 beam rock terracing that is on the southwest corner of the site, and kitchen hoods for the teaching kitchen. The contractor and library will still be holding $173,000 in contingency that they can apply later to the existing library renovations. That's all I have. Okay, what questions do we have to wait on this? Okay.
 Let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor who would like to address us. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I have a comment, Mayor, again. Sure. So I just want to say I'm so thrilled about the library's development. I had it on purpose and have been avoiding that road to allow for the construction of the library.
 and I moved back in 2000, I want to say it was 2003, whenever the library was finished, the new one. I felt like I had really made the right decision to come back to Fayetteville because the community supported and public access to information to build such a beautiful library and to see this expansion is absolutely amazing. And if you haven't driven through the library,
 driven by, it is incredible to see what we're building for the community. So with that, I will absolutely be supporting this. Do I take that as a motion? So moved. Seconds. Any other final comments from the council? It's a great project. Okay. Seeing none, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, number five, a resolution to approve the real estate contract for equal exchange of properties on the western slope of Markham Hill owned by the University of Arkansas with property owned by the City of Federal on Razorback Road and Indian Trails and to approve a budget adjustment. Susan, I believe you have this one.
 It's Mayor, and right now I'm attempting to share my screen. And I believe, can you see that screen? I can. All right. Well, I'm really thrilled to bring this to you tonight, Mayor and City Council. We're always excited when we can preserve some green space in the middle of town, and that's what this proposed agreement will do for you. We wanted to talk a little bit about the...
 As soon as I can make my screen move forward. There we go. The acreage that we're talking about, that is the Markham Hill land that the city is proposing to swap with the University of Arkansas. This is the view as it looks to the south, the Markham Hill land there.
 To get back to the basic terms for the swap that's before you, it's a resolution to approve a real estate contract for equal exchange of the properties. That would be 62.4 acres of the western slope of Markham Hill, recently appraised at $3,087,000 for the 10 acres that the University of Arkansas would like to acquire for Razorback Road and Indian Trails properties.
 also appraised recently at two million eight hundred thirty nine thousand dollars this project has been going on a very long time here are the simple aerial views that show the parcels on the left the markham hill and on the right the indian trails which is pretty much in the middle between the two university properties took some time to uh
 get this exchange going many years, there were lots of, lots of different stumbling blocks. Uh, we bring it to you tonight simply because we finally got over those hurdles and, uh, we'll say, um, I know this happened, this was going on long before I, uh,
 took up the role of chief of staff. I know the mayor and the chancellor worked on it. Don Maher and Mike Johnson worked on it. Kit Williams and the university's attorneys worked on it. And finally, it came to me and Laura Jacobs, chief of staff, to get to finish the deal with the mayors and Kit helping us every step of the way. The terms that we talked about just a moment ago were a simple real estate transaction.
 I do have on the phone and as a panelist tonight, if the council has any questions for Mike Johnson, Associate Vice Chancellor Facilities Management, on what the university intends to do with their end of the swap, Mike can address that if you have questions.
 Also on the phone is Allison Jumper with Runway Group. She was with us last time. If you have further questions about the Traverse Trail system that's being built. But for now, I'll just talk to you about our purpose. The mayor has been interested in this property for quite some time.
 You know, we're just about as excited about this as we were for the acquisition of Kessler Mountain and Millsip Mountain. And the three mountains over there on that side of town stitched together will be quite a green space. So we really have a pretty simple purpose. We want to provide this access to the residents of Fayetteville for a long time.
 It's great green space in the middle of the city preserve the mature tree canopy and that we can for our City and for the in support of the city's energy action plan goals and to create the connectivity to the city's trails network Just another view another aerial view looking from the
 southeast to the northwest of the property. With respect to the energy action plan, this directly applies to our goal of improving the health distribution coverage and effectiveness of Fayetteville's urban forest. It will help us reduce air pollution, increase air quality, and reduce the effects of climate change. With respect to the tree canopy,
 We expect that this will increase the city's urban forests and the preserved forested areas in the city by 4.4%. And again, that establishes that significant stitched together green network with the connections between Kessler, Milsip, and Markham Hill.
 You all may recall, those of you who have been participating in active transportation, that the January 2020 active transportation plan has already approved an east-west paved trail through the property. It is not currently on the work plan, but it is destined to be there one day. And this map shows you how that connects in with other future trails and existing trails. If we have questions about that plan,
 Chris Brown is here tonight also who can talk more about our future trails network. And then the Traverse Trail, I did a little closer view of this Traverse Trail as Allison mentioned last time.
 during the agenda setting session is actually a loop around the entire city that parallels some of our existing trails network and also new trails for mountain biking and other uses the soft surface trail that's being Conceptualized here on this map is for all active uses And then finally there exists a
 several miles of existing loop trails on the mountain already that have been there for nearly a century. So those trails are there for our residents to use as well. With that, I don't have any other information to share other than we request that you approve this proposal. And if you have questions for either Mike Johnson on the use of the Indian Trails property or Allison Jumper, then please let me know or Chris Brown.
 Anything else we can do to answer any questions? What questions do we have, councilor? I have one question and this looks like a fantastic acquisition. In fact, Ward 4 is having a pretty good night in terms of new public lands. So I've got nothing to complain about on that.
 I do have a question about the type of development that might be on the land over on what we're calling Indian trails land. That's also fairly heavily canopied. And when the city develops, we go through our own development process. And I'm curious if the university would commit to also going through the city review process and what their plans are as far as the canopy preservation that's on that land.
 Thank you. I believe Mike is online. Mike, if you could take that question. I am online, Mayor, City Council members. It is a true pleasure to be here tonight. When we started this, I had a full head of curly hair, so it's been a while. I know the feeling. Councilman Smith, the university has been using this land for a number of years for kind of a staging area.
 for recycling tree debris and for staging other things that we periodically would haul off to a landfill. Our goal on this approximately 10 acres is to construct a tennis complex on the flatter part of the acreage on the north partials, which is currently not treed and to maintain as much as the tree cover as possible on the rest of the property.
 You may not be aware, but we cleaned out and limbed up and opened up the underneath of that entire 10 acres along with a number of other acres around the community and have kept it clean and open, but the tree canopy has flourished in that area. Our goal is to maintain the maximum amount of remaining tree cover as possible as we build 12 tennis courts,
 a very small storage building, administrative building, a little bit of parking along the street, off the street, and also parallel parking on the street that's available for some of the businesses on the strip mall. So our goal is to maintain as much as possible of the current tree cover, utilizing the flat areas on the northern portion.
 and hopefully have a tennis complex that would be open in the late fall of 2021. I had a picture that I might be able to or not pull up. Mike, if you have trouble, I do have it. Can you pull it up, Susan? Pull up the colored one. The colored picture? Okay. All right, I've shared my screen. Perfect.
 on your left corner, the second one on the left, the bottom left is the Indian Trail, the current street. We would just put a little loop in where there would be parking to support the complex. That is the tennis courts were proposing to build essentially on that currently cleared flat land. The trail element you notice on that lower right is the city trail being redirected
 behind Chick-fil-A and Sonic across the Indian Trail, across the corner of our future property and crossing Razorback Road with a hawk. And that is the last missing link to my understanding of the South Fayetteville loop. On the back end of the property, top or the Southern end of the property, we have a Walton family grant to put in some soft surface mountain biking trails in amongst the trees
 We currently have that money as well. We intend to make it a very nice facility. Those mountain biking trails would come off the city trail and would be open to the public. Thank you, Mike. You answered my second question about the planned trail connection that goes through there as well. That looks fantastic. I appreciate that. Thank you. We very much appreciate this. I think we have a lot of work to do
 This is about as big a win-win as we could come up with. And there's no money being exchanged. That's a win in itself. What other questions do we have? I move we approve the resolution. Second. Well, I'm going to take some public comment. I'm sorry about that. That's a good idea.
 Okay, I'm going to take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sonia, you made a motion. Did we get a second on that? Council Member Smith was the second. Okay.
 For the vote, I'd like to do a shout out to Representative Whitaker. One reason it took so long to get this project done is that the legislature had changed the law and did not allow such an exchange to occur. And in 2019, Representative David Whitaker, on behalf of the city, actually approached the legislature with a bill saying,
 And eventually the legislature did change the law and allow this to occur. So I wanted to thank him. He's always been very helpful to the city. And this time he made this project possible. I'd also like to make a comment, if I may. Sure. I just want to thank everybody that's been involved in this project. This has been a long time coming. This will go a long way into providing additional green space over in Ward 4, which
 You know, in the past, the neighborhood, the residents over there have been able to use the Pratt Place area and the Markham Hill area and all that's going to change here real soon. So at least this will be some kind of consolation where they will have access to the Markham Hill area and green space. Yeah.
 In some of the slides before where we looked at areas where there were park deficiencies or areas where there was no accessible park, there was a striking one right there around Markham Hill. So this will go a long way to help alleviate some of that lack of green space up there, at least formal green space.
 So thank you to everybody involved in this. I know it was a complicated and long road, but hopefully we will get there tonight. What other comments do we have? I wanna thank everybody that's worked on this project. I wanna thank Mike Johnson, former Chief of Staff Don Maher, Susan Kitt,
 all the trails people the uh the adverse has been you know it has been a grind getting this through this this probably started about four years ago and i wanted to preserve that uh that mountain up there so um i i want to i want to thank this council and i hope i certainly hope you support this because when we make this addition
 In the last six years, we've preserved over 1,200 acres of green space and urban forest in this city that will never be touched again. And that's quite an accomplishment. And, you know, people always ask, what kind of legacy do you want to leave behind? I mean, things come and go. Buildings come and go. Bridges come and go. Even trails come and go. Those hillsides and those trees, they will be there.
 forever for every generation that lives in this city they'll be able to go to Markham Hill and Kessler Mountain they'll be able to go with Centennial Park and and look at that and they as I've said before they won't remember anybody's names but they'll sure appreciate the green space and at the end of the day council
 That will be our legacy for the future of this city. So I want to thank you all for all your hard work on this too. And with that, Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Thank you, council, very much.
 Okay, number six. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7108 for approximately 2.81 acres located at 3620 West Dinsmore Trail from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 8 Residential Single Family, eight units per acre. Okay.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to R.S.F. 8, Residential Single-Family, 8 units per acre.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor. This is a unique request. It's located on the west foothill of Centennial Mountain or Hill, depending on your perspective.
 on Dinsmore Trail. The applicant approached the staff wanting to build one additional home on just under three acres. The present zoning requires one unit for two acres and requires additional frontage. The first district that would allow that additional home was the RSF-A. So that is the request in front of you, as you can see.
 It's zoned neighborhood conservation immediately to the west for a portion of the property. The rest of the surrounding zoning is RA. Adopted plans, it's designated residential neighborhood area, supports a variety of housing types. As you might expect, the infill matrix is very low.
 Issues that the Planning Commission discussed was water pressure, the water line has limited pressure. In fact, the Planning Commission held it for a month and the Utilities Department confirmed that there was adequate pressure for an additional home. So with that, Planning Commission staff do recommend approval. Be happy to answer any questions
 The applicant is Colt Odie, if you have questions for him. Okay, Mr. Odie, would you like to address the council? Hey, thank you, council. This is Colt Odie. I am the owner of the parcel here on Nismar Trail. Can everyone hear me? Yes, we can. Okay, well, thank you. Thank you guys for taking the time to review this and also big thumbs up to what just happened a minute ago. I think that deserves a pause.
 I'm located really close to that land on Market Mill, and I think that's really exciting. That is a fantastic place.
 uh you guys are having a fantastic evening so um congratulations to us and uh the future generations as far as our parcel uh mr garner hit it nail on the head we are just wanting to do an additional home here we are growing family and the 2.81 acres we want to stay in this area and we think there's enough land frontage here that we want to build a home back behind us here on the same land so
 With that, I know there was concern about the water pressure here. I think the engineering ran a full study on that, provided a report, and ultimately, they think that is adequate, and with their recommendation and the recommendation of planning, I think we should move forward and approve another dwelling on this land. Thank you. All right, what questions do we have for the applicant or staff? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this tonight? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wish of the council? This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second.
 Well then there's that. You were saying, Kyle? I'll get to it in a minute. Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZM 20-7108 for approximately 2.81 acres located at 3620 West Dinsmore Trail from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 8 Residential Single Family eight units per acre. You have a question Kyle? No just a comment. I will support this rezoning but it makes me nervous because we have seen
 The style of development that we are getting on the west side of Ruple with zoning that is very similar to what we see in this area. We've not seen that on the east side, but here comes our first new development, new rezoning request between Ruple and our Millsaps Mountain and our Centennial Park.
 The public schools are building a new probably a middle school here on that middle roundabout. That is going to dramatically and very soon change the economics of this area and the type of development that is going to want to come forward here. We currently have most of this zone exclusively residential. This area has limited commercial opportunities , very few jobs that are not retail. We are looking at a lot of the
 And it's also disconnected from the rest of the city by the highway. There's no way across Interstate 49 without dealing with the Weddington or the MLK interchanges. And we're looking at an area here that is approximately equal in size to downtown Fayetteville, the original city plat. Could basically fit here between Ruppel and the park. And I think that we need to look...
 very closely at our long-term plans and our near-term plans for this area. How we're going to lay out streets before we let developers choose that, whether or not the zoning here is appropriate for the needs of the thousands of people that are settling in this area and have no nearby job access. So just I want that on everybody's radar because that's going to be a challenge for us
 sooner rather than later and I think it's one that we need to really think about what services we want to provide for this part of the community and I'll move we go to the suspend the rules and go to the second third reading I'll second that the motion is second to go to the third and final reading here would you please call the roll Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes
 Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning quotation RZN 20-718008 for approximately 2.81 acres located at 3620 West Dinsmoor Trail from RA residential agricultural to RSF 8 residential single family eight units per acre. Okay what final comments do we have from the council?
 Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number seven.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7123 for approximately 0.21 acres located at 23 West 5th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban Kitt.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor and Council. Very similar request to other requests you reviewed in the past couple years.
 It is the block north of MLK and Walker parks. The lot in question is south of fifth street between block and east avenue. As you'll notice, this is one of the smallest slots blocks in the Fayetteville, which is kind of neat. I like small blocks. The Southern half of this block has already been redeveloped for infill housing with a rear access
 The zoning is all neighborhood conservation surrounding it. Adopted plan, it's a Wharton Park plan plus a residential neighborhood area designation supports single family and multi-family and row houses. It has a very high infill matrix as you might expect. It's 10, it's about as high as you can get. The issues
 feel that the RIU request is compatible with the county development and our long term land use plans and infill score would support the request. And with that, Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I believe Mr. Blake Jorgensen is representing the applicant. Okay. Blake, would you like to address the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Yeah, good evening Mayor and Council. I actually have nothing to add to this one and if there are questions I'd be happy to answer them. So we'll keep it real short. Okay, what questions do we have in the Council? I have a question. Okay. Blake, did you hear from any of the neighbors on this when you did your letter or request input? Can you hear me? Yes.
 Yes, the only input we had was from the immediate neighbor to the west, Alan Austin. You may remember him from he's served on different boards throughout the past. He was in support of it. And as far as I'm aware, we had no negative feedback. That was the only thing we had. So that's all I have to add. Thank you. One of the questions you have in the council.
 This is more of a comment than a question. Am I reading this correctly? Everything around there is neighborhood conservation and so the proposed R.I.U. would be basically spot zoning because there's nothing, R.I.U. is not anywhere close to this area. So is that, do I have the map correct, Garner?
 Council Member Turk, yes, you have the map correct. It is neighborhood conservation and surrounding it. But that term has legal implications and planning implications. The term is typically used to give one property owner advantages that are to the detriment of the surrounding property, such as perhaps a filling station or something like that, or something that is really out of character.
 The neighborhood conservation district is residential district, as is the RIU. So I think in a common sense, you could call it a spot. It's certainly a single lot, but I think in a planning or legal sense, we would dig a little deeper before we use that term. Thank you. But it does represent a change, but thank you for your comment. I appreciate it.
 What other questions do we have? I have another comment Mayor. Sure. Or maybe I guess this is a question more for Garner.
 I think one of the biggest things that I've seen in terms of in Ward 1 and maybe just everywhere when we have these rezonings and since this is a unique zone within this whole area is just the setbacks. Can you talk about the setbacks of where we currently are with all those homes there with the new zone? Sure.
 The front yard setback between the RIU and the neighborhood conservation are identical. That's great news because I feel like the front yards are the most abrupt that you see.
 something coming straight up on the road there and then you know a really nice modest little home and way toward the back so I think the front yard setback um if this front yard setback kind of is compatible with the current zone that that makes me feel a lot better now now having said that um it is zero to 25 for both districts so uh someone could propose a zero setback
 but that's already established in the in the neighborhood conservation district that's not new to the riu i'm not sure i understand you're saying someone could propose a zero setback this it is zero to 25 in that district so you the property owner has an option but unlike um other areas of town the the uh front yard setbacks tend to be uh uh
 Not as it's not as in congruous as some areas of town where the established development has deep front yard setbacks. This area does not. And I believe that's why Council chose the neighborhood conservation district. OK, thank you. I want to I feel like I want to go look at that a little bit. So I'm kind of thinking to keep it at this reading. I want to go walk around there a little bit more if everyone's OK with that.
 I would support holding it on this reading. I'd just like to clarify that even if they were to rebuild it at the existing zoning, they would still have the ability to use the zero to 25 foot setback. So there's no change in that setback. So do you all want to hold it here or for two weeks? Yeah, just keep it on the first reading or do you want to go to the second reading? What do you all want to do? So you want to hold it? I would like to hold it. Okay.
 All right. If everybody's okay with that, we'll move on to the next one then. Okay, number eight. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7124 for approximately 1.84 acres located southeast of 15th Street and Morningside Drive. Rezone a portion of the property from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Kip.
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from c1 neighborhood commercial to nsg neighborhood services general section two that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Okay. Yes, Mayor and Council, this request is south of 15th Street, east of Morningside Drive. It is, I'll show you the context for this request. The Planning Commission recently approved that preliminary plat to plat the RSF 8 areas into residential lots.
 And the proposal is to provide a little better transition between the residential community and the C1 district that is zoned along 15th Street. So if you look at the zoning, it is RSF8 neighborhood conservation and the proposed NSG,
 and this is the applicant's request that did amend this request to include the right-of-way so if if you approve this staff would recommend that you use exhibit c rather than a so the uh the map would reflect contiguous zoning down to the rsfa um adopted plans uh city neighborhood area
 uh encourages a variety of uses the infield score is kind of in the middle it is six it is the 2040 plan uh designates a tier three at the morningside and 15th street uh so um the issues we think it's a pro provides a transition from uh the proposed residential uses to the commercial zone areas
 Also, the neighborhood services general has a height limitation of five stories, which is compatible with the adjacent residential development. You'll recall the C1 would, I'm sorry, three stories. The C1 would be five stories. With that, Planning Commission and staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant is represented by...
 I'll let you car if you have questions. Actually, I've got a question. Garner is the legal description exhibit B. Does that need to be amended also? And are you suggesting that we amend the ordinance to list for the map exhibit C? I'm suggesting the latter. And what about the legal description? Is that still okay? Or does that need to be changed too? I'll let the applicant address that. Ms. Carr prepared this, the, the,
 amended the exhibit C when we asked for it. I was just concerned that we'd not have a zoning map that had little slivers of C1. Okay, Ms. Carter, would you like to address the council? You have 10 minutes. Yes, sir, this is Allie Carr with Craft and Toll. Can y'all hear me all right? Yes. Yes, we have provided the revised property description in exhibit D to reflect the new,
 block of the proposed NSG. Okay. So the way I understand it, then, we need to, the city council needs to amend the map to Exhibit C, but leave the legal description Exhibit B because you've already changed that. The updated legal description is shown in Exhibit D that I believe was provided in your packet today. Okay.
 Yes, Kit, what the applicant is indicating is they also gave us a revised legal description and it is Exhibit D. So we need Exhibit C and D. So I move that we amend it to include Exhibit C and D. Second. Second.
 Okay, so we're going to amend the map to C and B, correct? I'm making sure I got all this. Yeah, the map goes to C, and the legal description has changed to D now. Is that what you heard? Oh, is it D? Like dog, D as in dog. D as in dog, that is correct. Okay, I had it wrong. Okay, what discussion do we have in the council on the amendment? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? And who prodded the second on that one? Oh, I'm sorry. Who's the seconder on the amendment? I did. Turk. Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Mann? Yes. Okay, now we have the amended orders. What other questions do we have or anything? If we don't, I'm going to take this to public comment.
 Okay. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this from the public? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wish of the council? This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. Kyle, I believe you second. Okay. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Park? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7124 for approximately 1.84 acres located southeast of 15th Street and Morningside Drive.
 to rezone a portion of the property from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to NSG Neighborhood Services General. And so. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Kim, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Butch? Yes.
 Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7124 for approximately 1.84 acres located southeast of 15th Street and Morningside Drive to rezone a portion of the property from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council on this? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number nine, an ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 20-7128 for approximately 1.44 acres located at 1355 West Dean Street from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre. Kip.
 it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one at the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby changes his own classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit being both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf four residential single family four units per acre to rsf eight residential single family eight units per acre section two
 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Okay Gar. Yes Mayor and Council this request is on the south side of Dean Street west of Garland and east of Lewis Street as you'll see this is Lewis Field on the bottom corner
 There are three existing lots plus a right of way on the side. The lots are 60 and 75 and 75 width and I think over 300 feet deep. So they're deep lots. The surrounding zoning is RSF4 with the University property across the street, RA adopted plans that's designated as a residential neighborhood area.
 The infield score varies between six and seven. It faces the Midtown corridor, which is the subject of an extensive planning project to improve that corridor. And the city plan 2040 goals would support a variety of housing types. Issues that did come up were drainage,
 I think Council Member Kenyon asked me about drainage at the agenda session. It is, these lots are very flat and they're subject to ponding. But other than that, we didn't see any unusual drainage problems, although there will be opportunities to improve the drainage
 as a crosstown project is built because storm drainage between this these properties and lewis street will be included so with that planning commission staff do recommend approval i'd be happy to answer any questions i believe the applicant is here also if you have questions for him
 He was having technical difficulties. I believe he can hear you though. So Mr. Barr, I think, is online. We don't have anybody. Garner? Yeah, I believe we do. I believe the applicant is online. He was having some technical difficulties about an hour ago. His name is Bart Bauer. Okay. Well, I'm with you there, but we're not picking it up here. Susan, do you have anything?
 Okay, well, what questions while we work that out, what questions does council have for staff? I'd like to see if staff can respond to one of the public comments that was provided. There's about five different issues that I think one of the neighbors in the area has asked, and I wonder if staff could respond to those.
 it's the one from ms bryant um i recollect a question about whether the process for has been exhausted before asking for a rezoning request meaning are there options are there variances and so forth
 I do know that this area, these three lots were the subject of previous requests. So I think the property owner did attempt to resolve and get approval. I think another question that I recall was whether or not this is a spot. Again, I would give the same answer I did for the neighborhood.
 Yes, it's a different density, different development requirements, but I wouldn't classify it as spot zoning in the negative sense. I don't have her letter right in front of me right now. If you have the other questions, I'd be happy to try to respond to those too. What are the questions that we have for staff? Okay, we'll take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak and each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this first from the public? Well, bringing back to the council, I think it's a matter of fairness. I think the applicant should be allowed to speak before the council since we have whatever
 we might have, I think it would be fair to let the applicant present to the council. So if we have to wait two weeks to do that, I would suggest we hold it right here just as a fairness issue. I concur with that. So do I, Mayor. Okay, so if it's all right with everybody, I'm going to move on to number 10. All right. An ordinance to approve. Mayor, is the applicant on now?
 Do they have their hand raised? Okay. No, Garner, there's nobody there. Nobody's there, Garner. Well, I'm going to move us on to number 10. I suppose if the applicant comes in later, we can go back to that item if we need to. But right now, I'm going to move us along through the agenda if that's okay with everybody. Okay.
 Okay, number 10, an ordinance to approve vacation 20-7070 for property located at 4615 West Persimmon Street to vacate portions of an electric easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104.
 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of electric easement are not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council that the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portions of the electric easement as is described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 And section three, that this vacation approval is subject to a condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. Okay. Garland. Yes, Mayor. This is a simple vacation request. All the responding agencies indicated that there was no, they didn't have a need for these utility easements.
 The staff and planning commissioner recommended approval subject to the standard condition that city attorney read. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do you have for Garner on this? Okay, I'm gonna take some public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes for the staff to monitor who would like to address on this public. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith?
 An ordinance approving Vacation 20-7070 for a property located at 4615 West Persimmon Street to vacate portions of electric easements. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Care, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Warren?
 Butch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance approved DAC 207070 or properly located at 4615 West Persimmon Street to vacate portions of an electric easement. What final comments do we have from the council on this? Chair, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Mint? Yes. Thank you all. Number 11, an ordinance to approve vacation 20-75 for property located at 900 North Leverett Avenue to vacate portions of two water sewer easements. Kip? Yes.
 whereas the city council has the authority under aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the following described portions of water sewer are not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section 1
 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portions of the water sewer easements as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation shall not be effective,
 until the proposed rerouted 8-inch sewer main is installed and approved. Okay. Garner. Are you with us, Garner? I need to... I am, Mayor. I need just to share my screen with you. Okay. Here we go. Can you see it now? Yes. Okay. This easement is located just west of Razorback Greenway.
 It has access, the parcel has access both to Levert and to North Street. The existing apartment complex owner is involved in a large scale review to add additional buildings in the location of this easement. All the reviewing agencies are now satisfied. It did involve relocating some utilities.
 to provide services, but that has now been accomplished. And planning staff and planning commission do recommend approval. I thought this was a little bit more complicated than typical Eastman vacations. And just in case you have questions, I think Mr. Andy Hooper, the applicant's representative is available if you have questions either for him or me.
 Okay, I'm sorry. What questions do we have from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. The new speaker has one turn to speak. The new speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor who would like to address this. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Ms. Guterres? Yes. Ms. Guterres?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. And Norwich approved VAC 20-7095, who's probably located at 900 North Leverett Avenue, to vacate portions of two water and sewer easements. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final. Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes.
 And ordinance approved VAC 20-7095 for property located at 900 North Leverett Avenue to vacate portions of two water sewer easements. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council on this? Okay, Tara, would you please call the roll? Tara? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number 12, an ordinance to approve vacation 20-7120 property located at 1479 North Gregg Avenue to vacate a portion of street right-of-way. Kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for public purposes.
 And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of a street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance is duly certified by the City Clerk.
 along with a map attached to exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk in section three this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one any relocation of or damage to existing facilities or existing utilities shall be at the owner developer's expense
 number two a 10 foot wide general utility easement shall be dedicated along the eastern boundary of the subject property and number three a five foot by five foot block easement shall be dedicated to sweptco to cover its existing equipment okay gar yes mayor um this is uh this extra right-of-ways on the west side of gregg avenue i first thought that they had dedicated
 extra width on Gregg, but apparently sometime in the past, there was an initiative to provide access across the railroad tracks, which, and this was dedicated to facilitate that. But long story short, it's extra right away. The applicant wishes to use this right away for a duplex development.
 and that they're requesting vacation of it. Swepco needed routines on the easements, which the city attorney read. But with those conditions, staff and planning commission recommended approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. What questions do we have from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Okay, each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor who would like to be first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. I will suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay. Sonia, you had made the motion, and Teresa, you did the second, correct? Yes, correct. Ready to care? Okay. Okay.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. In order to approve VAC 20-7120, for property located at 1479 North Gregg Avenue to vacate a portion of the street right-of-way.
 Move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 In order to approve DAC 207120, or property located at 1479 North Gregg Avenue, to vacate a portion of a street right-of-way. What final comments do we have in the council? All right, Karen, would you please call the roll? Harris? Yes. Marsh? Hey, buddy. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Okay. Number 13, an ordinance to amend 155.04, order an appeal on behalf of resident to use the proper term council member and clarify when appeals can be made and to amend 155.05, appeals from planning commission decisions, a appeals to city council three conditional use requests,
 to reduce the required number of council members needed for an appeal to chip whereas conditional use request decisions by the Planning Commission should be able to be appealed for the City Council review by one council member elected as a ward representative in which the property is subject to the conditional use requests and one other council member
 and whereas the term alderman should be replaced with council member and in and this section should be clarified so that a council member would be able to appeal a subdivision or development approved by the planning commission on behalf of the resident to the city council now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 15504, Alderman Appeal on Behalf of Residents, by repealing it and replacing Alderman with Councilmember and enacting the following, quote, Section 15504, Councilmember Appeal on Behalf of Residents. A Councilmember may appeal...
 may bring an appeal on behalf of any resident of the city of a decision by the planning commission to approve subdivision request flats lot splits and development requests large-scale developments and larger small site improvement plans variances compliance with applicable design standards tree preservation plans and conditions of approval for any development shall be appealed as part of the approval of the development proposal
 Section 2 is that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 15505, Appeals from Planning Commission Decisions. Section A appeals to the City Council by deleting this in their entirety and enacting a replacement. Section A as follows. Subsection A appeals to City Council.
 Owners of record of the property being considered may appeal a decision by the Planning Commission to deny the following requests in accordance with procedures set forth in Section 15502. Subsection A, annexation. Subsection B, rezoning. Subsection C, required dedication and improvements of Section 15506C.
 subsection d subdivision plats lot splits and lot line adjustments subsection e development large scale development large and small site improvement plans section two conditions of approval and variances etc and owner of record
 may appeal the conditions of approval determined by the Planning Commission and any adverse decision by the Planning Commission concerning applicable design standards, tree preservation requirements, streamside protection requirements, and various variance requests as part of the conditions of an approved development request or the denial of such development request. And number three, conditional use request. Two council members, one of whom must reside in the affected ward,
 May in unison appeal the decision of Planning Commission approving or denying a conditional use request. And Mayor, what I just read at the very end is what Council Member Turk asked me to originally do. So maybe we should start with her on that very last item. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Kit, for drafting that. I was kind of going through the regs, and I noticed that for the conditional use permit, the bar was set very high for an appeal. In fact, higher than any of the other appeal processes. That bar was two council members from that particular ward plus an additional council member.
 So my request was to reduce one of those. So in fact, it would only take one council member from that ward and another council member from a different ward to appeal a conditional use permit. So I feel that.
 providing relatively easy access for citizens to appeal certain decisions is fair, and this makes it easier and fairer than it previously was. So thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I'm charged by the Unified Development Code with the administration of the rest of this chapter. And so when I started reviewing that for Council Member Turk, I noticed that we still were using alderman and some other terms that were incorrect. And so I felt like I needed to try to change those. And the more I got into it, I realized that.
 that there were other issues that i needed to address now i have presented a couple of memos to the city council the most recent one yesterday where i tried to go step by step to explain all of the changes that i have made in section 155-04 council members
 If anybody has any further questions about that, I'll be happy to try to explain that. A lot of this is just trying to clarify and not make any substantive changes, but try to make it more understandable and where the appeal process works together better.
 There was also some input I got from our city engineer as well as from our development services director about vacations and how we've had three vacations tonight. As you see, no issues basically with the vacations.
 And they thought that it would make a lot more sense to bring the vacations, that they have to be ordinances directly to the city council, that the planning commission usually has virtually no discussion on them and almost no input. And that way a developer or someone that needs this vacation is going to save, you know, as much as a month of time, not having to go through the planning commission when there really is probably no need for that to happen. And so, uh,
 I had to go and change the appeal process or move them. You can't appeal a vacation now or you won't be able to from the planning commission because they won't hear it. So I had to take that out and had to put it in other places. So, you know, as you're aware, any change in unified development code often leads to other changes that must be done.
 And part of the reason I was doing this also is because the previous appeals process talked about large-scale developments, but it didn't talk about large or small-site improvement plans. And so I felt like it'd be better to at least mention them.
 uh and and try to bring this more up to date with what the unified development code is so i'm ready to try to answer any questions the the city council might have if there's any more confusion on this i'm not in a rush to get this approved approved uh but i do think eventually we do need to update these sections okay so we've got two parts to this one is theresa wanted to make a change and then when you got
 to looking at it and you had changes you wanted to make. That's correct. Okay. Well, all right. What questions do we have from the council? I have a question. Okay.
 Kit, do you know why we would have had an extra council member on there? Is there a reason that maybe that was going to need to be a more laborious process or higher bar process? Well, there's two reasons. One is kind of a practical reason or a policy reason, and one is a historical reason. For quite a while, there wasn't really any appeal to that.
 and all to the city council from a conditional use permit, which meant that if they would go directly to circuit court, which is probably not a good idea, I'd rather because it could involve money. And usually if there's gonna be a big issue like that, I'd rather city council be able to weigh in.
 But this happened about 18 years ago, and it was actually, I think it was a request for a church to build a bigger parking lot. They were already there, but their congregation was bigger, and they wanted an enlarger parking lot. And to do that, they had to have a conditional use request approved by the Planning Commission. And so there was some concern about that and whether there should be any appeal or not.
 And so the city council members who were members of that church decided that really there should be a conditional use request. But in order to give a lot of deference to the planning commission, they made it the most difficult appeal that you can imagine. So you have to have both aldermen from that particular ward plus a third, which is every other appeal we have, it's a single alderman from anywhere.
 So, part of it was historical, but the other part is, conditional use requests are very important and the Planning Commission hears them regularly. They're often very complicated. There's many things to consider and that's part of the major job of the Planning Commission is to do that.
 And because of that, and because they are normally the final decision maker, an appeal really probably should be more difficult than it would be for their more run-of-the-mill stuff. For example, if they turn down rezoning, well, rezoning can always come to you anyway, and you're going to hear it if it's going to be approved.
 So conditional use is a strange animal and really requires much more work by the Planning Commission. So I think a little bit more difficulty, such as what Council Member Turk has suggested, makes sense to keep some of it to be a little bit more difficult, but not as difficult as it was originally enacted. Okay. Thank you. What other questions do we have?
 Mayor, I think I was the one that asked Kit to put together the extra detail on that. And Kit, I apologize because it looked all confusing in written narrative form. And then when you sent the marked out version, it was like, oh, there's really not that many major changes here. It was pretty easy. So I appreciate that. I'm sorry for putting that extra work on you. I do. Thank you.
 I did go back and look at the minutes from the September 2001 meeting when y'all adopted the conditional use appeals in the first place. And I say y'all because I think Kit was the city attorney then and mayor. I think you were sitting in. Yep, I was involved in that. I think he voted for it. I didn't vote for it.
 But it looked like they made it difficult very intentionally. It was part of the remarks that were recorded in the conversation there. And I'm just curious, Teresa, are there any instances you can point to or that are kind of prompting this where it's been too difficult for somebody to get in the field?
 No, I can't think of any instances, but I just felt that that bar was so high, just so incredibly high compared to all the other appeal processes. And just to lower it a little bit to make again, make it more accessible to somebody that really had a genuine concern and wanted to appeal a CUP. So there's there's really no rush here, but it's just trying to correct or correct.
 to equalize the code a little bit more, the process a little bit more. Okay, thank you. I wish that these were separate, the updates and corrections versus the substantive change, because I'd like to look a little, the updates are easy. This change, I think, deserves a little more attention, and I hope everybody will take a look at the minutes in the history on this. Well, I remember we didn't have enough people across this.
 I don't know, Mr. Korn. Yeah, I also hope that we can divide the question when we get closer to that. I'm also reading through here. Is there any time on an appeal? Yes, that's not in this section. So I didn't change that at all. It's 10 working days. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
 oh i will say you know except for the number of people we've been very generous in allowing appeals we just it must be in writing to the circuit clerk to the city clerk but we've been uh pretty generous on on on allowing uh an appeal if they have at least attempted to comply with our requirements but they must in this particular case get three aldermen
 which is a fairly difficult task. And I think one reason that you all might not be aware of that very much is because you don't get appeals because it's so difficult to do. Yeah, thank you. I think the toughest part of this is to get both council members from that ward, because that adds a real tough element sometimes.
 So that's why I would like to see it changed. I mean, that's tough. Mayor, I'd like to share some of my initial thoughts. Sure. I would also prefer to see the question divided. I think that Council Member Smith's call for a little bit of time spent pondering
 is wise. Also insensitive and I recognize that what Council Member Kenyon has said is true. It's really hard to get, I don't think it's hard to get three aldermen necessarily, but council members, I think it's hard to get two from the same ward. And so I think tonight it's not on the table, but I could easily,
 without reservation support a change to remove both ward mates. But I'm uncertain, and I say that honestly, I'm uncertain how I feel about the reduction to two. And the reason for that is because of the high standard with respect to public hearings that conditional use permits are subjected to today.
 Because conditions can be imposed, the Planning Commission for better or worse has taken that as an opportunity to request things from applicants in the past that would otherwise have not been offered. And that's exactly the point. But it can be a little bit of a drawn out process to negotiate those conditions.
 And I worry that an easy appeal might further dissuade applicants from choosing conditional uses. Already, we don't see very many of them because it adds another 45 to 60 days to the process, regardless of the suitability of the application. That's just...
 That's just a bureaucracy of process in the application. So I'm a little, I use the word uncertain and I think that's being honest with myself and with you. I'm just saying that I'm just not certain how I feel about the reduction.
 There's one other thing and I'm not sure which item this is. It seems to be kind of a package deal, but I would like to hear a little bit more about the justification for removing right away vacations, specifically from planning commission review. It seems like they've had important things to say about a limited number, but some important right away vacations in the past, but the rest of it seems very reasonable.
 And I will leave that vacation thing to really Garner and Chris Brown, who were the ones that thought that vacations should come directly to the city council rather than going first to planning commission. So that's really for them to weigh in. I'm just reflecting what they had requested. Mayor Liskarner, I might add,
 We did, Chris and I both were in support of not adding extra time to vacation requests, but we did go back and look at right-of-ways and we certainly feel that there are instances where the planning commission's input is relevant and they do concentrate on the right-of-way. There are quality of life issues involved that are certainly, they have expertise in so.
 whatever the council wants to do on right away, we're happy with that. And we can see an argument for keeping the Planning Commission involved in that. Okay. So when a city council makes up your mind, you know, I can adjust the language if I need to, to leave the right-of-way vacations and consider them separately from any of the just utility easement type vacations. I think that's a great idea if we can separate those.
 Well, I will do that when the City Council tells me to do that. Maybe what we should do is just leave this here, and then at the next meeting I would like to get input on exactly how you would like that to be handled, and I can have the language ready if, in fact, you want to leave right away. Vacation is still going to the Planning Commission. That sounds good. Yes, let's try and separate those if we can. It's possible.
 Can I get a clarification? So we're the right of way part is on the first part of what Kit did with the changes and then the three people required is on the Teresa part. Is that correct?
 The conditional use request is number subsection three at the very end of this ordinance I just read. There's still another ordinance with a different section, but the part that Teresa requested was number three, conditional use request.
 How do we separate? Should we go ahead and try to separate them now so that when they come back, they can be separated? No, what should happen there is that if somebody doesn't like their proposal for conditional use request, then we'll just amend it. And we can amend it back to its original, or we can do another amendment however the city council would like to do it. And then once you get it amended the way you like, then you pass a whole ordinance. I'd like to just hold it here to look at it a little further. Makes sense. Okay.
 So y'all, well, we have the applicant from C9 with us now. So why don't we move off of this and hold it for two weeks, and then we'll go back to C9, and then I'll come back to C14. And you can be thinking about. So by unanimous consent, the city council is going to go back to the previous agenda item. Yes. Yes. Unless I've got somebody that says they don't want to do that, then I guess we'll do some sort of majority vote.
 Let's go back to C9. I guess I'll just read it again. All right.
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-7128 for approximately 1.44 acres located at 1355 West Dean Street from RSF4, residential single family units per acre to RSF8, residential single family eight units per acre. This was left on the first reading, but now we have the applicant with us. And is it Mr. Bauer?
 Yes, Mr. Bauer, would you like to address the council? Uh-oh. Or maybe not. Mr. Bauer, are you with us? How's that? Okay.
 Yes. Yay. Okay, boy, I've had some problems. Anyways, I do development in the area. In fact, I'm doing a subdivision down on Mount Comfort, very closest piece of property. So I'm fully aware of the drainage issues and I'll resolve them. Won't cause anybody else any more problems. I'm looking just to put a tournament instead of three lots as they are now, it'd be four lots. And I think that's very conducive with the neighborhood there. So-
 That's all I got to say. Okay, let's go back to the beginning. What questions does the council have for the applicant? I think they've already asked the staff all their questions. What questions do we have for the applicant on this? Well, we don't have any questions. It was on the first reading. So we're on the first reading. So what's the council want to do?
 Could we hold it on the first reading? I think I need to do a little bit more investigation of some of the issues that were identified by a citizen. And also, I still share some concerns about drainage. So if we could just hold it here, that would be great. Okay. What's the council wish to do? Teresa wants to hold it. Does anybody in disagreement with that?
 Okay, then we'll hold this one on the first reading. Now let's move back. Thank you, Mr. Bauer. Two, are we ready to go on to 14? Are we still at 13? All right, I'm moving on to 14 then. All right. An ordinance to amend 155.06 appeals from staff interpretations and actions to direct more appeals to the Planning Commission rather than to the City Council. Okay, Kip.
 Whereas most appeals of staff interpretations of development issues should be directed first to the Planning Commission for review before any possible later appeal by the applicant or city council member of the issue to the city council.
 And whereas a violation notice or stop work order issued by the city engineer should continue to be appealed directly to the city council because of potential monetary impact of such notice or order and the necessity of prompt final action. And whereas an appeal of an impact fee decision by an impact fee administrator should be included in the overall consideration of the rough proportionality of the impact of the development.
 but any recommendations by the planning commission to reduce impact fees must be approved by the city council while reductions of other exactions do not need city council approval unless properly appealed
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 12506, Appeals from Staff Interpretations and Actions, by repealing it as entirely and enacting a replacement 156 as attached as Exhibit A to this ordinance.
 And of course, the guts of this ordinance are exhibit A, which is a completely, well, a mainly rewritten section 15506, which actually goes on for two pages. So it has a lot of details in there. I talked about the major changes, and then I also tried to do a more informed and detailed staff memo yesterday.
 to try to explain all of the reasons and all the things that were changed it's a lot to take in and if we want to put right away vacations back in then that's going to be something that i'm going to have to work into this but it can be done and i'll be ready at the next meeting assuming that that at least will be wanting to be discussed
 I'm certainly willing to try to answer any questions. The easy ones were I changed some improper titles like landscape administrator instead now it's development review manager and Alderman went to council member
 Apart from that, I did describe in the earlier part of this ordinance some of the changes that I needed. I did not understand why either the city engineer or the development review manager's interpretations on development issues would go to the city council.
 First before they go to the planning commission. I think most development issues should go to the planning commission first I'm, not really sure why they were not directed that way in this in the old ordinance maybe somebody can help me out there, but uh, i'm I just uh In wrecking my brain. I couldn't think why uh, they should skip the planning commission go straight to the city council So I wanted them instead to be directed to the planning commission before they would ever come to city council and
 The rest of it I tried to explain as best I can, but I'm ready to attempt to answer any questions you might have. Again, just like the other one, this doesn't need to be decided tonight. Usually anything that's fairly long and complicated needs to have more than one meeting before the city council needs to decide on final action. So that's all I have. What questions do we have from the council? Okay. Okay.
 No questions. All right. Let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Does anyone from the public like to weigh in on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Well, we'll just hold it up here, I guess, for two weeks. Okay. Let's hold that one as well. All right. That concludes our business discussion.
 Susan, do you have any announcements? Okay, we do have Paul's going on vacation Thursday or tomorrow? I'm going on vacation Monday, but I won't be here for the agenda session. So we got the sales tax returns in today and I was going to have Paul give a report instead of waiting until the agenda session next Tuesday. So, Paul, with that Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. I'll be
 fairly quick. The sales tax results were positive, this is for May. They were positive because they were just barely negative. We were down about three quarter of a percent for the city one penny, which was very well, I thought, when we considered all of our conditions. Actually, the county was up a little bit, was up,
 4% actually compared to prior year. So all in all, the combined of the two is up about 1.3% for the month of May. Now the month of May ends the first six months of this fiscal year. So when we look at all around where we are right at this point in time, we're up for the city spending just about 2% compared to last year at this point in time, the county is up about 5%.
 We're up 3.3% compared to where we were last year. As far as to the budget, the city penny is down eight hundredths of a percent. So it's almost exactly flat compared to what we want it to be or what the budget was set out for this year. Combined we're actually up 1.3% through this first six months. I don't expect this to continue.
 I do want to comment, I think we're going to see a lot of volatility. I think we're going to have an uphill climb trying to match last year's numbers when we look at the final six months because we won't have several of the large events that we have had. We don't know exactly what is going to happen as far as athletic events for the university is.
 This is very, very positive for this point in the year. I think this is actually better than I would have expected. Last month was down a little more than I thought. This month was better than I thought. Like I said, I think we're going to see a lot of volatility. When we look around the area, we can see that Rogers was down about 1.85% for the month of May.
 Bentonville is now 22%, but there again, that fluctuates depending on Walmart and all the construction things of that nature and rebates. Springdale was up, they were up minimally a half a percent.
 So many other areas contributed to the county total being up. That was up quite a bit more than I would have expected. Again, like I said, things look very positive at this point of time. We're actually, to the budget, up a little bit compared to what we had projected. Again, I think we're going to see volatility and volatility.
 I think it's going to be an uphill battle meeting budget, but we're holding in there very well at this point in time. I'll be happy to answer any questions from the council. I'll have to admit it was a lot better than I anticipated it being. But it certainly wasn't as bad as the last report we got where we were sitting about 11.3 down where
 relatively flat right now so that's that's good sign we're down just a little so well it's a pleasure to cheer you up this afternoon yes it did make me a little cheerier this afternoon than i was waiting on it earlier in the week but that's good what do we have any questions from the council
 I do. Paul, I know you just got it and probably haven't had time to dig through the details, but do you have any insights on what's keeping the county afloat as an overall number? I really don't because Springdale was up minimally and we were down. My suspicion would be that they didn't have any rebates against their collections. That probably had to do with it.
 they weren't really strong last year. The county numbers weren't really strong. That's all I have at this point in time, Kyle. Haven't had a lot of time to analyze all of the information from the state. That's not available until a day or two after we receive the initial. But I did want to come to the council and indicate what the sales tax were since I wouldn't be here next Tuesday and I didn't want to wait for the council meeting.
 I'll have to admit, I thought that was an odd thing too when I'm looking at Springdale just barely up and we were just barely down. But the county was up 4.4 once fall, something like that. 4.2. Yeah, 4.2. So I can't explain that, but it didn't hurt us any, that's for sure. It helped us out considerably. It helped us out considerably. So anyway. All right.
 well if i remembered right last month springdale was not not down nearly as much as we were then either and i just was curious if there was a pattern developing where we could explain what what the difference was or not so i'll i'm sure we will continue to look at that in future months so actually last last uh von springdale was positive yeah they were positive positive one in the area
 These numbers bounce around a little bit that we get. I dig into them as much as I can, but every once in a while, there's something that I can't quite analyze. I am going to take a look at that though for you, and I will give a report on the entire period through June for all of the funds at the council meeting. And I'll see if I can come up with some type of explanation for that at that point, Kyle. Thank you.
 Any other questions? Okay. I think the only thing that is left is that
 We continue to be a relatively hot spot in the state right now on the COVID-19. So if you go out, be sure that you mask up, do your part and stay six feet apart. Wash your hands frequently. If you own a business, be sure that your staff has masks and your customers have masks as well. So together, let's stop COVID-19. So thank you all. We're adjourned.