I'm going to call the City Council meeting of July 20th 2021 to order. Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Munch? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, welcome everyone. The first thing we have tonight is on reports. We have the 2020 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report by Paul Becker. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Good evening, Council.
 I'm happy to present the completed comprehensive annual report for 2020. This report is statutorily required for me to tell you it's been completed. The actual audit is required by state statutes. I could sit here and talk you up tonight on some of the high points, but I'm going to hit a couple of areas in a report in summary form.
 One of the key things that the report includes is a report from our public accountants, BKD. They've issued what's called an unqualified report, also referred to as a clean opinion. Essentially what that does is say that although there could be an error or two, there is nothing material enough to indicate that those reports
 could not be relied on. So in other words, that report says that the financial reports included can be relied on. That's what the opinion generally means. Then we have the financial statements. Included in the financial statements are the management discussion. Two, it will include the statements themselves for each and every fund included in the city.
 It will also include the statistical section, part of which are required and part of which are informational. Also the notes which disclose things required by generally accepted accounting principles.
 Essentially, in the financial reports, just in summary level, 2020 was a good year even though we faced the coronavirus, it was a positive year for the city. Some funds were up, some funds were down, but generally our overall net position increase, that's assets over liabilities, increased by $24 million. Okay.
 The biggest drivers in those two things were contributions for fixed assets from developers and from any capital grants that we may have had. The other major thing that drives that is the payoff of $25.7 million worth of debt service. So we've decreased the debt service by paying that off.
 We've increased the general fund for capital assets. And we've had some ups and downs. And those we report to you on a monthly basis of which funds are up and down. So I won't go over that at this point in time. But it was a very positive year. That's in the financial report section. The third thing it addresses is internal control. That's been reported to you by the audit committee.
 Essentially, it says two things. Number one, there were no material weaknesses disclosed. Now, a material weakness is something that is so much of a violation that
 error in the internal control system that possibly something material could be misstated. So there were no material weaknesses. There's no significant deficiencies. A significant deficiency would be some internal control check
 that was large enough that it should be reported to the council and indicated in the report, so there were no issues on internal control. The fourth thing that the auditors address, and which are, again, required by generally accepted accounting principles, are the compliance reports. Compliance reports, especially this year, include,
 the coronavirus funds that we've got in 2020. So those are audited for the federal government, as are all federal programs for funds that we receive in the FAFSA.
 It addresses compliance with the state laws. There were no issues in the compliance with the federal programs. There were no question costs involved in auditing the federal grants. And we complied with all the state statutes as far as the state grants were concerned. So overall, it's a positive report.
 It's been fully audited, and all the filings have been completed with the federal government and state and state statutes. It is also posted to the website for viewing by the public, and I sent an electronic copy to all the council members. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Hey, Paul?
 All right, next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the July 6, 2021 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve amendment number two to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated in the amount of $115,164 for the design of the Midtown Corridor project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Transportation Bond Project.
 Number three, a resolution to authorize a professional engineering service agreement with Burns McDonald Engineering Company Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 21-01, selection number 11 for the design of the Millsap Street and College Avenue project. Any amount of $300,000 to authorize the mayor to acquire the necessary easements and right-of-way for the project and to approve budget adjustment this 2019 street improvement fund.
 Project. Hand number four. Resolution to approve a land sale agreement between the City of Federal and the heirs of Bobby York for the
 for the city to purchase about 0.3 acres of land located on Mountain Street near the Vaughn-Richardson Community Center for the amount of $75,000 plus closing costs and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyan yes all right thank you all very much let's move to unfinished business an ordinance rezone that property described from zoning petition rzn 21-028 for approximately 5.1 acres located on west weddington drive east of michael cole drive from r.a residential agricultural to riu
 residential intermediate urban and in SL neighborhood services limited this was left on the second reading I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and finally so moved second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading care which please come row Eddie yes Scroggins yes yes
 turk yes earthsburg yes gutierrez yes jones yes canyon yes in order to rezone that property described a rezoning petition rzn 21-28 for approximately 5.1 acres located on west weddington drive east of michael cole drive from r.a residential agricultural to riu residential intermediate urban and nsl neighborhood services limited
 And Mr. Mayor, I think the applicant is about to present a bill of assurance. I think the city council has already seen. Is that correct? Then I think that at some point then we're going to need to amend the ordinance to say that it is subject to the bill of assurance.
 Okay, Jonathan, do you have anything you want? I have no new updates. Mr Mayor of Jonathan Kerr at the development services just as a brief summary of the bill of assurance, which I'm sure mr Rhodes will go into in further detail and includes three parts one of which is the neighborhood services limited portion which includes the half acre at the corner of Weddington Michael Cole will not be developed solely as residential and
 the second piece is that it will be developed consistently with the plans that the applicant previously shared with the council and the third piece which you all typically see in bills of assurance is that it will run with the land and with that I'm happy to take any questions the council has thank you
 Okay, it's point procedure kit do we need to do the amendment and add it to this or do is it all right for the app I would go ahead and add the bill of assurance in that and what it would be at the end of the title and also At the end of section one will be say subject to the bill of assurance Okay Maybe add the bill of assurance Second we have a motion second to add the bill of assurance in your discussion council on all right Carowinds, please call the roll petty. Yes I
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. So it's been added. Mr. Rhodes, would you like to discuss the bill of assurance? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor, Council. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill.
 and I am representing the petitioners in this matter for, I don't know, the fourth or fifth time, but you know what? I'll represent them five or six more times if we can get it passed, because I think it's a good project. And these petitioners, the developers, before they were clients, they were friends. Longtime Fayetteville residents, went to school, public school here in Fayetteville with my kids,
 So they're good folks. And don't just take my word for it. Kind of listen to the record of what they've done in order to try to get this project rezoned. And primarily what they've done is they've listened.
 And then secondary, what they've done is after listening, they've reacted in a way that not just is something superficial, something that, as one council member indicated not too long ago, sort of a developer's bait and switch. Now, the things they've done, the city can enforce.
 A bill of assurance can be enforced. They've indicated that they will do the commercial because they were asked by city staff, we can make this better, we can make this project better if it's less dense and if you put commercial in there. And so they did. And then questions arose, well, suppose they change their mind and don't build the commercial. Well, the bill of assurance takes care of that. Other concerns were about the density.
 and at the initial request, they could have put apartment buildings there. I think that's what got neighbors up in arms. I think that's why a petition was filed. Well, they reacted to that. That's staff's recommendation. They brought it down. That's what you have before you. You can't do apartment buildings and what we're asking for, and the Bill of Assurance specifically says we will build townhomes. In the city of Fayetteville, we need townhomes.
 We need homes. We need more homes. We need people. You know, people are looking desperately for places to live. This addresses that. It truly addresses it. I think there's been concerns about a brought up in a Ward 4 meeting about parking. As I indicated at the last meeting, we've addressed that parking.
 The way the plans work, there's plenty of parking. There's garage parking, and then there's parking that can be used in the driveways. So parking is not an issue, but that was the neighborhood's concern. Developers heard it, told me what to tell you guys, which is that we heard it, and that won't be a problem. Traffic, concerns about traffic. City staff will tell you that this is not a traffic issue.
 This is in line with the 2040 plan. This is in line with what the future is looking for. You had one resident at the ward forum meeting that called this sort of a leapfrog. Well, you know what? It is kind of a leapfrog, but it still lines up with 2040. Despite the fact that it was a leapfrog, that same resident said at another public meeting that he would support it, though. He would still support it.
 And I've reached out to all of you via email or phone calls. And the reason I made the comment early on that I've appeared before the city, whether it's planning commission or whether it's this council, about five times, and I do it five more times, is because it was indicated that someone might have some other issues or some neighbors might have some other issues. My emails were very, very straightforward. If there's an issue, please tell me.
 I don't know how much more this developer can do, but I know they can listen more and try to react. And the one council member said she might want this tabled. Again, if you're not going to vote it up, then please table it. I hope you can vote it up. I hope you can vote for this. But otherwise, please table it and tell us what it is, what else.
 that we can do and we'll do our darndest to try to get it done i would take any questions that you might have and thank you for putting up with my discussions okay what questions does the council have for either the staff or the applicant okay let's take some public comment then everybody has one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on topic no rude behavior
 please give us your name and address and those that are participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the room will be allowed to speak after that who do we have on zoom susan no one has raised their hand okay let's is there anyone in the chamber would like to speak on this particular issue okay i'm going to bring it back to the council uh we are on the third and final reading council so what's the wishes to council what do you all want to do
 I'll go ahead and start. I wasn't on city council when we did a lot of the form-based zones. I know what the goals were there, especially along Ruble Road. One of the things that...
 Looking back we really messed up is we allowed people to do mixed use, but we didn't require it and so all that's been done There is houses, which is why we have a traffic problem and West Fayetteville now I don't know if we had I don't think we have a zone that requires mixed use and I don't think we
 I don't know if we've got a bill of assurance before that requires basically mixed use. And so that's what's going to push me over is that basically we're heading in the direction we should. If we want mixed use, it needs to be codified because it doesn't happen unless it's codified. And so this one is basically getting codified. So I will be in support of this because of that. Who else? Okay. I've got a few comments.
 I certainly support this. I think that the developer has gone to far extremes to be sure that this gets rezoned so they can build the property the way that they want it filled out, and I certainly appreciate that.
 I was on city council when we started form based or shortly thereafter and I think that always with any code You have to evaluate and reevaluate because things change But in this case, I think that it was handled exactly right with working with the developer So we have the bill of assurance. There's no reason I think that we would not I
 supported even with the elements that we have assured. It just seems right. So I will support this. One, I don't want to blame it on a zoning form based anything. It's up to city council to review those and
 the staff in planning and I'm sure that we will but The way that it was handled by the developer. I think absolutely Resolved any issues that anyone might have so thank you. Okay anybody else please
 You know, this has been kind of a tough one for me. I appreciate the developer really going through the hoops and listening to people and creating the bill of assurance for us. That has been phenomenal. They've been very responsive.
 However, I went back over there and drove around again, and I just feel like it's too dense that there is a leapfrogging that's going on, and I just will not be able to support this. So, but I do appreciate what the developer has gone through and really tried to accommodate some of our concerns. Thank you. Any other final comments? Yes. Would it be possible to table this?
 Well, that would be an action of the council. That would be up to you. I move we table this item. Second. We have a motion to second the table. All right, let's see what we've got for votes. Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? No. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. No.
 Kenyon yes, it looks like a four to four vote. So if you care to vote to pass the tabling motion you can mayor Five to three. Okay. Sorry you don't get to vote then Gee I hate that Okay, so It is what it is
 Any other final comments from the council before we vote? Yes, Mark. I voted to support the position of the ward for council members on this. I do think it's a good, like I said, a good compromise and certainly one that I will support now, but I do respect Ward 4 looking out for their constituency and I understand why they wanted it to be tabled, so I wanted to explain that.
 Anything else care of its police call row petty yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes, sir. No Hertzberg no Gutierrez yes Jones. Yes, yes, okay. Thank you all let's move on to new business
 number one a resolution to approve a hiring incentive program for new law enforcement officers and to approve a budget adjustment chief bear with me just a second mayor i'm sorry good evening mayor council last week asked the mayor to walk on this item
 The death of Officer Carr, certainly the death of Kevin Apple in period, terrific injury to Tyler Franks out in Prairie Grove. Also the COVID-19 pandemic.
 And the increased workload that we've seen and the violence that I've talked about in front of city council for the last several months has certainly recreated some recruitment problems or recruitment challenges, as you will, for the Fayetteville Police Department. I've talked to you all many times about our violent crime in 2020 being up. Overall, that violent crime was up 26%. This year, it's up another 4%, so 30% in a year and a half.
 What that means in real numbers is 113 more violent crimes. We're talking about rapes, robberies, murders, and mainly aggravated assaults, which are shootings. Just to give you a highlight of that, in 2019 we had 11 shootings where individuals were injured in 10 of those shootings. That means they were hit by a bullet and two individuals were murdered in those shootings. In 2020 we saw a spike in that. We saw 18 shootings.
 where 11 individuals were injured, struck by a bullet, and we had seven individuals murdered in Fayetteville, which tied an all-time record for homicides in Fayetteville. So far in 2020, we have five shootings where individuals have been struck by bullets on four occasions and one murder so far this year. The most concerning figure that I see is that we've had 22 shootings this year where property has been struck, either a vehicle or a house has been struck by a bullet.
 We had four shootings about two weeks ago, Wednesday, two weeks ago, Wednesday night, within about a 12-hour period. We had four shootings on Lewis, the Chestnut area, and also in the Leverett area as well in one night, which is really unprecedented for our city. Just last week, you heard that this is not just a local problem. This is a nationwide problem that we're having with violence up.
 President Biden certainly encouraged communities to utilize the American Rescue Plan funds to improve public safety and also to help reduce this surging of violent crime. It's not just violent crime that we're seeing. You've heard me talk about property crime as well. Property crime is up 16% in 2020 and then so far this year we're up another 14%, so another 30% increase in crime there as well.
 Calls, our workload demand is up as well, 14% up over the last year and a half, and we answer approximately 52,000 calls, so you can do the math and see how many more calls for service the police department is handling.
 Assaults are the big concern of mine assaults against my officers are the big concern. They've increased significantly over the past month. I've had six separate incidents last week. I reported five. We had another one over the weekend on Dixon street for six when I talked to the, to the mayor about these every week.
 So, I've had my officers being punched, had one being punched in the chest on Dixon Street. I had a female officer that was chasing a suspect and another suspect came from behind and pushed her to the ground and assaulted her. I've had crowds surrounding my officers in different areas of town, going bold into
 certainly assault my officers and also two weeks ago on Dixon Street had an officer that was arresting an individual for DWI the crowd surrounded the officer and a female threatened that if he took that individual to jail she would shoot and kill him they got a gun off that individual and arrested her as well so that's what we're seeing in Fayetteville the morale certainly within the rank and file and the interest in the law enforcement profession has diminished
 Recruitment and retention is certainly an evolving crisis for me as the police chief and certainly police chiefs throughout the nation. Recruiting deficits certainly strain our workforce and it can cause burnout. And turnover. Turnover is at an all-time high for our police department with 13 officers leaving the Fayetteville Police Department within the first seven months of this year. That's about 10% of my workforce.
 What we normally see is about 10% leave on an annual basis on the average. I believe I had 8% leave in 2019 and I had 12% leave in 2020 due to either terminations, retirements, or resignations.
 And that also included this year 25% of my female workforce. You know, we've worked really hard to try to diversify our workforce, and so 25% of my female workforce has left the job. So to put that into perspective, this is the most officers that we've seen leave the police department in the first seven months in the, I guess, in the time that we've been tracking turnover, which was the year 2000.
 We typically, as I mentioned, lose about 10%. So currently I have seven openings. I have four more that are potentially leading the police department for other jobs. One particular, as I mentioned last week, going to the FBI. Three others talking about getting out of the profession.
 I have four that are in the police academy. Luckily, they're scheduled to graduate Thursday. And then I have four waiting to attend the police academy, which will begin in August. I have one that's on a year-long military deployment and I currently have three on FMLA. So I'm currently without 15% of my workforce and if the other four leave, that'll probably push it up to the 20 percentile range. In 2020,
 We experienced at the police department a 25% decrease in police applications over the previous five years, and so far in 2021, we've seen a 63% decrease in those applications. Just to give you an apples to apples comparison, we test.
 Typically in April of each year, so April of 2020, we had 123 applicants. Of those, 49 showed up to test, and of those, 26 were able to certify during the testing process. In April of 2021, we had 69 applications, 17 individuals showed up to test, and only nine certified during that time.
 So tonight, I'm before you seeking approval to implement signing bonuses for newly hired officers for the upcoming test, which is scheduled for August 21st with an application deadline of August 13th. What I'm proposing is a $5,000 bonus for newly hired officers and a $10,000 bonus for certified officers. These bonuses would be paid in three installments to qualifying candidates.
 So for a newly hired officer, the first $1,000 would be paid after graduation from the Arkansas Law Enforcement Training Academy, which takes 13 weeks.
 Another $2,000 will be paid after completion of the Field Training Officer Program, which takes 18 weeks. And then the final installment of $2,000 would be paid after their probationary period, which is 18 months. For certified officers coming to our agency, we'd offer $2,000 upon the date that they're hired.
 Another $4,000 would be paid to the certified officer after he or she successfully completes the field training officer program, which is another 18 weeks. And then the final installment of $4,000 being paid after their probationary period, which once again, that's an 18-month period. Both non-certified and certified officers receiving these bonuses would be required to stay with the police department for three years.
 So, you know, for me, I think in order to my job, my primary job, the mayor's primary job is to keep this city safe, but it's also to keep our officers safe as well. And to keep up with the growing demand for our police services and to continue to hire and retain professional officers, I'm asking that we invest in our workforce and approve these hiring bonuses tonight for this next test that's coming up in August.
 Councilmember Scroggin, you asked me last week to do some research on some data. I believe it was workforce data that you asked about nationwide. And so I did that. I looked to the Police Executive Research Forum. They did a workforce study and they completed that on June 11th of this year. They surveyed 194 law enforcement agencies in the United States to include the Fayetteville Police Department. Their survey found that there was an 18% overall decrease
 in resignation, I'm sorry, I said decreased 18% overall increase in resignations from 2019 through year to date. They also found that there was a 45% overall increase in retirements from 2019 to year to date.
 Police departments across the country are experiencing about a 50% decline in applicants and applications. So, I looked to some specific cities outside of Arkansas. Charlotte, North Carolina, they're down 26% in their applications. Des Moines, Iowa is down 50%. St. Paul, Minnesota is down 50%. Tempe, Arizona is down 40%. And Colorado Springs Police Department is down another 25% as well.
 Some of the cities that I look to as well to see what other cities have employed hiring bonuses, there's several. I'll just highlight a few. Aurora, Illinois, Bellevue, Washington, Seattle, Washington, Iowa City, Iowa, Duncanville,
 and portland maine are just to name a few locally as i mentioned in the agenda packet that you have in front of you we have little rock and jacksonville and jonesboro was chief you got about one minute okay i'm sorry man and jonesboro was also looking at implementing those as well uh
 This is something that I've consulted with our HR director on actually approached her after our April test asking her about signing bonuses She told me that she was about two weeks ahead of me and I already talked to the mayor about this issue as well And she had some successes with signing bonuses in the health care profession before coming to the city So she's with us tonight if you have any questions for her relating to those experiences and with that I'd be happy to answer any questions What questions do we have chief?
 Well, first I want to say that I do plan on supporting this. We have to get the best cops. I plan on bringing forward later a trails cop, a request for another trails cop. I've got people that say they won't even take their family to our parks and trails and we've got to get that fixed.
 I do have some citizens that have asked me about it seems like everything that the police force is bringing forward has to be voted on the night it's brought to us. It's like six items in a row. We're talking about the SROs, we're talking about the police station, talking about every single grant. And most other departments usually go through
 you know more of the readings if it's a controversial issue than than um the police station so i mean the police force so i'm hoping that in the future not i understand the the urgency now but in the future that we can get these and actually read them uh two or three times um instead of like we got to do it now or it's gone um but i do plan on voting for this but that that's something that's been brought to my attention uh several times
 Thank you. Thank you sir. What other questions do we have? The council. Um, Chief what was the what is the August
 time that you know we're trying the reason we're getting this right now is because you've got a testing or something coming up in August what is that exactly so that's a good question councilmember months typically what we try to do is test three times a year and they coincide with the three academies that occur so typically try to test in December to prepare us for a February police academy then in April prepare us for a May police academy and then August to prepare us for that a police academy as well
 And so that's why we test three times a year. And the sense of urgency was when we saw this occur in April, we saw that we only had nine certified applicants. I turned around and tried to do an emergency test to see if we'd increase our applicants again, and we had 10 certified applicants through the emergency test last month.
 And so coming to the mayor saying, Mayor, this is the issue that I'm dealing with, and talking with the HR director, we're trying to think outside the box of what we can do to increase our applicant pool to maintain the professional police officers that we've come to employ. And so that's the reason that we walked this on last week, and that was the reason for the sense of urgency. So I apologize for that. We're just, certainly, I think we're just in an evolving, dynamic crisis. Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. Teresa. Thank you.
 Hi, Chief. Thank you so much for being here tonight and presenting the information. There was an article in the paper over the weekend that kind of talked about how Fayetteville was losing police officers. And in contrasting that, I believe it was Bentonville and Rogers. And they're losing less police officers to other police.
 outside other forces do you do you have any kind of idea what may be going on here what is different or why they are able to retain their officers and we haven't been able to do so so far so it's a fair question we did a really good job up till December of this year and that's when we saw kind of a first officer that exited and I guess the best way for me to describe the difference all of those other agencies are experiencing the same thing that we experienced with the exception of a death of an officer
 And I really think that that has taken an emotional toll on our officers, a psychological toll as well. There's usually a time period, you know, we call it when the bagpipes stop playing, you know, where do you go from there? So number one, I think that's the big impact. And number two, you've heard me talk about the number of officers that we have per thousand here in Fayetteville at 1.49 compared to the other 11 largest cities in Arkansas that are averaging 2.27.
 you couple that with the workload that they're experienced they're just overworked as well so those are the two differences I think you're welcome any questions from the council okay let's go have one real quick here chief what of the cities in northwest Arkansas what city has
 know I know some cities have more police officers than we do what would be a city that has less police officers than we do Bentonville has less yes ma'am and maybe Bella Vista well sure I'm sorry if you look at Rogers Rogers does as well so Springdale is the only Northwest Arkansas city that has more police officers than us and then in the river valley it would be Fort Smith okay all right thank you yes ma'am
 Just to clarify, Chief, do you mean per capita or total numbers? I just want to make sure we're clear. No, no, I mean total numbers. And so when you look at the Springdale Police Department, they're 152 and Fort Smith is 160, and I think Rogers is around right at 120. And I'm sorry, I can't, I could look through my notes and I can tell you what Bella Vista is. But per capita with all the other northwest Arkansas cities, we're still the lowest, is that? We're head last. Okay, thank you.
 anything else from council for questions okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member say on the topic please no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the chamber will be second what do we have anyone on zoom lance reed okay go ahead
 Can you hear me? Yes. So I just want to say that
 Thank you, Mike, for bringing this in. And we certainly need protection here in the city of Fayetteville. You might hear arguments against the hiring of this from individuals. I guess speaking on behalf of, I guess, making it about a race issue. This is a safety issue. This is not about Black Lives Matter policing.
 If we look at history, we can reflect back to 1964, Deacons of Defense and Justice, where prior to that, the police did not protect African Americans. And so...
 We are just saying we don't want racist police. And that's just basically what we are saying. We want police and we want our cities to be safe. We have a lot of shootings that are happening here. African-American families are not safe and they don't feel they are safe. And so I think we really need to do whatever is best that we can to mitigate and solve this problem. So I...
 truly urge the council to listen to the chief and to listen to Black leadership voices that are already, that are present, and to not listen to outside voices trying to speak on behalf of Black people and trying to make it an issue that is nothing but just a safety issue. This is a
 that we can talk about its safety. So thank you, and please support this measure tonight, City Council. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, let's take folks who's in the chamber who would like to address this first. Yes, please come up. My name is Robert Williams. I live at 3949 West Mountain View Drive in Ward 4. I'm here tonight to express my support for our police officers and this proposal. But I do have some questions. Why is this proposal even necessary?
 How did we get to this point? The article in Sunday's Democrat Gazette made it clear that of the four major departments in Northwest Arkansas, Fayetteville is the only one having a problem hiring and retaining officers. Why is that? How are the seven empty slots being handled? Are the remaining officers working overtime to make up the difference, or are there just fewer officers on shift? Violent crime and property crime are on the rise in the city.
 Rising crime rates and shrinking officer numbers is not a good combination for the citizens of Fayetteville. Who in this room will have the courage and integrity to ask the hard questions and suggest meaningful, corrective action? Is it benefits, facilities, personnel, support, policies? The proposal in front of you tonight is an admission that we have a problem. Who is willing to be part of the solution?
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi, Sarah Moore, Ward 2. I appreciate the the comments and the thoroughness from Chief tonight and I
 I definitely recognize the numbers that were presented earlier. We have faced unprecedented times, especially in the wave of the pandemic and the things around Black Lives Matter and things that happened around George Floyd. But I would say that I would ask that our city council take a step back. And when we talk about community safety, all the unmet needs that happen in our communities are exasperating and causing a lot of the issues in our communities because folks are in crisis.
 I work at a food bank, at a food pantry at St. James. In March of 2020 until now, our food bank has actually grown our participants by 650%. People are food insecure.
 Also, we're in crisis with housing. We talk about affordable housing all the time. Our moratorium is going to end, the CDC moratorium at the end of this month, and we have many people I think will be in crisis that will be in house because rental dollar assistance is not getting into those hands quickly enough.
 struggling and not making ends meet, unfortunately have to result to other means sometimes to get their needs met and those don't make our community safe. And so I would say because these are general funds, I would ask us to take a step back and $87,500 is a lot of money. It's not a windfall but it's a lot of money. We spend $16 million a year on policing. This is a growing of our policing budget.
 Are we growing other areas in our community, looking at housing, looking at food security, looking at getting internet broadband job training to this degree? Additionally, I would ask, what else has been explored in regards to
 retaining and getting talent into the force. You know, there are other mechanisms. I'm very concerned about bonus structures because I've seen them in healthcare. I've seen them play out and I've talked to HR experts who say it doesn't necessarily retain talent. You know, it potentially does it pull people in that we actually want in Fable that will make a long-term investment. If the folks don't invest three years, what do we do when they don't do that?
 There are some things that are missing in our community today that could potentially, these funds could be very helpful for. We don't have a court reminder tool for the City of Fayetteville's court system. We don't have a sobering center. There's legislation that was passed recently that would divert individuals to a sobering center and keep them more safe and keep them off the streets having to interact with community members and law enforcement. Our crisis stabilization unit closed its doors at the end of June.
 The mentally ill in our communities have less beds,
 making themselves less safe and unfortunately they are the ones that interact with our officers. You know could this money be used to be able to give a sign on and get a provider in there and minimize the amount of days that those doors are closed. What I'm asking a city council to do tonight is have the courage to think about you're the fiscal responsible members of our community and I have to think about we have a finite amount of money to spend in our communities.
 We're in crisis. I hate to think of what August looks like for us. Honestly, I really do It's already so bad and
 I really am asking you to take a step back and to table this because I think we need a larger conversation in our community about where we invest our resources, the areas we grow. Let's talk about, you know, there's been studies that have come out from the University of Arkansas with their local professor talking about whether or not we should really have police doing trafficking. You know, do we need to look at that?
 you know, doing traffic teams. So maybe it's time for us to finally pull back and have a full conversation about how we invest and how we keep our community safe, because I hear you, those numbers are staggering. I wanna live in a safe community. I want it to be safe for all of us. But unfortunately, many times police are responding and reacting at the end.
 Let's go to the front. Let's find where our families and our children and our community members are in crisis and let's solve on the front end so that we won't have to have our police come and respond whenever it's gotten to a time when someone was potentially harmed. No one wants that. So I'm really asking tonight for us to table this
 let's get on the books to have a community conversation about how we invest going forward because the pandemic's not going away our numbers are escalating right now i'm a mom of five and a nine-year-old i'm here tonight this is that important to me but i don't know where my kids are going to school in the fall you know that's something i'm wrestling with but it's that important thank you thank you who else would like to address us i'm scott bernard i live in ward 3 of 2716 north candlewood and i'm here in support of this proposal
 As a business owner, my wife and I own three businesses here in town. We identify the importance of public safety and our officers. And we also identify how difficult it is in this climate to hire employees. And I cannot imagine how difficult it is to hire police officers. And if one of my management team came to me with a creative idea, as Chief Reynolds has to Mayor Jordan, I would applaud him for it.
 because number one it spreads out the funds over a period of time you don't take the hit all at one time secondly it builds in an incentive incentive clause into the into the agreement that they stay here for three years that's three years that our city and our police chief and their force can integrate those people into our uh staff and hopefully keep them for a longer period of time
 So I would strongly support this and wish that you would. And I had no intentions of going here, but with Council Members Turk's question and Chief's response about why this may be an issue in our city. I'm one of the few people that, because of what I do, were behind the scenes when Officer Carr was murdered. I was one of the few people that saw the anguish
 that these officers went through. The sheer shock in their face when they were trying to comfort each other. So for anybody to question that this is not a serious issue, they just need to look back to those days shortly thereafter. I can't imagine how traumatized they were. It traumatized my staff. It traumatized me. So I can't imagine what they're going through.
 So any support that we can give to these officers, it's what we owe these officers as a community. Because we don't want to go through what we went through on December 7th again. We don't want to do it. So we have to do as a community what's required to protect our community, but to also protect our officers. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Josh Moody Ward 2 I'll be brief I think I agree with most of what I've heard so far tonight I do feel like the 87.5 is more of a band-aid though not a long-term solution so that's my greatest concern with it
 that some other potential solutions to recruitment of officers, housing credits for actually living in Fayetteville and living in the community that you work in, perhaps advanced education opportunities from the city to help them further in their careers, whether it's with the police department or otherwise. If you want high quality officers in the department, then I think we need to figure more long-term solutions. Thank you. Thank you.
 Anyone else? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council mayor. I'll start off with a few comments We've heard tonight why Fayetteville might be facing a tougher situation some from other Municipalities and again if you have one of your fellow officers assassinated point-blank just as we've heard from the previous speaker, of course, it's going to be a serious effect on
 the department as a whole. Someone mentioned maybe it's the facilities. We are working on this by having new facilities planned and I think that that is a lot of it. I don't believe in Springdale or Rogers or Bentonville that their police are working out of a JCPenney home store and that's exactly what this was built for.
 We have to respect the situation that our police officers face here in Fayetteville and the emotional trauma that they were placed, that was placed on them because of the events of the year. A lot of events this year that called out our police officers. I've always felt that Fayetteville has some of the finest police officers anywhere, anywhere I've lived anyway.
 And I've always thought that the leadership was exceptional, and it is. It's other factors that have led to our recruitment and our retention situation. Coming from the business area, I'm having a hard time filling jobs at our business. And the first thing that you do is offer a signing bonus. It sets you apart from the other similar industries.
 It gets the attention of someone that might be on the edge of whether or not to come to your police department or even going to the profession. It shows that we care enough that we're going to finance that and that we're going to invest in them. And it also is set up so that they will have an investment in Fayetteville because they have three years that they've committed to.
 I think every element that is associated with this signing bonus should be supported by city council. And I certainly, they have my full support. And I think it's absolutely just one thing we can do to help us get to the baseline. You know, we're below the baseline right now.
 We've got to get to the baseline and then we can talk about other activities. And that's for the safety of the community and the protection of the community. And I always want to say they're not just police officers, they are peace officers. And if you've seen some of the actions, especially I live in the entertainment district, that the care that our officers have taken to de-escalate drunks primarily,
 pretty impressive and I call those peace officers and I'm right very proud of the way that they work so I will support this Jordan and City Council I've prepared some remarks and thank you so much for sharing your remarks as well we all know that during the pandemic
 the Black Lives Matter movement, there's been a surge in crime, there's been political unrest, and minimal staff with the Fayetteville Police Department. But the Fayetteville Police Department has continued to protect and serve the entire Fayetteville community. Chief Reynolds has provided alarming numbers, and these numbers really concern me. Fellow council members, we have a responsibility to the citizens of Fayetteville.
 That responsibility is safety and security for all citizens. Therefore, we must support our chief and the FPD as it relates to attracting and hiring the best officers to keep us safe. Fayetteville has a reputation for having the best police department in the state. The Fayetteville Police Department has responded to the needs of a
 social workers or having social workers. Officer Hayden and the social work intern were able to assist with obtaining an attorney with services and a temporary order of protection for an African-American family. Basically, for the most part, they secured those services for the victim within several hours of meeting. According to Chief Reynolds, the only marijuana arrest so far this year has involved a young man who was involved in a shooting at Motel 6.
 The FPD has done an amazing job as it relates to outreach to marginalized communities with the following partnerships, St. James Baptist Church, Community Cohesion, Arvis Bank, Mighty by Design, AAO Community, Block Party, Canopy, NWA, and ongoing partnerships with the University of Arkansas School of Social Work.
 Two weeks ago, an African American mother reached out to me concerning the need for police protection in an apartment community. She feared the safety of her grandchildren was at risk due to ongoing drugs and violence shootings. She begged me to speak to the chief concerning hiring an officer to live on the premises. This past Sunday, I spoke with citizens who live near Willow Heights concerning gunshots and unfortunately a gun being pulled on their granddaughter.
 Young Black women have needed police intervention while on Dixon Street due to possible assaults and attacks as it relates to unwelcome sexual advances.
 The need for additional services to address crime is necessary and is obvious. The chief Reynolds in the Fayetteville Police Department is fully aware that based on the community partnerships and the social work internship program. However, crime for various reasons has drastically and continues to increase. This crisis cannot wait. We understand that there are national issues concerning policing. However, we must turn our attention to Fayetteville.
 Regardless of the neighborhood, whether you are a college student, visiting, homeless, or whatever the case may be, everyone in Fayetteville deserves to be safe, period. This is not a theory but a crisis, and if we wait any longer, we continue to compromise the health and safety of Fayetteville's residents. That is a risk, and a risk that I will not take.
 The challenges that we are facing requires incentives as it relates to hiring officers and community and creating community resources to address the antecedent of the crimes. This is not an either or issue. This is not a political issue. This is not a race issue. It is a safety issue. Fellow city council members, the safety and security of our residents is being compromised at this very moment. Therefore, the ball is in our court.
 I support Chief Reynolds and the Fayetteville Police Department as it relates to this incentive. We have a responsibility to keep Fayetteville safe. Chief Reynolds, thanks for what you do. I'd like to add a couple comments as well. You scoot over, sorry. I'd like to address Sarah Moore. I really appreciate what you have brought forward to us and I really do think you have some valid concerns. I'd love to meet with you sometime to discuss that. I think you have really good ideas.
 I don't know that taking money from the general fund, you know, reverting that from the police department is the answer. I think that there's some other monies available.
 to address some of those concerns. And so I'd like to share some of that with you at some point. So I just want to know that I've heard you and I appreciate that. And we will be discussing that later. I will say that I am in support of Chief Reynolds and the Fayetteville Police Department. So I will be supporting this. So thank you.
 These are wonderful speeches, but we still need a motion and a second to pass the resolution. I would like to make a motion that we pass the resolution. I was going to say something else, but I think that says it all right there. I'll second that. Okay. All right. Now, let's continue on with whatever final comments that you may have. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 I will support the resolution for the reason Councilmember Scroggins stated at the very beginning which is that if we are going to hire cops, we should hire the best. And it's obvious that we are having a hiring challenge. I can totally accept that.
 So, you know, that part of my comment is real brief and I wanted to take just a second to talk about a statistic that we have heard for a few years and it's an important statistic and it's one that we've heard a couple times tonight and it's the officers per thousand statistic in our comparison to other cities. And I don't know what the best number is supposed to be, that's not what my comment is about, but you know, the older I've gotten, the
 I've realized that often there's always another layer to peel back and look a little bit deeper. And sometimes we can make better decisions if we take a little bit of time and attention to do that. And I am having that feeling a little bit every time I hear that statistic. Because, you know, our crime rates may be up year to year, but in the long term, when we think about a better society, don't we want to have a high quality of life with a lower need to hire cops?
 That's what we want for our city is to be able to have good lives and spending less on law enforcement. And so in a way, I don't know what the right number is, but when we hear that we have a lower number per thousand than other cities, there's a follow-up question that says, well, shouldn't we have a lower number than other cities? Shouldn't we be doing better on that metric in some way?
 than other cities. And again, I don't know what the number is, but maybe our number is too low. But I know it shouldn't be the same as these other cities because we are making other investments in the way people live and the resources they have. So I would really like to make a request that when we talk about that in the future, we talk about our officers per violent crime.
 And so I know that we assign levels to all the calls we get, let level five through one, or I don't know exactly what it is. But I know the top two are violent, and I would love to hear those statistics in the future about officers per violent crime. Because I do believe that through the expansion of the social worker program, and through doing things like having traffic teams, instead of putting regular beat officers on every traffic stop, we can get at those numbers in an even smarter way.
 And with that said, I'll be supporting it for the, because if we're going to hire, we should hire the best. What are the final comments you have for council? I have one more. Oh, sorry, go ahead, Simon. I guess Councilmember Petty mentioned, you know, like the rate. There's a lot of things, you know, I teach statistics at the university, so there's a lot of things that are correlated. One of them is education.
 and we're the city with the flagship university. So you naturally are hopefully gonna need less police officers because people that have a higher education generally commit crimes at a lower rate. So I think that's a huge factor for us. But I do agree with you that we need to find out what that number is and strive for our number and not strive for other people's number.
 Yes, obviously I'm going to be in support of this since I made a motion to pass the resolution. But, you know, I just want to say that I'm really, you know, always impressed with what our police department does.
 in the sense that how they manage the crimes we have on Dixon Street, the ball games. You know, we have a lot of people coming. We have a different dynamic that drives, you know, what happens in our city than the other cities in the area. Springdale, Rogers, Bentonville. You know, and I think our police department does a very good job with what they have and what they are asked to do. And...
 You know, I would like to see a different, maybe, you know, when we're not under the gun as much as we are right now, that we have a little bit different conversation about some of the things that have been brought up tonight. And we have had some conversations as time has gone on, and I think, like, one of the things that Sarah Moore brought up is right now, evidently, we don't have a sobering center, but we will.
 our new facility is we won't have one in our new facility I was pretty sure we were going to have one in the new facility but yes I'd like to talk to Chief Reynolds please so there was just some recent legislation that was passed to allow for sobering centers and sobering centers something that are new to Arkansas newly discussed in Arkansas but we went to Oklahoma
 and visited Sovereign Center there. And so particularly those are separate from police departments, they're supported by police departments, but separate from police departments. So we didn't plan for one in our new police facility. What we planned for in our new police facility was a booking facility. So just being able to book in people and book out people so they wouldn't have to be incarcerated for minor crimes.
 for misdemeanor violations or minor felonies that the prosecuting attorney would allow us to do. So maybe that's where the confusion lies. But we've had discussions about sobering centers, certainly supportive of those, but certainly a bigger discussion that we would need to have on a larger scale.
 Okay, we'll put that on my list of things we need to discuss then, because I think that's probably a pretty good idea. Thank you, Chief. But we just, you know, I am still impressed with what we do with the officers that we have here, and I do think we need to support them and...
 I think right now we have a shortage of officers, and maybe this is what we need to do at the moment to get more officers in, new officers coming in. And we do want to have the best officers we possibly can. So thank you.
 Anybody? Yes. Yeah. So thank you, Chief Reynolds, for presenting the information to us. And this past four years or three years that I've been on city council have been a really interesting time for me because I didn't really have any close friends that were police. And so it's a very emotional thing for me. But I have become very good friends with some people.
 and been able to ride in cars with them. And that is, if you haven't done that, I highly recommend you do that. What I cannot imagine is having one fewer person as your backup. Okay? That scares me for my people very much. So we need to take care of this right away. And I got a phone call from one of my new friends. And one of my new friends said, Sonia, I'm very concerned.
 You know the numbers that Chief Reynolds told you, but I know other numbers as well. You know how it is when you work somewhere and they talk and say, well, I'm considering another option too.
 So we have to do something. We have to do this, and we have to do other things. Josh's ideas are great. Sarah's ideas are great. And I've talked to the officers themselves about other ideas. So we need to support that, and it needs to be not an or but an and. It's been an unprecedented year with the pandemic, with Black Lives Matter, with defunding the police. So we have to make unprecedented moves to take care of the situation, right?
 One last comment that the person that I talked to today said sending in new officers isn't always the easiest thing because essentially the existing officers have to pick up the slack for the new ones who are trying to learn the job. So it puts more weight on us when we have to take on new people.
 So what we want to do in the long term, adding to the list, is figure out how to retain our existing officers that know how we do things here in Fayetteville. Because how they do things in other places, I don't know. But we do things different here. We have ways that we do it. So that really struck me because I've been here for 30 years and had nothing but good experiences.
 There's not a sobering center, but I'll tell you right now, and I wasn't going to say this before. I've been taken to the police station when I was in college many, many, many years ago to wait and wait on a Labor Day or something like Labor Day or something. I said, I crossed the line. Okay, I'll wait. They waited. I waited. They waited. They let me take a test again. Okay, you can go home now. So even though there's not a sobering center...
 You know, you get an opportunity. I had an opportunity. And so I just want to say that I just wouldn't want to live anywhere else because of the safety that I've experienced. So we've got to do this. I'll be supporting it. Yes, Teresa. Okay.
 A lot has been said and I agree with the comments of my other peers here on the council, but I wanted to also clarify why I think that per capita number, that low 1.49 per thousand capita number is really important and why it sets us apart.
 Yes, we want a low number, but what it also indicates is that when we're kind of in a crisis, when we've had a loss of different officers not staying with the police force or not having enough applicants, is that it demonstrates kind of a lack of redundancy, a lack of resiliency within our system. And so I do think that we need to take action tonight. We need to do everything that we can to support our police department, our police officers
 and attract the best and the brightest and those that will stay. So I will definitely be supporting this. Thank you. Okay, as we wrap up tonight, a couple things. First of all, I certainly support this. The mayor's in charge of two departments directly. That's Fire Department and Police Department. Now Chief of Staff,
 you know there's a layer of the chief of staff with the other departments but the police department fire department report directly to the mayor and every monday morning i meet with the chief both chiefs and every monday morning i look at these numbers when i i begin to see the rise in the violent crime and in the property crimes and then begin to look at the not being able to have an officer respond to an incident now that's concerning for a mayor help
 I know there's a lot of stuff that we need to be working on. The CSU, we're working on funding for that. There's money in the rescue funding for CSUs. I found that out earlier this week. But we meet every Monday morning, and I think there's values in sobering centers. I do. And I think there's lots of things that we can be working on. But right now, I've got seven officers. We're shy of seven officers. He's talking about...
 he's talking about possibly losing 11. a beat is nine right chief that's a minimum that means you get you're taking a beat out of the city gone and they're responding to this and i have seen uh the chief has videos that are interesting to watch i get to see a lot of those and they're a little bit concerning at times
 Now keep in mind everybody that when staff brings something the mayor's in favor of it or they wouldn't be bringing it. Now they'll tell you that. I'm certainly supportive of what the chief is wanting to do and chief I appreciate you bringing it because I asked him we begin to look at these numbers every week not just once in a while or every month or every three months every Monday morning we begin to see the increase. We also begin to see you
 you know officers are you know basically are being attacked they are that's happening I've never seen that before but it's starting to happen so as a mayor you're going to address that no matter what whether you what whatever you're thinking or whatever goes beyond politics folks it's about keeping everybody safe keeping your officers safe I lost an officer
 That is something no mayor, not anybody, should ever have to go through. Not a police chief, not a department. Nobody should have to go through that. And in the last three months we've seen, or in the last year and a half, we've seen two officers die and another officer lose a leg in blind duty. Now that's something that we need to remember here. Now I do not want the police department understaffed.
 Now what we do here tonight, hopefully we'll bring it up to the minimum that he needs. Also, it's the type of recruitment. When I look and I see about 130 people applying for police positions about two years ago, and then we see 17 trying to fill six or seven positions,
 then you're not necessarily you you look for the very best because i believe we have the very best police department the very best trained police department anywhere in this state so um let's see so as as i close up i want to continue to have the best the best this police department has always had my support always well so with that thank you council for your
 support here tonight for this police department and really not for just the police department but for the city as a whole i think you could say for everybody karen would you please call the row petty yes scroggins yes lunch yes turk yes herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes thank you all very much all right number two
 In ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve the purchase of car wash chemicals from the supplier of wiring systems incorporated in various quantities through March 16, 2024, KIPP.
 Whereas on May 7th, 2019, the City passed Resolution 1115-19 to approve contract with Whiting Systems Incorporated to supply and install equipment for the fleet wash facility. And whereas on April 6th of 2021, the City Council passed Resolution 107-21 authorizing the purchase of car wash chemicals from Whiting Systems Incorporated
 pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Contract
 But the City was later notified that the chemicals were unpublished items and could not be more than 25% of the base total price of the order. And whereas, Whiting Systems Inc. provided the City with written notification that the use of another manufacturer's chemicals could void the Fleet Wash Facility's warranty and offered to extend the warranty for an additional two years through March 16, 2024
 If the city purchases and uses widening system chemicals,
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the purchase of car wash chemicals from Whiting Systems Incorporated in various quantities through March 16th of 2024. Okay. Sarah? Okay.
 Yes, good evening, Mayor and Council. I know I'm not near as impressive as Chief Reynolds, but I appreciate you listening to me this evening. I believe the main reason of avoiding the warranty of our car wash with use of other companies' chemicals is mainly really the delivery of the chemicals. Whiting System has a unique system where they provide
 refill large bins of chemicals. So they're not installing additional bins and it is actually very environmentally friendly. But for that reason, they have asked to
 basically waive competitive bidding to continue their warranty. We are asking you to agree to that. And then at the end of the three-year period, we will go out to normal bidding process as usual. If they are on a competitive bid,
 cooperative contract, then we may be able to do that at that time. They were able to get their equipment on a contract, but they failed to get the chemicals on there. So that is the issue. I'm happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Sarah from the council? Okay, well let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak in five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member please stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address uh zoom people participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the chamber will be allowed to speak second what do we do have anyone on zoom no sir okay who in the chamber would like to address us
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance What discussions or actions with the council like to take I'm big we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Second we have motion to second to go to the second read care. Would you please call the roll petty? Yes Scroggins yes, yes her yes Ericsburg yes Gutierrez yes Jones yes Yes
 in order to waive competitive bidding and approve the purchase of car wash chemicals from the supplier Whiting Systems, Inc. in various quantities through March 16th of 2024. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. No, this would be the second. No, this would be the third and final. The third and final reading, I'm sorry. Yes. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Everybody please call the roll. Petty. Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and approve the purchase of car wash chemicals from the supplier, Whiting Systems Incorporated, in various quantities through March 16, 2024. Final comments from the council. Carol, would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Thank you all very much. Number three, an ordinance to amend 157.03, annexation and zoning map amendments to require public notification and planning commission denials or rezoning requests if appealed to the City Council. Kipp?
 Whereas, if an application for rezoning is denied by the Planning Commission, an appeal of such denial to the City Council should require additional public notification. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the title of Section 157.03 and its introductory language to read as follows, quote, Section 157.03, Annexations, Zoning Map Amendments, and Rezonings. Notification of public hearings on private party petitions for annexations, zoning map amendments, and rezoning shall occur as follows, unquote.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 15703, Subsection A, to include rezoning to read as follows, Subsection A, Public hearing required upon receipt of a private party petition for an annexation, an amendment to a zoning map, or rezoning, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment."
 Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends section 157.03 subsection B by adding a new subsection B subsection 3 as follows quote subsection 3 appeal a Planning Commission denial of rezoning request
 Applicants for a rezoning with zoning map amendment denied by the Planning Commission must give both the written and posted notice of the appeal to the City Council as specified in this section at least 15 days prior to the City Council meeting. Proof of notice shall be provided as required by this chapter. I think this was requested by Council Member Scroggins.
 Yes. So prior to this, if planning commission were to deny rezone or annexation or many other
 The applicant could come to us without any more public notice and so you could have residents believe that something got turned down by Planning Commission and that's kind of the end of it and if we approve it they can be surprised to learn that there was an appeal and then it was an overturn. So I think this kind of fixes that loophole.
 I think we absolutely need more housing in Fayetteville, but I don't think tricking people and saying, oh, we turned it down and then later it gets approved is the way to get the housing we need. So this just makes them part of the process all the way through. I think by having citizens all the way through,
 you're going to end up with a better product. So I think this will help make a better product if somebody appeals. Jonathan, do you have anything you want to add to you?
 Not necessarily, but based on Council Member Scroggins' comment, I did want to make sure it was clear that the amendment as proposed is just for rezonings, not annexations. That's the first piece. And the second piece is that this is not being approved currently with an emergency clause. I know that's at y'all's discretion, but it is worth noting that we did get an appeal for three rezonings today. So and this would not affect those if the council was interested in ensuring the next three appeals they see are advertised.
 this would need to be approved with an emergency clause. Thank you. If they've already filed the paperwork, I don't like changing the rules in the middle of the game. So I'd actually would not like an emergency clause for that if they've already filed. So, but I hope it gets approved. So, and thank you for that clarification. What questions do we have in council on this? I guess for some, nope, nope. Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Zoom participants will be allowed to speak personally. Those that are in person here in the chamber. Is anyone on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. Does anyone in the chamber like to address this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Okay.
 Well, what discussion do we have and what action do we want to take? I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Wait a minute, Theresa, did you have something you wanted to say for me? I thank you, Mayor. I did. I paused there for a little bit of time. I actually would like to amend the ordinance to include the emergency provision, and here's why. We've had a lot of these lately where the applicants appealed something to the City Council when they've been denied by the Planning Commission.
 And even though we had three today, and this is not on the books, we certainly had a discussion about it the last couple of weeks. And I think it's really important that we notify our citizens as best as possible. I commend Council Member Scroggin for bringing this forward and for getting it on our agenda. But I do think emergency action would be very helpful to inform the public.
 So I would like to move that we amend the ordinance to include an emergency provision. Okay, as kind of an order of procedure here, I did have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. So would the Teresa's amendment be... You probably ought to do the second reading first and then you can repeat your request. So we have a motion saying to go to the second reading.
 Would you please call the roll Eddie? Yes Scroggins yes, yes, yes Hertzberg yes Gutierrez. Yes Jones. Yes, Kenyon Yes, in order to cement section 157 o 3 annexation and zoning map amendments to require public notification of Planning Commission now's a rezoning request if appealed to the City Council and
 And obviously, any appeal in effect, this is no matter what kind of clause you might put on it, is not going to be under this ordinance. So anyway, just to let you know that. So could you clarify that again, Ken? Sorry, you lost me. Yeah, I'd like a little clarification. If an applicant has already filed the appeal with the city clerk, then obviously this is not going to change their requirements. Yes.
 Because it is something that they would do as part of the appeal. The reason I think that Council Member Scroggins didn't ask for this, and I did not suggest it, is because we're changing a policy that's been there for 30 years now.
 And it's hard to say that all of a sudden now it's a very emergency that for the peace, health, and safety of our citizens, we must make it effective immediately. This is a procedural change that should happen, without a doubt. I think, well, at least it's up to you. But I can't see that it's really all of a sudden after 30 years an emergency to do this. But I will write it up as an emergency if you want me to. I know that some cities, everything's an emergency now.
 That's not what Fayetteville has done. But if the city council wanted to have an emergency clause on it, I will put one on it.
 Okay, so, Teresa, your amendment was to put the emergency clause on. So, you know, I'm relatively new on the council. I've only been here two and a half years, but it seems like we've had a lot of these appeals from folks that have been denied at the planning commission. And so, if that's not the case, if this has gone on, typically over the last 30 years, we've had about the same amount of appeals.
 these kinds of appeals, then I would agree it's not an emergency. So if somebody could provide a perspective on that, I think that would be really helpful to the discussion. Before you do the amendment? Right. Yes, before I do the amendment. Let's go back to what comments and actions does the council wish to make right now while we're on the second read. And you want to discuss
 why you can't put an emergency clause. Well, I guess I'd like a little history that if this is the regular amount of appeals that we've had with a planning commission denial over the years, then,
 Okay, then I agree. There's no emergency, but it just seems like there's been a whole lot and that the public needs to be informed so I am asking for a discussion a little bit. Thank you for indulging me Mr. Mayor
 If I may jump in just with some of that context, I did do some research on this recently, a question about how many appeals have come forward. I didn't go very far back. I didn't go 30 years back, but I did go back to 2017. So far this year, I believe we've seen six. Last year there were...
 In 2019 there were four, 2018 five, and 2017 three. So I know that's a small sample size, but certainly last year was irregular amongst that group. Yeah, but in the last three years there has been an increase from three years prior to
 Dydw i ddim wedi bod yma am ddau hwyr i siarad am hynny. Mae'n ddrwg. Os ydych chi'n dweud 19 a beth? Mae 2017 wedi cael 3, 2018 wedi cael 5, 2019 wedi cael 4, 2020 wedi cael 12 ac hyd yn hyn rydym wedi cael 6 y flwyddyn hon.
 Iawn. Ond nid yw hynny'n ddrwg iawn. Oes gen i'n meddwl ei fod yn amser i chi i'w rannu ar y rhain. Ie, Theresa. Diolch am y trafodaeth heno. Rwy'n meddwl y byddwn i'n llwyddo'r sylwad clodd, ac os byddwn ni'n ei gyfrifio heno, bydd yna'r effaith yn 30 diwrnod. Ie. Felly byddwn i'n llwyddo'r amgylchedd heno. Ie. Iawn. Wel, yna beth yw'r trafodaeth y byddwn ni'n ei gael arni? Rwy'n symud i ddynnu rheolau a mynd i'
 A yna mae hynny. Mae gennym ddewis i fynd i'r rhan a'r ail rhan. Kerry, a allwch chi ofyn i ni? Petty? Ie. Scroghan? Ie. Fudge? Ie. Durr? Ie. Ertsberg? Ie. Gutierrez? Ie. Jones? Ie. Inion? Ie. Yn ymwneud 'r amennu ar section 157.03, ymateb i ffynu ffyniadau i'r ffyniadau i'r ffyniadau i'r ffyniadau i'r ffyniadau i'r ffyniadau i'r ffyniadau i'r ffyniadau i'r f
 Iawn. A oes unrhyw sylwadau o'r Cyngor? Cymru, byddwch yn gofyn y rl. Petty? Ie. Scroghan? Ie. Fudge? Ie. Turk? Ie. Erdsberg? Ie. Gutierrez? Ie. Jones? Ie. Inion? Ie. Ie. Diolch i chi i gyd. Nifr 4.
 A chyfraith i ymgymryd  chyfrif 173, Regoliadau Cyfnodol y Cod Ddysgu Cymdeithasol i gyfathrebu rheoliadau adeiladu'r ddynion gyda codiau adeiladu cael eu cynhyrchu gan ddyddwch o'r Argosol i awdurdod cyfrifiadu gwaith o 173.08, Gwneud oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd
 ac mae'n angen adnewyddiad a chyflawni cyffredinol. Ac er bod y cyflawniadau wedi'u cynnal, mae'n ymdrin i ddylunio'r cyfrifiadau'r ddinas y ddaeaf gyda'r codiau adeiladu'r diwedd, lle'n bosibl, eleni anghenion anoddol sydd ddim yn effeithio ar gwerth y amgylchedd sydd wedi'i adeiladu o fewn y ddinas, ac i wella gallu staff y ddinas i annog fater 173.
 ac er bod y Cod Gwyddiant Standard, a gyflawni'r Cod Ddysgu Unifedig ar bennod 173.10, yn ddewis ac y ddylai ei roi'n cymryd gan y Cod Gwyddiant Prydion Cymdeithasol. Ac er bod y Cod Arcosawg yn ymwneud  14-55-207, gall y ddinas ymgymryd  codau technoleg, rheoliadau neu adnoddau, heb gynnwys y tecst cyfan o'r rheoliadau yn y Cod Ddysgu.
 Mae'n cael ei ddoddefnod gan y Cyngor y Ddau Cyngor y Ddau Cyngor y Ddau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyngor y Dau Cyng
 The following as defined by the fire prevention and building code shall be exempt from this provision. Number one, air traffic control tower. Number two, open parking decks. And number three, F2 occupancy. Section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville, are hereby repeal subsection A of section 17307 energy conservation code and enact replacement section A as follows. Subsection A, commercial and high-rise residential. Subsection A.
 The most current Arkansas Energy Code, as promulgated by the State of Arkansas, is adopted as applicable to all new building construction for commercial and high-rise residential structures. Section 3. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals the introductory paragraph of subsection B of Section 17307 Energy Conservation Code, and enacts a replacement introductory paragraph as follows, quote, residential.
 the most current international energy conservation code as promulgated by the state of arkansas is adopted as applicable to all new residential structure with the exception of section 107 fees and section 109 board of appeals section 4 that the city council the city of favorable arcs are hereby amend section 173 07 b1 b3 and b6b by striking references
 to 2009 and 2011. Section 5, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby repeal Subsection B and C of Section 173.08, unsafe buildings and property nuisances and enacts a new Subsection B and C as follows, Subsection B
 Property nuisances. Whenever it is found that any person is violating any of the provisions or requirements set out in the International Property Maintenance Code, a written notice stating the offense and setting the time limit for the correction thereof shall be served upon the offender in person or by certified mail by the building official.
 If the offending party is not the owner of record of the tract upon which the dwelling or dwellings are being constructed, a copy of such notice shall be served on the owner of record. The offender shall, within this time limit set in the notice served upon him or her, forever cease all violations. Any person who shall continue to violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to the penalties in subsection below.
 Subsection C says abatement procedures for unsafe buildings and property nuisances raised in removal and lien authorized. Subsection 1, city prosecution authorized if the efforts of the code compliance program for abatement of unsafe buildings and property nuisances are unsatisfactory the building official may forward for the matter for prosecution to the city prosecutor. Subsection 2, raise or remove order by the City Council.
 Upon referral from the building official, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to determine whether or not the subject building is a property nuisance pursuant to the codes adopted in this chapter or is otherwise unsafe, dilapidated, unsanitary, or a detriment to the public welfare.
 Upon the City Council determination the building is so unsafe dilapidated or insane Unsanitary or such a nuisance that it's raised removal is necessary to protect the public health safety or welfare The City Council shall by resolution order the owner of the building completely abate said nuisance or to raise remove the unsafe nuisance within not less than 30 days three
 Lean on the property. If the owner fails to comply with the resolution, will he abate this nuisance or to raise or remove the unsafe or nuisance building within the allowed period of time? The city of Fayetteville has the power to raise or remove the unsafe building, the unsafe or nuisance building.
 If the City of Fayetteville raises and removes the unsafe or nuisance building, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to determine the fair and true cause to the City for this raise and removal, and shall place a lien in that amount upon the subject property to be enforced pursuant to the lien enforcement procedures of Section 9503 of the Fayetteville Code. Subsection 4. The remedies contained in this subject are not mutually exclusive.
 the building official may refer the same matter to both the city prosecutor and the city council section 4 that the city council city of feb will articulate hereby repeal section 17310 standard housing code and an actual new section 17310 international property maintenance code as follows quote subsection 17310 international property maintenance code subsection a adoption by reference
 there is hereby adopted by the city council by reference thereto the provision set forth in an international property maintenance code with the state adopted dependencies as from time to time hereafter may be amended and adopted by the state of arkansas save and accept such portions of subcode as may be deleted modified or amended herein subsection b amendments additions and deletions to the international property maintenance code
 the international property maintenance code shall be amended as follows subsection one the construction board of adjustments and appeals shall perform those duties of the board of appeals that set forth in section 111 international property maintenance code and number two the housing official shall be known as the building official okay dennis i believe you have this from on staff correct
 That's correct, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. These changes are a continued process that we started in 2019 with just cleaning up our section of the code to do away with some redundancy and to be more aligned with the state and international building codes. With that, does anyone have any questions? What questions do we have for staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak it's five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the chamber will speak second so who do we have on zoom no nobody's there okay is anyone in the chamber would like to yes please come up
 Again, my name is Robert Williams and my address has not changed. I'm here tonight to voice my opposition to the blanket adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code. The way the ordinance is currently written, all properties in the city would be subject to quote, any of the provisions or requirements set out in the International Property Maintenance Code.
 Since the Council is about to vote on this, I assume all of you have read this document, even though it is not in your packet, and understand the ramifications of adopting it into ordinance. That you understand, if adopted, will put every home in Fayetteville in violation of some part of this code, most notably Section 304. As I'm sure you are aware, this deals with the exterior and structural parts of a building.
 even homes currently under construction will have violations of this section. The most common being adequate support of burying walls and butchering of engineered lumber. Before the city can issue a citation, who will do the engineering to be sure a violation has actually occurred? If an owner buys a property in good faith and it is built with a violation, who gets the ticket? Who has to pay to fix it? There is no rental property in the city that can meet all these requirements.
 Are we ready for tenants to start reporting violations of this new code? Because they could inundate code enforcement overnight. This doesn't just apply to homes either. I bet there's not a city-owned property that can 100% meet these standards. The packet says there's no cost associated with the ordinance. I would argue that there is, since the city would need to renovate their properties to meet its own rules. The possible unintended consequences
 to the city and property owners with the adoption of this ordinance is staggering. I would urge you to reject the adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code and come up with something more reasonable and enforceable. This is certainly not an emergency. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council.
 What discussion do we have from the council or what actions would you all like to take? I would like staff to respond to the speaker. Okay, Dennis you're on. Okay, well with that comment being made, we are not out to pick on anybody. We are complaint driven. The section,
 He is correct on some matters, but dilapidated rentals, things like that could be in violation. This is to keep the public safe with houses that are falling apart, that landlords are not repairing, things like that. We are not out looking. Like I said, these are complaint driven. We don't just drive around and start picking on people. Okay.
 every matter is under investigation and taken into consideration. But a lot of the things that are in the property maintenance code are already in our section. They're one of the 12 items that are in there right now. The property maintenance code is just the updated version of the housing code, which we are under the 1997 housing code, which is no more. There is no housing code. So we need a code to replace that code. Okay. Okay.
 you may have not researched this but what peer cities are using that uh maintenance code um fort smith is one that's using it um the state of arkansas has adopted it they're under the 2012 um as of right now i know fort smith like i said is is for sure using it little rock i believe is using it the other cities around us i think are still using the housing code
 Okay, so there are cities in Arkansas including Arkansas that have adopted that and we didn't have chaos. No, sir Thank you mayor. Yes. I You know whenever we do something with the code I kind of like to know are we having a problem with what we currently have or is this simply an effort to? Update what we have to a new revised edition. I mean do we have a problem? Yes
 The problem is the enforcement. The code we are currently under now, we haven't been able to enforce it correctly. That's why we're making these adjustments. And also just because of the old code being so far out of date, the new code addresses a lot of things that we're running into issues with.
 Well, I would like to not take this to the next reading so that there is time to compare the two because I don't know what the differences are. And I think it's our responsibility to kind of know what we're doing here. I think that's fair enough. We'll work on it. We'll get you some answers to some of the questions. So is it only the one section on the International Building Code? The other two weren't necessarily...
 The whole thing, you want comparison of side by side of all? The changes are compared to changes on the . Right. Well, the earlier speaker was talking about only that one international property maintenance code, so I didn't know if you wanted the whole. Oh, that's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the international property maintenance code. Okay, thank you. Yes, sorry, I didn't understand your question. Thank you. Right. It's okay, we can work two weeks. Nobody's in a big.
 So we'll get you some answers. What other questions would you all like answered on this or just an overall, like a presentation maybe? I do not need a presentation. What I need is a chart and maybe some highlights. That's what I prefer and then I can do it on my own time. All right. Sounds good.
 Yes, Tracy. I don't know if there's time, but this sure would be nice to, I would like a presentation. I'm kind of visual. At maybe the agenda session. Again, I don't know if there's enough time for staff to be able to put something like that together, but at that venue, we could ask a little bit more questions. We will do whatever you ask us to.
 I think it would be really helpful. And then to find out if Little Rock or Fort Smith have had any challenges with implementing this. So, okay. Thank you. Everybody good? Okay. Well, we'll just leave this right here. And we'll move on to the next one, which would be number five.
 resolution pursuant to 166.04 b3 of the federal unified development code to approve the request to not dedicate additional right-of-way along West Avenue for the parking deck project Jonathan or this is yours right it is mayor thank you allow me a moment to pull up my presentation here
 You all are likely familiar with the property but as a refresher this is on the northwest corner of Dixon Street and West Avenue the property currently includes the historic nationally listed train depot the Arcego's Freight Depot north of that and the Bank of Fayetteville railroad car down on the southeast corner of the overall site it right reaches all the way from Lafayette Street to the north the Dixon Street to the south and West Avenue to the east and
 It's most likely familiar to the council because it is the location where the West Avenue deck is being proposed currently the project was submitted for development review recently to the development services department and
 Among the items that came up during development review was a typical standard comment, which is that right-of-way dedication is required for our master street plan. In instances where right-of-way doesn't meet the standard master street plan width for a street, we require additional right-of-way to match that.
 And as a little bit of background, because I know that's getting a little bit into the weeds of development, I just drew up some quick diagrams. So if you have any given property and it's adjacent to a street, one of the first things staff looks at is,
 Uh, where the existing right away is where the center line of that street is. We compare that to our master street plan and in some cases the master street plan is a greater distance from the center line of that street from. Uh, the existing right away would go. So that's where that's dedication or right away would come from the resulting dedication.
 creates a new right-of-way line, which is that from that point forward the developable area of that property So once that right away is dedicated it no longer contributes to the to the developable area of the site what that means for the West Avenue garage is that
 is that about two and a half feet of right-of-way dedication are required along West Avenue, which would push the site about two and a half feet to the west, which on a lot of properties may not sound like a lot, but this is downtown, it's very tight, and this particular property is particularly tight. This would push it back towards the Arcegas building, which is intended to be immediately on the western property line.
 So that gets to some of the issues or considerations. The authority or power to accept a lesser or no right-of-way dedication is reserved to the city council. Those requests do come through the Planning Commission, which this one did, and they did recommend in favor of it. The main consideration the Unified Development Code identifies in looking at lesser dedications or right-of-way is that if the right-of-way dedication represents some manner of hardship or practical difficulty,
 In looking at this request, staff identified three main considerations that I just want to draw your attention to briefly. The first is one of aesthetics and streetscape.
 The Main Street Center zoning district on this property has a stair-stepped building height allowance. So what you basically boils down to is you can build a building up to five stories right on your front property line, and then you have to set your building back seven feet to try to break down the mass of the building, so you avoid creating that valley effect that you sometimes see in some urban areas.
 That would normally be of some concern to staff to propose not dedicating right-of-way, allowing the building to be even closer to the street. We feel like a critical component of the proposed design is the colonnade that you see here, which helps break down that building size and make staff comfortable that the intent of that piece of code is being met. The second item is that despite the proposal to not dedicate right-of-way, all the typical street elements are being included with this proposal.
 That includes a varying width of sidewalk with a minimum of 15 feet, which is very wide for sidewalk, especially even in the Dixon area. And so it will accommodate all the pedestrian elements that you typically find downtown and that will not be compromised as a part of this. The third piece is that simply this is not an atypical condition downtown. Again, it's a very tight area for development. Giving up any amount of land for right away can represent a significant constraint.
 If you're looking for examples of this, you just go around the corner to Dixon Street. The area you see outlined there in yellow, that's all the sidewalk in front of the Walton Arts Center. That is all city property that was not dedicated as right of way. All those areas you see on the north side of Dixon, you see those all the way from Arkansas to the west to college in the east and even portions of college up and down. Those are access easements that are dedicated in those places to assure future public access.
 So again, staff finds that it's not a typical condition, doesn't represent a hazard to the public interest, and that will be protected as a part of the development, including that sidewalk. So we are recommending approval. The Planning Commission considered this as part of a larger master street plan variance for that street design to include the colonnade and the sidewalk width.
 and they forwarded the request to the City Council unanimously there was one recusal or a conflict of interest but the five remaining voters did support the request and I'm happy to take any questions the council has thank you questions whoever staff on this so you feel that this was kind of gonna come a year ago that this was not like a revision to the deck plans that caused this this was somewhat expected it I'm
 I don't know that it was expected. This is not often the kind of thing that comes up at a conceptual level development. Staff doesn't usually get into that level of review. We were invited into some of the early conversations with the deck design. There was a conversation about the colonnade in particular and their allowances for those to encroach in their right-of-way, but we did not get to the level of right-of-way dedication at that point.
 I have a question. Jonathan, is this only for West Street or is it also for Dixon and then the adjoining property on the bike trail? That's a great question. I did overlook commenting on that because it is an overall property right now. The right of way dedication would be required elsewhere.
 The master street plan does allow have allowances built into it to reduce the amount of right away required, particularly in the downtown area. And that was built into our master street plan to address context. So some of our existing right away is downtown are very narrow and we don't want to require right away like we would on college, which are portions of it are considered within our downtown.
 So the short answer is no, it's not required on Dixon. The street is built out to the design the city intended and the right-of-way is already there. But what about in the property that's next to the bike trail, the one that's on the eastern side of your map? I'm sorry, do you mean the western side of the map?
 I'm sorry, you're right, on the western side. Thank you. Gotcha. That is currently railroad right-of-way. Our UDC does not allow us to require or does not have an associated master street plan or right-of-way dedication requirement for the railroad. It's just with public streets. Okay. Thank you so much for clarifying. Sure. What other questions do we have?
 Okay, let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic. No rude behavior Please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak personally those in the chamber Second we have anyone on zoom Okay, anyone in the chamber would like to speak on this issue. Okay, I bring back to the council. I
 This is a resolution. What discussion or action items would the council like to take? Move to pass the resolution. Second. Then we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Ertsberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all Well that concludes our business. I have one announcements. Do we have says I have one mayor to let the City Council on the public know that you're welcome to come celebrate with us at the 14th annual CDBG in the park Which will be held Friday July 30th 1030 to 1130 p.m. 10 30 a.m. To 1130 p.m. At the Walker Park Main Pavilion and
 The event is free. It'll feature all of the different investments in our community that are made possible through the Community Development Block Grant Fund, and there will also be other city projects there for people to engage with.
 lunch will be served. There'll be lunch, snacks, and refreshments and a whole lot of city folks to help people understand what kind of community resources are available to them. Thank you. Okay any other announcements? A couple of things I'd like to remind everybody of. First of all, I want to remind everyone that the City of Federal has special election set for August 10th. Early voting will start on August the 3rd.
 And that means early voting starts in two weeks. So this election will determine whether we extend the existing one-cent sales and use tax for another 10 years. Now, as always, council and public that's listening, this is a really important election for maintaining city operations. Without it, we would see major cuts to services throughout the city to the tune of $22.5 billion, which is $9 million out of CIP.
 thirteen point five million dollars out of operations. So as always I certainly ask the public to support this operations tax extension and certainly council I would certainly appreciate y'all's help as well as we go through the next two weeks. I know I'm speaking to groups across the city on it right now so I would certainly appreciate y'all's help. Also
 I want to say today active cases, COVID-19 active cases in Arkansas are 10,500, the latest numbers I have. Washington County cases are 626. Those that have been vaccinated in Washington County is about 41%. Arkansas COVID deaths this month, this month, has been 98 across the state. 99% of the COVID cases we see right now are unvaccinated people. Now, these vaccines are important.
 They're safe, they're free, and they're available to everybody. For those of you that have been vaccinated, please talk with your unvaccinated loved ones, friends, and neighbors. Encourage them to protect themselves from getting vaccinated. So that's what I have to say tonight. So thank you all very much, council, for your service. And y'all did a really good job tonight. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.