I'd like to call the city council meeting for July the 24th, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Here. Bennett. Hutch. Here. Plattier. Present. Smith. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Mayer-Jordans. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all for attending tonight. We have one item tonight, which is a resolution to express the City Council's recommendations to Mayor Jordan concerning the Federal Housing Authority's 2018 Annual Plan and Rolling Five-Year Plan.
 I would like to start off with a statement that I would like to make tonight and then I think Kip will read the resolution and then Sarah, since you were sponsoring this, we will get your comments. Over a year ago, we talked about the process the Federal Housing Authority had undergone in its planning for the maintenance of Willow Heights and possible transition to Morgan Manor Apartments.
 I objected to the process then continued to receive feedback that there's not been adequate involvement from affected residents and surrounding community members. I watched the housing authorities July 9th meeting and witnessed the many people who came to participate who contacted me later saying that they had felt that they had been somewhat disrespected. I continue to hear from many area residents and citizens that they do not believe the Morgan Manor project is in the best interest.
 of those citizens in need of affordable housing. But having said that, I want it clear tonight, I will never, as the mayor of this city, jeopardize capital facilities funds to be used to maintain public housing properties. Though in order to support the details of the plan, I will continue to point out that the public should be involved, the community should be involved, and the city council should be involved in discussing the plan.
 That is the purpose of tonight's meeting. City officials received the following statement from a representative of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, HUD, Little Rock Field Office. We received this Thursday. The Federal Housing Authority, FHA, said,
 is not considered at risk losing their 2018 capital funds. The funds will be released to the housing authority after the HUD field office reviews the contents of the PHA plan and receives the attached form HUD 577-SL, certification by state or local office of PHA consistency with the consolidated plan or state consolidation plan.
 Our office has been informed that Mayor Lionel Jordan has called a special city council meeting for Tuesday, July 24, 2018 at 5.30 p.m. in room 219 of the city administration building to discuss the Federal Housing Authority's 2018 annual plan and rolling five-year plan. And I want to assure the city council, the public, Federal Housing Authority, the Federal Housing, that I will not put...
 HUD funding in any sort of jeopardy. We have managed to get an extension until a week from today. So we have a week from today to take input. And I know that the Housing Authority has a meeting Thursday night, which I'm sure will be relatively lively, as this one will be, I am sure. But I want to hear from everybody. I want to hear from the council. I want to hear from the public. I want to hear from the Housing Authority.
 And then as I told the press earlier, I'll make the best decision I know how to make but I can assure you one way or the other something will be signed and ready to go by Probably toward the end of the week. So with that I'll have Kent read the resolution that we will be discussing. Thank you mayor the resolution of course says is to express the City Council's recommendations to the Mayor Jordan and
 concerning the Fayetteville Housing Authority's 2018 Annual Plan and Rolling Five-Year Plan. Whereas the Fayetteville Housing Authority has requested Mayor Jordan to sign the Fayetteville Housing Authority's 2018 Annual Plan and Rolling Five-Year Plan, and whereas Mayor Jordan's approving signature is necessary before any such plan can be submitted to the Housing Urban Development Department,
 And whereas several items of this plan have proven to be somewhat controversial to Fayetteville citizens in the past, and Mayor Jordan would appreciate the City Council members and the public's comments and suggestions concerning the various parts of the plan before the mayor determines whether it is in the best interest of Fayetteville to approve this plan. And whereas the plan might be able to be improved through public comment,
 Which comments could be taken into consideration by the Fayetteville Housing Authority to refine and improve the plan? Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby recommends that the below portions of the 2018 Annual Plan and Rolling Five-Year Plan be reconsidered and modified by the Fayetteville Housing Authority before Mayor Jordan signs as approving the plan.
 And of course, I left the rest in blank because I want to hear from you what your suggestions and comments will be. And with that, Sarah, I believe you're the sponsor of the resolution. If you would like to make some comments. Thank you.
 With our growing housing crisis in the region, we need to ensure that we are making the best decisions possible and fully utilizing all resources available to address the housing needs of our most vulnerable citizens and that those citizens are included in the decision-making process.
 Citizens have asked for more public oversight of the Fayetteville Housing Authority, so I think that's what we're here to do tonight, and as well as to give citizens the opportunity to weigh in on the issue. I spent a lot of time, I allocated eight hours today to read through the five-year plan submitted by the Fayetteville Housing Authority Board. And I read a lot of five-year plans. This was just an assortment of some that were on my desk.
 There's the Fayetteville First Plan, our Mobility Plan, our Energy Action Plan, our Livability Improvements Plan. There's a lot of good information in these plans, and these plans were all designed to convey information. This plan does not convey information. This plan makes it very difficult to ascertain what they are doing, who is doing what, and what the actual plan is.
 And when I think about us as a government, as a public agency who deals with public tax dollars, there's an accessibility issue. And accessibility is more than just about wheelchair access, but it's also about accessibility of information. And, you know, when I think about the stakeholders in our public housing projects whose input is needed on this plan,
 and their ability to process this information. If someone did not have a high school education, I have a professional degree of architecture and I'm used to reading plans and this was difficult for me. And if someone who did not have a high school education or perhaps had English as a second language was presented with this plan, there is in no way that they could understand what was actually being proposed here. And I tried to understand how this plan was presented to the public.
 And the recommendations of HUD require that, or suggest that this plan, the Plan B included on the Housing Authority's website. I went to the Housing Authority's website and it is not included on the website.
 I looked at, they hosted an open house, I believe, at their office to collect input on the plan at, I believe, 3.30 in the afternoon at their office. I didn't see any notice in the paper. I certainly wasn't made aware of this. I'm seeing, and then after watching videos of the meeting, I'm seeing an effort to...
 shut out the community's voice, or at least to not actively engage with the community's voice. And one of the most important things that we do as managers of the public budget is to take public input and to make sure our public has good information about what's going on, what we're doing, and why. And this report fails that on absolutely every level. You know...
 Then I had the opportunity to review again the University of Arkansas Community Design Center produced a plan. This is their livability improvement plan for Willow Heights housing. This is a plan I could read and understand that put together three different scenarios for achieving the goals that are outlined by the Fayetteville Housing Authority.
 They also made some really great recommendations for action steps. And this is a plan that was produced by academics. It was grant funded and it was peer reviewed by local developers in our community working with local construction numbers. So this is a good solid plan.
 that I think that we should take seriously. But ultimately, as we move forward, I think that we need to set really high standards for our housing authority. You know, when I read their goals, their big goal was increasing the availability of decent, safe, and affordable housing.
 And I think about the goals that we set for the rest of our community, about being a healthy and safe and inclusive and welcoming community. And I think that we need to go further than just meeting the basic needs. I think that this is an opportunity for Fayetteville to be innovative and do what we do best, and that's care for our residents, engage our citizens in fomenting the best solution, and do better for the residents of our public housing projects as well as the neighboring community.
 I hope that this is the beginning of more citizen engagement in this issue because our CDBG plan just identified that there are over 10,000 cost burdened households in our community. Affordable housing is a crisis and when I look at the numbers in the CDBG report about barriers to housing whether that's overcrowding, housing affordability,
 inadequate facilities whether that's not a full kitchen or bathroom or poor maintenance you know and I see that we have all these cost burdened households and all of this need and then I read such an underwhelming plan to address this overwhelming need and that indicates that to me that we need more public oversight we need greater citizen engagement and we need to do better for our citizens so I hope that's what we can do tonight I've
 made an attempt to fill in the blanks of the original template resolution that Kit had proposed. And I'll just read kind of right now what I'll propose for that. So number A or letter A, that we would develop and implement a resident stakeholder engagement plan to increase community education and participation in decision making.
 B, that we will refine and further define the goals and objectives of the Fayetteville Housing Authority. That those goals should be specific, measurable, achievable, results-focused, and time-bound.
 Then the next three recommendations are actually come from the UACDC's report of their recommended action steps, which would be to develop and implement an action plan to expand partnerships with public agencies and nonprofits, especially in the areas of stormwater and flooding. I will tell you that as the ward representative, one of two ward representatives for Ward 1, I have never gotten a call from the Housing Authority Board asking me to step up and help from a city perspective. And that needs to change because we have resources available.
 D, is that we will employ scenario planning to envision the full range of long-term operational options, and the FHA shall hold that discussion with a qualified facilitator in a workshop format. And E, the Commission, a local developer-slash-architect project team, to pursue a low-income housing tax credit application for revitalization of Willow Heights. So I think I'll just put those issues out for discussion tonight, but that's what I would...
 Propose that we add in in the blanks in the resolution. Thank you Don't usually allow that so let's let's stay courteous here. Okay. So what discussion do we have among the council on these on anything? anybody
 Justin? I'm just speaking for myself here. I have my microphones on. I'm just speaking for myself. I have had a lot of contact with people on this one. Today, for example, I met with someone who, a long-time Fayetteville family who was a resident at one time, has family there of this facility. What I'm getting a lot of is,
 Well, this place needs to be torn down. It needs to be changed. It needs people need to be moved out and moved into a proper place. And and I'm I'm all for those sort of long term goals if that's what we decide to do. But but tonight I want to focus on what we can do right now and make things better right now and control the things that we can control. Because in my opinion and again, I'm just speaking for myself.
 There's only so much that we can do right this minute. I'm not dismissing anything that was just said because none of those seemed appropriate.
 seemed too out of realm. But I want to make sure that we're doing the best for those folks that are there right now. And I'm also not dismissing the fact that the Housing Authority is doing the best that they can, because one thing I've learned in my time in government is that most people are good people and they're trying their best with the resources that they have and the limited resources that we all deal with. So I want to balance those two things and I want to ensure everybody that if
 You know, if you've come here tonight, which I know one person did, to just talk about how the place needs to be totally changed and some drastic... We don't have the power necessarily to do that right now. And I want to focus on the things that I can help with right this minute because...
 Went out there too and there are some things that needed to be changed need to be changed And I don't know that the Housing Authority has done a good or bad job on that But I appreciate it being brought forward so we can talk about it I just wanted to say that for myself because that's really my goal here tonight is to fix what we really have the power to fix I think that I reflect a lot of this same sentiment as councilmember tenant
 Tonight we have the opportunity to look at the annual plan and to look at the five-year plan. And to look at the aspect of these plans to be most beneficial to handle the critical needs of public housing here in the community. I think that if you have looked at the plan in the annual plan,
 for next year, there's absolutely no mention of two of the most critical properties that need some attention, and that would be Willow Heights and Lewis Plaza. So that seems to be something that we might want to encourage discussion on with some immediate action because we've toured these facilities, and we know that there's critical needs that need to happen with immediacy.
 So I think it must, it's imperative that somehow here in the community as a partnership or as the authority that we recognize that these are critical needs and that they have to be in the annual plan as well as the five-year plan. And that's what I hope that we will focus on this evening because that's the intent of this meeting.
 So I just wanted to reflect on that. I'll have more comments following public discussion because I think there's a lot of need here in the community for people to feel like that their voice is heard and that they should be heard. And no matter how long it takes us, I'm here to listen so that we have input
 and get fair and reasonable information as we move forward. Okay. Kyle. Thank you, Mayor. I am glad that I have just a little bit of summer vacation left before going back to my day job, because I, too, have spent about 10 days now reading through this plan and a lot of additional documents. I've had a lot of questions, and I want to thank Denise Smiley for helping me –
 find the additional documents that have come up and for an unexpected tour of some facilities the other day. I also want to thank the Housing Authority Board for doing a very difficult job with no compensation and very little staff support. It's a small group with a big job.
 But with that said, I want to make sure that our focus is on the residents of the facilities and the needs of the community. The plan does leave a lot of questions and it's led to a lot of rabbit holes. It's easy to get lost in document land with questions when you're dealing with tons of federal forms. And it's not simple work that we're dealing with tonight.
 Councilmember Marsh, I like the sound of some of your suggestions there. I think that's going to be a good start to the conversation, but I do look forward to hearing a spirited debate from the public tonight. And I think once we've heard their vision, we'll be able to put a final decision on our part of this tonight. Thanks. Joe. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. As unaccustomed as I am to agreeing with Councilmember Marsh, I must say...
 I must say, I read that plan yesterday afternoon, and I have several degrees, and I still don't know what the plan is. I found a lot of redundancy. I felt like every third page I was reading the same thing I was reading three pages ago. And I got the feeling that maybe there was something hidden in here. A lot of times that's an old lawyer's trick is you just inundate them, Mr. Williams, with paper and
 and they can't find what's really there. And I've got the feeling, like, is there a gold nugget in here I'm supposed to find amongst all this data? And I never found it. So I agree with Sarah's evaluation of the plan. Maybe it's the best the housing authority can come up with, with the parameters they're working under. Their fault, my fault, nobody's fault, I don't know. But that plan was incomprehensible to me.
 Now, will I agree with all of Sarah's plans? Maybe, maybe not. I need to study them. I need to dance through them for a couple hours and see if I can get communicated to me a more clear plan. Bottom line is we want people to be served, and we want to take care of people. We want to do the best we can, recognizing that we have limited resources to do that. We recognize the need for HUD funding.
 And I think the mayor is on top of that and our staff. So we're going to proceed on that basis. And we want to adopt a plan as a city council. I think all of us want the best for Fayetteville, want the best that we can do for the residents that live in these housing projects. And we want to make those real and livable. Thank you. Okay. Any comments from the council? Okay. We will take public comment in a moment.
 I see I'm on a timer.
 The main thing we're going to do here tonight, we're going to make sure that $281,000 is not held up for some of the most vulnerable citizens that we have. And I agree with everything that's been said here tonight. We're not going to hold up the funding. We do have an extension for it, too. Just keep that in mind a week from today. And I will have something signed probably by the latter part of this week. So we're not going to hold up the funding. Now, on the public comment side, here's what we have. You have five minutes left.
 You get one turn at the microphone unless a council member asks you questions. Or by vote of the council, they can give you more time. It has to be a motion and a second and a majority vote of this council. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage a council member or anybody in the audience. And most importantly, folks, you have seen the resolution. It's the five-year plan that we're going to stay on topic on tonight.
 If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic. And if you don't get back on topic, you'll have to take your seat. And that's the way it works around here. So, did I leave anything out? I don't believe I did. We would like to have your name and please and your address. And who would like to be first? Sure.
 Thank you for recognizing me, Mayor Jordan, and I'd like to make my opinion stated and then have a few questions for you to pass on in the professional manner. This is my opinion. City shouldn't sacrifice 10 Cup to development. To me, the prettiest spot in Fayetteville. Excuse me. We've got to get your name and address. Oh, I forgot. That's okay. And I just had it. But you addressed me and it.
 My name is Sharon Davison. I had it here circled to start that way. Okay, it's good. It's good. It's good. And everyone knows my address is 904 East Rogers Drive, Mount Sequoia, Fayetteville, 72701. We do take the mail. I think we'll still be under five minutes. Everybody will be shocked. You'll be all right.
 Now... I have great confidence in you. Thank you, sir, and thank you for keeping me on track. To me, the prettiest spot in Fayetteville is the corner of Spring and Willow. Somebody didn't like the historical name of that location, Tin Cub. It is now just Spout Spring Creek. The fix was in at Willow Heights with developers. I tried to warn people...
 I'm not saying no one believed me or that some people didn't care, but what power did the poor, working class, and primarily black people have to keep from being uprooted, displaced, removed, relocated to, as advertised by the FHA, Fayetteville Housing Authority, as a supposed better place?
 Where's the outcry, the protection for this historical district that I personally still call the hollow? To me, that is those people, meaning generations of people of primarily working class and poor. Interjection, I myself was fortunate to have Section 8 housing as a single parent in Westport. I understand that.
 Section 8 and vouchers. So, and I understand this and have followed it for decades, from Sherman's Tavern on. For me, the developers who profit greatly when gentrification moves in and destroys culture, places, and family connections, they care not about today's version of the Trail of Tears here.
 To me, they're saying black people, poor people, get out of your hollow. We want it now. You can ride the bus to work. Presto, get a legal car. And let's put more kids on buses across the highway, too.
 I tried to get a $50,000 house loan a few years ago to preserve a piece of history on Center Street. A local bank said yes, then stalled. While I guess they tried to get in on this Willow Heights and families removal, buyouts, and relocations. I lost that property house deal.
 Now the city is about to give away property that, to me, is not ours to do so. Use federal money to support private developers and destroy the last jewel nugget on Mount Sequoia.
 I request a reporter from the Democrat Gazette review video meeting minutes of the last few months of the Housing Authority, and this actually was written in April 20th, 2017, because I don't have cable anymore and had just caught one meeting that I couldn't believe it. And I ask that people look at those. You'll know clearly on the one I looked at,
 One particular meeting, there was clear deception about plans, plans already, to sell Willow Heights, similar to Jefferson Elementary plans that it was going to be condos. So we had that deception. And now at that meeting, by the leader of the meeting, all attention was desperately being directed to Morgan Manor expansion and federal vouchers.
 all on the videotape. A black man from Rock Street years ago, Sherman Morgan, was smart. 30 seconds. Excuse me, sir? 30 seconds. Oh, I'm behind and I won't be able to say it all. He said, hey, y'all rich white people, don't trail down the old courthouse, excuse me, the old post office at the very heart of our town and replace it with a parking lot.
 So this is how we treat the visionary who saved our town's core, its center, its kin, ancestor, friends, family. Why? Because their collective lives are not valuable, and just because greed is all about taking more than you give. Todd. And because you addressed me. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 I appreciate that you say I ran out of time even though I think about 10 seconds was but there are a lot of questions You do have to ask about the sale and the contract. Thank you. Very good. Thank you Oakland and I want to live at one school drive I have put in my application to live at the high-rise and I'm looking forward to it I'm in about month five of probably 12. I
 This is a wonderful day. To see this board take interest in public housing is just what we need. We need a partnership. The scope of the problem that we have now is tremendous. It's all about money. The city doesn't have the money. It's just too big of a problem. But we can work it out. We have a program called RADD.
 It's magnificent, but it has to be implemented. You have to understand it before you implement it. Tonight, I don't have time to talk about it. Tonight is a five-year plan. You're seeing double in a five-year plan because it's talking about two different projects. So you'll see double because the same form is for each one. But I understand it is hard to follow.
 First, we need to talk about poverty. Are we concentrating poverty when we implement the $8.6 billion plan to build 58 units at Morgan Manor? Now, let's just take a simple line of reasoning. Let's use like third or fourth grade arithmetic, which is about my max, and talk about it. Right now, we have Morgan Manor. It's what it is.
 Just assume that we are in equilibrium. Let's add 18 units of higher income families. And what we've done is de-concentrated poverty. If you stop right there with those new 18 units with what we have, it's a good job. But we can't stop there.
 So let's bring 18 families over from Willow Heights and let them live in. That will offset is what I'm trying to say, those 18 units of higher income with 18 units. Where we are now, where are we? We're right back where we started. We haven't concentrated. We haven't deconcentrated. But we have 22 more families to move from Willow Heights to.
 If we move those families, they're not just low income. The average income of our tenants and residents is $11,352. That's not low. That's extremely low. That's E-L-I, extremely low income. If we move those 22 families to Morgan Manor, now can we say we deconcentrated poverty? Not at all.
 we have it now I don't know everything and I have an open mind I can't get the board members to help me understand how we are deconcentrating poverty with the plan to build those units at Morgan now they may have an answer but they've made their decision 2017 before I got here they made their decision and that's the way it's going to be a couple members have got their ego in on it they won't listen
 and they're not open. Just tell me how that deconcentrates. That's all I want to know. They could be geniuses. I don't know. The next one is HUD rules. HUD has those forms that you're wandering through, and that's the reason they're so obtuse. HUD is not known for open, clear, and easy reading. I'm sorry. Now, I don't want to get into details, so I've given each of you a folder.
 And I'll just talk in general terms, and if you need the article and section of a bylaw, it'll be in those notes. And if you ask me, of course, I'll look it up for you. HUD requires 45 days before a hearing is conducted that you place an advertisement. Before I retired, my job was to go to county courthouses. You have 30 seconds. Oh, my God. I could talk longer. I know. I know.
 We have a wonderful board. We have a wonderful board. We have four extraordinary people on that board. They need help. You can't do money, but we have a program called RAD that we need to look at. It's very important. I'd like to keep talking, but there's probably a lot of people that want to also. Time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay.
 Peter Tonneson from Ward 3. This is a rare occasion when I also agree with Ms. Marsh. I read or tried to read the 240-something pages, and there are three or four or five or six duplicates of some pages. And it is – I couldn't understand it, so I'm a simple-minded person. I'll get to the question. Is this just federal money, $281,000? What –
 could there be on the tax-paying citizens of Fayetteville based on what happens in these meetings? Yolanda, I think here is... Well, it is federal money. It is federal money. But, of course, I don't know about you, but I pay federal taxes, but it's not city money. It's not city taxes. No, but I'm...
 I'm not going to Washington. I'd just like to know of the city revenues of all kinds, sales tax and everything else. What could be the impact on that, direct or indirect? In other words, if a project is built and then three years from now it starts leaking, what's the impact?
 Can there be a liability for the citizen taxpayers of Fayetteville? Gosh, I don't know. I wouldn't think so. The property is owned by the housing authority, not by the city. We don't own any of those properties, and it's always been their responsibility. The housing authority has operated for many decades, and so they get their funding from HUD, federal money, rather than anything from the city or state. Are there matching funds from the city? No.
 Not that I'm aware of. Not that I know of. Okay. All right. Well, I'll say for the record that from 2003 to 2011, I lived in a 600-square-foot efficiency while I paid off $35,000 in credit card debt and a lot of other debt from a lengthy custody fight, and that's about a quarter of the size of this room. So I'm not hostile to anyone who has fallen on tough times and struggles
 I paid $450 a month for that. But I am always concerned about the impact on people who pay taxes in this city and that their money be spent fairly and wisely. So thank you for hearing me. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Thank you for having this forum. My name is Alvin Davis. My address is homeless. And my questions are very direct.
 At this present time, at 3 o'clock today, there are 600 people, mostly children, on a waiting list to get homes. A lot of them are living in tents, in cars, in sheds, garages. Is there a way we can lower the standards so that a lot of people cannot, they're homeless, they can't get into a house? If you've been homeless for three years, what's your credit score? What's your background? What's your background?
 Something happened 20 years ago. It's still on your record. Because it's not categorized. It's not set up, oh, this was a violent crime. This was a nonviolent crime. It's not set up that way. It's there completely hammering the tops of the homeless. They can't get out. We need to help them. Is there anything in this forum that will do that? Thank you. Thank you. I don't believe I saw anything in the CDBG. Yes, we have that.
 Cassie Stanley, I live at 10 South Willow, 30 C. I guess I'll start by saying I feel like everybody is more throwing stones than they are really telling me anything that's really going to happen with my house. My ceiling is currently falling through at the moment. I've had two floods. I've been without water for 48 hours, and I don't hear anybody saying how they're going to help that. And the plans that I've read from the university say,
 I've seen that it all looks nice and the landscaping is nice, but there's nothing about the pipes. There's nothing about the water. If we could possibly have asbestos. Like I would, for me, I have three small children, five and a half, two-year-old twins. And I'm sorry, where did you say you reside? 10 South Willow, 30 C. Okay.
 Thank you. Go ahead. I feel like the only ones who have really had my back have been, you know, the ladies with the housing and, you know, trying to explain to me, you know, the steps that I need to take in order to make my, you know, make my voice known and to be here. So I guess that's kind of where I feel like we need to stop beating each other up and all come together to figure out what we're going to do now. Because in five years, that's not going to do me and my kids any
 anything at all if we're sick from mold or asbestos or bad water. So I guess my question would be, like, when do we stop just attacking each other and actually sit down and come up with a plan that is going to help us now and maybe check our apartments for asbestos, check our water to see if it's good quality? Like, when are those things going to come into play would be my question. Okay. All right. All right.
 Council member Kenyon has a question for you. Ms. Stanley, thank you so much for coming and speaking because I've always said if you want to know the condition of a neighborhood, talk to the neighbors. And I think that we certainly respect you being here this evening. And.
 What we're looking for tonight, and what I've heard you say, is there are critical needs that need to be in the annual plan. Yes. And critical needs that may be in the five-year plan that we must pay attention to with immediacy. And so as we look at...
 the plans that are in front of us and we don't see that included, that is a concern. And there's probably reasons for that. I know what the arguments are. But what I'm here to say is I also noticed that and I'm very empathetic with your situation. And I hope that somehow we can handle that with immediacy, recognizing how critical it is for the safety of your family. And I just wanted to say thank you for being here and pointing it out. Thanks. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan. My name is Nellie Ashley, 10 South Willow Avenue, Apartment 29A.
 I'VE BEEN COMING TO THESE MEETINGS AND UNDERSTANDING, DISCUSSING, BEING MORE ACTIVE IN THIS SIDE OF THE PLANNING WITH THE PROPOSAL, JUST WITH THE HOUSING AUTHORITY, AS MUCH AS I CAN. OF COURSE, I WORK FULL TIME AND I HAVE OTHER ACTIVITIES. BUT I DO WANT TO JUST KIND OF GIVE AN UPDATE THAT WE DISCUSSED WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS STUDENTS THEIR THREE SCENARIOS.
 a lot of questions about the actual infrastructure of the property, the pipes, the wiring. Because as you change it, we experienced my apartment was one of the ones that were flooded. Right.
 Also, there's a cemetery so that can affect the ground. It's on a hill. There's erosion. So to add more buildings and to also make sure that other buildings are up to code as far as ADA accessible and then also to make them spacious or whatever, that just changing the ground, that was one of my main concerns with the U of A students' proposals.
 And so when we had the current issue that we faced last Monday, that came as a bigger concern because it was reality. Seeing that pipe out of the ground, seeing all those things. And it's like, well, if we try to add new buildings, what's to make sure that the actual...
 infrastructure can support more people. And this is something when you remodel or you add that is always a concern. So, you know, I've been part of this and I still remain active.
 I mean, my parents have taught me at a very young age because they were business owners. And so to be involved in government, especially if it involves you, if you're involved, to take action. So I continue to do that because just like the gentleman who mentioned he was homeless, there are other people. If I move on or when I do move on, I want to leave in a better opportunity for others.
 So that's just what I want to share. You know, I've been here enough times. Y'all know my face pretty well between TV and in person. But I just want to continue to give that feedback as I'm talking to others. And I do want to see some type of solution. Now, I can't get my way. I know that. I understand that. Trust me. My parents made that clear to me. Okay.
 But I do want to see a solution. What that looks like, I don't know what it is, but I do want affordable housing that, you know, I can live in and that my neighbors, the kids, and other people can live in as well. Let me ask you a question. Would you prefer to live where you are or would you be all right living somewhere else? Sure.
 It would just depend. Like, I mean, if I have the basics like air, running water, of course, and, you know, I've had physical issues. I had to have some serious maintenance issues. Just clean, safe housing for me to live in. And, I mean, that's a basic. Now the nice conveniences like appliances and stuff like that, you know, that's up in the air. But just a nice, clean, safe place.
 So, I mean, if I have to move, then I have to move. But if I can stay, I would prefer to stay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Sarah Champion. I live at 10 South Willow, apartment 30B. I came here three years ago from a very abusive domestic relationship. And this housing addition has, for me...
 provided me with a safe place to get a sure foot to get to the next level in life. It's not the best, but it was something. I agree that there are issues. There are no ACs. Most of our tenants are single parents and elderly. We have an amazing sense of community, and it is filling a need in our community. Mm-hmm.
 I don't think getting rid of it and putting up 58 units is going to fill the need that we currently have as a city. Without this, I wouldn't be where I am today. I have two sons. Like I said, it wasn't a lot, but I was thankful for it. And I think that at a certain point, you can teach a person to fish or you can give them a fish. But if you can't spare a rod...
 They're not going to be able to fish for themselves. And this has definitely given me a place, again, where I can step up and come up from the situation that I was in. As far as moving to another place, I think it goes back to how it's built. If it's sturdy, if it's clean, if it's safe. I don't think that any of us want to be here in 10 years with the same issues. I've gone without water twice since I've been there. Over 24-hour periods.
 I've had leaks in my home where they've had to come in huge holes in my ceilings. But again, I have to say that it's better than being homeless. That's all I have to say. Thank you very much.
 My name is Pam Wallace. I stay at 10 South Willow, apartment 27C. And the Wallace situation, she addressed the housing, you know, my car, everybody else came out in the rain to make sure we were safe, make sure we didn't have anything done. Something was happening. And they came to us, they gave us opportunities to go different places.
 And what is the problem that we have to fight? Because my son almost fell through my bathroom ceiling plenty of times. I'd be so scared at night. My son would be walking so hard. I'd have to look up. I got lead poisoning in my apartment. My son has asthma, and he got lead poisoning. I have to keep on constantly taking my baby back and forth to the doctor. He's 16 years old. It's so bad that I don't even want to be in my apartment no more.
 And it'll be helpful if God can help us build something new for us. Because we shouldn't have to be going through lead poisoning. And like the other young lady said, she had two small children. I know what she's going through. And I can't afford to be sick.
 I've been on bed rest for the last two weeks for being sick, for the paint peeling in my apartment. So it will help me out. In a wild situation, that helped us out so much, I don't even know what to do. I'm going to bed at night wondering if I'm going to wake up sick or my apartment going to catch on fire because my smoke detector ain't working or it's going off for no apparent reason. I'm tired of this. I'm sick. I'm still sick. I'm supposed to be at home.
 I'm still sick from lead poisoning in my apartment. And housing is doing the best they can to help us. And with the wiring situation, like I said, they was out there in the rain helping us. And the wiring and stuff, I can't do it no more. I can't do what I want to do in my apartment. I can't move. I can't do nothing. So this fire you're paying will help us to fix the inside sides to outside. Do something for the insides too. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'd like to thank the mayor, council members, and city staff for allowing the community to come together to openly talk about the Fayetteville Housing Authority and Will Heights as it relates to future plans.
 My name is Matthew Ramsey, 93 South Duncan, Ward 2, and I'm the longest serving at-large appointee in the Town and Gown Advisory Committee. But obviously I'm not here to talk about city and university relations. However, I will say that I see many parallel issues in the four years that I have served on that committee, particularly when it comes to fair and affordable housing, overzealous private development, neighborhood relations, and community complaints not being taken seriously until they devolve into public relations crises.
 I've always considered myself an outsider in Fayetteville because I am not from here, nor did I attend college here. As such, I am not loyal to either the city or university, but I've always championed honesty, transparency, and ethics in both domains."
 That's why I feel obligated to speak up tonight for the exploited, marginalized families at Willow Heights because what I see happening to them seems nothing short of a wholly preventable crisis caused by unprofessional public officials and opportunistic private developers.
 Growing up in the boot hill of southeast Missouri, I lived in a single wide trailer and was raised by two tough-loving, hard-working high school dropouts. So I can relate to the adversities when it comes to growing up disadvantaged, like the residents of Willow Heights. But my family's little trailer was never subjected to governmental neglect that has created the third world living conditions at Willow Heights.
 Whereas I was able to thrive with resiliency despite the socioeconomic odds, our public housing neighbors are struggling just to survive. Why have we continually failed to do the right thing for our most vulnerable neighbors like this? It is absolutely shameful, and that is why I'm here, along with many other folks in this audience, to use our rights and privileges to advocate on their behalf.
 I first became involved in this debacle last year when I noticed FHA Chairman Mike Emery Facebook blocked the newest appointed commissioner, Melissa Terry, before her first ever meeting. And so I did the right thing and shared all those posts with her so she could be better informed of the issues she was facing.
 Since then, I, along with many other members in this audience, have attended recent FHA meetings and have witnessed firsthand the spectacular displays of Chairman Emery and Commissioner Chris White's outright unprofessional and personal attacks on Commissioner Melissa Terry. When all along, she was just trying to bravely and calmly do the right thing, champion honesty, ethics, and transparency about FHA's gross mishandling of Willow Heights and selflessly offering her collaborative solutions therein.
 But perhaps the most damning revelation of all was when Melissa questioned Chris about his commissioner duties, and he responded by submitting his de facto resignation as a public servant because he declared that it wasn't his job to actively seek federal funding that could have purchased air conditioners for his residence.
 Actually, I'm not sure if that's the most damning revelation of all, because it was particularly alarming to hear that Executive Director Denise Smiley essentially allowed private developers to ghostwrite an official letter to the federal government, not to mention her encouraging Willow Heights to lie and conceal their air conditioners when federal inspectors come to visit later this summer. But then again, I guess I shouldn't be surprised about any of that, considering she came to FHA after serving as Assistant General Counsel at Walmart. Okay.
 I think I speak for everyone who attended those meetings, that we were all taken back by these blatant tomfooleries. But what I believe bothered us all more than to the core was their repeated attempts by the FHA to disregard and silence the audience, most of whom were residents of public housing.
 That's why I felt obligated to finally speak up, because I knew this is not how we conduct ourselves on Town and Gown when the community comes to speak to us at meetings, and I let FHA know that. That's why I contacted KNWA and Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette to start covering these meetings. Moreover, I am especially thankful for Evelyn Rio Stafford for her independent reporting on Facebook and FHAwatch.org.
 That's why I also committed an act of civil disobedience by crying out shameful when the vote hinged on Chairman Emery's decision on whether or not to let the audience speak about agenda items at the recent FHA special meeting.
 That's why I also immediately contacted Don Maher and other representatives of City Hall after that special meeting to implore that the city use its recently contracted professional development consulting services to get a grip on these unruly public officials. And thank you, sorry, and finally that's why I'm here now.
 to speak my truths and to hear others speak their truths. It's now or never for all this to come out into the open. We are doing a great disservice to our most vulnerable neighbors by allowing the FHA to unfairly squander their livelihoods, stop the sale of Willow Heights, and disband the Fayetteville Housing Authority. We need federal oversight. It's the only way to right these years of willful ignorance and neglect. Time. Time. All right. Who else would like to address us?
 Mr. Mayor, my name is Dina Owens and I live at 986 West Bob Place in Ward 2. The short version is I agree with Councilwoman Marsh and I'm about to disappoint Mr. Tenet.
 After digging through the internet to find the plans that are in question this evening, I spent some time going over the general summary given by the FHA regarding goals for the next five years. That was pages 17 and 18 on the PDF, the 200-page PDF that I believe was referred to earlier. The goals and objectives laid out in this summary are underwhelming garbage.
 There are many references to improvement and implementation, but a marked lack of tangible ideas to accomplish the goals. For example, two of the objectives express a desire to improve certain scores. However, there is no statement as to what our current scores are.
 what a good score is and where we want to be in those scores. Therefore, any kind of improvement over the next five years, they can just tick that off as a success regardless if they did anything to actually help it. I find that completely dishonest, not very transparent, and honestly very problematic. Overall, the vague goals, I think, are akin to what I consider a rough draft one might compile at a vanity leadership conference weekend.
 than something that you actually spent some time thinking about, which I believe is very symptomatic of the way that the FHA handles things. They're apathetic, they do the bare minimum in their style of planning and implementation. It should be considered after we approve this funding, we can't let this stand, we have to consider dissolving this body and bringing in people who have innovative ideas, who are willing to help our most vulnerable citizens.
 Somebody like Melissa Terry has been undermined by her colleagues her very colleagues when she is just trying to do the right thing She is trying to advance these goals in this five-year plan She's doing her job unlike some other people who say that's not my job So we need to get people in there who would never dare to say that's not my job and mr. Mayor I hope you will be bold and please consider that
 Please consider the dissolution of this body because they are ineffective and they undermine our citizens. They undermine our poor they undermine each other Thank you Okay before we have the next figure I want to remind everybody we're working with the resolution here whether you support the five-year plan And or not I'd like to keep everything that it may be coming some sort of personal thing here. So let's stay on topic everybody
 You either support the five-year plan or you don't. If you don't agree with the Willow Heights plan, that's fine too. Let's keep the personalities out of it, okay? All right, who would be next? Thank you.
 I might be I'm Robert Stafford 123 South University Avenue Ward 2. I might be a little repetitive I'll try not to be and I already prepared my remarks, but it Straightforward I'm against implementing the five-year plan as it stands and I would like to Express my reasons why which may be somewhat personal. I
 first I'd like to thank the mayor and the council for hearing public comment this evening and for also holding this special session with what's a very important issue I'd also like to further thank the council for appointing Melissa Terry to the FHA board recently without this appointment I doubt we'd be here tonight we wouldn't know what's going on and how deeply flawed the FHA board has been she's really shown a light on that and and add to this it
 A FLAWED WILLOW HEIGHT SALE AND RELOCATION OF ITS RESIDENTS IS THE OBVIOUS MISMANAGEMENT AND DERELICTION OF EVEN SIMPLE MAINTENANCE TO THE PROPERTIES UNDER ITS CONTROL AND FAILURE TO OBTAIN NECESSARY FUNDING THROUGH WHAT SEEMS SHARE INEPTITUDE. I'LL ADMIT MY WORDS ARE NOT GOING TO BE NICE AND I'M A LITTLE BIT ANGRY AS WE ALL SHOULD BE. THIS IS NOT HOW FAYETTEVILLE TREATS ITS RESIDENTS.
 And it can't be allowed to continue. I've had the opportunity to visit both Willow Heights and Lewis Plaza recently. I've documented what I've seen in photographs and I will share these with the council as soon as I can. But simply put, as we all know by now, these housing units are in a deep state of disrepair and even simple maintenance of the grounds is seemingly absent.
 A few of my observations, sandbags piled against back units holding back standing water, sidewalks and stairs covered in dirt, rocks and debris, and debris on stairs and landings, black mold inside of units, bricks missing from the tops of walls, and I can go on. The sum of these issues creates hazardous and unsafe space for the residents who live there. One picture I took clearly shows missing bricks from the top of a wall at Willow Heights.
 Baby carriages. Do the math. Is that what we want? We want bricks falling on baby carriages? I don't think so. Whose job is that? I'm not sure, but I know whose job it supposedly isn't. I may be beating a dead horse here, but it's not Chris White's job.
 At the last FHA board meeting, which I'm sure you've heard, and which I had a great displeasure watching, Chris White repeatedly and rudely interrupted and mansplained to Melissa Terry that whatever it is she was trying to discuss was not my job. That's not my job. You act like that's my job. That's not my job, ad nauseum. The same Chris White who had missed so many meetings that he was in jeopardy of losing his spot on the board. Okay, let's... Okay, I'll move forward. Thank you.
 I do want to use a line from office space that is just so what would you say you do here? The point I'm trying to make is there seems to be a couple of people on the FHA board whose only job is to Do the absolute bare minimum what is required by them and I'm speaking directly of the person I've already mentioned Mike Emory and the director in the executive director Denise Smiley so they're
 I'll skip some of this because you don't want me to say it. Let's see if I get a... I think they've missed multiple opportunities of acquiring additional and available funding obviously through the years. In some cases quite obviously, you know, literally leaving money sitting on the table and letting it slide away. Money that could have been used for the AEC units.
 These people need to ask themselves, why are they serving on this board? If it's not to help the people in need to gain and keep a safe and affordable housing, if it's not to be part of the solution to housing and homelessness, if it's not solving these problems, then they are part of the problem.
 In the case of the proposed and ill-conceived plan to sell Willow Heights and slowly work to centralize all the housing and residents in one area down at Morgan Manor, which is a horrible idea, and look at Detroit and Baltimore and Cleveland and Chicago, and that's what they all did. You know, not only do I think it was important that they seek open bids, but they hired a consultant who appears to have a direct financial interest in the conversion and the sale of Willow Heights. How is that not corrupt?
 How is that not wrong? Personally, I think if the processes go forward at all, they need to open up the bidding process again. This will allow me and my firm, Give Bob Stafford All Your Money in a Sweetheart Deal LLC, a chance of profiteering and stealing from the people in need. But what I really think needs to be done is for people to be kept in their neighborhoods through a process of a rolling rebuild of Willow Heights. I believe this can be achieved.
 So the recent and wildly successful GoFundMe effort that Melissa Terry put in place to get new air conditioners for the residents. Time. Wildly successful. Okay. I take it you don't like the plan. I do not like the plan. All right. Okay. Okay.
 I'm here Jordan. My name is Angela Belford. I live in West Fayetteville Ward 4 and As an ambassador of homelessness I have recently discovered that the reason why it's hard to remember what it's like to have grown up in poverty And experienced homelessness is because there are some feelings that you feel when you are in extreme poverty and when you are dealing with homelessness and those feelings are a feeling of hopelessness and
 being out of control and quite frankly in my case my parents were making decisions that made my life suck more and so what I'm going to ask the council to do I love that you guys have brought this together because I would like for the leadership of our city to first of all like
 Can you believe this many people care about public housing? That's fantastic. I'm happy to talk to you all about homelessness as well. But I would love for us to begin to make decisions to make people's lives suck less. As someone who was raised like this, that's my request. More specifically, related to the five-year plan,
 There is an opportunity for us to increase funding through housing choice vouchers. Housing choice vouchers we could have applied for in June up to a million dollars in vouchers to be able to address homelessness. There's nothing in our housing authority that allows them because of their current funding restraints to be able to prioritize people experiencing homelessness.
 As a result, our organization, the continuum of care, which is also graded by HUD, also reduces points. And I didn't have time to pull that up, but I think it's about 18 of the 200 points that we have an opportunity to lose because none of our housing authorities are able to prioritize homelessness.
 Now I understand that vouchers are not the end-all be-all. However, we've hired a strategic consultant who is beginning to help us research very creative ways to increase our housing stock. And having those vouchers in place here will be critical to us being able to use some of those creative funding options that our strategic consultant has already implemented in several other communities. These are tested options.
 practices. These are not things that we've just came up with ourselves. Other people are doing this. It turns out you actually can solve homelessness for veterans, for chronically homeless, and housing vouchers are a major critical piece. We can increase our grant funding through the efforts of like what City of Fayetteville takes care of a lot of our homeless
 grant services, we could increase that for permanent supportive housing this year by about $66,000. That's what we'll be applying for at the cost of homelessness. That's about $11,000 a year, so we can help about six more people. With a million dollars in housing choice vouchers, that number gets a lot bigger.
 At $1 million, you're talking about 125 people or so that we could help for just the housing portion of that. That relates to the number of people that are currently camping in this 19th Street property. We estimate between 80 and 120 people. So 120 people, 125 vouchers. This is real money. So if you could please...
 Councilman Marsh add to your List of recommendations to have some type of priority for people experiencing homelessness Because that will have a direct impact on exactly how much more federal funding that we can get for our community at large Thank you I was just going to reaffirm that what you're asking us to do is to add to our resolution the request
 to have the housing choice vouchers and homelessness as a priority. That's correct, yeah. And you have specific...
 information on how this is implemented that's correct so we looked at doing that this year and it was determined that the Housing Authority didn't have the capacity at this time to be able to apply for that funding and we did approach them with city official as well as a private foundation to be able to help with the grant writing process
 And it is true that having vouchers today will be difficult, but you've got to, it's a puzzle. We've got to work all the pieces of the puzzle. So if you can specifically prioritize people experiencing homelessness as a portion of the vouchers we receive, then yes, we do have some methodology for taking care of that. Thank you for bringing this to our attention. I think that's a critical point. Thank you.
 You're inspirational. I know you well and your story well, and I really appreciate that you bring your life experience and you bring it forward to help our community. Thanks so much. You bet. Yeah, Matthew has a question. Angela, did I just hear you say that you brought forward an opportunity for a capacity grant or something like that for grant writing? Yes.
 So what was offered is the opportunity for Assistance in writing the grant and what was the result of that offer? That it was determined that the Housing Authority Currently didn't have staff capacity to be able to manage additional vouchers. Okay. Thank you I
 in your experience with other programs like that and
 Are there additional ways to fund extended capacity so that if they had those vouchers, they could add a staff person to manage them? What's the story behind that part? So I can't speak specifically to that, but I know that on our priority, the continuum of care priority, very moved higher to the top of our list this year is what does it take to increase that capacity, and whether that's private foundation or
 The Continuum of Care, as many of you know, had a community meeting this year where we explained this is what's going on with homelessness, here's our strategic plan, we've hired a consultant, they've helped eight other cities be able to end homelessness in those eight other cities. And we presented this to the community and as a result, a private donor said, our consultant said these guys have done this on volunteer.
 they need staff. And so we had a private donor that gave us money to staff, to add a staff member for two and a half years. So while I don't know the specifics on exactly what that is, we have had great success on being able to leverage private funding for those type of requests. And I, yeah, we'll leave it there. So just to summarize that, you'd say your experience has been that the Northwest Arkansas community has a philanthropic attitude that would
 probably be willing to step up if the need were known? Perhaps, yes. Based on the GoFundMe that funded $15,000 in less than 10 days, I would say yes, sir. Ms. Belford, good evening, and thank you for being such an effective advocate for the homeless, the least of these in our city. Thank you. You're a very strong advocate, and we appreciate your perspective. Thank you. I'll echo what Councilmember
 Kenyon said, thank you for bringing it to our attention. I think this needs to be added. Sarah, add it to your list. Good. We'll include it in the five-year plan that actually we adopt. Thank you. And I forgive you for not calling me back. Bye.
 Okay, I thought you were it on phone tags, seriously. Thank you, Angela, very much. Thank you so much. I would like to say one more thing, is that I do believe that everybody in this equation, from Denise Smiley to everybody, everyone is doing the very best they can with the information that they have and the experience that they have. And I know that the only way we've been able to make a change in homelessness is we went out in
 the national sphere and we found a consultant that actually had helped someone else and we changed our perspective so based on their perspective I do believe they have the best meaning at heart. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Denise Smiley I'm the executive director of the Payable Housing Authority that used to work at Walmart.
 17 years I worked as a state prosecutor, worked with the chief of police, Kit Williams, a lot of you here. So I wore the white hat, if you may. The Housing Authority, I have been the executive director for four years. And in that four years, I've done everything I can to follow the orders of the board of the Housing Authority. And for that, I've been attacked, harassed.
 My reputation has been maligned. Just like you thought it was funny to say I was the Walmart attorney. We do have a program, Housing Choice Voucher for Homeless Veterans. And we have 130 vouchers. And those are leased out. So we do realize homelessness is a problem. I also want to let you know that every month when we have a board meeting, I announce that we have open vouchers.
 In fact, we just returned $40,000 to HUD because those vouchers were not filled. So unless those homeless persons, and they were veterans, were brought to our office, we could not house them or we couldn't help them to find housing assistance. So we do recognize there is a need. Also, I would ask that you talk to Yolanda Fields, and she can tell you about the problems you have with
 finding homes for homeless people. There's more than vouchers, not having vouchers is a problem. We have the executive director from the Springdale Housing Authority here as well. So maybe we can get that on their list to make homelessness a priority as well. Know that we have 600 and something people on our waiting list.
 Well, I don't know if it's waiting. I take that back. We presently take care of 600 and something people providing rental assistance now. So although we think homelessness is a priority, what about the priority of those people who've been on the waiting list for two years? So are you going to turn these people away and say, look, I'm sorry, you're not important now.
 Because we don't look at somebody else. Even though you've been on the waiting list for two years, we're going to push you aside and give someone else priority. Let's just be fair. We have our consultant here who drafted up that five-year plan. So if you have any questions for him about how that was written, he's here. His name is Randy Hesham.
 And the duplicate papers that you might have is we have two programs, we have two numbers, AR097, which is our public housing property, and AR181, which is our Section 8 program. So if you see some duplicates, that's because we have to have certifications for each plan and in such there might be the same type of goals and that type of thing.
 Finally, I'd like to say, starting March 4th of 2017, Councilman Sarah Marsh has been trying to get rid of our Board of Commissioners, and it has been spoken over and over again. And I have a letter here from the City Attorney. In response to your comment that a house cleaning of the Board may be in order, I call your attention to the City Council's statutory authority to remove commissioners.
 Although petition of removal action was contemplated once by some of the federal city council members about a decade a decade ago Over a violation of the freedom of information meeting requirements. No formal action was undertaken I do not think that any removal action has ever occurred Least since the beginning of my service as a city council member in 1992 since the executive director is primarily responsible for day-to-day operations of the federal housing glory and
 Even though a violation may have occurred, it would be difficult to remove a commissioner. 30 seconds. I say that this started 2017 when Matthew Petty said, okay, we're going to put her on her to be Melissa Terry to be a watchdog over the housing authority because you all have overthrown your authority. We are doing our jobs, and this is just a conspiracy on the part of the city council
 to remove this board of commissioners. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address us? My name is Evelyn Rios Stafford. I live at 123 South University, and I wanted to thank the mayor and the city council for holding the special session and especially for hearing public comment. I'm going to talk regarding only the FHA's five-year plan, which I believe needs to be modified.
 I spent 20 years working as a journalist with ABC television, and I've tried to put those journalistic skills to work to figure out what's going on here, and it hasn't been easy. Hardly any of the background information is easily accessible by the public. A lot of it is buried in hours of video of public meetings and documents that you have to specifically request if you know the documents exist. This works against transparency as far as the general public is concerned.
 Now, having said that, here's some of what I've managed to find out. And most of my concerns have to do with the contract with the consultant developers in this Morgan Manor Willow Heights plan. In April 2015, the Fayetteville Housing Authority entered into a new contract with RAD Conversion Specialists, LLC, the same Michigan-based company that previously converted Morgan Manor into public-private Section 8 housing.
 Now doing a RAD conversion is not unusual in and of itself. The city of San Francisco where I used to live has done a lot of it under the former mayor. However, Congresswoman Maxine Waters and others have expressed concerns about how some of these conversions are being carried out. Not every public housing agency hires developer consultants to carry out a RAD conversion. Some hire consultants to do just some of the work. Some manage the entire process in-house.
 I have yet to discover whether or not the FHA did an open bid when they first decided to hire a developer consultant on the Willow Heights project. It's not required, but it is good governance. And not every public housing agency enters into the same kind of deal that the FHA has entered into with RAD Conversion Specialist LLC. I've had a chance to look at the contract and at a memo that RCS's Eric Gold sent to the mayor and city council last October saying,
 According to the memo, the developer in the deal, and that's them, stands to earn up to $600,000 in fees tied to a tax credit. That's 80% of a capped maximum of $750,000. In exchange for that $600,000, here's what they're doing. Selecting the project engineer or architect, reviewing third-party reports, preparing and submitting the application to the state of Arkansas for a tax credit —I'll get to that in a second—
 And finally, providing certain guarantees regarding the completion of construction, operating deficits, and tax credit recaptures. I'm no expert on this yet, but I question whether those four things are worth paying an outside private developer consultant $600,000. Now, we all know that the state tax credit was declined last year. It appears, perhaps, that part of the reason was that the Morgan Manor expansion was going to be built at a cost of about $145 per square foot.
 That's way above the city average and even above the cost of some custom homes around here. It sounds like an expensive development. And I'll just emphasize again, the developer is also the consultant.
 Now, it appears that instead of significantly altering their development plans after the tax credit didn't go through, their new strategy seems to be trying to lobby the state of Arkansas to change their scoring system and to try to apply for the same tax credit all over again for nearly the same plan.
 Meanwhile, it also turns out that the still pending deal to sell the Willow Heights Public Housing Project is preventing FHA from applying for much needed community development block grant funds. Those funds could be used for things like drainage improvements at the complex, new playground equipment, or even energy efficient window air conditioning units. But the ambiguity of the Willow Heights deal has put those funds out of reach.
 Now you probably all know about the private GoFundMe that was launched to buy AC units for residents. It shouldn't have to come to this. They could have been applying for those community development block grant funds. I'm happy to say today the GoFundMe passed its goal of raising $15,000 for that project.
 Meanwhile, these revelations directly contradict what consultant Robert Beale of Rad Conversion Specialists LLC told the FHA at a public meeting on June 28, 2018. Regarding the pending contract to sell Willow Heights by the year 2022, Beale said, my recommendation to you would be to not get out of the contract or even try. It doesn't hurt you to keep it. There is no harm in what you're doing.
 No harm the residents of Willow Heights who are suffering through the summer heat might have a different opinion Doesn't Fayetteville public housing residents deserve to hear from truly independent consultants? While this rad conversion may or may not be the best course of action Don't they deserve to hear from independent consultants hired in an open bid process who do not have a financial stake in the outcome time? Thank you Jennifer Cole one North School Street in Fayetteville and
 Department 1005. I want to thank you for holding this council meeting and keep this as short as I can I'd like to thank you for holding this and I'd like to thank the citizens for raising the funds for the air conditioners At Willow Heights. I think that's a big step to show what our community can do when they care and
 I'd like to just say pretty quickly that I can't begin to understand the five-year plan, but what I'd like to ask of the council is to recognize the need for every penny to go to the upkeep of the three developments that we have because they're obviously in disarray.
 We all live there because we have to. It's obviously not a choice that we want to live in public housing. However it goes, we have to work together as a community to make these the best places we can. And whether it becomes another development and not Willow Heights,
 that they move to these funds need to go to the upkeep and the maintenance of the places we live because everybody deserves fair Healthy housing and it doesn't matter who you are how poor you are how everybody deserves a fair healthy place to live Thank you. Thank you. We also like to address Good evening Mary Jordan finance bill Reagan. I live at 241 East 13th Street Ward 1 and
 It says in the FHA website that we promote adequate and affordable housing, economic opportunity, and suitable living environment free from discrimination in an environment that fosters self-sufficiency and community pride. When your public housing assets are all in one zip code, there is discrimination like there is now. What is going to happen when it's all at one location on Morgan Manor? Tell me there will be no discrimination there.
 I don't understand why we want to concentrate poverty and sell off our most valuable asset, which is our land. I don't understand that. It doesn't add up, and it's inconsistent with what FHA says it's supposed to do and what they're trying to do. I believe we need an explanation for that. I realize that the Planning Commission barely approved the Morgan Manor expansion and that you and the City Council had to approve it based on certain criteria.
 that didn't include this question. Is this the best move that can be made for the residents of Willow Heights and Morgan Manor, and in turn, all of Fayetteville? I believe that answer is no. FHA board and management will tell you that this has all been approved and it's a done deal. Well, if it's a done deal, why are we here today? Residents of Willow Heights, South Fayetteville, and all of Fayetteville, if this was a done deal, we wouldn't be having this discussion today.
 We've tried to engage the FHA board on keeping Willow Heights and applying for tax credits for renovation instead of new construction. But they seem determined to stay on the same path that they have been on despite growing opposition. Why? I'd like an answer for that. The selling of Willow Heights might have seemed like a plan that could lift a burden off our FHA at the time.
 But once citizens started learning and asking questions about this issue, it should have become clear to our FHA that there are far more and better options available. Look at what happened in the last three days since Willow Heights was built. It's air-conditioned. It's going to be air-conditioned. It's not a miracle. It's looking at a problem from a different point of view.
 We are only limited by our own lack of imagination. There's no harm in admitting that the decision that you made might not have been the best one. I have asked FHA director and the board to take a deep breath and consider all options available because this plan is not good for Fayetteville. Clearly, this board has one goal in mind, and it's fairly rigid in its thinking.
 We need a board that is flexible and open to ideas that make sense for our community. I do not support this five-year plan. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who would like to be next?
 Mr. Mayor, I'm Randy Heschen. I'm a consultant out of Memphis. I helped the housing authority with this plan, the five-year plan. There's been a lot of talk about plans. I'm not here, I don't have any part of Willow Heights or tax credits or any of that stuff. I simply helped put together this underwhelming plan because that's the way HUD wants it, and that's the template I have to use. It could be enhanced upon, which I think it's
 From what I hear today would be something that's requested. We can certainly do that But this is actually the third year. It's an update to the original five-year plan Which was in 2015 the new five-year plan starts 2020 and for the next five years We just update it and we always have a rolling five years Excuse me, which is why you're looking at 2018 through 22 work items So
 That being said, the template for the first of the five-year plans is more extensive. It does have measurable goals and objectives that were mentioned. Those are in there. This can also have those in there if it's the desire of everybody to put that in the three-ring binder that the housing authority can have on their website and at the housing authority itself. That's no problem.
 I just simply put together the work items to get the money. Well, it's not my selection. It's based on what the housing authority tells me that they want to do. So we've got $281,425. We have to spread that out through staff training and consultant fees, site improvements for sidewalks and drainage, and then kitchen renovations at Hillcrest Towers. We...
 We've modified this already to add HVAC at Willow Heights within the five years and also to address the sewer problems at Willow Heights that just came up. So $281,000 is nice, but it doesn't go a long ways. So I'm simply here to present this to HUD and say here's, and that's what they're looking for. They say, what's the budget? Because the money's here, just give me a budget, and the money will be in your bank account. So that's why I'm here.
 Okay. Kyle. Since you're the consultant who worked on this, you're going to get to handle all the hard questions, I suspect, tonight. So I apologize. But can you give us a little bit of information just about the workflow and who prepares what, whether what comes from the consultants, what comes from local input? Sure.
 Basically, I do this. We're a small firm, 10 people. I'm a planner, certified planner. I do this work. I sit down with the housing authority staff. I meet with the board. We discuss these items, and then I come up with budgetary figures based on we have a lot of bids and things we take. We can get means data, that kind of thing. So that's the process. We have a resident meeting. They have the resident meeting. They inform me of the comments and send me the comments, and those are incorporated in here as well.
 And we then have the public hearing process which begins as we've mentioned 45 days prior to the public hearing that's placed in the paper. And then the public hearing is held usually in conjunction with the board for the Fayetteville Housing Authority. And after that, the board typically approves the plan. We send the certification to the mayor for signature. And then we submit the plan to HUD for their approval.
 So that's the process. It's kind of been described as a wish list and very fluid. What sorts of changes do you tend to get made from year to year? That's a good question. It is very fluid. It's very flexible. They can move any item in the five years around. If something's in 2022 that they want to do in 2018, they can bring it forward.
 So that's why the plan is to try to be a little bit general, to try and hit areas, hit all areas, Lewis, Willow, Hillcrest, hit those. So should the housing authority and the board decide to do something, they've got that ability. And since I guess since you're keeping it fluid, you can move things around. But the the.
 You don't know what you're going to get each year, so you just keep using the same. Next year, for 19, they would base that on the $281,000, which was about a $90,000 increase from last year, which was huge. Everybody got a lot more money. I don't know why. Next year could be less. It's nice this year. It's nice, yeah. Yeah.
 And so you're planning from year to year based on crossing your fingers that it at least stays the same and we deal with it as it comes? This process happens every year, so next year they will know the exact amount for 2019. And that number is based on? Number of units, the age of the units, that kind of thing. Okay. So this whole plan seems somewhat predicated on the RAD conversion of Willow Heights and Lewis Plaza. Okay.
 When those are converted, will that change the amount that we plan for? Yes. Because Morgan Manor is already out of the public housing stock, they reduced the figure. They would have gotten a lot more money at the housing authority, but there's 52 units that are no longer public housing.
 And the same would apply to Willow and Lewis if they went RAD. So why doesn't that show up in the year-to-year numbers if we know that following the plan the way it is, the RAD conversion happens, those drop off the public housing side. Why are those numbers not reduced in the plan? Right now we don't have any idea what those figures would be.
 There's no way of calculating for me to calculate what the reduction is going to be. It's not a simple dollar amount per unit. It's a whole lot of factors. It's a HUD formula, and it hasn't gone through. We'll change this plan as it goes along. And it's hard to plan because no firm decision has been made on what to do with Willow and Lewis. I know there's needs. I know the people here want air conditioning, understandably. I try to put in what...
 I'm told to put it in the plan. Can you just, last one, can you kind of describe the improvements that are included in there? You said you needed to spread it around all three properties. What is in there for Willow Heights and Lewis Plaza? Well, I think in Willow we did add sewer line improvements in 18. Okay.
 And then HVC in the second or third year. And really, we didn't address Lewis specifically. I don't recall that we did. This is an older version I'm looking at, but we can always go back and add HVC or anything to Lewis. We've got general categories like site improvements. That can be done anywhere. That's tripping hazards, tree trimming, sidewalk repair, ramps for handicap accessibility, anything in the dirt. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Okay, Mark.
 Having served on the Housing Authority, I do know how fluid this is and how unpredictable year to year. Unless I'm missing a line item, I don't see this improvement of Willow Heights in this plan. Okay. We'll get you a new copy. It should be in there. Maybe you have an older copy. It should be in 2018. Okay. I know it's in there. Maybe not what you're looking at. Okay.
 I know that was mentioned at the meeting. Yeah, but I mean at the meeting. I think Denise mentioned that 2020 would be in the air. I remember correctly.
 If the council doesn't have any more questions, I would like to have a question. Sure, absolutely. A previous speaker said that there was a contract to sell Willow Heights, of course, that's been in effect for a while. I don't know exactly. I haven't seen the contract. Is it, I don't know if it's right of first refusal or just an option to purchase? Do you know what it is? I have no idea. I know there is a contract.
 I haven't seen it. I haven't been involved with that. Okay. Now, would the fact that there is a contract to sell Willow Heights not have some effect on the availability of HUD funds to improve a project that's just about to get sold? I mean, that's what the other speaker said. Is that correct? Not necessarily. Okay.
 You can't just outright sell it to somebody, even though there's a contract. You have to apply to the Special Application Center in Chicago for permission. Right, I realize that. And that takes months to get that approval, months. And so upon approval, then you go out for competitive purchase bids. Yes.
 So I'm saying that it's going to be a couple years. So they're supposed to be competitive purchase bids? That's my understanding, yes. Well, then how could there be already a contract to sell? I don't know. I haven't been involved with that. I don't know if that's legal with HUD or not. Okay, thank you. Okay.
 All right, Mark. Everybody. Mark, do you have anything else? I'm sorry. Don. Mayor, just a question. It's been coming to the mayor's office. It's along the lines of what Kyle asked. So in the plan, it's fluid between moving something from a future year to a current year.
 How does it handle items that were not in the plan listed within the five-year plan period? Then you have to do a revision to the plan, which requires another resident consultation, another public hearing. And it's about a 45-day process. It's not difficult. Okay, so the fluidness of this plan is only allowed within the items that are currently listed within the plan. That's right. Yes, sir. Okay. Sarah. Okay.
 Thank you. I'm looking at in the City of Fayetteville's consolidated plan where it describes the restoration and revitalization needs of public housing units, and I don't see any mention of interior improvements to Willow Heights or
 Lewis Plaza. Lewis Plaza. And not even on the budget, but just in the narrative. It's not included. And then I look at the five-year plan, which is the budget, and I see, say, for example, I...
 year 2019, I have $1,000 for operations, $5,000 for staff training, $40,000 for consultant costs and $14,000 for ranges and refrigerators. I guess my question is, why are we paying $40,000 in consultant costs if the only thing in the budget is swapping out ranges and refrigerators at $14,000?
 There's this RAD conversion, these people. You have consultants that do studies, salary comparability studies. You have the design of an architect, an engineer for the kitchen renovations, if it were going on at Hillcrest, or the sewer line replacement at Willow Heights, or maybe not the air conditioning, if you're just putting a window in. So all of these things that I don't see in the capital improvement plan, and I mean, I wish that somebody would pay me $40,000 to do some bathroom renovations.
 These are not set figures. This is not set. It may be $5,000 out of 40 that gets spent. You move the extra money. Right. It just looks like as I go through the plan all the way to 2022, we are spending far more on consultant costs than we are on capital improvements or even the operating costs that are allocated in the budget. And it just seems that there's a disproportionate allocation of funds to consultants as opposed to real improvements that could be benefiting these people. Right.
 from day to day. And then you also said that you had included public comment in the proposal, but then I'm seeing that there was a statement that there was no public comment on this five-year plan. Is that correct? In the five-year plan, yes, that's correct. Yes, nobody showed up for the public hearing. No one showed up for the public hearing, so there has been no public comment on the five-year plan. Thank you.
 Okay, all right just one more thing on the consultant fees the you mentioned the rad consultant Which I think under that contract is $2,000 a month or at least 24,000 a year and
 But the consultant fees on here range between $30,000 and $60,000. So it jumps from my best calculation is a little under 11% in 2020 to over 21% of the budget in 2021. What accounts for the widely varying numbers in consultants? I mean, what do we expect to have happen in 2021 that's not happening the other years? Nothing, really. I mean, those are arbitrary figures that can be reduced, certainly. Okay.
 This is a rolling five years, so 2021 will get revised again and again and again before it arrives. But those figures are simply arbitrary. They can be reduced down to more acceptable, palatable numbers. Sorry, I was looking at something else. Any other questions? Thank you. Thank you. Can I have one more clarification, if I may? Sure. Deconcentration, just from HUD's viewpoint, is looking at all your public housing developments income, so you have three.
 the average income for all three, and then looking at the average income for Lewis, the average income for Willow, and the average income for Hillcrest Towers. If there's a 15% variance up or down, then they consider that to be unacceptable, and you have to address that. That's what they mean by deconcentration. That's in the template as well. Okay, Kyle, I had prompted another question. So... You too. Okay.
 So you're saying that concentrations of poverty are only calculated within the FHA-owned properties? From HUD's viewpoint, yes. It's an income analysis. So if you're 100% now and you move them all into one, four properties onto one, you're still at 100% and you haven't had that 15% variance? Yeah, as I said. Even though you've moved them out of four separate census tracts and all into one? That's a planning question rather than...
 agency plan issue but as far as HUD's concerned deconcentration is not concentrating either lower income people all in one area or higher income people in another area they want it spread out evenly amongst all of them and as you rad convert properties and take them off the public housing role and move them into section 8 does that how does that change the calculation by HUD standards well and for instance if you did say Willow went rad and then you had Lewis and Hillcrest only you would take the average between those two and compare
 So you no longer have to count the low-income people that you've moved off of public housing? Right. RAD is out of public housing. So we're looking to get out of the business of concentration of poverty altogether just by changing where they are on the paperwork? I'm not following that question. Well, if you take them off the public housing income and put them on the Section 8 vouchers...
 in the same property, you haven't moved people around it, but you've changed your total number of heads that you're dividing by. Well, I'm not sure how that plays out. I'm not a RAD person either. I'm simply doing this agency plan. So when I do the deconcentration analysis, but that's for existing public housing. Now, what happens with RAD? And I understand your concerns about, you know, the issues with putting all the people in one area, but that's beyond really what I'm doing with this.
 Well, I'm a math teacher, and that equation doesn't quite work for me. And I understand that maybe that is the HUD standard. I'm definitely going to want to double-check that one. But I have a hard time seeing that definition of measuring concentration of poverty flying by any sort of fatal standard. Mark? Bottom line is Morgan Manor is no longer...
 counted because it's RAD converted. And so we could put everyone down there and it doesn't count into the concentration equation. And to me, that is working around the meaning of concentration of poverty. Well, that may be, but the way... No, I think it is. I don't think it's a maybe. Okay, that's fair. It is. It's a way not to count what used to be public housing, because now it's RAD,
 And we do, we take it out of the equation so then it's no longer maybe a HUD definition, but it is indeed a fact. Right. And that's something for the commission. So you're saying if we move everybody that's in poverty down to Morgan Manor, they're no longer counted as poverty? In public housing, HUD's public housing view...
 They're only looking at public housing. I mean, that's a whole different issue. You know, if you're going to convert these people to RAD and move them all to one area, that certainly is concentrating them. But in the analysis that HUD is looking for with this particular agency plan, they want to see public housing developments compared to each other. Mayor, I might just add that this is one of the reasons why the Housing Authority plan is evaluated against the city's overall comprehensive plan.
 to ensure so your comprehensive plan, your comprehensive plan, not theirs, talks about having available, attainable, affordable housing in all quadrants of the city. The direction in your 2040 master plan update is about multiple growth concept areas so that people can have affordable housing closer to employment, closer to multiple schools. So even in this particular scenario as it relates to our master plan,
 We would want to see future properties in the northern part of town where we have none, in our west coast on the west side of the highway. I guess that's our ocean over there. But we would be looking at, in terms of consistency with your plan,
 having it throughout all wards, all quadrants of the city. That's part of what, if you read the certification of the mayor, it's
 saying that this plan is consistent with the comprehensive plan and your city's overall master plan. And that's part of how, because these are calculations in this application that HUD is going to use for their definition, but the check is how it matches when the mayor or the city or state official signs off to the overall comprehensive plans of either the state or, in this case, the municipality. Okay. Well, John. One last perspective.
 I'd like to put a lot of consultants out of business. Okay? I'd like to see you retrain to do something productive. Yeah. I realize that's not a nice thing to say. All right. But it makes me furious to think you say we have HVAC going in in the second or third year. If my air conditioning goes out, mister, I'm upset by hour number two. I'm trying to get the HVAC people over there today. You're talking two and three years down the road.
 And again, these could be moved around. We had women up here talking about, we don't trust the drinking water in our house where I live, in my dwelling unit. I mean, we're talking immediacy of need. Right. And you're talking this plan down the road. I like the idea of RAD, okay? Why do we need public housing at all? Let private developers build houses and let the government subsidize people who can't afford it.
 Isn't that what RAD is? Yes. We don't need consultants. We don't need public housing. And the private owners of those apartment houses, of those single-family dwellings, have strong economic incentives to keep them in fine working order. I'm not against RAD.
 Exactly. I'm not against RAD. But you realize RAD could put you out of business. Well, I can do something else. I mean, there's... RAD, you know, these units, not just in Fayetteville, everywhere, they're 56 years old. They're just not gonna last forever. I see with RAD, we don't need a Fayetteville Housing Authority. We take that power and we diffuse it through the private marketplace. And everybody, everybody benefits.
 The people who live in public housing get higher quality housing. Right. And that's a concern or consideration for the housing authority and this board? That's fine. Sure. I'm just following their direction. And the plan could be changed according to if the HVC needs to be moved up to 18? Certainly it will be. So you're saying that the plan that was submitted that I'm supposed to sign off on so this thing gets going –
 can some that money could be moved to do air conditioning yes willow heights right unless the plan is amended right yeah the bottom line is we have to serve people
 And if we have people living with no air conditioning or living with substandard drinking water, we're failing. We're not meeting our goals. I'm making that point to you because as you've heard about mold remediation, lead poisoning, water quality, air condition...
 leaking facilities, if those are things that are not itemized within your plan, you can't move them around until they're amended in your plan. It's the only point I'm making. So air conditions are in it, as we're being told. I hear you, Collin. We need to make sure that we've got the last plan because this is... Yolanda, are you here? Yes.
 The plan that is in the legislature system that we printed for the council. Can you come up to the podium, please? No, I don't. Well, I got some improvements on that. Yeah, you're right. Is this the latest plan that has been received from the Fayetteville Housing Authority? Yes. Okay.
 So if it is not, if it has been changed since we have received this or that was received on the 10th, I believe, the original one was the 20th of July. Yes. Or 20th of June. Yes.
 We have an updated one on the 10th of July that the board approved. The updated one, to my knowledge, the only difference is that it had signed documents in it. Right, which was a requirement from our city attorney and clerk's offices in order for it to be through the process of the city. Correct, but the plan itself did not change. Okay, so if you all don't see it.
 and you say it's in it then an item we need to make sure is that we have the latest plan for the council I think I found it in year 5 2022 there's pha wide hvac six units 33 000 after
 Four years of kitchen renovations throughout Hillcrest. So that amount could be moved to an earlier year for that dollar amount. Well, the dollar amount can go up. It can go to $281,000 if you want it to. But what you've allocated to it at this point, based on the direction of the board and the executive staff.
 Is that dollar amount? Yes. Okay. And they updated – now, that's in what you're looking at, unfortunately. The one that has been changed has Willow in it in two years, 19 and 20, I believe, which we can move that up. You know, you can move that up. And can they be moved between facilities? So if they see it in Morgan Manor and they wanted to use it in Willow Heights –
 Can they change the facility without an amendment? Yes, not Morgan. If it's specifically mentioned as Lewis HVAC, Willow Heights HVAC, then those can be moved around. So the non-red properties. Right. Okay, thank you. So in the meeting that I watched, there was some number of 2020 by air conditionings being put at Willow Heights. Did I get the wrong date on that? It's in 2022 then? No.
 The air conditioning is going to, if I can get you a revised spreadsheet. I was just watching the meeting. Yeah, I was at the board meeting in June. There was some sort of discussion about the air conditioning. I mean, it's in the five years, but it may not be. I thought a date on that, but maybe there wasn't. It can be moved. It can be changed. Okay. Okay.
 I have a question. Yeah, I'm sorry, Mark. Yes. Okay, we're talking about air conditioning at Willow Heights. Obviously, there's been private funding already that is going to get that. So it's done. Our community stepped up to the plate. Yeah. So if we need to have mold removal and some other...
 improvements does that need to be in here as a line item it does it as such it does because fees and costs includes testing for those items but actual remediation would be a separate line item yes okay so we've got to be sure that those line items are included somewhere within the next five years to move them from one year to the next
 to another. That can be done easily. Thank you. And it needs to get done because we've got a deadline for next Tuesday. I got you. It'll be done. It'll be taken care of. Okay. Adele. I'm sorry, Adele. Okay. My question is
 Now, you said air conditioning for Morgan was in there, but is air conditioning for Willow Heights? If I said Morgan, I misspoke. It's for Willow Heights. Okay. Morgan's out of public housing, so we can't use capital fund money for Morgan Manor. So what I hear you saying is that this is the plan that the FHA asked you to –
 Ask you to draw up, correct? Yes, ma'am. And mold was not mentioned? No, there was mention of the testing, not actual remediation of the mold. No, I would have put that in here, but this is easily remedied. I can add all that in quickly, well before the Tuesday deadline. Okay. What about, what do we do about holes in the ceilings and leaking in the apartments? Yes.
 Where can we put that? That would have to be specifically addressed or taken care of with non-capital improvement money being reserves that the Housing Authority would contribute. One thing about this plan, too, is you can put money into this operations line, which that simply means putting it from this capital fund program into the Housing Authority bank account. No ties to it at all. So you can put up to 20%. So that's $50,000 or more.
 That could go for things like that. Okay. Thank you. Okay. And is that a part of what the council has in front of them? There's an operations line item in here. It's very small. It's like $1,000, but it can be bumped up as well. Okay.
 Since you mentioned the reserves, do you have any idea how big the FHA reserves are? I do not know. I'm sure we can get somebody else to answer that eventually. And I do want to set the record straight. I was looking at the file that we got last week. The new one that we received today does have...
 Willow Heights air conditioners 2020 listed at 30 units. So thank you. It's on our new handout Anything else well, thank you. Okay. Thank you. All right who would like to be next? Good evening, mr. Mayor My name is Mike Emory. I'm currently the chairman of the Housing Authority Board of Commissioners and I
 Probably right now one of the most hated men in this room. This discussion tonight has been eye-opening for everybody, I'm sure. I want to make a couple points out if I could. One, about the conversion to RAD. The board was notifier advised several years ago, and I'm sorry I don't have the exact date now, that HUD as a whole is moving, wants to move the whole nation to RAD.
 So with that in mind, that's part of the way we have been working as a board towards that. And that's been several years ago. Yes. I don't have the exact date on that right now. I apologize. Citizen engagement. Completely agree that we need more citizen engagement. There was an editorial in the Democrat Gazette this morning. I just want to pull one quote of that real quick.
 The Housing Authority Board is a public body responsible for administering Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development funding for public housing and rental assistance. Despite the board's public nature, most of the time local attendance demonstrates a sad reality. Public housing isn't usually high on the list of concerns for most Fayetteville residents, business owners, and politicians. Sad to say, until news broke that we had planned to sell Willow Heights and build a Morgan Manor, that's how our meetings were.
 We were lucky to get two members of the public show up. All of our meetings are advertised in the same manner as every one of the city council meetings are. We can't force people to come. So we've been moving ahead with everything we could, with all the knowledge we could, to do the best that we could. Have there been mistakes? Probably. But everybody, every person makes a mistake. Every member of the Housing Authority Board, and most especially every member of the...
 FHA staff go into this with the best of intentions possible, and they work diligently. I mean, I couldn't be more proud of the work our staff puts in. Ever since the sale was announced, and we've seen an example of it tonight, the staff at FHA and board members have not been approached with, what can we do to help? What can we do? Can we sit down and talk and figure something out?
 Rather, it was attacks. I got, personally, just speaking for myself, I can't speak for every board member, I received phone calls, texts, emails that were so vile in nature, some of them. I actually asked the police department to have officers at some of our meetings. That's how concerned I was about what was happening. As a board, we welcome the input, helpful input. If you go into something attacking somebody,
 you're going to automatically have a defensive screen go up. I'll admit I've done that. I've been in that position with this. And any offense I might have brought along the way, I do apologize for because that's not how I was raised. It was a defensive reaction. Growing up through my life, through my childhood, at various points, I've been beneficiary of services such as FHA and other lower income things.
 I understand, I have in my heart what our residents go through. I feel for them every day. I'm in touch with at least one of our residents every single day in some form, whether it's through a phone call, face-to-face, social media. I want to know what's going on. That's the whole reason we got into this is to help people. Now, the sale of Willow Heights and the plan for Morgan Manor was done with the best intentions.
 All the best information we had possible at the time. It's not perfect We admitted in this room during planning that it was not a perfect plan But it's the best we had at the time to go forward with now see I'm out of time. So Okay
 Thank you. Earlier you had mentioned that a few years ago you'd been informed that HUD wants to move to RAD. Yes. Where did that information come from? It was in one of our meetings, and if I remember correctly, I can try to go back and verify, I want to say it was one of our consultants who had been in touch with RAD.
 I mean, not RAD with HUD, pardon me. So it was a consultant. Can you describe for me the process of selecting the RAD consultants and how you determined which consultant to hire as a board? Honestly, I can't at this moment because it's been so long ago. I couldn't give you all the details. I can try to find that information for you, though. I would appreciate that information. And then can you describe the citizen engagement process in your long-range planning efforts and just in general? Sure.
 Well, as I mentioned, every meeting we have is advertised in the same manner every city council meeting has. Every tenant meeting, on top of that, is posted at all of the facilities, knocked on doors, face-to-face, where the case may be. I would suggest we continue going forward with that and try to work more to get more of that engagement.
 Okay, and can you describe for me, until this latest incident, what was the average attendance of a Fayetteville Housing Authority meeting? As I mentioned earlier, average two people, maybe three, depending on what the topic was. Or in some cases, they had a babysitter with them. Okay, and what date and time are your meetings usually held and where? Last Thursday of every month.
 At 6 o'clock in room 111 of this building. On occasion, they're moved up to the third floor depending on scheduling within City Hall. At City Hall. And then when the public hearing was held for the five-year plan, what was the date and time and location of that public hearing? Okay.
 Are you referring to the special meeting we had or the one before that? The one that apparently no one showed up to, the required public hearing that was required for HUD. I don't have that day off handy. Come on up, Denise. Yeah.
 Apologize I don't have the date with me It was he was held on June 28th if that was our board meeting date at 3 30 that afternoon It was advertised in the newspaper that there was going to be a meeting we posted all the notices So and where was that meeting held? I?
 At the Fayetteville Housing Authority's office. And is that at Hillcrest Towers? Yes. At Hillcrest Towers. We have a community room there. Okay. At 3.30 on the afternoon, that was a Thursday? Whatever the day our board meeting was. So it was a work day? Yeah. It was a work day. At 3.30 in the afternoon. Yes. Thank you. And no one attended. Thank you. Okay. Adele. Yes. I have a question. Okay.
 For actually the whole board. Now, Mike, you said you were in touch with various residents fairly often. At least once a day I'm speaking to, excuse me, at least one a day I'm speaking with. So, and they were not making you aware of the mold and the holes in the ceiling and the leaking and...
 They were not making you aware of any of those problems? They were, and as protocol goes for tracking work orders and paper trail, I advised them to call the office and report it to maintenance. Some do, some don't. So how is it that...
 When you were looking at the plan and telling the consultant what to put in the plan, how is it you didn't put in there anything about the mold and these severe problems? As we mentioned, the plan is fluid, and I might be mistaken on it. It's my understanding that in part of the... What was that item? There was one line of items that we could use that would cover those sorts of things. And I apologize I'm not having that...
 right now under operations like you said it could be expanded and we could address those under that one line item but it wasn't mentioned in the plan so it kind of I mean if the problems have been there for a good while well these buildings and housing authorities across the country have had these built have had these issues for decades sure so um
 They all should have been addressed earlier on. I don't know if they had financial problems at that time either. All I can say is that our maintenance crews are doing everything they can to take care of those issues. As far as it being in the plan itself, like I said, I was personally under the assumption that it would be covered under the operations line item that we could increase and move forward. Yeah, from what we've heard and from what I heard and,
 in watching that July 9th meeting, it's pretty hard for me to understand how I could be thinking about taking care of those citizens and not have it in the plan. Well, I can just reiterate that in my heart, I'm trying to do everything I can to best serve the residents. At that July 9th meeting, it immediately was not a stellar performance. There is...
 and we've addressed this before, I believe, maybe in here and in other board meetings, there is tension between the board members that stem all the way back to when the sale of Morgan Manor, excuse me, the sale of Willow Heights and the construction of Morgan Manor was announced, and the flak that was received. There's a lot of open wounds that some of us are struggling very hard to heal and get over. Sure. If I may. Sure.
 I prepared a list of consultant costs, and I thought I'd send it to the assistant attorney. I don't know if you all have it.
 But anyway, it lists different ones and one of the things we paid was Snyder Environment and it was asbestos abatement. We paid $6500 for two units. So we are taking care of those issues. They may not have been mentioned in the plan but a lot of this stuff is paid through my operations account.
 And so if it's not a line item, I'm able to capture and take care of those things to my operation costs. We have money in our budget every year. So what is not captured in our capital funds, because it's a very limited amount, I can cover with my operating funds. And so, I mean, this will kind of let you know what we paid in consultant costs.
 And a lot of it is remediation of things. And so, as there are 227, we're having moving foundations at Lewis Plaza. So we're in the process of getting some estimates because we're about to lose two more units at Lewis Plaza because of moving foundation. So these are the things that we're addressing.
 And foundation issues, if you kind of look at things, that's huge. You know, people can't live in them. And it's my understanding, thank you, sure, of course the black mold is a terribly... Well, we have not had any cause of black mold yet.
 Even though we've heard people say they've been lead poisoning, we tested our properties and there is no lead, at least according to those tests. Now, I'm not an expert, so if they're wrong, they have been tested. We're getting ready to have Hillcrest Towers tested again because it's an elderly disabled site. And in the past, HUD never required those units to be tested. So we do everything that HUD requires us to do.
 As far as the water, I have contacted the state health department. And because of the water break last week,
 They told us that we had to postpone taking any water samples until the water, the boil order was done and that the line was clear. So we have been in contact. He was here last week, but because of the water break, we weren't able to take those water samples. We do take those complaints and concerns seriously, but sometimes we're not able to because of things beyond our powers.
 And regarding the water break, there had been leaks earlier, is that correct? Yes. In fact, the week before we had fixed a water leak in one of the units at 30D. No, I'm talking about in that pipe that broke. Not in that particular pipe, in the complex itself, but not in that pipe. At the time that this pipe was repaired,
 They had to use a jackhammer, hammer, to remove the sidewalk. Yes. So nobody had ever been looked at that pipe is what I'm trying to say. So when that pipe broke, two days of work, but we got it taken care of.
 So, you know, there's been things saying like, well, maintenance was not maintained. Well, unless you go into those water lines which are underneath the ground, underneath the sidewalks, then we're not going to know there is a water line break. I have invoices to show all the repairs I've had to do on water lines. I have those if anybody wants them.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Can I add one more thing about that water line break? That particular spot was located 14 feet down and underneath a storm drain. Sure, that's what I've heard. So there had not been ever any leaks in that area or on that line? That's my understanding, at least in that particular spot. As far as the rest of that line, I don't know. Thank you.
 Sarah. Thank you. So according to the director, they spent $6,500 to have asbestos removed in two units. And you're saying that you intend, the board intends to continue making these plans, and that is what the operations budget is. Is that correct? That can be included in the operations budget. Okay. Well, I see in 2019, I see $1,000 in the operation budget. Okay.
 That's not going to get us very far. In 2020, I see $1,000 in the operations budget. In 2021, we have $2,500 in the operations budget. And in 2022, we have another $1,000 in the operations budget. So even though our previous consultant informed us that we could put as much as $50,000 in the operations budget, we have one, two, three, four...
 We have less than $6,000 being transferred to our operation budget. So as far as I can consider, that's less than two units in asbestos removal in what is essentially a housing project in a crisis situation. Explain to me how this is acceptable. Can I, once again? Our operating budget is separate from our capital funds.
 So, without looking at it, we're looking at $600,000, $700,000 that we get for operating funds. We can use money from our operating funds to take care of that. So, the $1,000 you're looking at is just allocated from our capital funds. We have an additional operating funds. We have reserves. Those are monies that we have to take care of emergencies like this. And how much is currently in your reserve fund, approximately? Okay.
 Probably about $900,000. So you have $900,000 in reserves and you have people without air conditioning and in-app. HUD requires us to have at least $600,000 that we can't touch because we have to take care of contingencies. If for some reason HUD is not funded, the government shuts down, we have to have that money available to continue to operate.
 As far as the air conditioning situation, most of our residents at Willow Heights have air conditioned units. They may not be the best. They're ones that they have purchased. So even though everybody has said that they don't have air conditioning, they do. They don't have central air and heat. When those buildings were built,
 constructed HUD did not require us to have central air and heat or let it in central air because they felt like that was Not a necessity and so through the housing authorities commissions Nobody's ever addressed that
 OK. So if you have $900,000 in reserves and you have to have $600,000 for your rainy day fund, that's still $300,000 that's sitting there while we have units in crisis. We have two units that are unoccupied
 And we have over 150 people on a waiting list. I've also been told by HUD I have to save monies to pay for the Hillcrest Towers emergency grant. I have to add monies in addition to what they're going to give us. So once again, those were committed. We wrote a letter to HUD. In fact, I wrote a letter to them.
 email to him last Monday when the water break happened and I said look I can't continue to save this money for a capital Emergency grant for Hillcrest towers when I got water issues I had that email if you'd like me to send it to you and I told you I told hood that
 that I will no longer hold that money for the emergency grant for Hillcrest Towers. Now, if those water lines break in Hillcrest Towers, I have to come up with money to fix that. And the estimate is $4 million to fix those issues.
 Okay, and have you spoken with the city about a cost share like we do typically well developers know because When we apply for impact fees the city Said that we didn't qualify for those so we have not asked again There was a promise made that you are going to give us impact fix and then there was a letter sent back saying that no You could not do it. So we have not asked again. I
 And when was that? When we were trying to do the RAD conversion. Right, in 2017. So this process or this condition has been allowed to perpetuate. Yeah, I guess because we were refused once, we didn't think that you all would be receptive again. Oh, thank you. Okay. I would just like to reiterate, based on conversations I've had with certain people, that was a valid concern. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor, could I ask a question for you? You've talked about the sale of Willow Heights. And that were you the chairman when the sale went through? When we first started? Yes. And what kind of sale is this? Is this an option to purchase in the future or right at first refusal? What kind of actual sale of this property is it? It's a and I'm glad you brought that up. I meant to
 respond to that when you asked earlier about that. To my knowledge, it is a straight sale, but we were also at the time under the impression from our contact with HUD, which we've been in contact with HUD through that whole process, was that a formal public bidding process wasn't required. But you just heard your consultant, when I asked him that question, said it was required. Like I said, at that time, we didn't
 We didn't have that information, and I've made note to double-check on that as soon as I can. You feel like it's a good business practice not to go out and have competitive bidding when you have a major asset like that to be sold? Public notice and trying to gin up some interest in it? Obviously, you know Fayetteville is growing and land values are going up. It was even back then, I guess, when you initially entered into this contract. Well...
 All I can say to that right now is based on hindsight and some of the reaction that we got just from the sale entirely of not selling it, I don't think it would have made a difference as far as public reaction to the sale. Now, as far as a financial benefit, hindsight would be 20-20 on that to get more money out of it. Do you feel like you have a contract right now that you cannot get out of? I would have to say yes until I get more information on it.
 And like I said, I don't want to nullify that until I have official information. Okay, thank you. Kyle. Actually, I have a question for Kit, if I could. Can you briefly describe the difference between a cost share and impact fees and kind of describe what happened with the impact fees last time around for those of us that weren't here? Well, originally I thought that they would qualify for impact fees. I thought it was low-income housing.
 And I thought it was their project. I was wrong on both counts. The building that was going to be built was going to be owned 99.99% by private entities, and there was going to be market rate units in there. Our impact fee ordinance is very clear that it must be low-income housing by a nonprofit. And so, unfortunately, I had to write them a letter when I found out the facts and said,
 We cannot waive impact fees. There's no way that we can do that under our ordinance. And so that was my opinion to them. We did actually look at cost shares when it comes to the large-scale development that went through. They had some major drainage issues, which is apparent down there.
 because we also had drainage issues in Willow Bend and we've heard about the problems that Morgan Manor's had through the years.
 And so they were looking at potentially doing cost shares with the city for that or for the road, things like that. So, in fact, cost shares were examined. I'm not sure what the final result was on that. But it's not like because they didn't qualify for impact fees we wouldn't do a cost share because we've done that with private developers if it makes sense for the city. Okay.
 So it was a far different situation than impact fees, which by ordinance we could not give because this was a private organization that was going to own the building for 15 years, and it was also with market rate and not low-income housing. So I guess I've got –
 After that happened the question for Mike or Denise Was there any other attempt made or considered for? continuing to pursue impact fee exemptions impact fees no
 And they couldn't have you all would have had to change the ordinance and it would have gone fly in the face of what we've done Throughout the initial of all of our impact fees throughout the entire time we've had them and I certainly would recommend it against changing that and
 our impact fee advisors didn't even like it that we had that party in and so it was supposed to be very very restrictive and it has always been interpreted that way I said my my impression was that there had been some further email conversation about ways to to find loopholes in that so I appreciate being corrected okay sir thank you um
 I would like to you to speak for a minute about the decision to sell Willow Heights, how that decision was arrived at, what role the community was, or how the community was included in that long-range planning decision, and how you went about negotiating the best price for that asset, as well as determining that it was no longer needed for corporate purposes. Sure.
 It was never formally put up for sale, no listing on a market or anything like that. We were approached by an interested buyer, just like anyone with an agenda item. We brought them into the meeting to discuss it and listen to them. We didn't immediately jump on an offer. The board at the time, which has changed in significant ways since then, decided to
 take the time to consider all of our discussions we're in open meetings going forward so as far as community engagement like I said before we can't make people come to the meetings remind me this second part your question I'm sorry well what efforts did you make to ensure to engage the public and the stakeholders in particular the residents in that long-range planning decision to sell and relocate the residents well I would have to say
 No more than what we do for any of our other meetings, which is the exact same thing that the city council does on announcing their meetings. Okay, and then how did you determine that that property was no longer needed for corporate purposes? We looked at considering the way we approached it was what it would take for us to take down, take all the buildings down and rebuild there, which also includes, which doesn't rarely get talked about.
 finding housing for the residents that are there, paying for their move, securing that housing for the duration of the build, and paying for the move to come back. Those figures are never included in any discussion of a rehabilitation or rebuild of Willow Heights. So with that in mind, we determined that it was better to sell the property, use the funds we got from that sale in conjunction with tax credits and such,
 to build on land that we already owned. So there was this cost saving there because we had the space and we owned the land at Morgan Manor. Okay. And then what efforts did you take to ensure that the housing authority received top dollar and maximum purchase price for that property? Well, we did not jump on the first price offer either. Okay.
 And forgive me, I don't remember what exactly that was, but it was under a million dollars. So we went back and forth a little bit. And this was all with the same prospective buyer? Yes. So did you make any, describe the efforts that you made to solicit alternative bids? Yes.
 and other buyers. Well, as I mentioned before, we're under the impression that it wasn't a requirement for us. And if that is incorrect, I'm going to find that out. I think what I'm seeing is a lot of this, well, it wasn't required, so we didn't do it. It wasn't required, so we didn't do it. That's not my job. No, no. I beg your pardon. I have never, ever said it's not my job.
 I don't want the record to reflect that. Your job is to advocate and provide the best service available for the residents of the Fable Housing Authority. And when I see that you're not doing these due diligence items, that a normal person who, if I were going to sell my property, I would want maximum value for it, and I don't see you out there making an attempt to maximize the return on this investment, this important piece of public land. Do not do that again.
 I don't know who that is. I'll have you escorted out of here. Continue on. We have to do our best with public assets, and I don't see that the best was done here. And just because HUD doesn't require it, the city of Fayetteville and the citizens here, we require better. And so thank you. Well, I agree that the city of Fayetteville and the citizens require better than what HUD regulates.
 As we've discussed, HUD has a jungle. And who do you work for? Do you work for HUD or do you work for the citizens of Fayetteville? I'm not paid in all. I'm completely voluntary. I'm not paid a dime for anything I do for the Fayetteville Housing Authority. Okay. Mark. Well, I think we should de-escalate this a little bit. But I do have a question. You keep saying that you do everything with your agenda just like the city council does. Yes.
 As far as announcing meetings, yes. You don't have an agenda session where the agenda is discussed unless it's changed since I've been on. No, correct. We don't have an agenda session. You don't have a published agenda before the meeting that I've ever found. Is that correct? We put them out as soon as available, which by regulations, and I think Kit actually answered a question to that before, not in this meeting.
 You didn't believe that there was a regulation requiring it to be published, but any citizen asking for it could be or had to be provided to them. I'm just saying that I think that you're implicating the city council on a false premise because we do have a… Well, and that's not my intention, and I apologize for that. I was just trying to…
 reiterate that as far as advertising our meetings, aside from the agenda session we don't have, we do the same manner of contacting the media, the newspaper, word of mouth, that kind of thing. Okay. Sarah? Yes. Mike, I'm sorry I've got a little bit of a sore throat tonight. This is a
 This is a very challenging process and very complicated, I know. And I do appreciate that you are a volunteer. And you've been in the hot seat for quite a while tonight. And I appreciate that. But I also feel like I just have so many questions about the process and how things have been done and how they haven't been done.
 And, you know, especially when we talk about the Willow Heights, you know, I'm a real estate agent. So the due diligence of finding the best price and ensuring that you're getting the best deal, when you had one offer from one, I mean, you had more than one offer, but it was from the same company.
 group right i just don't think that that's very appropriate and i think that somebody somewhere should have advised giving you a little bit different advice that that maybe that was not the best way to approach this um i know the city always gets multiple
 bids and puts out a process, a bid process to anytime they're going to dispose of anything. But I just think that you kind of dropped the ball a little bit on that one. But I do appreciate you being here tonight and answering questions and I know it is challenging and I know you feel that you've been
 you know, personally attacked and everything. And that's very unfortunate because it's his volunteer board, most of the people on it. So thank you. All right. Kyle. I'm not a real estate agent, so pardon me if I fumble this part a little bit. When...
 When the first offer came in, did y'all get an appraisal to compare it against? Yeah, we did have an appraisal at the time, yes. And the offered price was under our appraisals, and that was what we...
 returned with or countered with. Was it just a standard appraisal as would normally be done in any sort of land transaction like this, or were there any special instructions to the appraiser? Was it somebody local that's familiar with the market? Yes, it was a local appraisal. Come up, Denise, if you can. Yeah, it was local. As far as to my knowledge, there were no special HUD requirements on it
 I might be mistaken on that. I think it might be listed on your consultant's list, which I misplaced. But I think I put appraisal beside it. I don't have that list. Do you all have it? Not that I'm aware of. It's in the mail now, the consultant list. The consultant list, yeah, information about the appraisal now. If you look at the list of consultants, the appraisal was in there and it wasn't local.
 I think it's one the city has used as well. And did it include the value of the buildings as well as the land? I don't have the report with me right now, and I apologize. Okay. Okay. All right. Mark. If we're through with Mike, I kind of had a question for Yolanda on CDBG.
 Okay. Could I add one thing real quick, just very briefly? Very briefly. Okay. Like I said, the whole board and the staff have worked very hard to do what they can. As far as it appearing that we're only doing what is required, the HUD regulations are such a jungle. We were overly cautious about violating some regulation and losing funding or whatever on anything. So that is part of
 perspective. I've got another question I think from the appraisal. What was shown here what you all provided to the assistant city attorney Blake and then he sent it out to the clerk and she sent it to everybody else was the appraisal was dated or at least the money's paid to read the Celsius was August 7th of 2017. Had you not already agreed to a sale before that because I thought I heard about the sale last year.
 Come back up. I'm sorry. Well, you say was yes She said that was correct and as I remember or as I recall for HUD to Approve going forward with an appraisal was required So was that before you before you made any agreement with the it was after Oh after the appraiser was after Thanks. Okay, you know the approximate date of the actual sale and
 I don't have that information off on my head. Do you know the approximate date? Was it in 2017? Yes, it was in 2017. I don't have it. I have the document. Okay. That's all right. But before the sales action, before the appraisal, but then you got the appraisal afterwards. Yes, we got the appraisal afterwards. All right, thank you. All right, thank you. All right, Yolanda. Yes.
 Yolanda, I have attached to this, of course, is the CDBG plan. Yes. I've gone through that too, and I just had a question. It says that public housing accessibility and involvement, that the public housing agency was not designated as troubled. What is a troubled? This sounds like a troubled housing problem.
 I'm troubled in the sense that HUD has not labeled the organization as having challenges with meeting HUD requirements. And who is it that works with HUD to get it classified as a troubled agency? Well, HUD visits and monitors the locations. And they're scored. Yes. I know how that goes. Yes. So this was based on scoring probably. Regardless of that, if there was a need for...
 some improvements, because I know that we spend, you know, tens of thousands of dollars on single residents to get improvements. Would there be the opportunity to spend some of this CDBG money on a multifamily project to bring...
 Yes. How could we move forward to get some CDBG money over to public housing? I guess they ask. Right now the methodology is once the budget is completed for our internal programs, the
 Then we can actually set aside funding for public services, which does have a cap on it. So that's usually pretty limited because some of our programs are in that classification. Then anything that we have that's additional funding beyond that point, we can actually set aside for public facilities. As we move forward on amending this resolution tonight, would it be appropriate that we would add to that that we would seek a
 partnership or a relationship with CDBG to look at
 mutually beneficial funding? Well there is a there is an application process for funding and we had our workshop today for next year's funding so individuals that are looking to apply for CDBG funding would have to been present at that workshop. The application is due at the end of August and this is for funding for 2019. I just want to point out that at this point we have not yet received our funding for 2018 so we're still waiting on
 So we've missed the deadline? Yes. At this point, yes. Okay. But in the future, there is this possibility, unless things change, that there would be some... Yes, absolutely. We have worked with the housing authority. I know we haven't. Back when I was on it, we did. I just didn't know why it has discontinued. I didn't understand that.
 No application. We have our application process and all are welcome to apply that are providing services in the city of Fayetteville for individuals that are low to moderate income. As a matter of fact, if their service...
 Area they're serving at least 51 percent low to mod they can apply for right because I remember and you were at these same meetings I went to in Little Rock for Housing Authority and CDBG and very often you would see the relationship between housing authorities and CDBG as being very tight and Right cooperative, so I hope that we can improve
 encourage that. Absolutely. Well, I know from our point we could. Because we did back when I was on the commission. We have in the past. I just wanted to be sure that there had not been big changes. There have not been any changes. It's just a matter of applying and being funded. Okay, thank you. Mayor, if I can interject before you continue, Yolanda. What is the possibility of having an additional
 training class for someone who would want to apply being done if we wanted the Fayetteville Housing Authority to be eligible. I'm sorry let me take that back. We, our meeting has not happened we just did our run-through today.
 So the actual workshop will take place Wednesday the 1st at 2 o'clock in room 326. And so for someone to be able to apply for funds for our future year, they must attend that workshop. If they don't attend that, they can't be an applicant. So there's still an opportunity for an application. So if the housing authority would like to attend that to potentially assess their ability to be an applicant, that's an option also.
 And so once those applications are submitted, then we do an initial review to make sure that all the documentation exists and meets all the requirements of the application. Then those applications that actually meet all the criteria are moved to our prioritization committee.
 At that point, these individuals prioritize the projects, and then we start funding until the money runs out. And Yolanda, could you give the council kind of an idea of the dollar amounts that you allocate?
 from applicants? Well, I can tell you that last year we had, I have not completed our budget for this year, but as soon as that happens, then I will have those numbers. But last year we had $45,000 for public services and $180,000 for public facilities. I had another question. There is a nonprofit organization, I guess, that is supporting Willow Heights. I don't know if it's actually, it isn't.
 It's a task force that will be... Okay, well, I was just thinking if there was an affiliated nonprofit, would that be an organization that could attend on Wednesday? Yes. Because I know Partnership for Better Housing came out of the Housing Authority. Yes. And they would also, were also partners in the past, so...
 I don't know if there is an affiliated 501 C 3 that is with the Housing Authority these days But if there is maybe they could absolutely also attend. Thank you Sorry Since I hope that we will have this plan wrapped up and amended and all that but by your Wednesday meeting I
 As you look at the plan, are there any red flags or concerns you would have that you think need to be addressed that might just summarily kick them out of the running for any CDBG considerations? Is there anything that we need to address? The only challenge that I would see as any funding for Willow Heights being that there isn't a clear –
 determination of where that property is going to end up. Is it going to belong to the Housing Authority? Is it going to be sold? We really couldn't provide funding not knowing where that's going to land. So their sale, their agreed sale at this point in time to a private entity that would be a problem for funding? That would be a problem absolutely.
 It would also be a problem in the point prioritization assessment of the prioritization committee because it could not be a future problem. It would not meet our criteria when we're looking at serving low to moderate income population. One more question before you sit down. Over here. Oh, I'm sorry. Willow Heights is just one of the properties. There's still other properties. Absolutely. So there's opportunities maybe to...
 shift some of these line items from other properties where we see a need correct over to This do that magical shifting we talked about it just takes a
 Some forethought on how we might want to proceed right? We've actually we put in playground equipment over at Lewis Plaza that was eighty thousand dollars We did a renovation expansion to head start when it was over at the heights We actually put in some playground equipment. They're also just going back aways So we have actually partnered and yes there is a way to utilize the funding for a project so that it frees up and
 the housing authority's funding for other projects. Thank you. Because I know in the past we utilized that. Okay, thanks. Mayor, I know that we've kept it here for a while and there's other folks that want to speak, but...
 That brings to mind one more question for either Denise or Mike. All of this has been predicated on talk about Willow Heights and the sale contract at Willow Heights. Are there any sale talks ongoing about Lewis Plaza? Has there been any discussion or offers to sell that property? We've had offers, but we have not accepted any.
 So there have not been any talks of selling at this point. You know, we just...
 rescinded our CHAPs for RAD. So at this point, you know, we're still public housing and so we have the same requirements under HUD just to go forward. So your CHAPs rescinded and you're no longer in the process for RAD conversion at all? We are not, but we have the ability, when we wrote the letter, saying look, because of the emergency grant that we need to get for RAD conversion, we're going to have to
 for Hillcrest Towers for the $4 million that we needed to get the emergency grant. HUD told us they would not allow us to get the emergency grants if we continued through the grant process. So they have a similar problem to what our CDBG would? Yes. You said that you could not get the grant if you didn't do what? What?
 If we continue through the RAD process, we cannot get the emergency grant. Now, we applied a year ago, and we still hadn't heard anything.
 but not we're going to get the grant and your five-year plan does show a possible conversion of lewis plaza to rad too doesn't it yes when we did the application it was a multi-phased application so each one of our units was included in the rad application and so we started with morgan manor and we were going to go to hillcrest towers and willow heights and then to lewis plaza so yes but you know the letter says we have
 at any time we can reapply for the CHAPs. So once again, the possibility within that five years that we could pursue RAD, we had to include it in there. Okay. I mean, does that make any sense? If it is a problem to pursue RAD now,
 Why would you need to put it within your five-year plan? And in the future, maybe you would put it back in. But if it causes problems because it would cause the sale of Lewis Plaza or Willow Heights, and that could be a problem for CBG money as well as other money, why are you still pursuing that? I think I'm not the person to answer that. I'm the executive director, and the board makes those decisions, so I couldn't answer that.
 Okay, I guess Mike needs to answer that. Wait a minute, Denise, I believe Sarah Marsh had a question. Actually, I have similar questions to Kit, so I'll let him proceed with his questioning. Go ahead. Could you repeat the question, Kit? Sorry. Well, you've heard that there are some problems in getting CBG money funds for various housing projects, either Willow Heights or Lewis Plaza, with the RAD conversion as a possibility.
 So, why is the board still pursuing a RAD at this point in time, which seems to be blocking other grant funds? As I mentioned before, we were told a few years ago that HUD was wanting to move the entire nation towards RAD. So, that's kind of what we were, the information and basis we were working on. Okay.
 And if that's not the case, I intend to find out if that's still the case. Nothing you've heard tonight changes your mind. Nothing, including the fact that you might be losing the opportunity to get grants that could help rehab some of these housing units. None of that has changed your mind? No, I'm not saying that at all because there has been a ton of information, and it's going to take time.
 you know, some time to process. So I'm not going to say, you know, nothing has changed my mind. I don't want anything else here if you had something. Well, I guess I'm just curious as to why, you know, we're taking the advice of Mr. Emery. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you were going to get him.
 Yeah, I'm curious as to why we're trusting the advice of an unidentified consultant from many years ago that's saying that we're supposed to be all moving to RAD if HUD is refusing grants if we continue down the RAD path.
 As far as that consultant, I'm fairly certain that it is our current RAD consultants, but I didn't want to say that specifically until I went back and verified my information. I didn't want to give you the wrong information. So the people that are making money off of converting us to RAD are telling you to convert to RAD, and HUD is withholding funding for much-needed improvements because we're converting to RAD. Well, as I said, I wanted to verify that was the actual case. Okay.
 And then I have one question in the... Can I bring some history to that? Okay. So Leon Moore used to be the chairman of the Housing Authority. He now works for the governor, Hutchinson.
 He went to a HUD national meeting where HUD presenters talked about the RAD conversion and how they were moving toward going out of the public housing thing. And every time we go to a conference or a training, HUD reiterates that same thing.
 I mean, this is not something that the consultant has said. I have personally heard them say that. In fact, Johnny Woolley, who wrote that letter to you, once again said the same thing. He even said, why don't you just voucher those units out? This is HUD. This will solve your problem because if you don't have the money to repair and you don't have the money to build, then you can just give your residents the vouchers and they can move wherever they want to move.
 HUD is moving out of public housing. And so this is a suggestion that they made to us to solve this issue. You know, if you don't have the money to fix it up and you can't build new, then the other option you have is just to give them vouchers. Now, we have not even suggested that, but that was brought up in the meeting that we had.
 On June 28 so that that option was brought up and our residents were against that I think there was member of the public that were against it And so we've listened to it and so we have not pursued that Avenue, but that is another thing that's on the table You know that we could be looking at if we if we're not able to proceed the other thing
 Our five-year plan was drafted and delivered to the city in June 10th. And so this is, I think Yolanda and I had a conversation about this the day that the water line broke about not being able to.
 get the grant because of the sale. So that's the first time that we've ever had. This plan was already submitted to the city prior to us learning this. So, you know, we just found out this information about the CDBG and that we couldn't be considered. Okay. You know, of course, that you're going to have another meeting Thursday, and at that point you can listen to what the city council here has been saying and the citizens have been saying, and you still have another opportunity to maybe amend the plan a little bit and make any changes to it.
 I think we have that opportunity, yes. Mayor, if I could, or Council Member Marsh, if I could just add something in the context of this. You know, I go, and have gone since Mayor Jordan was elected and hired me to Washington each quarter. I visit with our federal delegation and various federal agencies. I will tell you that during the Obama administration in 2000, and I believe it was 12, I was trying to find the actual date. There was a...
 the Appropriations, Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2012 that was passed that actually created this RAD conversion. It is a very popular program that is used across the country in public housing opportunities. So what the staff and our board chair is sharing with you was true because when it started, Congress had a cap on the number of properties that could actually be RAD converted, and that cap was 60,000 units.
 And that was modified in 2014, again in 15, again in 17. It's now up to about 225,000 units. And so it was a successful program, and the reason they went to that because it gave opportunities for private investment with public funds in order to be able to make this change. And that's something that I also heard as visiting with folks
 the agencies when I'm in Washington. I will say to you, though, that this is a program that unless it is reauthorized by September 30th of 2020, ends. So the movement for it to be everything to go to that would have to be done prior to 2020 in order for that goal to be met or reauthorization. And that's just something that we were communicated to the last time. Okay.
 So this will be clear that sometimes people take a funding option and turn it into a bad guy option.
 This has been very successful. It's also been very abused. And so one of the reasons that Congress put caps on it, because if you saw a 60-minute show where some consultants did benefit individually for it, housing authorities changed processes. They might have had someone else be the consultant versus the actual entity to receive funding through the transaction sale.
 But it can be successful. So I think the point I want to say to you is this particular situation, I think we're all expressing the concerns we have about the process and how it relates to this particular item. But it could have potentially been a viable option for under capital funded facilities that don't have long-term abilities. Every building has a life, as you know, right?
 in all of our facilities. We just added on a $3 million to one of our buildings because it had a life, and it's at the end of that. So it's a viable option. It is capped.
 It will have to be reappropriated, but it does have impact on other funding requirements. And so I think that's what we're communicating in this scenario, that until it is more real, until it has a more negative impact at this point than being helpful, but it's a legitimate program for any housing authority to evaluate, which is what I want to say to you. So don't assume that that's a...
 The process might be what we're talking about, but it is a viable option. It also can be used on the same sites. It doesn't have to just be that you sell a site and put it somewhere else. You can actually use that funding option on an existing site if someone, Morgan Manor, if someone was willing to do so in that program. So I just wanted to say that it is consistent with what's shared, that it was a movement
 being pushed also to municipalities to share or to be aware of that information from the governmental agencies. Thank you. I think my primary concern stems from how this decision was made and the process used. And then while you're both up here, I'd like to ask one more question about your budget. For fiscal year 2021, I see a new office in the budget to the tune of $146,000. Can you explain that, please? Yes.
 Yes. In fact, Kyle Smith did a tour of our office, and I think he can tell you that we need a new office. We're running out of space. We are full of files, paper files with material. We don't have any privacy for any of our briefings.
 We discuss a lot of confidential information. I think I shared in the last meeting that we had someone come up, and his application for assistance had been turned down because of his felony conviction. And so we're having to have this conversation with him out in the open where there's other people behind him because we don't have any offices with doors other than—
 Kyra McCowan and mine to carry these conversations. We have to have briefings, we have to have hearings, we don't have any privacy in our office.
 We looked at maybe extending the back of our office, but we would have to cut trees down. We would lose green space, and if we put it to the side, then we would be taking residents' rooms. We have a pool table and computers for our residents. We would have to take their space, and we would lose that. So I think there was a discussion in the board meeting that
 We would look at options if it was to reshift our office, if that was possible, but if not, we would like a new office. We'd also like security like you all have here because we have people come in that are pretty upset when their assistance is terminated or whatever or they think they're about to be evicted. Right.
 So there's some things that we need improvement. So we welcome you all to come and do a tour of our office. I think what is concerning is that I see that $146,000 budget line item a year before allocating only $33,000 for HVAC improvements. That's the air conditioning. And I just find that questionable. So thank you. Well, we have to be able to run the program.
 And public housing in Section 8 can't run on its own. You've got to have staff to do it. You've got to have a place to do it and do it properly. And, you know, like Springdale, they recently had security glass for their office. If you would go and tour some of the other public housing agencies, you would see that our offices don't come to par.
 We need better. You know, we're trying to do our job and provide, you know, housing assistance, but we do need other space. If we get the emergency grant, the housing authority staff is going to have to move out because when they do the plumbing repairs, they have to break the walls, and there's going to be flooding that will come down into our office. So we're going to have to move, be relocated for a period of time anyway. So that means we're going to have to rent homes
 office space, storage space for all our files and our computers. And so we've got a lot of stuff that's coming up the –
 Just coming up, you know, with this Hillcrest Towers thing, we're trying to, I'm contacting housing, I mean, apartment complexes to see if we can relocate our residents because when they get ready to do this plumbing repairs at Hillcrest Towers, I'm going to have to move 120 residents out.
 elderly disabled so that's money that we're gonna have to come up we have to To rent those for a year we anticipate that it's going to take a year to get that whole building As far as the plumbing repairs done and so we're gonna have to have somewhere to relocate them So that's just a few of the things that we have coming up. I
 Sarah Bunch. Yes. When you were coming up with the estimate for your work in office hours. Sorry, I'm not on there. Sorry about that. When you were coming up with the estimate of almost $150,000 for your offices, how did you come up with that number? Well, we really relied on our consultant, Mr. Hesson. Yes. Okay. Because they look at how many people,
 Office staff members I have. How many offices are we going to have? And, you know, just the whole gamut. Okay. Storage space for files. So you relied on a consultant. Did you get bids on it or anything like that? No, because...
 No, that's something that we rely on our consultants to do. Just to say this is about what it's going to cost. I think you all probably hire consultants, and you probably rely on their advice as well. As far as the bid process goes on construction of an office, that would be when we got closer to actually doing it. You're not to that point now. This is just a plan. Yeah, just a plan. Okay. All right, John. Denise, is your office air-conditioned?
 Yes, it is. I'm very happy for you. Thank you. Sir, we do not want to provide air conditioning for our residents. That's, you know, I really, that comes across that we don't care. We do care. And that was one of the reasons I think the board made the decision to rebuild at Morgan Manor. They were going to have air conditioning, brand new units. We were looking at doing all of that.
 So we have been concerned about our residents. That was the plan. Kyle. Yeah, I'm good. Okay. All right. Mr. Merrick, I had one thing to address the vouchers that we talked about. We have been, one of the reasons we haven't pursued that is because we have trouble right now with landlords in the area willing to take the vouchers that we already do. Okay, thank you. Okay, who would like to be next? Okay.
 Hi, my name is Quentin Childress, 710 Lake Sequoia. I guess I, I mean, I don't watch that much TV, but I felt like I was watching a lot of TV just now. So I just wanted to kind of just share my experience with Willow Heights. Basically, whenever I was seven, I moved over here and
 poor family, and our experience was, you know, just living over there at Willow Heights, and from, you know, the age of seven all the way to 15, there's just been, like, everything that everyone has been complaining about and talking about, about mold, you know, AC units, and even roaches, you know, living in roaches, and all of these, like, negative things and just not positive, you know,
 just not a positive environment, essentially that's been going on like, you know, 16 years ago, right? And so I just find it very interesting how like all of a sudden now it's
 And we're wanting to, the people who are experiencing these problems all of a sudden are wanting to be, are basically, they want people to be heard. And for some reason it seems as if there's some form of deception going on, and that's no personal attack on anyone. But to me, I'm just like, if it was going on 16 years ago, and like, if...
 If it's just now being brought up, can you imagine all the kids, all the parents, struggling parents, all the people that have gone through Willow Heights go through all that environment? And it's just kind of really bothering because when Sarah brought up the $140,000 for the office, it's just like, wow, it's just like a lot of kids don't have pure water to drink from or they have to suffer from asthma. And the thing is, it's hard.
 It's just unacceptable, you know, and I wanted to bring up what again what Sarah Marsh was saying about innovation I think that the first thing that we need to do is take some form of action Some have some form of sense of urgency towards this issue instead of just you know talking and you know Trying to go around these loopholes to try and you know Appear as if we're trying to help these people when in reality it sounds as if someone's trying to make you know a lot of money, right
 So I think that, you know, innovation, innovative solutions is something that we need to, uh, you know, really harp on as she was saying, um, that being said, uh,
 We're talking about the homeless issues. I'm currently a computer engineering student, a senior at the University of Arkansas. And I think that innovation comes from technology and trying to invest in that. And I know that we're older and we have a lot of older people in here. But the thing is, like, technology is the future. And if we want to really, you know, have an efficient, better living...
 system here for the people, if we're actually looking for it, then we need to start focusing our attentions on that. And as a matter of fact, I was just looking up on my email, my friend from Toronto, also a computer engineer, sent me a video of 3D printing and printing out homes for the cost of $2,000 to $10,000. And I found that really interesting because we're talking these big numbers, right? And the thing is that
 I just can't comprehend that if you're genuinely trying to work for these people and look out for the civilians that are going through these traumas and this living environment, then how can you not – how do you –
 How do you go through these loopholes and not really focus on the issue, right? And so I was just saying that because the reason why I was saying that, I just wanted to point out my experience, is just because this has been going on for 15, 16 years. It's still going on. Nothing new. I don't know why. I just don't understand. If this is what you're doing, if this is your occupation, and you're unaware about these situations, then someone's not doing their job. Someone's not doing their job.
 and that's not, like I said, it's not an attack on anyone in this room because I'm not here to attack but the thing is there's so many kids living up there that I see, that I know that I care for and I try to help out and I know and I feel the pain I feel the struggle I feel for those kids I feel for the parents that are trying to make it through because they're going through these traumas and the thing is that you have to think about it
 If this is your kid going through these traumas, what would you do? What exactly would you do? You would approach this with a sense of urgency, right? You would create a plausible solution or you would come up with some creative way to help your kid. So I think that if we all look at the perspective of approaching this with a sense of urgency in an innovative way, I think that will be good. And no hate to anyone because I love you guys. Yeah.
 Alright, who would like to be next? My name is Belandra and I live in the fourth Ward. I came here To this meeting today. I want to thank you mayor for holding this special meeting and Thank the council members. I want to also thank the public here. I Came here to listen
 And I was at a meeting yesterday at Crystal Bridges in which this issue came up, and I decided to come here to listen, and I have heard a lot. And I think the most important voices I've heard here today are the residents who live here, and secondly, the critical questions that the council members are asking about this proposal.
 It has really motivated me and inspired me in a way that I haven't been in a long time. So I would just, I want to urge each council member to keep asking these critical questions and listening to the residents who live here in making the decision. That's it. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello, I'm Olivia Trimble. I live in Ward 1. Mayor Jordan, I'd like to thank you for calling this special meeting. It's been difficult over the last year that I've been involved to make public comment at the FHA meetings. I've spoken to a number of residents at Willow Heights, Hillcrest Tower, and Lewis who feel disempowered and are afraid to make their concerns known for fear of retaliation. I have eight letters in my hand from residents who have been too scared to voice their concerns.
 concerns and in the letters talks about how they've been treated and the conditions that they're living in a lot of things have been addressed so I'm going to cut Through my little speech and get to the point We created this task force recently after the most recent FHA meeting because citizens believe that we could tackle some of the most pressing issues Impacting Willow Heights and in less than a week the community that we live in raised $15,000 the air conditioning units for Willow Heights are covered and
 I believe that this community action demonstrates a lack of confidence in the FHA to provide even the most basic of necessities for these residents. Right now we have an opportunity to right the wrongs with our public housing and to become leaders by creating compassionate and innovative solutions that provide for the health of our city long term. We can do so much better, but we can't do it without an FHA board that's committed to compassionate innovation.
 I respectfully and sincerely urge you to investigate both the actions and inactions of the FHA board and consider disbanding and reappropriate reappointing the board so that we have a fighting chance to continue being the best city we can be. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening, City Council. I'll also air my appreciation that this discussion is being had right now. I think I'm here specifically to talk about the five-year plan and I
 that the standard of our public housing should be better than, as it was noted by a resident earlier, better than being homeless.
 We should have higher standards for housing. The entire point of the Public Housing Authority within the state of Arkansas, it's legislation that grants it power is to remove unsafe and unsanitary housing. And I haven't heard from anyone here today discussing this house, our current public housing from any side who's described it as safe and sanitary. Even the most basic standards of living, it appear, for a long time have not been maintained. Right.
 The five-year plan, as we're looking at it, does not include provision for the basic maintenance and repairs that it appears need to be done to this housing to make it safe and sanitary. The five-year plan also includes no provisions for any studies or analysis to even begin to provide budget numbers or allow for planning to make those repairs and improvements happen.
 Based on the previous five years of spending, it sounds like some of the generous and very general consultant budget could be used for this planning. It sounds like it also could be used for environmental abatements. But certainly no plans have been put in place and no thought has been put into how those items might be phased, what the top priorities are, what the highest issues of safety are, and how those could be addressed first. Thank you.
 The primary renovation budget that includes the five-year plan, as was just brought up, is the staff's office. When considering how much environmental abatement of asbestos and mold and how many leaking pipes and roofs could be fixed with that money, I can't agree with this prioritization of staff comfort over resident safety.
 The phrase disproportionate allocation of funds was used earlier this evening. We also seem to highly prioritize kitchen and bathroom renovations within our capital improvements, which seems strange while we're neglecting critical infrastructure improvements. This is especially strange in light of a $450,000 stimulus grant that was received by FHA in 2009 specifically earmarked for kitchen renovations.
 Yet the five-year plan continues to note almost all capital improvements to be for kitchen and bath renovations, which seems to be perhaps our least concerning item that we've heard in need of repair on these buildings.
 As we talk about concentration of poverty, as we talk about a potential rad conversion of Lewis Plaza down the line, I think it's important to also bring up that discussion has occurred within the FHA that the 12th Street apartments might be purchased in order to relocate the tenants of Lewis Plaza. 12th Street apartments are directly adjacent to Morgan Manor. It was also mentioned in that conversation that they might be able to acquire them out of steel as they'd recently flooded and received significant damage. Okay.
 We keep hearing that this was the best plan to move forward at the time that it was come up with. I don't doubt that. I don't doubt the good intentions and that everyone involved in this. I haven't heard from a single person who doesn't want safe and sanitary housing and doesn't care about public housing in Fayetteville. But we have new information. We have new public willingness to help. So I think it's time to come up with a better plan. I think the five-year plan is the time to do that.
 A couple of sort of more general points. In terms of environmental testing, to my knowledge, Olney Hillcrest Tower and Morgan Manor have been recently environmentally tested. It was stated in recent emails that Willow Heights and Lewis Plaza would be disposed of, so no environmental testing was needed, which means we're not even fully aware of what environmental issues might occur that would need to be abated.
 The sale of the property of Willow Heights under HUD Code Section 970.19 would require fair market value as assessed by independent appraisal. The independent appraisal is required prior to listing of the property for sale. The first sale offer for Willow Heights was received October 19th of 2016.
 It's for $690,000. It did come with an appraisal. The appraisal specifically instructed, it was from the buyer offering. It instructed the appraiser to value the property at land value minus the cost to demolish the buildings. So not only were the buildings given a value, but they were also counted as a liability. I think that the sale has a lot of,
 Issues that have been dug into extensively by our city attorney, which I really appreciate I'm here to answer any other questions on that you might have thanks for your time Miss Quinlan, did you have something else you want to tell us? Sorry, I closed my notebook. I Find I find your presentation very informative I
 I became aware... You have to make a motion. I make a motion that we grant her two extra minutes. Do I hear a second? I'll second. We have a motion to second to grant two extra minutes. Thank you, Mr. LaTour. Hang on. We have to vote. Sorry. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I'll motion it. Would you please call the roll? Sorry. Okay. Eddie? Yes. Emmett? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Several weeks after that initial appraisal, you know, based on land value only for 690 was received, a second offer was submitted for 1.25 million with no appraisal backing it up. During this sale, FHA was represented and advised during their negotiations only by their consultants at RAD conversion specialists who are not licensed realtors in the state of Arkansas.
 The contract was negotiated between October and March 31st of 2017, which is when the contract was signed. That contract has a three-year contingency on tax credits being received, which means no capital improvements, money from HUD or CBDG funds could be used on that property until March of 2020.
 Remaining within this contract, I think even best case scenario of tax credits were received, puts our tenants at Willow Heights and our neighbors at Willow Heights at significant disadvantage to have improvements made to their housing within any immediate time frame that would allow them to have safe and sanitary housing. Thank you very much. Okay. John.
 okay so um i would just like to confirm a timeline really quick um hold on let me pull up the the note in my record yeah the timeline is interesting yeah the timeline is very interesting um for when the consultants or i'm sorry when the appraisal was paid um come on should we come up here
 So according to the information that the director forwarded to us, the appraisal for Willow Heights was done in August of 2017. And I just want to confirm with Ms. Quinlan's timeline that the actual sale was the contract for sale was signed on March 31st. Is that correct? I'll confirm that and further add that...
 In the fall of 2017, the Morgan Manor expansion was coming before the Planning Commission. I was currently sitting on the Planning Commission then, which is when my interest in research in the property began. I requested the HUD approval forms to sell the property from HUD to ensure that there's a form number that has to be approved. The HUD statutes require that HUD has to make approval prior to any action being undertaken to dispose of a property.
 I requested that form and was told at that time that HUD was unaware of that sale, that they'd received no notification whatsoever, although we'd been under contract to sell for almost six months. And so at that time, and due to some of the public outcry that came up at that time, an appraisal was gotten by the Fayetteville Housing Authority, although it's hard to appraise a property that's already under contract for sale with a fixed amount. Okay.
 Okay, so I just want to confirm that the contract for sale was signed five months before the independent appraisal was contracted. That's correct. Thank you. And that the proper notification of HUD was not given prior to any action being made to sell the property. That's correct, which was confirmed. Ms. Merritt from HUD in Little Rock further sent a letter to Mr. Williams at that time, inquired...
 and she sent a letter confirming that they'd received no notification of the sale of the property and that they would have to approve the sale of the property prior to closing. That's a secondary contingency in the current real estate contract, that that approval must be granted within, I think it's 2,000 days and change. It works out to an even number of years that that has to be granted prior to the sale of the property. But that's a second contingency of the real estate contract. Thank you. Thanks. Okay. Mark. Mark.
 Have a question for the city attorney because this is interesting Does this in any way valid invalidate that contract? I think you could certainly make an argument that it was a contract that was entered into in violation of at least HUD Regulations and therefore might be void as against public policy. I am NOT the attorney for the Housing Authority They have their own attorney. So they would be have to be the ones that would assert that kind of defense against a contract. I
 Can the public assert that defense? I do not think you probably have standing for that. It could be... There could be some ways to attack it in the future. The proper place really would be for the housing authority itself to recognize that when they thought they entered into the contract...
 They didn't have the legal right to do it, and so therefore their attempt to enter into the contract would be void as against public policy. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any other public comments?
 Hello, my name is Melissa Terry and I live two streets away from Willow Heights in Ward 1. Thank you very much for meeting on your night off. I know everybody had some cool things they wanted to do. Dr. Colbert's reception, Max Brantley was here. Before I go into any other details, I would like to clarify the position of our attorney from the Fayetteville Housing Authority.
 And like what you may have heard earlier, I actually requested a written legal opinion from Jim Crouch, our attorney. In this letter, he says to it, thus, in theory, to back out of the contract now would not be a breach of the contract. Okay.
 would not be a breach of the contract. He's talking in this second paragraph, which I'll be happy to give to the clerk, he's talking specifically about the HUD condition of release and about the fact that a contract was made on the property prior to HUD's releasing the property, which was a bit out of order. And so it's his legal opinion that...
 May be that this condition cannot be met and therefore the contract cannot be performed and is not enforceable Thus in theory to back out of the contract now would not be a breach of this contract So we have legal standing from our attorney a written opinion But you certainly have legal standing regardless. You also have some opinion that in fact it is a void contract So just to be mindful
 Just a big, big picture thought is that I think what you guys are hearing is what a lot about has been really troublesome, even inside of the board of this organization to get a bead on. Where are we? Where are we? Even in this five year plan, there's.
 Now a remedy for the HVAC at Willow Heights, a capital expenditure, but it's under contract. Like that didn't even make sense. Like why would you do that? It doesn't make sense. So what I think somebody pointed out earlier is that there's a lot of talk about performative compliance practices.
 and community engagement. And the space between those two things is where transparency and public process lives. And that's why we're here, is to talk about the transparency and public process of an effective plan that is not deemed a wish list. It is a clear list that prioritizes. The budget is the ultimate lens of your priorities in your democracy. Like, where is your money going?
 And so what we see in this plan is a lot of talk about like, well, it's just an instrument. It's just like everything's really fluid. And that's pretty loosey-goosey for a federal document. And so I'm not even like a huge math person, but I can do that math. And I would like to see.
 A lot more clarification before this gets signed off on. As a board member, I did not vote to support this plan. I abstained from voting because I found it to be troublesome. The other couple of things that have come up in the conversation is that RAD does include revitalization. So we are actually more eligible and more likely to get benefits
 tax credit application approved at Willow Heights because of the higher social values. Our walkability index is higher, and the revitalization part of it. Several other matrices are involved in that. And then as far as the office renovations are concerned,
 So as you noted, we had a public hearing for this plan, but it's one of those I would consider a performative measure. It was at 3.30 the night before of the board meeting. Like, why didn't we just have it at the board meeting? We had a huge audience there. That would have totally been a great time to have the hearing. But the hearing was scheduled for 3.30 in the afternoon. I'm a board member. I didn't know there was a hearing.
 Nobody informed us. So I think that says a lot. And that if, in fact, people had shown up for the hearing at 3.30, then we are told that they would have had plenty of space to meet in the conference room. 20 seconds. We're also being told that the office needs $146,000 worth of renovations because there's not enough space. So these...
 these dots are not connecting so I respectfully request that you dig a little deeper and get a higher quality fiber plan okay John John has a question we appreciate you serving on the Fayetteville Housing Authority and don't be discouraged hang in there thank you okay I have a question for Melissa
 I need to talk. I am an employee of the Housing Authority. Oh, I'm sorry. And when they're talking about the conference room, I'm talking. Hang on. Give us your name. I have a question for Melissa, and then we'll let you talk. Okay. Okay? All right. You need to sit down, have a seat. Melissa, I have a question for you. Yes, sir. Okay. You mentioned something at the Housing Authority meeting about –
 you've got an estimate for $80,000 for the units to buy them. Is that correct? Well, if we were going to do our proper energy... That didn't count installation, but you did save for about... Talking about air conditioners at Willa Heights? Yes. So the initiative that, the community initiative that was launched and funded just these recent days is for window units that are Energy Star rated. So I noticed that when we were there during the water line break,
 there's more than a couple of folks who have not one but two units per room because they're so inefficient. And so even those who do have air conditioning, it's not the kind of quality that we ourselves would expect. So the window units that the fundraiser was for will provide those. However, to do a proper...
 energy efficient mini split installation, which is where that number came from. A mini split is a super energy efficient air conditioner that kind of looks like a little hotel air conditioner, goes up the top of the wall. Anyway, so that price is out just at retail, not even like investigating bulk purchases or whatever. That's $80,000. Okay. So, and you mentioned something, there was some discussion on cash, cash assets could,
 Maybe Denise or you or somebody can explain. I think that probably refers to Sarah Marsh's, Councilor Marsh's line of questioning earlier, that if we have $600,000 to $700,000 in operating funds and we also have $900,000 in reserves, where do we see that reflected? Even if we're required to hold $600,000 of that
 and rainy day funds, like the math works out that there's $300,000 there, and there's other money in the operating budget as well in the operating funds. So again, I think that it would be nice, even for board clarity, it would be nice
 to see this spelled out clearly and succinctly and with some kind of numbers attached to them so that we can work accordingly and according to plan because these numbers are not in harmony with the narrative that's inside of this five-year plan where it talks about one of our objectives is to renovate or modernize public housing units.
 Okay, but there was a number of $165,000 that night thrown around, and I can't... $165,000 is what our executive director said that she's required to hold for the emergency grant. Okay. So even if you...
 Out of the reserve fund, just follow the math here if you can. Okay. $900,000 in, I mean, yeah, $1,000 in reserve funds. Okay. $600,000 required for rainy day funds. Then $300,000. $300,000 of that. Okay. Take out of that the $165,000. Right. Right? So that's what, okay. Yeah. So that's what we actually have wiggle room. Yeah, I saw quite a bit of conversation that night about that, and I was trying to get...
 that all I can understand it that's all the questions I have yes
 I'm Kyra McCown and I work for the Fayetteville Housing Authority and I was going to just clear up a few things. Number one, the $440,000 that went to kitchens, that went to kitchens at Willow, Lewis and Morgan. We put new cabinets, countertops and sinks in all those three units. That's where the $440,000 that Ms. Quinlan was talking about. So we have upgraded at those three complexes.
 We did not upgrade anything at Hillcrest Towers. They still have their cabinets from 1972. Hang on now. You said Lewis and Willow? And at that time, Morgan Manor was public housing, and we put new countertops, and we put new cabinets and sinks in all of our projects there, except the Hillcrest Towers, and that's what they still have, cabinets from 1972. Okay.
 So that's when the upgrading of the five-year plan. And then now on the holes in the ceiling, we do repair holes in the ceiling. We also have ozone machines. When somebody says they have black mold, my maintenance ghost puts ozone machines. If you know what an ozone is, it kills everything, black mold included. And we did that when the girl, when we get it dried out, we'll put the ozones in there to kill any mold. Okay.
 Okay. So I just want to clear up that we do do day-to-day operations and we do maintain, but we do have to wait for sheetrock to dry completely before we can fix it. And I just wanted to clear up some things that I was hearing that, you know, wasn't right. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Come on up.
 I'm Molly Carmen. I'm in Ward 1. Pull that up just a little bit. How's this? Ah, that's much better. I came here just to listen tonight, but I want to keep this really short because of all the things I've heard, I've heard a lot of common threads, and I think that we can synthesize some of those. Basically, I believe that you don't have to...
 You don't have to see a conspiracy or you don't have to believe that people meant badly to see that we need to change the five-year plan. I think that you can assume that people are acting with good intentions and I usually do assume that, but it looks like in some cases they were acting on bad advice and in some cases they were just maintaining the status quo
 And I think that what this showing here says is that that's not acceptable to the residents of Fayetteville anymore. I think that the fact that these problems have gone so long unaddressed is a failing on the part of the citizens of Fayetteville as much as the FHA. And so I think I'm not coming here to...
 sling mud at anyone, but I think that the plan sounds really bad. It sounds like there are so many problems in it, and I think that Councilwoman Marsh's suggestions are good ones. The points that she made, I think that Councilman Kenyon had some good suggestions for where to find extra funding, and I think that we should pursue those.
 And I think that we can do so much more to align the priorities of this document and of the FHA board in general with the priorities of the city. And more than anything, with the priorities of the people who live in these residences.
 I know that our Transportation Committee does a great job of public outreach. I love going and putting stickers on things, like for the parks. You know, you go and you write with a sharpie about what you see here, what you see there, and what your priorities are. And I think that we can apply that same model of outreach, the workshops,
 um, the things at the library, we can apply that to public housing as well. And I think that the city right now, the citizens are ready to engage and we're ready to, to step in and say, yeah, if they're going without air conditioning, that's not okay. And maybe it's been that way for a long time, but we're saying it's not okay now. And, um,
 Yeah, so that's basically all I want to say is that I heard from a lot of the residents who spoke that the FHA has been there for them through some really difficult times and that they've helped them navigate a really incredibly complicated system with HUD and all of the paperwork and that And I'm not invested in keeping people somewhere or moving them somewhere else. That's really I
 I'm not on one side or the other here, but I think that the five-year plan doesn't reflect the goals and priorities of the city, and it doesn't reflect the goals and priorities of the people who live at Willow Heights. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I just have something really, really brief to say. My name is Blake Sanders. I live in Ward 1 down at 75th Street. I think something that's really, really important, too,
 Keeping context here is something I learned very early on whenever I was getting a public administration degree. And that's there's no room in pride or no room for pride in public service. There's we're looking at this as a very dichotomous thing. The people that are responsible and the stakeholders in this, do they care about changing this or do they not? The simple answer to that is yes, they do. Everybody cares about this. It's the degree in the gray area in between matters.
 that is being lost in all this, and I feel like it's been lost in this for years and years. Everybody cares and wants to see these things changed. There's no better example than how much I disagree with John Latour on virtually every level. But tonight...
 Sir, thank you. Thank you very much for your contribution to this meeting. I think that we're starting to finally scrape the surface of this and make things really, really actually happen here. And to see that happen and play out in a city that has been my home for 13 years is really, really wonderful to see. So I think everybody that has had a role in this, and that includes the people who are...
 unfortunately in the line of fire for this. Nobody wants to be in that position. I thank them for their contribution. I thank them for coming up here and standing in the face of a whole lot of questioning and and they
 things that, and unfortunately, whenever you put yourself out there in public service, you have to answer for the things that you do. That's just a reality. You're not going to make the right decisions 100% of the time, but you have to stand and answer for it. So I think that, and I think the city council for championing this and taking this on. I think Sarah for allowing this forum to happen and bringing it to the forefront and everybody that's been involved. I think we can actually start to really actually make some progress here. So thank you all.
 Okay, who else would like to address us? Hi, my name is Janet Grange. I live on Weddington Drive. I rent an apartment. I have friends that live in the public housing and I was asked to submit this to the mayor and if you could make a copy for everybody. I would just like you to throw this in the mix. It is a letter to the residents.
 And remember, when you're reading it, that these residents are disabled or elderly or both. And I just want to throw this in the mix if we could. I was asked by a resident to present this. Sure. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, that went well. Okay.
 Let us begin. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Well, I don't feel ready to vote on the five-year plan, but I know we're going to vote tonight with some of these amended recommendations, and for the most part those all seem pretty straightforward, even regardless of the discussion that we've had tonight. I think those are pretty straightforward, more or less. Yeah. A few months ago,
 I guess four or five or six months ago or so, we appointed a new board member. And then a couple months later, we reappointed another board member. And it was at that time that I used the appointment of Melissa, the first appointment, to justify reappointing the other board member. And now I regret that decision.
 And it's not, you know, I really try to make a habit of blaming systems and not people. And I think some of the very latest comments we heard tonight were very accurate. Yeah, I really couldn't care less about intentions. I care about results. And I have done day-long tours at the Fort Smith Housing Authority and with the
 with other organizations in the region and in the state. And they've all been building housing, and we haven't for a long time. And they've been taking better care of their residents than we have. And there are a lot of reasons to discuss about that. HUD sucks. They're really not good at what they do. And a big reason for that is because Congress doesn't support them.
 We subsidize housing federally to the tune of about $200 billion every year, and two-thirds of that goes to people who already own homes, not to people who don't have places to live or need help with their rent. I think that's certainly immoral. It's almost criminal. And our local housing authority has to deal with that day in and day out. They're incredibly underfunded. And I am inclined to give the staff –
 not just the staff but the prior staff and administrations going back and back and back at the Housing Authority a lot of I'm inclined to be as generous as I possibly can to the staff because of what they deal with and who they have to and because their first priority is taking care of the people that they're already in the units are already managing but I do think that it's clear that
 not just this board, but maybe even several boards in a row, have been more content to follow the advice they're being given without questioning it adequately or seeking second opinions. And I think that the smoking gun and all of that is the contract to sell it and how the contract was pulled together. I'm just...
 I'm almost speechless if you couldn't tell. I am just so stunned at the way this contract was pulled together. And I think that if there's anything we can do, you know, I'm in support of this A, B, C, D, E, F. I think we're up to F of these recommendations. Those are all fine with me. But I think if there's anything that has to happen for the city council to communicate tonight, it's that...
 First off, there's going to be more oversight in the future. That's the new reality. Things change. That's one of the things that's changed, and it's not going to change back. So get used to it. Your engagement processes are going to have to change. The second piece is that contract's got to be voided. And if the current board isn't willing to do it, they need to change their minds, or we'll have to find a board that is willing to do it.
 Maybe I'll have more later. Like I said, I'm kind of stunned at a lot of the things that have been confirmed. Okay. Who else? Kyle. Matthew may not care much about intentions over results, but I think intentions and competency are how we yield results. And I appreciate our volunteer servants. I really do. What we've seen tonight for over a year now is –
 not just simply out of step with our consolidated plan, it's willfully negligent. The FHA consultant contract they've got requires the RAD specialists to present options for RAD conversion through renovation or rehabilitation or demolition and disposition. But the sequence of events we've got tonight, I think we can tell that there was really only one option ever on the table.
 And unfortunately, it's the option that the consultant stands to profit from. So Fayetteville is lucky. Unlike a lot of cities that Mr. Stafford mentioned earlier, we built our public housing in four separate locations. They were spread around what was then the town. Since then, Fayetteville has grown rapidly to the north and the west. We have not grown our supportive housing with the city. Okay.
 I've got some specific additions I think we should consider for Sarah's list. The FHA plan itself has a deconcentration policy. They don't say avoid concentrating poverty further, but it would indicate in its language that it's an active effort to deconcentrate poverty. There's no way to pursue that goal with a plan that closes two-thirds of their existing public housing and moves it all onto the same...
 plot of land with their existing voucher facility. The addition of 18 market rate units does not mitigate the concentration that comes from taking an additional 50 low to moderate income households, or taking a piece of land with 50 currently to 126. My math may be off there. Moving Willow Heights, I referenced this earlier, but taking...
 Willow Heights out of a census block that includes Mount Sequoia, Lewis Plaza out of a tract that includes University Heights and a lot of new student housing,
 relocating both of those to the place that's already got Morgan Manor, Nantucket, a couple of other low-income housing tax credit facilities, and most of South Fayetteville, which, let's face it, has not the wealthiest history in town. There's just no way to reasonably call that a deconcentration of poverty. So our recommendation should include an expectation, I think, that FHA will clarify their measure.
 on a concentration of poverty and include concrete steps for achieving it. So I guess that's G.
 The entire five-year plan seems to hinge on the demolition and disposition of Willow Heights, and they presented it as an option, but it's essentially the only option we've seen. So we've got an updated budget tonight, I think, that represents the first nod to at least keeping it habitable and safe and sanitary while there's other things going on, but I'm still concerned that that budget isn't sufficient. And...
 As long as the probable RAD conversion is on there, they're not going to be able to get additional funding to supplement that. So we haven't talked a lot about Lewis Plaza, but that's, again, the same issue there. It's the only option we've heard about. Yeah.
 Sale contract that has this all on hold rests on acquiring tax credits that were already denied once let's not forget that The application I think was deemed non-competitive at the time and I've heard no evidence tonight that anything's changed on their application except for the withdrawal of any city support or Public officials that might have supported it before I think we realize it's kind of an ill-advised plan I
 So instead of improving the plan, the consultant's proposal is just to lobby ADFA to change the rules for the selection. In the meantime, they're going to pursue a course of action that's not likely to succeed. They'll leave the residents in facilities they can't maintain. They don't propose a budget to maintain the facilities that includes recognizing the reduced grants for the RAD conversion they plan to follow through on.
 So I think we also ought to recommend that the references to RAD conversion are removed from the plan until they have worked out the emergency funding issues they have and got a more solid path forward. Those would be, I guess that's where they're to there, G and H. Okay. Mark. Mark. I have a lot of...
 of care for the Fayetteville Housing Authority and I was a member of the Authority for many years and it was following a reorganization of the authority so And it was kind of some tough years But at the same time was it's very similar to this where there was an Alice pouring of generous support and a lot of good things happened and I think that that's what's going to come out of that this evening and
 One thing that I keep hearing about is the condition of properties. People that have been around town will recall that Hillcrest Towers was targeted in the very same way. There was a lot of misinformation about the soundness of the structure because there was leaching from the bricks on the east side.
 We had an independent engineer come in and it was not a problem with the structure. It was a problem with the mortar and the veneer of the brick on the east side of that building. People were complaining about the north side of the building. Well, that's because everyone had window air conditioning and the water from the condensation was coming down and making a mess on the north side of the building.
 We were very fortunate to come together as the Housing Authority to find every penny that we could find. And we had a staff. Kyra was very much part of this. Thank you, Kyra.
 that worked very hard to get our housing authorities rating from one of the lowest in the state to the highest in the state. And that's because we cared and we had a good staff and we had hard work. And because of the high rating, we got to renovate Hillcrest Towers. We got new elevators. We got renovation of the apartments. We got generators because in the ice storm we faced...
 a loss of power where the individuals had to be carried down by the firemen. So I know that when there is a crisis that there's also a community here in Fayetteville that comes together that handles it. When I look at the activity
 currently regarding the RAD conversion. I also was on the Housing Authority when the RAD conversion was established. And it was established primarily for high-density inner-city dwellings, multifamily dwellings that were high crime and had a lot of inefficiencies that could not be handled by the local community. And it was a successful program.
 And there was a cap put on it, and there was also a real strict evaluation throughout the years because people that were consultants abused the programs, and it was no secret. It was an open issue.
 It was an open wound within the housing authority community. And so that's why I've kept an eye on this. And I think that, unfortunately, we might have fallen into the trap of that type of consultation. I don't want to cast an aspersion without more information, but it appears that there was a self-serving RAD consultant just looking at the information that I've been presented, and we need to be very critical of that.
 And when you get a consultant that gives you information, of course you act on it because you're paying for it. I watched them gaslight the Housing Authority for three hours in a recent meeting. And boy, if your head wasn't spinning at the end of that with their double talk, I don't know what's wrong with you. You have better medication than I do.
 It was just incredible to me to have to try to figure out what the double talk was that was being presented at that meeting. And then there wasn't an opportunity for anyone to get a critical analysis of what was being said. To me, that is a big red flag. So we've got some good...
 ideas. And I personally think that a budget is a vision statement of how you're going to move forward. And you can be as fluid as you want in your budget, but it does establish priorities as you move forward because you can refer to it. And I hope that we can come away in a couple of
 of the needs of our public housing, both from the Public Housing Administration as well as those people that live in these very old buildings that need a lot of care and a lot of attention because they deserve better housing than what they have.
 So, I will support the five-year plan with the amendments that we come up with this evening. And more than anything, I applaud that we have a community that has been willing to come out and openly discuss this situation so that we have a good idea of how to move forward as a community together. And that's what I've seen this evening. So, thanks. Okay. Matthew. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. I remembered what I was trying to remember earlier. Okay.
 But before I get to that, Kyle, your last suggestion that maybe we prejudice this plan against RAD conversion. I just want to take a second to share some thoughts on RAD conversion generally. I think my feelings on the matter generally, I think I made those pretty clear just a second ago. But I also feel that there's a danger here that we might react a little bit too strongly here.
 with some of our actions. And I think that if we were to set this up so that RAD conversion was off the table, generally for the housing authority, that would probably be a mistake. I think certainly the plan that's been floated so far to sell Willow Heights and move people in an associated RAD conversion, I'm very skeptical of. But RAD conversion generally I think does have a lot of
 A lot of merits, mostly because the cost to deliver a unit under a public sector regime are very high compared to the cost to construct and deliver a unit under most private sector regimes. And we see that even with the plan that's been communicated to us already.
 The $8.5 or so million cost to construct 50 or so units that's been presented to us in the past works out to more than $150,000 per unit, and the land's already been bought. I just built a unit, a building, and we did that for $130,000 per unit. And kind of the best in class for large multifamily right now is at about $110,000 or $115,000 a unit. And...
 That example is one of the best examples of public sector housing delivery in the nation. So it's not as if we compare ourselves to California or Washington or other places that our housing authority doesn't have a good program, but compared to private sector contractors, it doesn't really compete on delivery costs. And that mostly has to do with...
 how bureaucratic and arbitrary the HUD requirements are and what it takes to meet the HUD requirements compared to the standard building code requirements. In any case, all the other suggestions that have been made tonight I'm completely okay with, but that one gives me a little bit of heartburn if it takes RAD conversions off the table more generally for the housing authority. But the thing I remembered that I wanted to say was...
 I know I'm speaking for myself, and I'm probably not speaking for the whole council, but I bet there are a few of us up here that can agree quite readily with this. If anybody, a resident, a staffer, a board member, had ever come to me in my 10 years on the council and said we need CDBG money for Willow Heights or Lewis Plaza or Hillcrest Towers or Morgan Manor,
 I would have been talking to the mayor and the chief of staff and Yolanda about doing exactly that. And if it were on the table right now to vote to dedicate CDBG funds to one of those projects, I'd vote yes. And I think there are a lot of people up here that would too. And the fact that that's never been asked of me or anyone else up here,
 is I think indicative of the broader problem that we're not being creative in who we're trying to partner with or where funding can come from. We've got the money. Guys, we've got the money. It's a decision. And we're in charge of the budget. The money's there. A couple years ago we voted to contribute a million dollars for new infrastructure for a new construction project where only a third of those were for affordable units.
 I mean, the money is there. We can do it. But you've got to come to us so we can work it out. Okay. Kyle. Yeah, I hear what you're saying, Matthew. But like Don was talking about earlier, RAD can be a good program and it can also be abused. I mean, I am kind of fundamentally skeptical of a system that somehow creates private profit by selling a profit that people can't afford at a loss. Yeah.
 But I've heard several successful non-profit rad conversion stories, and maybe it can be done. The alarming bells go off, though, when it's a for-profit consultant that consists of a construction company and the management company that's going to run the whole program from cradle to grave. When that consultant comes forward with the whole package and stands to make all the money and then works for free for a few months after you stop paying him, I don't know.
 That's a problem. They haven't paid their RAD consultants since September, but they've flown down for a couple of meetings since then. That said, I'm not opposed to RAD. If they decide it's the best based on independent advice, I'd totally go that way. But like I said earlier, they can amend the five-year plan if they think that's where they need to go. But for right now, I think they'd be better off with a hard reset to reevaluate the situation. I'm not going to fight over...
 The rad part of it, as long as we get the plan cleaned up a little more in line with the consolidated plan, I'll bend on that one. But that's where I think we ought to go, given the propensity for abuse on the program. Okay. John? Yeah.
 Since we've spent a lot of time deprecating the RAD program, let me say a word on its behalf. I'm not familiar with the ins and outs of the RAD program as promulgated by HUD, but the idea, the theory behind it, I really like. I don't like concentrated power in public boards.
 Because sometimes we see mistakes made, whether intentional or otherwise, or accidental or negligent or something. But mistakes get made. Whereas in the private market, if those mistakes get made, the owners of that business get penalized. If I don't produce a good tax return for my clients, they go someplace else. And I'll be out of business in a few months. Okay? Or if I charge too much, same way. Strict accountability in the marketplace. Okay?
 If we were to subsidize people who can't afford good housing so that they could afford good housing and they could only spend that voucher in providing housing, they could go to any place in town they wanted to and rent an apartment or rent a house or rent a condo. Why not? No, don't get into that, y'all. Why not? Why not?
 Well, I'll be glad to debate anybody. And as you know, not everybody agrees with me. But I like the idea of the private funding or the public subsidy so that the private transaction can take place. I support school vouchers, and probably many of you don't like school vouchers. But it's the same theory. It introduces competition.
 marketplace competition which I think is a good thing and I like red for that reason and you may disagree but I can think of no better way to decentralize poverty to move it to diffuse it in and among the whole city why just have a Hillcrest or a Willow Heights or these buildings names that we publicly administer
 Why not every apartment building in town? You know, everybody can live exactly where they want to live. And if they want to live all in one area, that's fine. It's just freedom of choice. And that's what I like. So I like the RAD program because it has those benefits. I like RAD the theory. I don't know if I'd like the HUD RAD program because it comes with strings. I think that's what
 council member Smith was complaining about was if we join the RAD program, we lose all the funding over in this other area. Those are the strings that attach to it. I'd rather see it be a pure, you know, we give you a voucher, you go spend it where you want to. And that would diffuse poverty, that would give everybody the ability to live in a nice place. And we wouldn't have these questions about do we have air conditioning or is the water good or whatnot. I have rental property and I'll
 And I make sure the water's good. And if I don't, my tenants will move out and I'll lose money. I have a financial incentive to make sure everything is working well. That's the type of incentive I'd like to see injected into our public housing. I think that's the best way to serve people is that marketplace competition. Variety and choice. That's what we get from that type of a program. That's why I like it.
 I think I will go along and vote for an amended five-year plan that we're talking about doing. We've heard a lot from the residents. We've heard from the administration. We've heard from the Fayetteville Housing Authority. And we've heard from the opposition on the Fayetteville Housing Authority, which is all good. It makes for a good debate. And I think all of us are concerned with how the land sale contract came about and...
 Mr. Williams, I'd argue capacity of the parties was lacking, and that's a defense to any contract. If you don't have the legal authority to make a contract, which apparently our Fable Housing Authority didn't have that because they didn't have HUD's pre-approval, then that would be a direct defense to the enforcement of that contract. I think that's what you were getting at. We should be able to set aside that contract and come at it the way it's supposed to be done
 If it if it needs to be sold, maybe we should sell it, but let's do it the right way if it should be sold Anyway, I'll be voting for the amended five-year plan. I think we'll probably have a unanimous vote here But I really like those private market Incentives that we get in the rad theory. I don't know if we get in the red program. Thank you Okay, sir. Yes I
 I'll be voting in favor of the amended program. I think it gives us a good foundation to start from. Maybe not the best, but a good starting point. I do not want to exclude our RAD from this agenda.
 plan. I think I've heard enough in favor of it that leads me to believe that it's a good thing to leave it in there just in case, but I will be voting in favor of this. Thank you. You should keep in mind, though, that the RAD program is not the Section 8 vouchers. Section 8 vouchers are really what you're talking about, John, where you can go
 Any landlord that will accept them. Yes. I'm not sure how many landlords. Not everybody is. Not everybody is. I do want to make a statement with the council because this is an area with your network and we all grew up in a very different privileged environment. Our ability to encourage property owners and landlords in our community to take vouchers, to allow that freedom is...
 is what you all can do individually as we have dialogue with our builders and owners in the community. The challenge that we have is these vouchers do have cap limits, and you have to have a landlord that's willing to take them. And so when we talk about returning vouchers, we're returning them because we don't have landlords willing to take them. And we want to encourage...
 We have a lot of programs in place and things that help these residents because they sometimes can't get through the typical screening backgrounds that...
 People we may know can get through they might have a background check that prevents that they may not have continuous employment and so there are support services for people going through this but every opportunity you have when you talk about how you can individually help and
 We, as staff, would like to ask all council members, if you know property owners, to use those relationships to ask providers to be willing to consider those programs. So that's Section 8 vouchers. The RAD program is not really that. The RAD program is building or rehabilitating public housing and making it, turning it into a voucher building, but it's not a Section 8 voucher. That is kind of a different program.
 The problem, I think, with maintaining the RAD conversion in this plan, especially when it includes demolition of both Lewis Plaza and Willow Heights as in the plan, means that the kind of money that you might get from HUD for grants to rehabilitate these facilities
 very unlikely because they don't want to rehabilitate a facility you're about to destroy. And so it might be that you could leave enough of the red in there for rehabilitation but I surely think that the demolition part
 in the plan where it recommends or they're planning to demolish both Lewis Plaza and Willow Heights, if that remains in, I don't see that it's very likely that HUD is going to give any grants to rehabilitate these. So I would think that if you're trying, we need to present stuff to their board for their decision, but it needs to be fairly simple and straightforward. I would recommend they get out of the contract.
 That should be one of the things we say to them. We also, I would say, eliminate the RAD conversion that requires demolition. And I don't know, it might be even if you allow RAD conversion for something else, that would also disqualify them. And I would say if that disqualifies grants, then take it all out this year. And then I think the housing authority should work with and apply for funds from the Community Development Block Grant. I think those are three things they can look at,
 that are make positive steps to change the direction of deterioration that we have been seeing in these public housing projects. Everything you said, Sarah, I think is fine, but they're not really that much part of the plan, right? I mean, that's how they should act. I agree, but I think we need to give them concrete things to look at and to make decisions on in two nights.
 So that would be what I would recommend as well as any other things you want to put in there. But let's not. This is probably one reason I always write the resolution ahead of time rather than trying to write it at the meeting, because it is difficult to get everybody's thoughts together.
 On just one thing. I think the other item that I would recommend that you add, having listened to all of you, goes back to council member tenants opening that the budget priorities should be focused on, um, the core items to improve living conditions, water quality, air, uh, the things that you all highlighted that are immediate improvements, um,
 be prioritized in the earlier years of that five-year plan. Rather than waiting to have to move it later, just look at that five-year item and see if those things that you talked about can be addressed in that category. Budget priorities for necessary health and safety and maintenance of existing properties. Facilities, yeah.
 So I do agree with your comments, Kit, on the, I like the aspect of the possible revitalization that the RAD allows without, but I do not like the part about tearing things down. I don't like that at all. So if we can come up with a good way to phrase that. Okay. Just to follow up on something Donna was saying, yeah,
 Didn't know anything about this until about eight days ago, and I've still got a lot of learning to do but I Do know that we've had two deaths in our community lately out in the camps Both of them had vouchers, but they couldn't use because they couldn't find someone that would that would accept it and so what I guess what I'm concerned about when I when I I
 want to talk about no rad there is that we make sure that that the housing authority maintains the autonomy to prioritize homelessness as was stated earlier in the plan and that that's not seated to a buyer or a ninety nine point nine nine percent interest in the company that that might choose different policies
 I know that the waiting list is long and that's inconvenient, but if you've got somebody on a waiting list that's being sheltered and you've got the option to put somebody who's sleeping under the stars under a roof, then yes, I think that it would be appropriate to prioritize that first. And I want to make sure that they maintain the option to do that. So I will, I guess...
 moderate some of my my rad statements with i agree if we can keep it prevent demolition so that that clears the cloud of of improvement monies well obviously none of us up here are experts we hope that that would be enough uh and uh i don't know maybe uh maybe you're uh
 advisor Denise would come up and talk about what is it Rusty? Let me see Randy Randy you want to come up again. You thought you were never gonna have to be in the hot seat again But I just wanted to know it I'm not a specialist in this, you know This is stuff that we never had to get into before. Yes, but if You are entering or still keeping the option open for a rad program for not for demolition, but for rehabilitation and
 Would the grant still be allowed under HUD to apply for special grants for rehabilitation of the facility? I believe they would, as long as you're not acting on it. You don't have a CHAP on one of the developments. You could put it as a possibility, so it gives you the flexibility. That doesn't mean you're going to do it. And if you do, or the housing authority does apply for RAD and gets a CHAP,
 Or they decide not to, they would clarify that in a letter to HUD if they're asking for HUD funds, saying we're not going to take this out of public housing.
 Right. Because they won't give them money if it's not in public housing. Even if they do a RAD conversion for an existing thing by rehabilitating it? If it's RAD, it's not public housing. Even if it's rehabilitation. But there are RAD conversion programs that they could do while retaining the property themselves. They could do their own RAD conversion and get money, but not through public housing, but through other avenues. When they convert to RAD, they have to improve the properties based on a physical condition assessment. And whether that's through money they already have or through a loan...
 And then it converts to a property that's owned for 20 years by somebody else. So a lot of what we've had problems with up here has been some really fancy financing deals. Yeah. And maybe there are ways to simplify that and make it a little more transparent. Yes, you can do that. But I think the basic question is that you can say you might consider RADD.
 This is done every year, so if you'd rather just get it out of this year's plan, we could take it out totally. Because that's really the only way to get the other grants. Right, and if it's going to interfere with CDBG, you might take it out.
 Okay, just to close and then I'm gonna shut my mouth for a while We should remember what we're doing and that we're not adopting their plan for them We are making recommendations to the mayor I guess to whether or not you're gonna sign You're gonna get to make the final decision all of this really I think is just advisory to the housing authority and As long as they hear loud and clear the intent. I think that it's I
 less critical whether we lay out every little detail. I think they've heard a lot of what we have to say and know that we'll be paying attention to the outcome. Okay. Sarah? Yeah.
 Thank you. This has been a really interesting evening and I'm so thankful to the citizens who have come out. And I want to thank especially the people who have been reaching out to me over the last, I believe it's been about a year now, with their concerns about the Fayetteville Housing Authority and helping us understand what's going on there and shine some light on it and find ways that we can better advocate for people experiencing housing challenges, particularly those living in housing authority properties.
 you know moving forward i think we have a lot of good recommendations here for the mayor to to base his or to inform his next steps um but i think the most important thing that i get out of tonight is that moving forward i want citizen engagement and that we need to be involving our stakeholders in all of our long-range planning and the decisions that we make
 We need to be observing proper public process so that decisions are made in a transparent and easy to understand matter so that citizens can engage and can do so effectively and timely. And I want to see a board committed to innovative problem solving.
 and building partnerships in our community because we care and we're here to help and we have resources to help. And so there are many other people, whether that's private sector or public sector, in our community that care and are willing to step up if we know what is needed and how we can help.
 And in thinking about that, you know, this isn't just a Fayetteville Housing Authority problem. Reading the CDBG Consolidated Plan was really interesting. And I'm thinking in terms of ways that the city, we, can help with this issue.
 And in our plan, it says we estimate that approximately 1,943 single-person households are in need of housing assistance annually. And we have 540 units. We can't even begin to meet this need. And that's just the single people. And so when I think about what we can do as policymakers, well, we can legalize affordable housing. And that means apartments, duplexes, and nontraditional housing types in all of our neighborhoods.
 You know, when I hear about developers not accepting rental assistance vouchers, well, as a city, we can offer developers incentives to accept a certain percentage of rental assistance vouchers. In their new construction, maybe we offer height bonuses, density bonuses, parking waivers. We could offer infrastructure or cost sharing. We could have a revolving loan fund for energy efficiency.
 see improvements or historic preservation upgrades. All of these would be in sync with our goals as a city and the goals of the housing authority. You know, I look at the statistics about that we have 59% of our units in our city are renter occupied. And so renters are a majority of our city, but over 70% of renters are cost burdened.
 So think about that. 70% of renters are cost burdened. So regardless of what we do here tonight, the problem is bigger than this. And I want us to all stay engaged because we have a growing housing crisis in our community.
 Step one is fixing our housing authority and making it serve our community better and giving it the resources it needs to succeed. But that's not where it stops. So I hope that we're all buckled in for a long ride because we've got a lot of work to do to make sure that everyone in our community has safe, healthy, accessible housing. Thank you. I want to go back and kind of talk about the RAD project.
 situation that's in this budget because it is specifically if I'm reading this right related to the demolition of property and I don't want that to be an incentive if you look at the
 the plan the improvement plan by the community design center they specifically point out that especially in willow heights because that's what this is uh talking about the reasons why we would not want to destroy that property why would we want to redevelop it they the way they mention it and lay it out it's more affordable to redevelop it than it is to destroy it
 There's more likely to give low-income housing tax credit financing in order to redevelop the property. So at least for a year, I would like to see the RAD taken off the table so we can look at alternative resources of funding that might be inhibited if we have RAD...
 RAD implications of destroying property. Because if you're going to destroy the property, why would you want to improve it or renovate it? So take the RAD off. Let's get our properties in a livable condition. Let's make them as...
 inhabitable and safe as we can and then look at because we can use rad and down the road for The renovation of this property also it doesn't have to be destruction But I don't want to see the destruction of the property or the fact that we're missing Other grant money by having the rad demolition in the budget Thank you. Okay, John
 Just real quick, I think the Fayetteville Housing Authority should not be holding meetings at 3.30 in the afternoon. That's just a real practical suggestion. We hold our city council meetings at 5.30 when people are off work and have access to the meetings. So I just offer that as a strong suggestion. Have your meetings when people can attend, not when people can't attend. Thank you.
 Okay, well, somebody cut me to the chase here. What's the recommendation? Well, I have listened to everyone, and I do think your comments, Council Member Marsh, about how to operate is very good, and that should be listened to, but that's not really part of the five-year plan, right?
 So what I have boiled it down to is four items, conveniently numbered A, B, C, D. And the first one was prioritize homeless to obtain housing vouchers and including staff capacity if needed.
 to handle the additional vouchers claimed by the Housing Authority. But, of course, this only works if the housing vouchers will actually be used by landlords. Secondly, reduce consultants' fees and prioritize budget for necessary health and safety repairs and maintenance for existing facilities. And the probably invalid land sale contract for Willow Heights.
 And the fourth is end the RAD conversion plan for fiscal year 2018. Just a one-year thing, especially the demolition of Willow Heights and Lewis Plaza.
 If there's something else that you all would want to put in there, fine. If not, then I think eventually we're going to have to take a vote. Okay. Kit, you said in the contract, C was in the contract? Yeah, in the probably invalid land sale contract for Willow Heights. Okay.
 And then reduce consultant fees and reallocate the funds to where it's needed. Yeah, to prioritize the budget for the necessary health and safety repairs and maintenance for existing facilities. Okay. Well, what's everybody's thoughts on that? Sarah? I think that those are good action items. I would also encourage us to...
 adopt the recommendations that were identified in the University of Arkansas Community Design Center's plan And that would be to develop and implement an action plan to expand partnerships with public agencies and nonprofits Especially in the areas of stormwater and flooding and I would add to that CDBG funding
 Then, employ scenario planning to envision the full range of long-term operational options. The FHA shall hold the discussion with a qualified facilitator in a workshop format. That would help us formulate an actual five-year plan.
 Then commissioned a local developer architect project team to pursue a low-income housing tax credit application for revitalization of Willow Heights those were all developed, you know by the community design center in a peer-reviewed study and And that was their recommendations About the recommendations of the University of Arkansas community design centers livability improvement plan
 Sorry, here's the plan. Okay. I'll write it down. You're going to send me a copy of that wording, right? Yes. Yes. Adopt the U of A plan. Yeah, adopt the U of A plan. Thank you. Don't everybody get impatient. I'm just writing it down. Okay. What else? The Community Design Center. Yes. Livability. Willow Heights Livability Improvement Plan.
 I'm going to say for Willow Heights. Yes. So the fifth one would be adopt the recommendations of the University Community Design Center for Willow Heights. That's good. Yes. That's very good. Yes, John. I just want to reiterate, two of the eight of us have invited the Fayetteville Housing Authority to come get money. Okay? I think probably all of us would support that. So do I need to spell it out anymore? Come get money. Okay. Okay.
 I do want to make one comment for the council just so it's clear with staff just as you're advising the mayor the staff has been advising the mayor and our advice the mayor is that that it is absolutely critical that
 that the mayor consider his signature and not lose any of the $281,000 or whatever the number is of funding from HUD for this capital program. Because as you can see, there are numerous needs. So while your request and his request, which I'm sure he'll hand me tomorrow to send to someone, is...
 Is that the board would hopefully adopt these items because they're the only entity that has the power to do so. If they don't, our advice is that he still sign this certification document to receive the funding and then a recommendation that the council would then address the board.
 So I just wanted to make it clear that we do not recommend any loss of funding, and we will recommend his signature of the certification be done, hopefully, the day after the board meets if they've addressed these items. So not waiting until the last day that HUD gave us, but to do it hopefully the last day of this week.
 That's what I've been trying to emphasize here tonight. We have $281,000 on the line, council. I want you to understand that. But thanks, John. You reminded me. So now number F is housing authority should work with and apply for funds for community development block grants. May I ask the mayor? Sure, John. Mr. Williams, do we have the authority to replace the board? No.
 The city council, by majority vote, if they determine that the statutory requirements of misconduct or neglect or inefficiency have been met, after a 10-day notice and an opportunity for a hearing, does have the opportunity to replace a commission member. So just disagreement about policy doesn't do it?
 No, you have to have evidence, and I think the Supreme Court said substantial evidence, of the inefficiency or the misconduct or the negligence before they could be removed. So we don't really have any leverage over the board?
 Well, I don't think we need to get into that tonight. This is not what we're discussing. We're discussing instead. I think we have all confidence that the board, particularly since the board chair has sat through this entire meeting, has heard what we have said and will take those comments back to the board for discussion. And we want a cooperative relationship. Sure. Sure.
 with the board and I think you'll be able to see after the meeting on the 26 if that occurred if it didn't then we're happy to investigate for you all the options you have okay thank you okay so anybody else have any comments okay well I have a few because I've been in the eye of this for about a week now
 and it hasn't been a particularly pleasant experience. I'm sure some of you have experienced some of the same thing. But first and foremost, I think I agree with a lot of the comments here tonight. Right now we're working on an affordable regional housing plan that's being done regionally, and hopefully we can address affordable housing in the future.
 I really do not support the RAD deal. It just never did sit right with me. I thought it was going to be okay last year. The more I dug into it, the more I lost confidence in it working out. I don't believe we need to tear down Lewis Plaza and Willow Heights and take people where they've spent their entire life and put them in a place they've never been before. I think that's wrong. Okay.
 I believe it does concentrate poverty. I agree that the contract that wasn't approved by her, it needs to be, that was new for me tonight. And John, I do want to address these vouchers. I can assure you there's plenty of vouchers to go around when we don't have enough landlords taking them to do what you want them to do. That's just not working out. I think anybody in this room pretty much would agree with that. Um...
 But here's where I'm at a crossroads, Councilman. I want you to understand this. Whether I like this plan, I don't agree with the five-year plan either. Whether I like it or not, here's what we put at risk here. If this board, housing board, does not approve this Thursday night, then I've got to decide whether I'm going to sign that and or not. And if I don't sign that, we will probably lose $281,000, and that's reality. Okay.
 Now, I just want you all to understand that because losing that money does not do anybody any good. It really doesn't. So I'm not going to jeopardize that. And then we would deal with the board later. But I think it's important because there's not enough money to go around as it is. This poverty thing is... Well, it's something that I...
 Think about a lot. I came from poverty. I understand it. And so I think some of the attacks that I don't care are, I'm not concerned about the residents. And I've heard from many of the residents up there that it's afraid that they're going to be thrown out in the street. And I don't think that's right either. We should be respectful of one another and be civil to one another. We really should. And so with that,
 I want the council to understand the decision I have to make. I have to secure that money for those people. And whatever way I've got to do it, and I'll take whatever hits I've got to take for it, but I'm not going to lose that funding. The people need that. The most vulnerable people in this city need that, however it's being distributed. And I encourage the housing authority to take care of the people that need air conditioning. But I also realize they've got $281,000 to do the maintenance on three major buildings.
 properties. And we're going to have to face that and we're going to have to deal with that in the future because we just can't say it's just going to happen. It's just going to go on. It's not going to go on. Tonight begins the change of that. And I think I can speak for you all and myself in this administration. We're going to make it better. I don't know exactly how yet, folks, but we're going to make it better. But it starts with these recommendations. It goes to the
 Housing board and hopefully they will take them seriously Having said that do we have a motion in the second to pass all of that from someone Kyle I make a motion to pass the resolution Sarah second all right. We have a motion second pass recommendations from the City Council. I will make a decision after the Federal Housing Board meeting on Thursday all right all right any final comments any
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kyle made the motion. Sarah was second. Eddie? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Mitch? Yes. Latere? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Do we have any announcements? Our business is concluded. Applause.
 All right. I'm going to give you all that one. Mayor, I do have one announcement, particularly for this group, since it's a group of interested party. The city will be beginning our 2040 plan update of our city's master plan, and obviously attainable housing is one of the current goals, so we would love your involvement and feedback in that process. Watch the city's website. Okay. I was going to think about that.
 We're adjourned.