I would like to call the special city council meeting of August the 6th 2021 to order. Karen would you please call the roll. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Hertzberg. Gutierrez. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Scroggin. Present. Mayor Jordan.
 Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all.
 All right. Thank you all. We have a special city council meeting that's been called today. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. For those of you that are attending by Zoom, council members, city staff and the public participating today.
 In this meeting virtually and in person, public comments will be allowed for all members of the audience who've signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item. They may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote.
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. We have one item before us tonight under new business.
 An ordinance to require persons to wear face masks in public service areas, in city-owned buildings, in places of public accommodation subject to reasonable exemptions, and to declare an emergency. All right, Kit? Whereas infections, hospitalization, and deaths of Fayetteville's unvaccinated residents are again surging because of the Delta variant of the COVID-19 virus.
 And whereas Governor Hutchinson has proclaimed a new declaration of disaster emergency because of the new pandemic of unvaccinated Arkansans. And whereas the Pulaski County Circuit Court has issued an order to temporarily enjoin enforcement of Act 1002,
 which had limited the state, counties, and cities from enforcing broad mask mandates for private places of public accommodation and school districts from protecting their students even during this increasing pandemic. And whereas the most important duty of the City of Fayetteville is to protect the safety and preserve the health of its citizens, residents, and visitors,
 and whereas now that Act 1002 has been preliminarily enjoined by the Pulaski Circuit Court, Arkansas school boards and cities may again act to protect their citizens by enforcing face mask requirements now being recommended by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the Fayetteville Board of Health. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby determines that a renewed pandemic of the unvaccinated caused by the Delta variant of COVID-19 is surging in Fayetteville, threatening to overwhelm hospital resources and staff, and causing grievous infections, hospitalizations, and deaths of even young and previously healthy unvaccinated persons.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determines that the health and safety of Fayetteville residents require that all persons within the public service areas and all places of public accommodation, including city buildings, are required to constantly wear face masks covering the nostrils and mouth of such persons subject to the following exemptions.
 Masks may be removed while consuming food or drinking beverage if social distancing and disinfectant best practices are also followed.
 b settings with 10 or fewer persons present, such as small business offices which do not serve the public in person, and areas without normal public access, such as semi-private offices and workshops, do not require masks unless the persons cannot follow social distancing best practices.
 C. Reasonable accommodations may be made for individuals with a disabling condition that prevents wearing a face mask. D. Face masks may be removed in outdoor settings generally, while best practices to maintain social distance are followed. Masks should be worn at managed events when attendance and format prevent social distancing.
 And number E, children of less than two years of age are not required to wear face masks. Subsection 3, Sonkak Clause. Upon the dissolution of the preliminary injunction or any succeeding permanent injunction against Act
 1002, the termination of the governor's current proclamation of pandemic emergency or the reduction of the hospitalizations and deaths of Fayetteville residents now being caused by the Delta variant COVID-19 drops below the levels which the City Board of Health has determined should require masks of even vaccinated persons.
 This ordinance shall automatically terminate within 14 days unless the City Council passes an ordinance to extend this ordinance's effect. Section 4, Penalty. Persons violating this ordinance's requirement to properly wear a face mask pursuant to the ordinance's terms shall be subject to the penalties allowed in Section 10.99, General Penalty of the Fayetteville Code. And Section 5, Emergency Clause.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that this ordinance should become effective without delay because widespread use of face masks is necessary to prevent the more rapid spread of the Delta variant of the COVID-19 virus, especially when unvaccinated persons gather in indoor areas.
 Therefore, for the public peace as well as the health and safety of favorable residents, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Okay, Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. First, let me say that I appreciate everyone gathering here tonight. Despite the circumstances, I hope that through gathering tonight, we can find something that we can do that will be positive for what we're all experiencing now.
 um i don't want to take too much time during the introduction as soon as i'm done i'd like to hear from city attorney kit williams a summary of the um the injunction that was filed today uh uh and one of the reasons why we're here and then secondly i'd like to invite dr marty marty sharkey our our public health officer to um say a few remarks about the current state hospitalizations and how this uh this ordinance might make a a difference in the near term for what the healthcare sector sector is going through
 I'll make my remarks brief and about the content of the ordinance. This is more or less the same as what we saw before. A lot of the language is taken from the ordinance that we passed last year. There are at least two key differences. One being that there's no longer a requirement as there was before that businesses refused service to unmasked individuals.
 In this ordinance, it would be a requirement that individuals take responsibility for masking themselves and we would ask everyone to do that, but businesses will not be required to refuse service if this ordinance passes. The second key difference is that the masking requirement would be reconsidered either when the governor has declared his state of emergency over.
 Or secondly, when the Board of Health tells us through the data of hospitalizations and deaths, when it is safe for us to alter the mask requirements so that vaccinated individuals are not required to be masked and also when we might repeal it in its entirety. That's the summary. Kit, I'll turn it over to you for a brief summary of the injunction. Anything else you might like to add about the legislation?
 Well, the only thing I'd like to add is that we owe a debt of gratitude to Tom Mars, the attorney, and his clients.
 who actually did challenge Act 1002 and showed that it was unconstitutional in several ways and got this preliminary injunction so that Act 1002 is not enforceable at this time and not until some further action by his court or another court that would potentially reinstate it. However, I've read his decision. I think it's a very well-reasoned decision.
 I think that Act 1002 did intrude upon the judiciary's right to control their courtrooms, the county's right to control their buildings, as well as the rights of the school boards to teach their students.
 and our statutory rights to try to do what's best for the peace, health, and safety of our citizens. So I really want to thank Tom Marsh for all his hard work on that and the other people that worked with him and helped him. Otherwise, we probably would not be able to pass such a strong mask ordinance as you had requested that I draft, Matthew.
 Thank you, Kit. Secondly, I believe Dr. Marty Sharkey is on the line virtually with us. Dr. Sharkey, if you're here, I'd like to ask that you give us an update on the current state of hospitalizations and the impact you think a mask ordinance like this might have on current trends in cases.
 Absolutely. Thank you so much. As of this afternoon, Northwest Arkansas hospitals had 141 inpatient COVID cases and 124 COVID and non-COVID patients in ICU, which is right around its height of 127 where we were a few days ago. So to quote Birch Wright, the CEO of Washington Regional, the concern that local health care systems could be overwhelmed has become reality, period.
 This is where we are. We are at the point right now where our hospitals are struggling to find the next bed for the next patient. There is the real risk that without us changing our behavior, that we are going to put our healthcare systems in a more dire strait. And that is just unacceptable for our citizens. Vaccines are a way out of this pandemic.
 The way out of this surge is mask. Vaccines today don't get us out of this surge. They're going to help us. They're going to help us in the long term. They're going to help us get out of the pandemic, but it doesn't help in the near term. The thing that we need to do in the near term is put the mask back on, do all the behavioral changes that made such a difference last summer so that we can...
 really preserve our healthcare system for all of our needs, for all of our citizens. Thank you, Doctor. I'll sum up by just underscoring the point that the data shows that vaccines work, and we are going to have a time, if not tonight, where we can talk about how we might incentivize the community to get more vaccines in the near term.
 But for tonight, we are talking about the surge that we're undergoing right now and how masks may help our community address this. I want to take just a moment to address the notion of how an ordinance like this might be enforced and instead try to turn that question to how many people wearing a mask tomorrow that aren't today would make a difference for the surge.
 People look to us for guidance, just like they look to other leaders in the community and in the communities that they participate in, whether that's the principal at their school or the pastor at their church or their parent or a friend who's been a mentor to them. And we have a role, I believe, to play in how we communicate about what masks do and what we can do together if we work together through small actions.
 for this surge. And masking will make a difference. Right now, days matter. Today matters. Tonight matters. That's why we're here right now. I hope that each of the colleagues in attendance tonight will find that they can support this.
 Of course, with this being proposed with an emergency clause and the state of emergency that we're under, we have tried to bring forward an ordinance based on what we've already done with simple changes so that we can consider it clearly and relatively quickly. But with that, I know all of us who have worked on this today are ready to help you understand it and clarify any questions you might have.
 Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from council? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, both in the segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. We will take those that are participating by Zoom first, and then those that are in person in the chambers after that. Who wants to address us by Zoom?
 Jordan Rivera. Okay, go ahead. Mr. Rivera, please unmute. Hello, can you guys hear me now? Yep. Hey, so my name is Jordan Rivera. I live in Fayetteville, Arkansas, just right off of Weddington. And I wanted to speak against the mask mandates that you guys are trying to push. It's already been a thing. Everybody's tired of it. The president even said, get...
 get vaccinated or say mass. So a lot of people took the vaccine in order to go back to normal and you guys are trying to do the mask. Again, citywide you guys are just being bureaucrats at the local level. Just trying to enforce the local law and the local law.
 These rules are honestly unenforceable, and it should be left to personal responsibility, not to you guys at the city council that aren't even wearing masks right now. So I just want to speak against the new mask mandate that you guys are trying to push on the citizens of Fayetteville. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? There are other people on Zoom, but no one else has their hand raised at this moment.
 Oh, here we go. Aaron Lowry. Okay, go ahead. Aaron?
 Yes, I just want to speak for the mask mandate in the emergency situation that we're looking at. I think that it's a really good idea, especially in our public spaces. Since this is being spread by both vaccinated and unvaccinated people with this particular variant, I think it's the best way to prevent the spread, you know, not just amongst unvaccinated people, but also vaccinated people who may have maybe at higher risk.
 That's all. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Colleen Gaston. Go ahead. My name is Colleen Gaston. I live at 3270 Rom Orchard Road in Fayetteville, although I'm barely outside the city limits, but I do all of my shopping and business essentially in Fayetteville, and I am going to be much more willing to come into Fayetteville and shop
 if there is a mess mandate at this time when the pandemic situation is frankly dire. And I know that because I have a husband, daughter, nieces, nephews who are doctors and nurses, and they are frankly overwhelmed at this time. And so thank you to the City of Fayetteville for taking this prompt step
 You know, I didn't necessarily, when I woke up this morning, I certainly didn't know I would be on a city council meeting about this tonight. And I am reluctant to jump in just as a, you know, one individual, but I do want you to know that there are many folks out in the community who really appreciate the position that the city is taking. So thank you. Thank you. Alex Moroner. Sorry if I mispronounced. Go ahead. Yeah.
 hello everyone this is alex maroner i'm in ward one just off huntsville road in southeast fayetteville and uh i haven't taken time to prepare remarks or anything but just wanted to jump in um showing full support in favor of this
 ordinance, this renewed mask mandate. I think as the doctor who spoke earlier was saying that vaccines are incredibly important, but masks are essential in the short term. Not everyone can be vaccinated. And while we should still continue to make that a priority to get those numbers higher in
 Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas and in the full state, the masks are an incredibly necessary short-term solution. We can't just rely on public responsibility and hoping that everyone will do their part because unfortunately that's not necessarily going to be the case. So just wanted to chime in and say, I'm in full support of this. I think it's great to see Fayetteville taking a leading role in the state of Arkansas and hopefully others will follow. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else? There are a few more people on Zoom, yet no one else has raised their hands, so perhaps you want, oh here we go, Kyle Smith. Okay, go ahead.
 Thank you, Mayor Kyle Smith, 2801 Left 5th Drive. Also, totally in support of this. I am just as tired of wearing masks as anyone else, and yet being tired of it doesn't make it stop working. It is worth the inconvenience. Vaccinated at all to mask up and keep our community safe is a fairly crude analogy. Thank you.
 Here in Arkansas, it is now legal to open carry a gun into
 most any public place. It is not legal to play Russian roulette with strangers without their permission. And that is the purpose masks can serve when folks who don't really want to play that game still have to go out in public. This is the safety on the gun that keeps other folks safe. You can't make the decision for other people.
 But this helps do that. So I appreciate you all stepping up and putting this in place so that we remind everybody that this is what it takes and it'll be over sooner if we do what we have to do. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? I don't believe we have any more on Zoom who would like to speak.
 And I have some signups from the audience, so I'd like to call on them as they hit. Sure. Okay. Edward Tisnato. Yes, sir. Yes. Thank you for hearing me. I rushed over here as soon as I got the notification. I was actually out of the city. This is how important this is to me. My name is Edward Tisnato. I'm a business owner here. The company that I own is a company that does search engine optimization. Okay.
 So my background, I understand technology very well. I'm not going to get into that a whole lot because my time is short here. But what I want to say is this is that the information that is out there concerning masks isn't being
 revealed to everybody. There's a new EPA research study that just came out last week, and they actually have pictures of different ways masks are wearing. And the most common mask is the surgical mask that he's wearing, which has a 38.5 efficiency rate against the COVID-19.
 Another mask, which is a three-layer cotton mask, which some people wear, two or three-layer cotton mask, has a 37 percent, around 37 percent efficiency rating against the COVID vaccine. The bandana, when you fold it in half and you put it on your, around your face, that has a 49 percent efficiency rating, and yet that one's outlawed. So there's information out there. As far as
 PPE, it's nothing new. It's been out there long before COVID came along. It was already out there. And all these PPE processes were already set up with doctors, virologists. They already knew what masks work, what masks don't. And that's why as soon as the COVID hit us, one of the first things that Dr. Fauci said was,
 It doesn't matter. Americans shouldn't be wearing masks. You're lucky if you're gonna get one droplet blocked because that was the initial belief in that was already set up in the PPE system. Nothing's changed. The viral droplet hasn't changed. The viral particle size hasn't changed. So then what has changed? Why did they keep changing about wear a mask, don't wear a mask, wear two masks, wear three masks, or you don't have to wear it if you're vaccinated. Now, if you're vaccinated, non-vaccinated, everybody has to wear it. Why does it keep changing?
 And this whole thing about the non-vaccinated now, or the non-vaccinated pandemic, as though there are no vaccinated people getting sick. And all that's coming out in California, there are counties in California, counties in Boston, where the majority of the people in the hospital are vaccinated because they've got sick again.
 And in Boston, there are five that were hospitalized and four out of the five were vaccinated. So this whole thing about pandemic of the unvaccinated, it's just one of those phrases being repeated. It was first initiated a release through the director of the CDC, then repeated by the president and others. Now there's over like a.
 a million three hundred thousand times has been repeated and regurgitated. I'm really tired of hearing it because it's hitting everybody. As far as the mask, it's hitting businesses. I'm the business owner. I go to all the network meetings. I talk to other business owners, both in the chamber, the Fayetteville chamber, Rogers chamber, and we all believe the same thing. We don't want this mask mandate to come back. Stop telling us to wear masks. Stop telling us how to run our businesses because it's affecting us. It's
 It's affecting, I guess what you don't understand is every business that it affects, it affects our wives, our husbands, our children, our grandchildren. Every time you put a constraint on us, it affects how we live. It's not for you. It's easy just to say, OK, we're going to pass this mandate for us. We lose business.
 That affects our business. That's what happens to us. And these are people that I'm talking to every week as I'm going to these network meetings. And so these constraints that are coming in, they're not bad. I'm not...
 I'm not an expert in COVID. I'm not an expert in mask wearing. I'm not an expert in vaccines. I'm an expert in finding experts. And I have tons of documentation, not third party, second party. I'm talking about original documentation from original doctors and virologists who are saying the opposite of what's being repeated and what's being heard.
 all that stuff being filtered out by social media search engines which is my world I know they search it up because I am I just tested it three days ago when I get a video we do this all top client so I did a video just just
 Because this is what I do to test. So this recent test I did, I got a video, downloaded it, was talking about all the testimonies of people that have been affected by the vaccine. And by the way, if you go to VAERS site, you can look it up yourself. At VAERS, there's been over 5,400 deaths from the vaccine. Anybody can look at the information. It's just hard to find. You got to know how to dig and then put in the parameters. It's really hard to do that.
 And so what I'm saying is that I can find the information and the information is out there about the stats and the true stats about how this works. I don't want to give a speech about my feelings. I want to tell you that there are facts. There's other there's another side to science. Time. Everybody gets five minutes. That's five? That's five. That was quick. Well, it's five. Five is five. Thank you. I appreciate it. You're very welcome.
 Laura Phillips. Ms. Laura Phillips, my home address is 2055 South Klein. I have a few things I want to address. I'm very, very thankful that 1002 was struck down. My kids were home for the last 18 months. My youngest has asthma, pretty severe, and they both have been vaccinated now, thankfully. But I was so worried about sending them anywhere.
 We didn't feel comfortable going to parks the last year. We stayed at home. We've done all this stuff. And it was terrifying to hear that my kids' schools couldn't ask everyone to wear masks. And then Fajardo's mask mandate went away. And if by magic you started seeing these numbers climb, because masks work. I mean, it's just the way it is. Masks work. The science is there.
 i've been a nurse for over 20 years and there's a reason that we wear masks um when i was in treatment for cancer my oncologist told me to wear a surgical mask it wasn't rainbow like this but you know um but that's that's what doctors recommend is surgical masks or masks and people yell about oh we didn't have flu last year well because we were wearing masks and it helped
 And about public accommodation in businesses, I don't wanna go to businesses that don't want me wearing masks. That's the way it is. I feel safer being in places they're like, no, you can't cross our threshold without a mask on. And people talk about like this isn't, but like Dr. Sharkey was talking about, like the impact on our hospital, and my partner is a nurse, and I want people to be able to look at her
 and see what they're going through, and then say, oh, I don't want to wear a mask, or I want to bring, you know, 100,000 people into town for a festival. But I want them to look at her and her nurses as they do this every day and try and keep themselves together because it's just, I'm sorry, I'm usually much more eloquent than this, but this is just, it's too personal. I would thank you, Matt, for bringing this up. Kit, thank you for your work on it.
 i really hope that you all vote the right way and let us be a little safer and take some pressure off our health system thank you who else would like to address us so maybe that's all the sign ups i have from the room but as you can see you have some more people here so i don't know if you want there are anyone else like to address us here that's in the chamber and then there are a few more on zoom yeah come on up and introduce yourself well i am uh benjamin phillips i was at 205 south
 I'm in favor of the mask mandate. I did some research today when I heard about this, just for this. Last year, June 16th, the Fayetteville City Council ordered a mask mandate for the city of Fayetteville. That day we had 415 new COVID cases. Today, August 6, 2021,
 We have no mask mandate, and yet we had 3,030 cases today. That doesn't seem right to me. I think we need a mask mandate. Just saying. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Send it to the chamber. OK, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. Mayor, I've got some more on Zoom. OK. There are three more hands raised on Zoom. Kelly Unger.
 Go ahead. Hi, my name is Kelly Unger. My address is 3126 North Warwick Drive, Fayetteville, Arkansas. Just want to thank you for your time and allowing me to speak and talk about the mask mandate. In general, I don't have, I'm not usually in favor of mandates or bans. I'm not a doctor. I'm not an expert in
 I do have fear about my kids going to school and about getting COVID and about our hospitals. So I know that masks work. I know that they matter, but...
 I also know that many of us are wary of wearing them. And I would ask that if a mask mandate is implemented by the city, that it's reasonable and that it has an end date and some guidelines around it so that it's just not blanketed in time. I know I had opportunities during the last mask mandate where I would be
 No one would be at the library except for me, and I would often feel treated as if I was a criminal to take my mask off to read with my children. And it just seems like as a community, we're in this together and we need to protect each other. But it also, I feel like there are opportunities for us to use technology.
 good sense on when it makes sense and when it doesn't. So my argument isn't for or against a ban. We have to keep each other safe, but it really is for us if anything like this is implemented, that we put some good metrics around it and things that make sense so that people aren't so wary and are more willing to cooperate and work together. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Alexis Asilo. Go ahead.
 Hi everyone, my name is Lexia Sello and I'm a Ward 4 resident at 3618 Tower Circle. I'm speaking in support of enacting the ordinance. I certainly understand that we want all this to be over. I think the collective fatigue is undeniable. But the reality is that it's not over and as much as we all hate masks, they are one of the few tools we have to combat the current crisis. We added over 3,000 cases in Arkansas today and our local ICUs are completely full.
 Children have died and our healthcare workers are quite literally at the point of exhaustion. We have to do what we can to intervene. One thing that's within our power is taking a leadership role regarding mask wearing. As Councilperson Petty said, we need to act immediately and doing so will make a difference. It will make a difference for children, immunocompromised people, and workers interacting with the public. Even if the scientific community is wrong, and I don't believe that they are,
 The worst outcome is that people wear an uncomfortable piece of fabric on their face for a few hours on the off chance that it saved someone's life. I don't mean to minimize the fatigue of monitoring unmasked patrons or spending a full shift in a mask, but I have to believe that people would rather carry those burdens than lay on a ventilator in a hospital struggling for their lives or watch a family member in that position.
 But I'm betting on the science and data, which indicate that by masking, we will reduce spread and have fewer hospitalizations and deaths. Thank you for convening tonight and spending your Friday evening considering this ordinance. I encourage you to act in the best interest of the people and pass the ordinance. Thanks. Thank you. Who else? Brittany Paul. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Brittany Paul and I am a resident of Fayetteville and I am asking you to vote against the mask mandate. At this point, vaccines are widely available. They have been for quite some time and we all know that they are highly effective.
 If people want to wear masks, they are free to do so indefinitely wherever they would like. But to require us to do so in places funded by tax dollars is unacceptable. COVID is likely to be with us for a long time. We need to learn to deal with it and assess our own risk tolerances as individuals without upending society. And to compare not wearing a mask to Russian roulette is nothing short of an insane analogy.
 And Matthew conveniently glossed over how you plan to enforce the mask mandate in his remarks. So I would like to hear more about that as well. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this one? Alex Rainey. Go ahead. Hey, good afternoon. Can you all hear me? Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead. I'm sorry. Hey, can you all hear me? Yep.
 Hey, Alex Rainey, 4360 East Balboa Street in Fayetteville. I just want to make a comment. I'm not opposed to a mask mandate in any sense. I recognize the strain on the hospitals, right? But what I will say is I would like to see some more analysis around vaccination versus unvaccination, for example.
 The NWA COVID task force released a post on Facebook this evening, which shared 96% of hospitalizations are on the unvaccinated side. So if I think about 4% of the 138 hospitalizations at NWA right now, that's got to be a fraction of a fraction of a percent.
 of the vaccinated people. So when we talk about breakthrough cases, I don't think we have a mask problem. I think we have a vaccination problem. And Matthew, to your point, how do we get people vaccinated, right? I think that's what we need to focus on. The lesser around, everybody going back in masks, affecting all the businesses and you name it. So that's what I would say. Thank you. Thank you. Who else?
 No more. OK. All right, one more time. Is there anybody else who want to address this that hadn't already spoken in the chamber? OK, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council? I guess I'll go first. I said when I voted to end the mask mandate a little bit early that I felt like we should follow the CDC when they loosen restrictions.
 because people need to trust us because we're going to be back. Um, I said, we may be back six months. We may be back in nine years. I don't know. I sure wish it'd been the latter. Um, because I don't even think we made it six months. Um,
 So we need to follow the science to protect our citizens. That's what we are elected to do. I've got a couple bullet points. People mentioned business leaders. I called business leaders today as soon as I knew we were having this meeting and I called and I said, this is what we're looking to do.
 what does the business community think of this? And I got positive results. They wanted this. They didn't want the businesses to be punished, though. And I'm glad that Council Member Petty has made that change, that it's not on the businesses, it's on the individuals. I know we're going to have businesses that don't.
 Matthew Decker- We're going to keep trucking along. We, we are going to keep trucking along. We are going to keep trucking along. We are going to keep trucking along. We are going to keep trucking along. We are going to keep trucking along.
 Initially had issues with sales tax, but by the end of the year, even dealing with COVID and masks and mandates, we still were bringing in sales taxes and still able to pay our bills. And some businesses were able to do that. I understand some hurt. I can't take my kids to the ER right now. I mean, that's not some politician making that happen. So when we talk about normality.
 like it's not the politicians that are making this unnormal. It's, it's the virus. Having a mask mandate or not, that's not, that's not the issue. It's, that's not what caused the ER to get full. It's full of people that are sick. And, and so saying that like, if we just ignore it,
 We'll go back to normal is absurd. We have to deal with the virus. And we can do that through vaccines, we can do that through masks, we can do that through social distancing. Unfortunately, in Arkansas, it looks like we've kind of chosen none of those. So unfortunately, we kind of have to act.
 normality is not going to happen. Ignoring it is only going to make normality farther away. I'm worried about a total collapse of the hospital system. I really am. Like, there are a lot of nurses that are like, I'm going to stick through this shit for a year and then quit. But I think it's my duty to stick through it. And now they're 18 months in, and they may be looking at another 18 months. They're quitting mid-shift.
 And I don't blame them at all. And it's absurd to be like, I have the freedom to force that on our nurses. We have to do something. So this is very little. And this isn't stomping on civil rights. I have to wear a shirt.
 Lucky for y'all, I have to wear a shirt and I don't go around shirtless, but like there are expectations. I have to wear shoes while we're dealing with this. We need to wear some masks. And then we want to talk about business. And, you know, how is this going to hurt taxes? Well, dead people don't pay sales taxes. So you we've got to do what we can to keep people alive. Um,
 I've got friends that are located close to the hospital and they're like the helicopters never stop. They're literally rearranging people because our ICUs and ERs are full. We have to act. So I will definitely be in support of this. Thank you. Well, let me second what Council Member Scroggins said. Every bit of that is valid and reasonable.
 There's a lot of statistics being spouted out and spouted around. And really, if you want to understand virology, and I will say I'm a little biased because I worked in SmithKline in the biologicals division, which developed vaccines for 23 years. Vaccines work. You can go back and look at polio. Anyone here ever have polio?
 Probably not because you were vaccinated or people before you were vaccinated. That's just one typhoid. Don't hear much about it. It was an epidemic. So vaccines work. That's it. But we do not have the capacity right now to mandate vaccines. But I look at it this way. Everyone threw a big fit whenever safety seat belts were mandated.
 And now we just put them on because we know that that's a way to save our lives. So a mask do that also. So I think that most of us do become used to the mask. We don't like it. A lot of people don't like the seatbelt because it's kind of like a branding iron right now when I get in my car and put it on, it's like, whoa. But I do wear my seatbelt. I do wear my mask. It's also showing consideration for others.
 You may be a carrier of this virus. It's a breakthrough virus, so you don't have a lot of symptoms. But current science does show that a breakthrough virus that someone is carrying can indeed infect someone else. So if you really have compassion,
 You wear a mask to protect you, but also to protect others. Others that may be critical because of some medical condition where they would not be able to sustain life if they had a viral infection. I know it's inconvenient, but I think that there's so many logical reasons. And if you want to look at scientific data,
 I would suggest that you look at a very reputable scientific journal, say New England Journal of Medicine or similar, that has an editorial board that only allows publications that are scrutinized for good science, and science is good if it's good science.
 When people start making up things and it's repeated and repeated and repeated, it suddenly seems like it's truth and it's not. It's not. So let's get what really is the truth using scientific method. And with scientific method, you can reproduce the results and look at them in the past and in the future and see what really is happening. We did not have a baseline approach.
 when this pandemic started, we have a baseline now and we can follow it and we can follow trends and we can follow different geographical outbreaks and try to consider why is it that this outbreak is in Fayetteville, but it might not be somewhere else. And if there is a direct correlation to a masking policy, then I think that there is a direct correlation. And in order to have a change, you have to change what is correlated to it.
 So I think it's absolutely necessary to pass this tonight to protect public health, and that's what it is, public health. So of course I'm supporting this. It's sensible. It is based on science. It's based on current science that it is changing because this is a new virus. But we have a lot more data now than we did a year ago. And that's how come we can base good science
 on the facts that we have. So yes, let's pass this. Mayor, I have a few comments, brief comments. Sure. I will definitely be in support of this because the CDC is recommending masking. We are in a medical crisis right now. We don't have any beds in the ICU, or not very many. And children under 12 are still not eligible to get the vaccine.
 So we really need to be thinking about those children and how we can protect them. And if it saves one life by having a small inconvenience to wear a mask, I say we need to do that. We need to protect our children.
 I'm tired of the mask too. We all are, but we're gonna have to do this until we get our numbers much lower. And I think Council Member Petty has placed the metrics in there where we can take action where this will go away once our numbers are significantly lower and the Board of Health is weighed in. So I think those are appropriate steps for our community and I will definitely be supporting this tonight.
 Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor? Yes. I'm sorry. Okay. Go ahead, sir. Okay.
 You know, for me, this is a relatively simple thing to do. It's not, you know, we have rising numbers. We have people who are not getting vaccinated. You know, it's not that I enjoy wearing a mask and I just want to, you know, oppress other people and make them wear masks, but it seems so simple to
 You know, if we only have a few tools to fight this virus, you can wear them. One is wearing a mask, one is distancing, and the biggest tool we've got in the kit is getting vaccinated.
 So for me, it just seems so easy. I can put this mask on. I don't like wearing it. It makes my face sweat. It's hot now. I'm too old to have acne. It's just not working with that. But I'll wear it anyway because I want to protect other people. I am around people who have compromised immune systems, and I'm around people who are young and cannot take the vaccine yet.
 And so it just seems like the easiest thing to do. And I don't understand why people are so resistant against it. And if you ask someone, you know...
 Complaints have been made that, well, we need a timeline on this. Well, how can we put a timeline on this? Last year, I naively thought we would not be here at this point. And then as time went by, I realized that we were going to be right back where we started from. So I don't know how we could put a timeline on this. And people used to think the earth was flat.
 That was what people believed wholeheartedly until they knew better. And so the science is growing and changing as we learn more about this virus. And if we can take small precautions now, maybe we can head off that next variant that's going to be worse than the one that we're facing now. That's the way I look at it.
 And it's not that, oh, you know, a year and a half ago, Dr. Fauci said something and now he says something different. Things change as we learn more about this virus and how it affects the body, how it is transmitted, how, you know, last year we were worried about the senior citizens. Now we're worried about the kids. And I thought of all the things, you know, of all the things I heard where people said,
 Well, you know, I heard a lot of people saying things like, well, you know, it's people over 80 that's, you know, and I have family members over 80. And there was comments made that, like,
 It's okay if it's not the kids. Well, now we're facing the children getting sick and children dying, and we're still having the same complaints. Oh, well, it doesn't really matter. Well, to me it matters, and to the citizens of Fayetteville it matters. And if we can take small measures to help protect our citizens, I say let's do it. And that's why I'm going to support this. Thank you. Okay.
 I appreciate the comments that my peers have made and thank you to Council Member Petty for your work and Kit, thank you so very much. It is proven that face masks work and that they can and have significantly slowed the spread of COVID-19.
 Speaking of children, a third child as of Thursday died from COVID-19 in Arkansas, according to the Department of Health. Today, I received an email from a realtor concerning business, and she stated that she's supporting wearing masks in public spaces and places of employment so that our retail
 and hospitality workers have the same protection. Many vulnerable people have been forced back into the workforce and need a local mask ordinance to minimize their chances of getting infected on the job and dying. The numbers are increasing.
 And I think that it is the responsibility of the city council, it is our responsibility to make sure to safeguard a healthy and safe Fayetteville. I think it is our, I'll say it time and time again, it is our responsibility to protect Fayetteville. This past fall, for 28 days, my mother was in the hospital and she almost died. I know other, I have friends who have died from COVID.
 And it's very unfortunate that we're having this conversation about wearing a mask. I think it's a very, it's a small inconvenience compared to what many individuals have had to unfortunately experience. So with that being said, I'm in full support of doing whatever we can do to, to, to,
 flatten the curve and whatever we have to do as it relates to stopping the spread of COVID. So I fully support this. I fully support this. I'm just shocked that there is opposition because we all see that people are dying and our hospitals are barely able to
 to serve and to assist those in crisis. So absolutely, I'm in fully support of this. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to?
 This is an ordinance we're on the first reading. Yes, yes, so I just want to remind everyone that the Delta variant is 50% more contagious. So we're not just, we're not even talking about what COVID was, we're talking about something that's even worse than COVID. I'm personally not looking forward to the fall.
 I think we're going to see a lot of pain, heartache. It's just not going to be a good time. These holidays are not going to, I'm not looking forward to it already. So how can we help to mitigate that? How can we help to do the best we can to go forward in a more dangerous situation? A mask is an excellent way to do that.
 a vaccine is a more excellent way to do that. And yes, I'm fully vaccinated. I'm happy to wear my mask, especially for those people who just absolutely cannot get vaccinated. I know those people are out there. And I'm also doing it for the people that are under 12 that cannot get vaccinated. I'm also doing this for people who live in assisted living, who cannot, maybe who have dementia like my mother. She cannot...
 control or know to wear a mask or can keep a mask on. She doesn't understand to have a mask on. So what I'm asking is that we consider those people. You know, I work in web design. I'm very familiar with search engines. Search engines serve you information based on what you've looked at before. So, you know, be weary of the information that you search.
 because it's based on previous cached data. If you want to get some very good information, feel free to reach out to our city board health director who is an expert, who is an expert. Okay, so I've heard a lot of people say, well, I'm not an expert. Well, we have experts and we lean on them. So let's lean on them. So I'm tired of this as well.
 We're going to be back here, unfortunately, sooner than later if we don't take this seriously. So the best way to end this is to get vaccinated and wear a mask. That's just where we are. That's the science. So the sooner that we all subscribe to that, the sooner this can be over. Otherwise, more variants are going to be created. Okay, my background is immunology and virology. I study this.
 The thing is, you know, the more we just create space for it to mutate, we're going to get an even more contagious version potentially. But if we stop it, then it could stop mutating and spreading. So this is a very simple thing we have. As Councilmember Bunch mentioned, we have tools in the tool belt. Let's use them. I'll definitely be supporting this.
 Okay, is there any other comments? I move suspend rules and go to second reading. Okay. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Absolutely. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Hertzberg. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Absolutely. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 An ordinance to require persons to wear face masks in public service areas and city-owned buildings and places of public accommodation subject to reasonable exemptions and to declare an emergency. This is on second reading. I look forward to the day we get to vote to remove this, but for now we've got to move forward. So with that, I move to spin rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second.
 we have a motion setting to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the row i mean i'm sorry would you uh yes please call the wrong bench yes kirk yes gutierrez yes jones yes canyon yes petty yes scroggins yes okay
 in order to require persons to wear face masks in public service areas and city-owned buildings and places of public accommodation subject to reasonable exemptions and to declare an emergency Yes Sure go ahead I'll keep this brief and I think everybody once again forget for gathering tonight to take up this business and
 We're doing this, we want to be crystal clear, because of the very high transmission rates that we're experiencing right now. Some of you watching or are going to read about this news later are going to wonder how this impacts you. So I want to take just a second to say if you're a business, this ordinance does not require you to enforce this mask ordinance, but you are welcome to require people to wear masks and we encourage you to do so. You have that right.
 and we will back you up if you choose to execute that right.
 When we passed our mask ordinance last year, there were some other things that happened, but eventually the governor did the right thing and issued a statewide masking requirement. Rates of transmission across the state in almost every county are higher than they were at that time. And I hope if you vote yes tonight, you'll join me in imploring the government to do the right, the governor to do the right thing once again. He can, he has that power now that this law has been struck down.
 with this temporary injunction. And if you're a city leader, we know, we are all too aware of the reputation Fayetteville has in some corners of the state. But we want you to know that we're doing this for reasons that we hold very dear. We're doing this for the children, for the nurses and the frontline workers, for everyone in our community who has so far avoided becoming infected with the COVID virus.
 And we know you have people in your communities that you want to protect too. You don't have to wait for the state or the governor. Establish conversations now with your healthcare workers and your hospital administrators so that you can know what's going on in your communities in real time. Thank you everybody again for being here tonight. Thank you, Matthew. What other final comments do we have? I have a . I want to . Go ahead, Mark. I do have one thing I want to mention that is. Okay. Go ahead, Mark.
 As you know, last time when we had this, there are some people that, due to a mental or physical condition, cannot wear masks. And we do want to offer those people compassion and understand where they're coming from. And I just want to say that out loud because I did witness a person, the police came and it triggered their...
 their illness, whereas this person really could not wear a mask. It's just, it was impossible. So I encourage everyone in the community also to have compassion for those that absolutely cannot wear a mask due to mental or physical condition.
 okay what other final comments do we have in the council i have a quick comment um i do want to i'm meant to put this in my original comments but um it was pretty recent i think the the 30th of july that people who are pregnant should get vaccinated and that was endorsed by two associations um
 gynecological associations. So for people who are concerned or wondering if you could get vaccinated while you're pregnant, it is safe to do so. And I please want to encourage you to do so for the safety of your child and your own safety. And also definitely wear a mask, practice distancing and hand washing. So that's it. Anybody else?
 Okay, as we conclude I'd like to make some final remarks. First, I want to thank Councilmember Petty and Kit Williams for their work. Kit was in my office this morning at 7 o'clock, so we started thrashing around that early. I mean, I'm in early, so he knew I would be in there. So we've been talking about how we can make this type of ordinance or controls work.
 in the state. So we were looking at what we can do in our buildings and things like that. So we were on this at 7. And then after lunch I saw that Matthew had put something together which was a lot like one that we looked at last year. So that seemed to cover about all my questions. But I would want to make as a final statement, in federal we continue encouraging residents to get vaccinated.
 As we have said many times, vaccination offers the best protection from COVID-19. The vaccine is easily accessible, safe, and available at no cost to everyone age 12 and older. It helps protect against the highly transmissible Delta variant. It's how we will stop seeing so much disruption in death.
 And yet the vaccine is not available to children under 12. So there is still a large, large populations at risk. In fact, our entire health care system is now at risk with no open beds for other emergency conditions. And now guidance from the CDC says we should all wear masks to protect all the vulnerable populations. As mayor, my top priority is to keep everybody safe. It is my hope
 that the majority of the population will seek out vaccinations. But in the meantime, we can all do our part by continuing to wear our masks, social distance, and help others understand the importance of the vaccine. Folks, this is a serious pandemic and we need to take serious actions. Together, we can stop COVID-19.
 Let's vote. Carol, would you please call the roll? Funch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. That passed, Mayor, but we need a separate vote for the emergency clause, please. All right, we need a motion and a second for the emergency clause. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the emergency clause.
 any comments discussion on that care which police called row bench yes kurt yes gutierrez yes jones yes canyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes can that pass also mayor okay any announcements or anything okay thank you all very much we're adjourned