I'd like to call the city council meeting to order for August the 6th, 2019. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Dutch. Burke. Here. Smith. Here. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. OK, the first order of business I have tonight, I want to recognize six University of Arkansas International students from Iraq. And they would stand to be recognized by the city council.
 Thank you all for being here. I promise you we won't disappoint. Let's see. We have a couple of reports tonight. The first report we have is the monthly financial report from Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. You're probably wondering why I'm doing this two meetings in a row. It's because I was on vacation in early January.
 in early July, and so I did the report for May before. And I'm going to do the report for June. And June is the end of six months or half a year for us. We're looking at it. I'll remind the council that we're down about 4 tenths of a percent for sales tax so far this year. Franchise fees are up a little, about 2%.
 Fees for service are pretty flat to budget. Court fees are down roughly 5% at this point in time. Permits are down compared to last year. However, they are up compared to budget for this year because I did not hold the budget to as high as we collected last year. Last year was a very good year for building permits.
 So right now, as we're looking at it, the general fund's down about 0.35 to budget. I would say at this point in time, there's probably a good chance we will meet budget by the end of the year.
 So at that point in time the general fund is down compared to what it normally is, but I think there's a good chance we can meet the budget by the end of the year. As far as the street fund is concerned, street fund revenues are up 4%. Most of that is due to the half-cent temporary sales tax for roads at this point in time.
 Parking fees remember parking fees we had some difficulty at the beginning of the year It's pretty soft. We're now up 4% or that's where we were in June and
 So that revenue is holding pretty good. As far as park development fees, which are HMR fees, they're up 3% so far compared to budget for this year. Water and sewer is up roughly 5% compared to last year. So we're doing very well so far at this point in time.
 Recycling and trash collection is up 5% to budget. Remember, we've just increased those rates. That's starting to roll in now. We needed to continue till the end of the year because we had budgeted recycling and trash collection as a deficit for the year because of the new programs implemented by the council.
 So that's doing well at this point in time. Airport revenue overall is up 8%. At this point in time, fuel sales are up roughly 6%, but they are down compared to last year. Let's go over that again. Revenues are up a total of about 8% to budget this year.
 That 6% down took what it was last year, if you remember. That was very strong last year. So on the revenue side of everything, we're holding our own except for the general fund, which is down a little bit. Hopefully that will pick up for us. As far as expenditures, I don't have too much report on expenditures. They're within budget. Remember, we do have a lot of capital work going on, but it's budgeted at this point in time. So I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do we have for Paul on the financial report? Everybody good? All right. Paul, you have another report? PAUL GUTTAGELDER, Yes, I will. And this is on the comprehensive annual financial report. We've talked about this before. I've really given you the general results on it.
 Before, however, there is a statutory requirement that I am to inform you and the public that it is available. It's posted out on the website. I will just make a couple of comments on the results for the year.
 2018 CAFR posted. Last year was a very good year. I would recommend anybody who wants to see the results and review that, go to the management discussion and analysis, which is in the front part of the CAFR report. I could go on half night, but just I'll give you a couple of facts. Assets exceeded liabilities by $62 million. That's up from last year.
 And that position increased by $29 million in 2018. That's everything consolidated. If we look at that, the biggest reason is we've had roughly $16 million worth of infrastructure donations last year, primarily by developers. We reduced our liabilities for bonds by $22 million last year. Our pension costs were up by eight.
 Roughly that was a fourteen million dollar swing right there. So that's your thirty thirty million dollars in a nutshell That's what that was now as far as the general fund was concerned and overall fund balances down $900,000 we talked about that before that was that was because we made the expenditures for Theatre Square To make our commitment on that which was budgeted before so that didn't hurt our
 our fund balance, but it was down for that year in operations. And the other issue, of course, we had was Centennial Park coming along.
 So all in all, 2018 was a good year. We reduced debt. Our pensions were up a little bit. But overall, our net position was up $30 million again. Someone wants to look at that in depth. The report is, in fact, posted on our website for anybody's inspection. And I'll be happy to answer any questions on that. Any questions, Paul? Fine. Anything? Everybody good? All right. Thank you, Paul.
 The next order of business we have tonight is an agenda addition. I believe Teresa, Council Member Turk is bringing this forward. It's a resolution to request the Northwest Arkansas Nutrient Trading Research and Advisory Group, Nantrag, consider amending proposed regulation for nutrient trading to more closely conform to the attached proposed revision. So we need a motion and a second to add it to the agenda, correct? Yes, and we'll have to have six affirmative votes. Okay.
 Boy, I don't know. My screen is not exactly doing... There we go. Now we're in business. Mark. I think we add this resolution to the agenda. Kyle. Second. Thank you all. Kind of throwed me there for a minute. Maybe we should do this first on the agenda. Yes. That way I don't have to count in under new business. All right. So...
 We start off with this one, or do you want to put it on the first quarter of new business? Correct? This begins, this starts it right now. I don't want to do that. Yeah. But let's do it under new business. That makes more sense.
 Do you want to do it under new business? Well, our rules say that an ordinance, I mean, an agenda addition goes very first before consent. I didn't know that. Yeah. I live and learn, Kit. You've got to help me out here. Okay, then I guess we'll... We're off and running, aren't we? We're off and running. We'll vote to see if we put this on the agenda. So would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 That passed and that trees. I don't know if you want to read your resolution No, I think why don't you go ahead and read it so you can know what's what City Council's has before them and then Explain whatever you want to about it. Okay. Thank you
 Thank you. I get the pleasure of reading the long resolution tonight. A resolution to request that the Northwest Arkansas Nutrient Trading Research and Advisory Group, called NANTRAG, consider amending the proposed regulation for nutrient trading to more closely conform to the attached proposed revision.
 Whereas protecting drinking water in Arkansas should be the highest priority for our citizens. And whereas tourism in Arkansas associated with outdoor activity including fishing, swimming, kayaking and canoeing is the second highest employer in Arkansas, it is increasing at an annual rate of 4 to 6% per year. And whereas nutrient trading is a brand new statewide program that must improve and not degrade water quality and is untested in Arkansas.
 And whereas the city of Fayetteville is one of the four Arkansas cities that is a member of Nantrag and has paid for legal services to develop the proposed nutrient trading regulation. And whereas the City Council agrees with the Arkansas legislature that nutrient water quality trading can potentially achieve water quality goals with greater efficiency and cost savings.
 whereas experience in other states demonstrates that nutrient water quality trading programs including the use of credits offsets and compliance associations can result in quicker and more efficient achievement or water quality improvement goals and Whereas nutrient water quality trading should be encouraged and facilitated by the development of stringent regulations and verifiable permit terms and whereas the city is
 Whereas the Fayetteville City Council supports the nutrient trading concept has reviewed the currently proposed nutrient trading regulation and has Determined that some changes would be advisable to better protect our reservoirs environment endangered species and waterways now
 Now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Hereby requests that Nantrag consider amending portions of the proposed regulation for nutrient water correct quality trading as shown on the attached proposed provisions by councilmember Teresa Turk and approved by the water sewer and solid waste committee Okay
 So here is sort of my summary. I've also provided a summary of the changes to City Council members So it's this one right here. There are 14 basically 14 different changes that that I've included and these were also based off of some of the recommendations from the public at last week's water sewer and solid waste committee meeting and
 So, over the past six years, thousands of people have worked very long and hard to save the Buffalo National River from a large polluting hog-compined animal feeding operation. During the efforts to save the buffalo, serious gaps in the regulations, including the lack of notification, ambiguity of scientific review, research and testing requirements, lack of consideration for the karst geology in the area, and the heavy-handed influence by certain sectors of the corporate establishment.
 Now before us is a regulation that repeats the same mistake. The only difference is that the residents of Fayetteville have paid an attorney to draft a regulation that is full of holes. I call this Swiss cheese regulation. It's so full of holes that it can be easily abused. The other three cities are Bentonville, Springdale, and Rogers that are part of the Nantrag.
 Right now, there are no pressing new regulations from EPA, and there's really no urgency to pass this regulation except from Nantrag.
 The current regulation does not require any numeric instring testing and does not set any non-point numeric limits or standards on phosphorus, nitrogen, or nitrogen. These are the nutrients that create algal growth and that can create conditions that are unsuitable for pets, harmful to people, and create cyanobacteria.
 This past year, Lake Fayetteville and Lake Lucille have experienced harmful algal blooms. In past years, Lake Weddington and the Buffalo River, last year the Buffalo River had 90 miles of algae in it, have had significant impairment caused by over-nutrification from phosphorus and nitrogen. Folks can't swim or eat the fish they catch when there's an algal bloom, and it hurts the local vendors who are renting kayaks or selling sandwiches or other beverages.
 Let's not create another problem for the entire state of Arkansas that will result in increasing algal blooms, lack of transparency in nutrient trading, lack of public tracking of the nutrient trades, the elimination of environmental safeguards and protection, and allow for no regulation of instring testing or no numeric standards.
 numeric nutrient standards. While not perfect and still a bad regulation, the recommendations contained in this package seek to close many of these gaps and ambiguities. The recommendations aspire to create something marginally good for Fayetteville residents that have paid for these services, rather than advocating for a complete start over from scratch.
 My fellow city council members and members of the public, I ask that you pass these recommended changes and send these changes to the NANTRAG. The NANTRAG is a decision-making body who will ultimately decide on the final draft, the final version of these regulations that will be sent forward to ADEQ and also to the legislative council for approval. Thanks for listening.
 Okay, what questions do we have on this? I know I was at the water and sewer committee and passed a full vote on the water and sewer committee. It was unanimous about water, sewer, solid waste to support this. Okay. And there was a lot of discussion. There was. A lot of community interaction, so there you go.
 I'm sure we're going to have lots of public comment on this, but I wanted to ask a quick clarifying question real quick. Number 13 in your bullet list says that it would prohibit trades, but section 3F says that nutrient trades shall be prohibited. I'm sorry, I misread it, so never mind. That was my bad reading, not a typo. Thanks. Okay. Any other questions? All different. Okay.
 We will open it up for some public comment then. Here's the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone, and you have five minutes. Unless by a vote of the city council to add more time or they have questions for you, please keep your comments to me. Don't engage anybody on the city council or anybody in the public. Stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. So who would like to be first?
 Fran Alexander, Fox Hunter Road. I want to congratulate Teresa for her extensive review of this policy and her corrections because one of our ecosystem preservation is one of the vision guiding principles up there, and it's over your head every time you have a meeting. If anything defined ecosystem preservation, it's exactly what she's pointed out.
 All through environmental work, you're told to measure and prove. Measure and prove. And this policy has not done that. It is full of holes. And after my article appeared today about this topic, I got this from a reader. They make it appear like they want to do something about pollution while trying to arrange things to continue to allow it.
 I think that needs to sink into all of us. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Mayor, council members, my name is Brian Thompson. I live at 3428 East Wyman Road. I'm also a member of the Buffalo River Watershed Alliance, and I've been involved in this controversy with the C&H Hog Farm for the past six years.
 This concept of the nutrient trading, it's an interesting concept, and a lot of people are trying to figure out how to make it work. But it does have some concerns. One of them has to do with when you're dealing with a non-point source nutrient source. It's something that really is difficult to measure because basically it's field runoff. It's agricultural field runoff.
 And so trying to get your arms around that is not an easy thing to do.
 This regulation as it was originally written mentions the use of Evidence and calculations that will be used to evaluate non point source Credits while this certainly implies good intentions. I can assure you that at best these calculations will be subjective estimations relying on the good faith of the parties involved subjectivity will open up these agreements to abuse and
 An industrial lobbyist with a good sales pitch combined with a pliable ADQ bureaucrat in the right situation will open this. It'll just open it wide open. They'll be able to do whatever they want.
 Now, having said that, you may think I'm a little cynical. My organization has just spent the last six years fighting a license that was originally intended for car washes that was applied to a hog farm, so it was kind of a, you know,
 it was not an above board type of thing that was done and this should serve as a clear example of how political insiders can take advantage of regulatory loopholes given enough time special special interests maybe not this year maybe not next year but sooner or later they'll leverage this broad subjectivity in this scheme to advance their interests
 This regulation, as you originally received it, provides zero accountability or measurability or guardrails of any kind. Ms. Turk has provided a few minimal basics to reduce potential misuse. They're really appropriate. I urge you to accept these modifications for the good of Arkansas. If you accept the regulation in its original form,
 Fayetteville may benefit. I understand your cost situation, but Arkansas as a whole will suffer. So please keep that in mind. I thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council people. I'm Carol Christoffel. I live at 1510 East Overcrust in Ward 3, and I happened to stumble upon this nutrient trading proposal because I happen to be friends with Ms. Turf.
 and she was pondering over it. Personally, I think it's a boondoggle and a shell game. The company buying could better spend the money on solving the pollution problems and being straightforward with the public versus trying to cloud the issue with a so-called trade. Nothing is changing the amount of pollution. It is just who is saying who is the cause. So some total is still the pollution
 I hope, best case, that you all will agree with me and just kill the project. Next best be, at minimum, incorporate the changes that Councilperson Turk has recommended or more stringent measures. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 Anybody got any opinions here? Sarah. I would just like to thank Council Member Turk for bringing this forward. I think we need to be taking all steps to protect our water and the health of our community. So with that, I move that we pass the resolution. I would say reading through the original one, it looked more like philosophy than policy, so it's nice to see a version put forward with
 numbers and rules that can be followed so i would second promotion okay very good any final final comments from the council then i would like to say we will be taking this to nantrag probably at their next meeting and introducing this and we'll see where we go from there this will be what we will support on that committee we will make sure that occurs all right
 Ready for the vote. I'm ready for the vote. So I'm just please call the roll Yes Yes Yes Yes, yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. And thank you Teresa All right on consent agenda number one. I
 Approval of July 16, 2019 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to authorize the purchase of four electrical junction boxes and the repair of the electrical conduit for the biological treatment units at the Westside Wastewater Treatment Facility for the total amount of $18,704 plus taxes and freight charges and to approve budget adjustment. Number three.
 A resolution authorized the purchase of a pump for the solid handling odor control system at the Paul R. Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated any amount of $10,900 plus applicable taxes and freight charges and to approve budget adjustment. Number four.
 A resolution except, quote, in the amount of $9,423.36 plus applicable taxes from NavHoltz Industrial Services for the installation of a fill auger and scrubber condenser for the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,500 and to approve budget adjustment number five. A resolution to award bid number 19-36 and to authorize the purchase of
 water leak detection equipment from ABO Multi-Amp Corporation, DBA, Mega Group, in the amount of $60,999 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number six. Number six.
 A resolution to award bid number 19-34 and authorize the purchase of bulk crushed rock salt from Kansas Salt LLC for $50 per ton for the materials picked up and $95 per ton for materials delivered as needed and to authorize the use of Central Salt LLC as a secondary supplier. Number seven.
 a resolution to authorize a contract with AEP Swepco for utility relocation associated with the construction of the Cedarwood and Glenwood drainage improvements project
 with the amount to be paid by the city of Fevel not to exceed $30,697.03. Number eight, a resolution to authorize a contract with Bentonville-Bella Vista Trailblazers Association, Incorporated DBA, NWA, Trailblazers for the design and construction of Phase I of the soft-surface construction
 cycling infrastructure for Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. So I'm going to please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Thank you all. Moving on to unfinished business number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in zoning petition RZN 19-6666 for approximately .40 acres located 119 and 127 Southwest Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading on this. Before we go to the third and final reading, Mayor,
 As I notified the City Council on July 23rd, the applicant has supplied a bill of assurance. Okay. And the bill of assurance basically limits the height structure on the property to a three-story maximum, and it also removes use unit 17 transportation trades and services such as automobile sales, car washes, used car lots, and stuff like that.
 also as I said with my memo we're gonna need up to amend this rezoning ordinance so that we can add subject to the attachment of insurance both to the title and to the body and so before I read it I would like a motion to amend it okay add that I move that we amend the ordinance to include the bill of assurance second motion second add a bill of assurance
 overall correct right all right any comments on that any public comment on the amendment okay i'll bring back to the council any final comments from the council all right so would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, now I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final. It's a very short ordinance. Why don't I just go ahead and read it? That'll be great. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 19-6666 for approximately .4 acres located at 119-127 Southwest Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center subject to the attached bill of assurance.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department Agenda's memo, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center, subject to the attached Bill of Assurance. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 okay anything from the staff Andrew anything else you want to add no sir okay Zapp can hear what they would like to say something to the council or anything mr. mayor council thank you yes if we have any questions we'll ask I've no questions no comments ready to see y'all what you think any questions for the app okay
 That would take some public comment. Anyone from the public would like to. Is there any public comment on this particular item? I see none. Bring it back to the council. We're on the third and final reading, right? We're ready to go. All right. Any final comments from the council on this? Oh, sorry, Teresa. Yes. I just want to thank the applicant for bringing forward the bill of assurance and reconciling some of our concerns. Thank you. All right.
 Any other comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Batch. Yes. Park. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inman. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to amend 161.29 Neighborhood Conservation of the Federal Unified Development Code to change the lot width minimum for all dwelling types to 40 feet. I'm going to entertain a motion to go to the second reading on that one.
 all right i move that we suspend the rules and go to the second or the third second reading second all right we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading sonya would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 in order to amend section 161.29 neighborhood conservation of the unified development code to change the lot width minimum for all dwelling types to 40 feet anything
 More Andrew mayor we did after the last City Council meeting Address one of the comments from one of the council members about the background of the neighborhood conservation zoning district So that memo just give them some background of how the district was adopted and how it has been amended over the years Was in your packet if you have any questions, please let me know Okay Son, oh, okay. Is there any questions from the council? All right any public comment on this? I
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Mark. I will second that. We have a little trouble with mine tonight, too. I know. I know they keep bouncing around on me. We have a motion in the second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 yes an ordinance amend section 161.29 neighborhood conservation of the fable unified development code to change the lot with minimum for all dwelling types to 40 feet any final comments from the council on this before we vote
 Sarah I just want to thank staff for bringing this forward I think that this is a great way for us to introduce some gentle density into our neighborhoods allowing for stacked flats neighborhood scale quarter houses and things that really Are ways that we can accommodate a greater variety of household types into our existing neighborhoods So with that I'm excited to support this any other comments
 Good. All right. I want to thank staff for their work on this as well. All these items that's coming up. I know you all worked real hard on this. If there's no other final comments, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. And now, number three, an ordinance to amend 72.3.
 1-8 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the federal city code to convert portions of the restricted residential only parking along Locust Avenue and Lafayette Street and portions of paid only on street parking along Vanderminner Avenue, Lafayette Street, and Church Avenue to mixed use parking areas. We're on the first reading.
 i'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading i i would like to ask that we hold off on sure because there's a lot of discussion in the neighborhood well then i guess you'll have unless we i'll either have to read the ordinance or you'll have to table it oh i thought you said to move forward i'm i'm just for the second reading and then we'll hold it if you suspend the rules i can read just the title yeah if you don't then i have to read the whole ordinance unless you table it oh i can do that to you
 you could well the city council can't no okay i get it so what what do i do i would rather just read the title but if you want me to read the order i want you to read the title tell me how to do that well we just spend the rules and go to the second second okay i move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading sir i'll second that we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading somebody would you please call the rub
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and nor did to amend section 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the fatal City code to convert portions of restricted residential only parking along locust Avenue and Lafayette Street
 and portions of paid-only on-street parking along Vandiver Avenue, Lafayette Street, and Church Avenue to mixed-use parking areas. Okay, before we get to Justin, Sarah, I still have you on the – okay. All right, Justin. Okay, thank you, Mayor, Council. So just as a reminder, this proposal would convert several –
 underutilized on street parking segments to mixed-use parking locust and Lafayette portions of locust and Lafayette would be changing from residential only to mixed-use and then portions of Lafayette Vanda veteran Church Avenue from paid parking only to mixed-use
 As a reminder, mixed-use parking functions the same as public parking does to any other on-street public parking in the entertainment district. To the general public, there's no difference.
 the rates and regulations would apply to those users and residential permit holders would be allowed to use their residential permits at those spaces. This proposal would actually add 70 new spaces, over 70 new spaces where the general public could park in the entertainment district. It would add over 50 new spaces where residential permits would now be valid within the entertainment district. We feel
 this has an opportunity to actually lessen some of the confusion around our parking regulations by removing some of the streets that have residential restrictions on them thereby making more streets consistent and uniform so that each street feels looks and feels the same to a parker you know if this proposal were approved it's our intention to monitor the utilization of these spaces to um
 evaluate what's going on. We're certainly open to making any changes as necessary. It would be our intention to collect some data, come back to you all within a period of say six months as part of a larger parking update. I'm gonna share with you how this is going. Since our last council meeting, we put out door hangers at the properties along each of these streets.
 we didn't receive any additional comments though this afternoon i did receive an email from a property owner that had commented previously just reiterating his original comment and he indicated that he afforded that to you all as well okay what questions we have for justin on this okay we will take public comment then what public comment do we have on this
 Hi there, my name is Sterling Hamilton. I live at 118 West Spring Street between Church and Block in downtown Fayetteville. I live on a mixed parking street, it is currently a mixed parking street.
 We experience relatively low levels of utilization of that street, even with the mixed parking. I never have any trouble parking right in front of my house. I think that the ideas put forward by Mr. Clay are good. I own property on Church Avenue with some partners as well as on Lafayette. I think that the addition of mixed-use parking will benefit both of those properties and the people who will eventually live there.
 thank you thank you who else would like to speak on this good evening jeremy hudson 929 north park avenue also a partner at specialized real estate group whose office is on church street like to show our support for this
 I commute a lot of these exact streets that we're talking about and see on a daily basis the underutilization and I would also like to say that certainly for us as a downtown employer, added parking for our employers during the day would be a huge benefit, thank you. All right, thank you, Jeremy. Who else would like to address some of this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council then.
 All right, Sloan. I'm definitely OK holding this for another reading to allow more people to talk.
 We recently just passed a bond and in part of that had basically ten million dollars for a parking deck Because we wanted to open up some parking so that tells me two things one. We think there's better uses of parking Than just open parking lots and to just kind of doing the math quickly a parking spot and a parking deck is about $40,000
 So cities that don't utilize their parking properly get choked by it and can't grow so I think that we should do everything we can to utilize the parking that we have as best as possible without adding more and more parking so I'll be in support of this. I've had a lot of calls that
 are confused more than anything about what's going on. And so that's why I think we need to hold it a little bit because there's some bad information out there that's inadequate and inaccurate. I think that even from my point of view, there is a perception that we're making it harder to figure out parking in this area. Maybe it's like every parking and you figure it out after a few days. I don't know.
 But out of respect for the people that have called me that were not able to be here tonight, I would like to hold it so that they would have the opportunity to come and talk about it. And they do live on Lafayette, so they have a direct impact. Okay. Thank you.
 I just want to comment from a staff perspective this was a recommendation made in the parking study it's been out there for some time holding it two more weeks for another is certainly no emergency to pass this tonight and we
 have made every effort to have ample involvement from those impacted so we're comfortable with that we're just following the recommendations of the parking study and I don't think it's time sensitive to wait for more feedback
 Thank you. I really like the intention here. I would like us to look at creating one or two 10 to 15-minute loading zones in front of the apartment buildings, just so if someone were unloading a passenger or large parcels that they have an easy way to unload their vehicle, and then they can walk from half a block away if they need to park down the street. But really that's my only comment about it. Otherwise, I think we're headed in the right direction here.
 but i'm fine with holding it everybody good all right we'll hold it two weeks all right number four an ordinance to amend chapter 157 notification public and public hearings of the federal unified development code by expanding the notification requirements for public hearings on applications for developments annexations zoning map amendments conditional use permits zoning variances and large site improvement plans i understand we have an amendment
 Yes, this the City Council asked that this be amended to include residents as well as landowners and in looking at the ordinance that have been drafted with seven sections I Thought we should boil that down. And so my proposal which is before you I've laid out is to two sections or three sections and
 So I combined a lot of repetitive language into Section 2, and so I would recommend that we amend it to the new language and then before you pass it. Okay. Sarah? I move that we amend to the proposed revisions. New language. New language.
 Sonja? Second. We have a motion and a second to amend to the new language or the new proposal. Correct? That's right. All right. Everybody good? All right. Do we have any public comment on this? All right. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on it?
 All right. Sonja, would you please call her up? Butch? Yes. Clark? Yes. Smith? Yes. Karen? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ian? Yes. Brogdon? Yes. All right. Do you want to read the whole thing, Kit? Yes. You've read the title, and the title did not change, but let me read the other parts because there have been some changes there. Okay. Whereas in many instances, the impacts of proposed land use changes may affect the property owners and residents beyond those immediately adjacent to the property on which the change is requested.
 staff recommends expanding the notification requirements contained in the Unified Development Code now Therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal section 1 to 701 b5 and an actual replacement section 157 0 1 b5 as follows in the event that the applicant fails to mail a notice to a landowner or resident or otherwise fails comply with the written notice required in this section and
 the landowner or resident may waive such notice by submitting a written waiver to the planning division prior to the hearing or by appearing at the hearing section 2. that the city council the city of fable arctic hereby repeals the following notification provisions
 within the family united unified development code section 15702 c1 development section 15703 b1 annexation and zoning map amendments section 15705 b1 conditional use permits section 15707 b1 board of adjustment and section 1571 1c1 large site improvement plan and the
 and enacts replacement notification provisions in each of these subsections as follows, quote, who gets notice? Notice of the proposed action shall be given to all landowners and residents with separate addresses within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed. Residents with separate addresses shall be notified by first class letter addressed to the current resident to each address found in the city's address point file.
 section three that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby strikes the reference to manufactured and mobile homes from section 1705 c1 okay andrew you got anything new or i have no additional information i think we've handled the newest
 Mayor Gardner still asked me to make sure that I was clear with the council that this change of this requirement You could have someone who was say doing one of these items of zoning Change a site improvement, etc any of the items listed where within the 200 feet was a large apartment complex and
 that could have so we have units in Fayetteville that have 200 300 units so this notification would require each of those individual units to receive this notification you just want to make sure that I brought this to your attention should you hear that from people who might be doing a small-scale rezoning of a single family home not a developer in nature who would still have to meet this requirement of notification if they were within that parameter
 Yes, I just want to thank staff for their work on this, because this is one of the first things that I worked with with Garner early on.
 Because I feel like bringing more participation, notification, communication for the residents is a big part of what we want to do. We want to feel transparent. We want to feel that we're giving people the notice. And it does create more work for staff. And so I know that there's efforts to try to figure out how to be more efficient with that. And I had some conversations with Garner about using potentially a barcode system where people could –
 scan to get to the URL and get digital information about all the zoning things that are going on. So utilizing technology to try to bring more efficiency to the process. But I'm very excited about being able to increase that notification, so thank you, staff, and everyone who worked on that. Okay, sure. And I think this is really an important amendment because it's starting to recognize that
 It's not just homeowners that have a stake in our community. It's also renters, people with nontraditional lease agreements, and that all the people who live here matter, not just those that are fortunate enough to be homeowners. So thank you for that. I think that this moves us in the right direction towards equity, better equity in our community. So thank you. Thank you.
 I also want to thank Councilmember Gutierrez. Thank you for doing this. I think one of the things that I hear most often is, I didn't know about this. I didn't hear that this was going on. What is happening in my neighborhood? And since we're growing so rapidly and things are changing so quickly, I think this is a very good attempt to get more people involved and give them a heads-up about what is happening. So thank you to staff and for Councilwoman Gutierrez. Okay.
 anybody else all right do we have any public comment on this see none i'll bring it back to the council i move that we take this a third reading that's right mark i will second that we have a motion in the second to go to the third and final reading just like that all right so sunday would you please call the robin
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance amend section 72.18 residential parking permit now i'm on the wrong one here um that's one of those nights
 uh in order to amend chapter 157 notification and public hearings of the fable unified development code by expanding notification requirements for public hearings on applications for developments annexations zoning map amendments conditional use permits zoning variances and large site improvement plans okay i'm almost afraid to make a move and i know my screen keeps going off and on
 One of those strange evenings. All right. I think everything's where it needs to be. Is there any final comments on this? I want to thank the council for bringing this to our attention. Thank you, Sonny, for bringing that to our attention. I think it's a very good amendment. It's a very good piece of legislation, I think, that we're going to vote on. So, having said that, Sonny, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all moving along to new business number one a resolution to approve the 2020 employee benefits package Thank You mayor and council we're pleased to present a benefits renewal proposal which includes a recommendation to renew with Blue Cross Blue Shield for 2020 with zero percent increase in rates
 The one-year look-back period of the city's health claims shows an 83% utilization rate, which yields a 0% increase under the current rate renewal agreement, which was negotiated by Gallagher Benefit Services, the city's broker. Staff recommends renewing with Blue Cross Blue Shield with no changes to the rates or cost share amounts for 2020.
 Employee paid dental insurance is the only other benefit up for renewal this year. Staff recommends renewing with Delta Dental with a 4% increase in rates. You can see a dental cost comparison between 2019 and 2020 in your packets. Staff recommends continuing to provide other benefits and services as outlined in the memo with existing carriers and vendors.
 Any questions? What questions do we have? I'd like to just add a couple of comments for the council. This has been a long time trying to get to an improved utilization rate.
 Many years ago we were at about 126% utilization. We went as high as just under 140. We've been down in the 90s. We've been in the 116. But all of these numbers are looked at on a three-year cycle. So you have to have multi-year improvement at a lower number to be able to really impact your rates.
 This is the first time in the mayor's term that we've had a zero increase in these three terms, which is fantastic and a commitment of a staff and the council to do your health screenings, to identify items earlier, to have wellness programs identified that have participation from the staff.
 We also have an excellent broker who has helped us to negotiate a rate structure that has allowed us to have a 0% increase. In fact, had we been 3% better, we would have even had a reduction in our rates. So if we can continue to improve, that would have been a great negotiated contract. It works in reverse. If we go up, we also have higher premiums, which we have seen over time. The goal to try to...
 meet both what a win-win for the insurance company and our employees is that 85% so while we're slightly under it We've got to get to 80 to get that Reduction benefit and we can't really go much over That 85 before we don't see increases So and if you have multi-year increases you have multi you have much larger increases, which we've seen and
 I want to thank Michelle. I don't know if you all know, but she has been serving as our interim director of human resources most of this year, handling a lot of items around this. And she's done a fantastic job. But the entire HR team and their commitment to wellness and tracking people down to get everyone through their health screenings. We have over 700 people who have participated in our health screenings.
 is also an excellent point of identifying risk earlier. We also had questions,
 from the council about certain benefit opportunities for maybe alternative medicines like acupuncture and a massage. We ask our broker to look into that. Jacob, you want to come up and just briefly explain. The bottom line is our current carrier does not offer that even as an add-on purchase option. That is something that maybe we could consider in the future in future bitted years.
 There was one carry identified but their rates were higher and we feel that employees would rather have Rates with no increases rather than using their wage increases for insurance increases And the fact that we couldn't even get it added with our current provider who was the lowest cost provider at this time Doesn't mean we're not committed to use those things, but Jacob can maybe talk about um
 Those options. Thank you mayor council pleasure to be here Jacob Salinas with Arthur J Gallagher company to address the question regarding alternative medicine or acupuncture and specifically just kind of a refresh education point the contract the city has with Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield is a fully insured contract.
 Those benefits that Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield provides to city employees and their dependents are filed at the Department of Insurance at the state. In that certificate of coverage, alternative medicine is excluded from the coverage today.
 And they follow Arkansas state mandated benefits. So that is the logic behind not covering it today. There are circumstances where it could be covered and that is a totally separate subject and that would be in the world of self insurance
 If and when the city is ready to make that move at some future point. As Mr. Marr mentioned, there is one insurance company that provides benefits to employers in northwest Arkansas that does cover acupuncture and at some point.
 past life the city had them as an insurance company to represent the benefits again we'll go through that bidding process at a future date just another point of education there is a way and means for folks to get that benefit paid for through the IRS section code 213
 which can be utilized through a flexible spending account or a health savings account. Those expenses are medically qualified and can be reimbursed for those expenditures that are not covered under the health insurance today. So that's more of an education point for those of you that were not aware of that point. Any other questions that I can answer? All right. What questions do we have in the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have? They'll bring it back to the council.
 I move we accept the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the 2020 employee benefits package. Any final comments from the council? Senators, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6708 for approximately 3.08 acres located northwest of Rupert Road and Faith Street from R.A. Residential Agricultural and N.C. Neighborhood Conservation to N.C. Neighborhood Conservation and R.A. Residential Agricultural. Ken? Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council city of favorites are hereby changed the zone classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from r.a residential agricultural and nc neighborhood conservation to nc neighborhood conservation and r.a residential agricultural section two that the city council the city of favor arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of favorables reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay andrew
 Mayor and Council this property is located south of the Owl Creek School. It's on the extension of South Ruppel Road. You can see here on the aerial photo there's a proposal to rezone property adjacent to Ruppel Road from residential agricultural to neighborhood conservation. As you can also see here on the aerial photo they're proposing to rezone some property to RA residential agricultural and
 And we found out last week that this portion of the property had been deeded to the city for parkland over the last couple of months. So this would have to be approved by the city council. They should have actually left that out of their application. And we have talked to the applicant about that. And at this point, they are recommending this item be, let me get my next slide here. They're recommending the item be tabled until the next meeting.
 Or would it be better just to leave it where it is than the next week? What's the difference? Yeah, they are...
 Either way, if you wanted to, they wanted to have some time to meet with the council members and talk through some of the issues in particular that were brought up at agenda session that were maybe not as directly related to the rezoning, related to some of the comments about having homes front onto Ruppel Road and some additional landscaping. And I did want to touch on a little bit of background related to South Ruppel Road before we table the item.
 for the council members that may not be as familiar with this property it was rezoned as part of a city initiated rezoning for over 600 acres and the philosophy at that time was we're building a new rural road who wanted to get the zoning in place to allow it to be developed appropriately and as you can see here this green color is neighborhood conservation zoning primarily
 plane on that area being developed for higher density single-family homes the purple area right along the corridor was zoned community services and then the flood plains and the wetland prairies were zoned residential agricultural for primarily conservation the
 The subject property is up here in this northern piece here and it was actually zoned agriculture because at the time it was in a flood plain. Since that time FEMA remapped the area. It's no longer in the flood plain so they would like to be able to plat that and the property has been final platted. That's just kind of an out lot that's waiting for the zoning classification to change.
 Additionally, there were some comments at agenda session about wanting to see higher intensity or commercial in homes fronting onto RuPaul.
 So one of the exhibits here, this shows when we were thinking about CS zoning at these intersections, this was an idea that you could convert the roundabout intersection into a shopping square. And so this was just one idea why the zoning might have been extended there. This was not a development plan. This was just to kind of talk about how you might be able to integrate commercial and intensity at some of these roundabouts.
 These are actually developments that have been approved along South Rupert Road here, which this is the Sloanbrook subdivision, which we're talking about, which is single family. This subdivision here is a mixed subdivision, has single family row houses, duplexes and apartments going through the process. They've reserved some out lots for commercial here in the future and then across the street and RV park has been approved and potentially leaving some areas along Rupert for commercial.
 And if one of the options that we discussed, if the council desires at a later time not really related to this rezoning, the council could adopt an overlay district, which would create an additional layer of regulation on top of the zoning to address some of the issues that were brought up. One of the things that could be done pretty simply would be to remove the single family use unit from the community services district along Ruple.
 And if that happened, they would still be allowed to do missing middle housing or apartments in commercial. However, under our design code, if you are building something other than single family, you have to front the building onto the higher order street. So that would kind of address two of the comments we heard with a fairly simple overlay.
 And again, getting back to this particular rezoning, I did talk to the applicant yesterday and he wants to work with the council on how you would like to see the corridor developed. And he's holding some property on the south side of this roundabout for potential for townhouses or commercial. He would like to plat these lots that allow these to be divided up that you can see here. And he did want to continue the conversation with the council about it.
 And sorry, I'm a little long winded on it. But there was a lot of discussion that happened at agenda I wanted to follow up on. So I want to take it. Until the next meeting, August 20. Well, like you said, Mayor, better just leave it on this reading. Not take any action tonight. It's going to be two weeks anyway. I mean, we need to table it longer than that. Then we could. All right, unless you just want to table it for two weeks and then look at it again for two weeks.
 we're basically going to be at the same spot if you table it for two weeks that's going to be identical that's what i said all that to say that all right i guess the the circumstances of the request are different now that we are aware of a substantial chunk of city on land there than when the planning commission considered it so i'm curious if there if it would be appropriate to send back to planning commission to to review again with the full story
 how does that process work I guess I mean I'm open to sending it back to Planning Commission I don't see that that could hurt I think that that's good I'm glad to see these discussions I think these are really constructive offerings from staff in terms of how we can deal with this I went and took the opportunity to go and drive down Rupert Road a couple times and really take a look at what's there and what we need to
 And I think it's really imperative that we don't have any more privacy fences along that road. We've made such a significant investment in that. And I keep looking at our energy action plan under transportation sector, and it says we need to reduce per capita vehicle miles traveled to 2010 levels by 2030 and achieve a 25% bike walk transit mode share by 2030. And so it is absolutely vital that we build this corridor right.
 um it's such a key link in our transportation network so i i think let's hold it here and let's make every effort we can to work with the developer to get this right i guess i'm fully ready and willing to to discuss with the developers how we can how we can do this i think that andrew could you go back to slide six i think the uh the zoning attempt um
 That was was passed when this was first built was exactly the right idea though it may have been a May have been a swing and a miss just considering that the community services we can see is not getting built out to that vision so I Suspect this is the start of a bigger conversation and and I'm already Working on some ideas about the fence thing that I'd like to work through with staff but I
 Just on this proposal, can I motion now to send it back to Planning Commission? Yes, that's within your rights. Okay. Well, I've got Don, I've got Mark, I've got Sloan, and I want to speak to you. I'm happy to listen, but that's my motion. Okay. Do we have a second to the motion? Yes.
 I got a whole list of people here. I seconded it. Okay. Very good. I've got a motion and a second to send it back to the Planning Commission. Correct? That's correct. Let's take it from there. Don. So, Mayor, I just wanted to make a comment again in my one-on-one meetings with Garner
 the discussion about our 2040 plan, which was prompted by Council Member Marsh talking about this very issue. The unintended consequences, we've allowed residential in all of these form-based zones. And so while I think it was the right zoning attempt also, but because we allow residential, we're allowing the build out of that to be done in such a way by right,
 that doesn't get what you want within the actual zoning that is there and so a even bigger discussion is about where residential needs to stay or what type of residential can be in there and so even if this came forward with these items this zoning allows what you're talking about not wanting to happen
 So I just wanted to reiterate the point that as you look at the 2040 plan, as you look at zoning, as we look at these changes and the alternatives that Andrew has brought forward, it's mine and Garner's belief that until we address the residential use by right in this zone, there isn't much you can do to prevent from what's happening until you're willing to change that zoning from a policy perspective. When I looked at this, again, the zoning that this was...
 given initially this didn't exist at that time so there was not a lot of choices and right now the choices we have did not resolve the problem of the initial zoning because of this residential allowance I know that when we looked at this and we developed the new zoning there was a need for that zoning so I I think if we take it back to the Planning Commission I would hope that they could
 also start the discussion about some other zoning with the staff so we run into this again and again where we're trying to put a you know a zoning that's not exact and then then restricting what we're asking for anyway and it just makes it incongruous from one end to the other
 So there's a lot. I think Ruppel wrote, just like Alderman Marsh said, or Council Member Art Marsh said, is going to be a real opportunity for us to have a workshop, if you want to call it that, to get to the.
 the way we want future development to be throughout the west side of any of the edge of town. So I do think it's the right thing to send it back to the planning commission, and I certainly appreciate it that they are there and will be able to discuss the options that are available. They work harder than any other commission, I do believe, and certainly have an impact on the city more. So I'm supporting this to go back.
 okay uh yeah a couple things um but you know obviously coming from planning commission we we talked about this road a lot and we thought about this road um actually a lot and all the things that you've mentioned um we've talked about i don't know what the solution is but uh i've talked about privacy fences and other people in planning commission talked about private senses probably every five weeks
 So hopefully we can get a solution. I want to say thanks to Don bringing up the point about some of these form-based zoning. Just in the last couple weeks I've had developers tell me that if they want RMF24 they can't get it from the City Councils, they just go ask for CS. And developers tell me that they know that. So I think that's a conversation we have to have pretty soon that people are like,
 I know they won't give me what I want, but they'll give me this form-based zone that will allow me to do the thing I want anyways, and it's going to be a subset of it, and I'm just going to do it. So that's a conversation that needs to happen. There will be some votes by me against form-based at some points because I know that it's...
 It's not what they want. They'll tell you, you know, we're doing this, and then they do this over here. So I think that's really important. And the fact that developers are telling me that they know that trick says that we're going to have to handle it or it's going to become a problem. Okay. Thank you. Sarah. Sure.
 Thank you. I understand that we want to send this back to the Planning Commission and I appreciate their potential to review and give advice, but the Planning Commission cannot stop development of something that is already allowed by right. In the interest of just resolving this and allowing this developer to move forward with something, I would recommend that they submit a rezoning request for community services
 we i'm not asking for this but i would suggest they include a bill of assurance that removes single-family residential and commits to fronting rupal road that would i think address our concerns and allow them to move forward in an expeditious manner while we go back and put an overlay district on this and
 But ultimately from our planning staff, we need more tools. It's like we have sledgehammers and we need tack hammers or tweezers. So I'm encouraged that we're having the conversations with the developers and I think that we can come to an amenable agreement that will help this, but we're going to have to put a lot more work into it and the planning commission can't save us here.
 I promise this will be the last time I talk tonight, or at least try to, other than announcements. The other point I wanted to make was that in this last legislative session, Senate bill that restricted the city's ability to do design standards for
 residential single-family residential and so the other reason that this is important is when you talk about fencing and wanting to prevent those items designing that you've got doesn't allow us to have these kinds of restrictions in the new law that's coming forward but we can have these restrictions either in an overlay as Andrew suggested or in
 commercial or multi-family or some of the other form-based zones that allow more density of zoning so that's the other reason I think it's important to really address this is because you have very little flexibility to do this in a single residential I appreciate that we're having this conversation and since we are I'm going to try and clarify some of my
 so that going forward as developers want to talk to us that it's it's all out there and clear i don't i we talk a lot about fences i don't think this is a problem of fences i think fences are a symptom of a problem of people turning their back on a big road to me this is about a safety issue of having eyes on a road that we are intentionally investing in making a pedestrian major pedestrian route on the west side of town
 we are encouraging and through a lot of our street designs forcing pedestrian traffic onto this road and then we're allowing people to acquire the land adjacent to it and ignore it
 So I don't have a problem with residential along Rupel. We have some fantastic examples of residential properties facing Rupel, putting eyes on the street that are a pleasant and welcoming and relatively safe walking experience. My problem here is acquiring land adjacent to a road and then developing as if it were not there.
 I don't think an overlay district solves the problem. That might solve the problem for Ruppel, but we have the exact same problem on Alberta, on Salem,
 There are a lot of examples in Ward 4. There are examples in other parts of town. Township is also an example of a long stretch of road that's developed with nothing but fences along either side. It was done so long ago that it's now got enough trees and bushes that you don't notice. But try walking down it.
 um i think this is a a city-wide problem that needs a city-wide solution and i as much as we could tailor it as an overlay district just for this section i think that would be missing an opportunity so i i'm looking
 at this as a place as a stimulus for us to look at the entire code and get it right instead of continuing to struggle with these little things. I don't even think this is necessarily about design standards. My understanding of the new state law is that they still allow regulation of bulk and orientation of the building.
 And that ultimately is what this comes down to is needing buildings to front the street that developers have purchased adjacent to, respect the environment that you're building in and the people that are going to have to exist there. So those are kind of the big picture goal on this, how we're going to resolve this one
 question within that framework I'm sure we'll figure out but I would definitely like to hear the Planning Commission start that conversation for this parcel with this broader conversation happening around it okay the applicants here they requested it be okay that's good
 all right so we have a motion and a second to send it back to planning commission is there any public comment on that and bring back to the council that motion second correct did we do that i lost track of that all right any final comments from the council on this all right so i'm going to please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes all right thank you all number three
 The ordinance to rezone that property is described in Resolution Condition RZN 19-6710 for approximately 0.80 acres located in 1520 East Hustle Road from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Andrew.
 Mayor and Council, this property is located at the northwest corner of Huntsville Road and Sherman Avenue. It's just west of Happy Hollow Road as you can see here on the aerial. You know that stretch of Huntsville Road, there's a mix of uses. There's a garage just across the street and there's some apartments, there's duplexes,
 The applicant is proposing to rezone this property that has a single family house to neighborhood services general. They would like the opportunity to develop it with potential for higher density or some light commercial in the house at this point. And the Planning Commission heard this and did not have any issue with it. Felt like it met the adopted plan for the area, which is a residential neighborhood area and residential neighborhood areas encourage higher intensity uses at corner locations just like this.
 and we're recommending approval of the rezoning thank you okay what questions we have from the council uh were there anybody uh against this at any of the planning commission meetings there were not that happened thank you amazing public comment on this okay right back to the council mark i move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading second yeah motion second to go to the second reading
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and Hornets rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6710 for approximately eight tenths of an acre located at 1520 East Huntsville Road from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading yes yes yes
 And, Your Honor, it's a rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 19-6710, for approximately eight-tenths of an acre, located at 1520 East Huntsville Road, from RSF 4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. Any final comments from the council on this? Everything good? All right. Summons, please call the roll.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454 104
 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. 1. Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. 2.
 A 15-foot wide utility easement shall be dedicated along Spring Street, and a 5-foot wide utility easement shall be dedicated along Fletcher Avenue. Okay. This property is located at the intersection of Spring and Fletcher. It's on Mount Sequoia. Spring Street does have some excess right-of-way, paper right-of-way that has not been built, and it is outside of the sidewalk. It looks like it's part of the yard of this property if you go out there and look at it.
 And the proposed vacation area is shown here in this single hatch. This would leave a remaining 25 feet from centerline right of way, which would allow for the city's master street plan, which would allow storm drainage improvements and sidewalks as needed.
 There were no issues at the Planning Commission. All the utility companies and the city departments agreed to vacate this. And we're recommending the council approve the request. The commission also recommended the council evaluate a broader vacation of Fletcher Avenue because this entire block of Fletcher does have some excess right of way. Thank you. OK. What questions do we have for the council on this?
 on that broader vacation is that something we can actually do what would be the process for that it would be required a good amount of work we would have to survey that block of land and get property owners involved and things like that but i imagine they would be happy to gain some extra land most of them would would that be something that we could make the motion today or would this be a separate issue if it came along with this item
 It's really not on our agenda to extend this vacation beyond what has been requested. Probably at the agenda session, you might want to talk to the mayor and staff at that point in time if you felt like it was a good idea for the mayor to devote some staff time to it. Of course, it's up to him to make the final decision. He works his hat pretty hard already. It's really probably not germane to do it at this council meeting.
 Okay, thank you. Okay.
 Andrew did you say the excess broader right-of-way was on Fletcher or is it on spring sorry it is on spring just how wide is the existing sidewalk there does it meet our current standards the sidewalk is probably about four feet it's an old sidewalk right next to a ditch so it probably is not a DA compliant but it is separated from the street at least there's some green space and trees in between
 and the remaining right-of-way would be sufficient to bring that up to our current standard width yes it would yes I have a question for Andrew about how many properties do you think this broader easement area would
 It would probably go past Olive and all the way down to, is it Washington? Somewhere along that area. Is that where it makes the – Or Willow. Yes. Is Willow – Willow's where it makes the really sharp turn there, kind of dogleg? Okay. Okay.
 so it's a pretty good I mean maybe a dozen property owners or it's a pretty good number okay all right thank you I should probably also note that really this is not a disadvantage to most property owners like was said it it looks like part of their yard
 uh and so i think if somebody really needed to do something they certainly could come forward as this applicant had if they want to do something with that property and at that point we would also obviously need to look at do we want to make sure we keep enough right away that if we want to have an improved sidewalk here there'll be plenty of room for it but uh at this point in time i really don't think that that right-of-way is damaging any of the other neighbors
 Yeah, so I use that sidewalk quite a bit, and it needs a lot of improvement. I guess I have a question. What kind of – what is the – how close are we to potentially – do we know to get that sidewalk updated? I don't believe that's on any plans to improve, to my knowledge, unless somebody else knows something beyond that. But I don't believe there's any plans for it.
 I guess I just want to make sure that we that we know that we do have everything we need in order to once we are ready for that to be updated that we have have everything in order. It's really incredibly steep. So I kind of think maybe that might be why it's not quite on the plans because I know we have a goal to try to keep things in a certain order.
 guess what we call angle but it is incredibly steep so i just i'm trying to think ahead that to give us enough leeway and space to have that in consideration if we start making changes there for that to deal with the steepness of the street give ourselves flexibility i guess is what i'm saying
 Mayor Matt address that. I think that is a really good point. Anytime the council vacates the street, you sometimes you can't anticipate how you might need that right away in the future. We feel like for this section, you know, you could you could put storm drainage and sidewalk in and meet the code. But again, if somebody wanted to widen out for parking, I think you could do that. But
 access right of way for the city's side of it can be beneficial. You know, in 2030 50 years down the road that you can't get back. So it is certain to look at closely. We've looked at this, we do feel like it would allow all of our current master street plan to be improved. Sorry. So just looking at the map now, since we're talking about further down, and I think it is relevant to the context here, the.
 The width of the right-of-way we're talking about now goes all the way down to Walnut, where it jumps back out to the street. But it looks like that is in line with...
 the section of spring street after the little curve that you're talking about as though maybe at some point there was a dream plan of straightening out that curve and running that would require rebuilding the entire street and it seems a little unreasonable but it does make me wonder kind of what the the broader history of this this was how we ended up with so with it so wide and why it's not not continuous just a curiosity
 and i would just like to point out that if this parcel was redeveloped then the developer would be required to construct a new sidewalk on that parcel so that would be a way for them to bear that expense and improve that sidewalk but it is in
 Really bad condition and it's exceptionally steep, but I don't see you know I'm always looking at these thinking where could it where might we potentially need a future transit location? I think that area is too steep for that and it's not even comfortable for parallel parking in that area So I think it's really wise to go ahead and make hate this but but then be prudent about maybe just let other property owners initiate further vacations
 So with that, I'll move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Let me take some public comment. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Now I'll bring it back. Okay. Sorry. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I'll second that. We have a motion to second. We'll go to the second. Something to please call the vote. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance vacate to approve VAC 19-6712 for property located at 155 North Fletcher Avenue to vacate a portion of street right-of-way. Sarah. No comment. Are we? I need a motion. Oh, okay. Sorry. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark. I will second that. Okay. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance approved the AC 19-67 12 for property located at 155 North Fletcher Avenue to vacate a portion of street right-of-way from the council everybody good all right
 somebody would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number five an order swayed from benny binning accepted quote in the amount of thirty one thousand five hundred fifty dollars plus foot taxes and trade charges from walker and wallace service llc for the repair of two cycle blowers for the west side wastewater treatment facility and to approve a budget just
 Whereas two cycle blower units used at the Westside wastewater treatment facility were shipped to Blocker and Wallace Service LLC for disassembly and inspection and it was determined that both required either repair or replacement and whereas the cost of a new unit ranges from twenty four thousand to thirty three thousand five hundred dollars and staff recommends that the units be repaired rather than be replaced at this time and
 And whereas Blocker and Wallet Service LLC is an authorized repair vendor and is provided a repair quote in the total amount of $31,550 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. And whereas formal competitive bidding is not necessary for repair of quote hidden or unknown damages unquote. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby determines and because of Arkansas code annotated 19-11-203-14-EE the repair of hidden or unknown damages does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a repair quote in the amount of thirty one thousand five hundred and fifty dollars plus any applicable taxes and freight charges from Blocker and Wallace Service LLC and authorizes payment in of that amount
 Section 2 that the City Council city of Fable, Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to this ordinance Good evening, mayor and council. I'm mark Rogers water and sewer operations manager the west side treatment facility unit utilizes a biological nutrient removal process to treat an average of 7.2 million gallons of wastewater per day a portion of the process solids or sludge must be removed to maintain a proper balance between microorganism populations and available food a
 The removed solids or waste activated sludge is temporarily stored in one of the two tanks before they are dewatered and before they are sent to the biosolids management site for further treatment and later sold as fertilizer. During its storage time, mechanical blowers mix and aerate the mixture to prevent solids settling and microorganisms from dying. Five blowers are available to mix the contents of the storage tanks.
 Recent vibration analysis results indicated that two of the blowers had hidden internal points of failure Requiring disassembly inspection and repair evaluation by a certified repair facility One of the blower units was determined to have a head plate bore damage caused by an internal bearing failure and damage to the rotary shaft from failed internal and external lip seals a
 The damage will require re-sleeving and machining repairs while the damaged rotary shaft will require re-sleeving and new lip seals. This unit was quoted for repair by Blocker and Wallace in the amount of $15,725. A second unit has experienced similar lip seal failures and needs to be repaired in the amount of $15,225.
 Considering that purchase prices for remanufactured new blowers range from $24,000 to $33,500 each. Staff recommends completion of the recommended repairs for the two blower units in the amount of $30,950 plus estimated freight in the amount of $600. Taxes are estimated in the amount of $3,076.13 for a total of $34,626.13.
 compared to 48,000 to 67,000 if we were to purchase new units. Because it was necessary to have the repair facility disassemble the units to determine the extent of hidden and unknown damage to equipment already purchased, a bid waiver and or formal sealed bidding is not necessary according to Arkansas code cited by Ket for hidden and unknown damages.
 Budgeted funds will be moved from the sanitary sewer rehabilitation account to the plant pumps and equipment account to cover the repair costs for the blowers for the west side wastewater treatment plant and This information was presented at the July 9th water and sewer committee meeting and it was unanimously Voted to forward to the full council with recommendation for approval any questions I
 What we know is if you're going to have a repair on your cycloblower, you want to use the blocker and wallets. That's what I know. Yes, in our line of business, we've seen a few cycloblowers. I don't know.
 Anyway, everybody's getting tired, aren't they? All right. Do we have any other questions for Mark on this? Do we have any public comment on the cyclone blower tonight? Well, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Nope. Senator? I move that we take this as the next reading. All right. Teresa? I second that motion. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Mudge. Yes. Hart. Yes. Nibs. Yes. Guterres. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Indian. Yes. Farming. Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $31,550 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Blocker and Wallace Service LLC for the repair of two cycloblowers for the Westside Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment. Yes. Teresa. Yes.
 I submit a motion that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $31,550 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Blocker and Wallace Service LLC for the repair of two cycloblowers for the Westside Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment. Any final comments from the council? Sarah. Mm-hmm.
 Okay. Seeing there's no final comments, Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number six, a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding between the city of Pebble and Washington County for the city to use the Northwest Arkansas Crisis Stabilization Unit at no cost through 2019 with a fee of $40 per day for each individual the city sends for treatment beginning on January 1, 2020. This is something that I know that we have been...
 working on the past month or so I know the city attorney and myself have been involved the police chief has been involved in some of this I know Paul we checked the finances on that what we have worked out I know that there's been citizens that have worked on this I see them out in the office in the audience tonight we the judge has agreed for us to be able to use the crisis unit
 through 2019 without charge and then in 2020 it's $40 a day per individual. The crisis stabilization unit is I think 16 beds if I remember correctly over a four county area. So I look pretty enlarged somewhat. I know that we had some concerns over some of the first documents but we've managed to get that all worked through.
 I certainly have been supportive of this CSU because it gives us an alternative opportunity
 when people are having mental episodes instead of taking them to jail, we can take them to a CSU. So I think it's really important. I certainly am supportive of this and I know you will be too, but I did not want to sign just an MOU without going through the city council and being as transparent as I know how to be around here instead of signing documents without you giving me the approval to do it. Okay? So,
 Mayor, if I could add just a couple of comments from your discussion with this. It's highlighting your staff memo under the budget and staff impact. So while it's free currently and the $40 per day, there are a couple of areas for the agreement to be considered in the future. One is the fee is waived, of course, in Section 3 for this year, so there's no budgetary impact. There is an opportunity for the council to consider.
 to no longer be in this agreement if it doesn't appropriate the funds for the future budget year. So that's one option. There's also a notification option to right to terminate the agreement if the conflict cannot be resolved between the, say, there's a new price that you don't like.
 by notifying the other agencies within 30 days of notice prior to its termination. But your budget approval is required, and otherwise the agreement is null and void anyway. Also, we have the judge, I believe, sent a representative from the county here tonight that would answer any questions you might have. Is the representative here?
 Okay, well then moving right along I'll answer whatever questions Are you the county representing I just want to say a couple things there was a couple of questions asking agenda session I wanted to answer one was how many CIT officers we have the answer to that is 13 is the current number We have trained right now
 And then I think Council Member Scroggin asked if our trail person was a CIT officer. She is not. However, there's a class coming up in September in Fort Smith and another class coming up October in Rogers. And she will be in that along with other officers. So 13 is the current number, but we have a plan by the obviously the end of October to have. It'll probably be close to twice that many if we can get that many in those two classes.
 Any questions or anything? Mayor, I'd just like to thank the state legislature for appropriating the money.
 enabling Washington County who applied for the grant to establish this this is certainly something that is going to be hopefully very beneficial even though it's very short term basis it's not for really serious long-term mental illness three-day maximum pretty much for the stays there but I think this is a very fine facility that will certainly serve our police force well I know that
 one of our chiefs is either Chief Tabor or Chief Reynolds is on a committee that is kind of overlooking some of the actions of this so I think that'll be helpful for us and and so I think it's I really do want to thank the legislature for doing this I think it's a great asset for all parts of the state because of course there are several other of these crisis stabilization units and other parts of the state thank you mayor I just had a quick question
 On the last page, the admission criteria, the very last one, it says, priority admission shall be given to individuals in the cohort group as established by Washington County. I just wondered what the cohort group was and how that may affect anybody. Maybe this is too detailed, but...
 Was just trying to look through this very carefully. I'm looking out there for the county representative to explain that to us I withdraw the question Yes, they drafted that and sent it out they actually was probably about six or seven different versions Till we finally got to this one. They have improved to some extent it
 And it's what they want. And so at this point in time, if we want to use this facility, then this is what we will do is agree to this memorandum of understanding. And then at the start of the year, we'll have to start paying, which is reasonable. A $40 fee is quite reasonable now. We might have concerns in the future. We don't know what's going to happen then. But free now and $40 next year, that's a very reasonable fee for this kind of facility. And I think they can only do that because the state funded it.
 And I might just add that we have been talking for years about the need for mental health services here in Northwest Arkansas. Our police officers often deal with this scenario and it's a much better situation than having a person sit in the jail at a higher cost to our citizens as well.
 While it's not perfect and we don't know how things are going to work, it gives us a chance to see it free of charge until January, to look at it moving forward. It requires your budget approval if you don't like where it's headed. But I think we should all be excited about the mental health services that will be available. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I feel the same. I think when we have an opportunity to keep people out of jail, if they just need that little bit of –
 staff a professional staff to help them through a tough time or if they need access to medication I think that's a really important thing that as a city that we support mental health services and I think it's a very great price and I think from now until we get it for till January when is that the $40
 to really utilize it and see how how it works i think it's a great beta testing and i i encourage the i'm glad that the that we have enough people 13 people i feel to get get the right people there for services that may have they may not have ever thought to or had access to get those services anywhere before so that's what i'm really excited about
 I know I see people around Fayetteville every day, all day, the same people, and I wonder if this switch could potentially make a big difference in at least one person's life, and that's exciting for me. So I'll definitely be supporting that.
 I just want to thank everybody for getting this together from the mayor the county the state I think it's really important I'm sure right now the the band of do we let somebody go or we go to jail is really small but as we know this option is there I think it's going to get wider and wider and the police will get better at recognizing people that
 Please don't tell your park officer I'm indirectly responsible for her being at a week of training. But I think that's really important. She's probably going to be the one that sees most of the people that actually be good candidates for this. So I'm glad to see we haven't voted on it. I'm sure we will, but I'm glad to see this going forward. Sir. Thank you.
 I really like the idea that we can we try this out we can see how it works and I'm thinking I'm crossing my fingers that it works really really well because this is an opportunity to
 help someone when they are possibly at the lowest point in their life or a very low point and sending some of these people to jail could end up in them and
 uh being hurt or hurting someone else or it just caused a lot of other charges be placed against them that might keep them in jail longer and certainly not help them in their condition at all so i'm really pleased to that we're going to participate in this thank you
 Well, I absolutely support any effort to safely and humanely reduce our incarceration rates. I think this is absolutely a right thing to do. It's not the whole solution, but it is a piece of that puzzle.
 however i have some concerns with the mou and i think tonight is exactly the time that we need to focus on the details of that i'm very disappointed that we don't have someone here from the county to to walk us through the details and i do have some questions that i'd like to ask so i guess some of you who have been involved in more than one version see what we can do with this
 What is our anticipated budget impact for next year? Do we know that yet? We don't know that. Just estimate. We don't really have any history, so that would be very, very difficult to answer.
 I would suggest, you know, we put probably about $2,000 or so in the budget to start. That's just a guess off the top of my head. We can look at it again. One thing that I do want to emphasize, as you've been told, we do have an out process if it doesn't work right. But at that point in time, I think that's what I would start out.
 One good thing about it, certainly it's housed here in Fayetteville. And certainly there won't be a lot of travel or transportation costs for our people. So I think in a lot of ways it would be a lesser cost than it would be for many. I would suggest we put about $2,000 in the budget and see where we go from there. Again, like I said, if we have any difficulties moving down the road, we can certainly take those up.
 with the county and we do have the option of withdrawing. Can't successfully conclude on those, but we really don't have a history. I might just add that our discussion was to evaluate how many people we do take between now and the end of the year and see if that has any type of guidance to that future budgeting, to establish a baseline.
 I think the other item that I would say is typically these people, if we are dealing with them, end up at the county job where we're paying $62 for a booking fee. So if they go for one day, we're going to have a savings from what we currently pay. And if they're there for the full three days, then obviously we have a higher cost. But I think we're going to have to evaluate the remaining five months of the year or five months of the year, six months, three months, whatever it is.
 to see how it's done. We did take one person before we had this agreement done, and they were actually too severe of a person to be able to be accepted by the center. So it will not be a solve-all scenario, but we'll have a better idea as we look at it. Do we know the total operating cost or estimated operating cost of the facility? We do not. Do we know how much the state grant was? We do not.
 I won't withdraw those questions. I'll just leave them awkwardly hanging out there.
 I'm sure they could be requested under FOI from the Washington County. They're not here. I guess what I'm getting at is that residents of the city are residents of the county, and they pay taxes to the county. They pay the same taxes as a non-city resident already pays to the county. And so if we had a representative here, I would ask why city residents are being double charged for the use of a facility they're already financing.
 I'm not going to ask you all to answer that question for the county When there are partner cities and counties and you said that was over a four County region I'm curious if there will be preference given to Washington County cities over places and other counties We do not know the answer to that What we have been told is that there's twenty twenty six or
 16 beds and that they are on a first come first serve basis at this point so as the facility becomes full until there's an opening to accept new individuals it'll be those that arrive for the need so we'll be competing for bed space with Benton County and Madison County and all of their
 we'll be competing for one of 16 bed spaces if we're taking someone section six talks about the duration and what happens if the if the state decreases funding perhaps it's a huge success I wish that it detailed what happens if the state increases funding I figure that's probably not likely but I would hope that we would get a commitment that there'd either be a reduction of our costs or an expansion of the facility
 Would love to hear somebody describe their plans in that scenario If there were a county representative here I'd ask if they medical invited medical providers were going to bill Medicare Medicaid or private insurance and if they do will the city's be reimbursed for the recuperated costs and
 Would hate to hear that they were now triple charging the the residents of Fayetteville and their insurance Think that those are probably pretty important details that ought to be part of this conversation and I'm really disappointed the county's not here to to participate in that
 I think those are all fair questions, Kyle. Sorry, I can't answer all of those. Most of those are county and probably state questions. Well, I think that's all that I have. I'm sure the answers would have elicited even more questions. I will say that we have...
 multiple JPS that represent the city of Fayetteville that will also reach out to to see if they can assist with any of that I think we're at a point today where we can continue to wait on answers and then have the issue of just you know do we get to partner with this facility long term so you know it's a
 Those are things that hopefully they'll hear as areas of concern. So I guess my final question is as much as I support the existence of the facility and our participation in it, do we have to approve this tonight or can we wait and see if there are answers to the questions while continuing to use it until the 1st of January?
 The agreement itself says in Section 5, ratification, if a county or city fails to ratify this agreement, that county or city may not participate in the Northwest Arkansas Crisis Stabilization Unit. And even though we might have heard something orally from the county judge, writing always controls over an oral contract like that. And you can't usually, you can't vary a written contract just by an oral statement. So...
 The memorandum of understanding itself says that we can't use facility unless this is ratified. If they decide not to start taking people, they can do that tomorrow. Certainly a lot of your questions have been asked already without any responses, but we certainly want to be able to have our police be able to take someone that needs help to this facility and help.
 Therefore, that's why we're recommending that you all approve this enough so the mayor can sign it and ratify it. Well, I do not feel comfortable signing it without your all's approval. I will be perfectly honest with you. I hope this is something that we can approve. I do not feel comfortable voting for the memorandum tonight without answers to some of those questions. Okay. I would motion that we table this for two weeks. Okay.
 and trust the judges commitment that we will continue to be allowed to use the facility and if that turns out not to be the case I think that will also be a telling sign of our future partnership with the county in this endeavor
 i mean but i agree with you right now we have permission i know susan norton and i was on the call when we called the judge this week i know there's some folks out here that we're going to take some public comment from that has talked to the judge about being able to use the facility he did tell us over the phone that we could use right susan but we could we could use the facility without signing the mou but his kid pointed out that was a verbal commitment because
 If that verbal commitment turns out not to hold, then in two weeks we'll have an opportunity to ratify it then? There's not a time that says when this must be ratified. It just says it should be ratified before we're going to have use of the facility. And so I need to bring that to your attention. I'd hate to see some person that needed help become a pawn between our two governments on –
 what we should do. Obviously as the Fayetteville City Attorney I was not overjoyed when I first saw these agreements. I thought it would be better to have a regional managing facility rather than just one county judge. I think that the other counties probably should have, county judges should all have representatives on there like the Solid Waste District, stuff like that. But that's not the direction they wanted to go. He's the one that applied for the grant.
 And so he has instructed his county attorney to draft up these agreements, and that's what they've done. So this is the agreement that is presented to you, and I still think that I just don't want to see any person that really is in need of getting this sort of medical care, psychological care, crisis stabilization to –
 to not be able to get it and you know i i would not normally recommend an agreement like this but i think this is an extraordinary situation i completely concur with the the desire that nobody become a political pawn in this um and i i guess i'm going to extend faith to the county judge that he doesn't want that to happen either so i motion to table this for two weeks okay let's see we got
 I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I've got Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Council Member Smith, you make some really excellent points here. And I would like answers to many of those questions.
 I started out asking what the cohort group was and how it would take priority because my concern was that maybe people Folks in Fayetteville would be way down on the totem pole or excluded from these services Depending on what the criteria and the size of the cohort group was so I I would really like to see somebody from the county here able to answer our questions and
 and before we vote on this. So I would support tabling this for two weeks. So you would be a second? I would be a second, yes. Okay. All right, let's get into that. So what we have on the floor then is a motion and a second to table it for two weeks. Now...
 I should point out that there's no guarantee that we will get a representative from the county here in two weeks. My understanding was that there was at least some indication that they would send a representative tonight, and as you see, that did not happen.
 I believe they got some sort of, I thought we got an email or something from the county saying they would have a representative here. I can't remember. I know that I talked to the judge earlier this week on Monday when we had coffee with the mayors and he did say that he would send somebody here tonight. It did not, not this week. Well, maybe it was next week, whatever it was. Was it last week? Sorry.
 So that did not occur. So I don't really know what to tell you in that kind of situation. I think we need to take some public comment here, though. There's folks that have been sitting here a while. All right, Sarah, what did you have? Oh, I'll go ahead and let public, just real quick. I just wanted to say that I think, you know, I'm concerned that if we don't,
 you know if we wait and we don't get a county representative to answer our questions then what do we do then we wait I kind of think we need to I'm kind of in mind that we should go ahead with this because we have the time to work out any details there even though it's imperfect as it is but I think it's better than the alternative that somebody might fall through the cracks so that's just my point okay
 And I wanted to ask the question, is there a way, Kit, to amend this contract where we can say that we're interested in trying it out for that trial period so that we can see what the services are like and then review it back before the January 1st so we have time between now and then?
 to see if we like the services and then talk about the fee again? Or how do, I mean, because I kind of want to take advantage of the opportunity while we have it. It's free. It's available. People can get services. But if we're not trying it, we don't know if we like it, I guess is what I'm. Well, it always takes two sides to amend a contract, to agree to a contract, either agree to it or to amend it.
 and that is always available to the parties. They can always go back and amend it. This certainly could be looked down as a trial period. Even if we appropriate money, if we decide that we're not getting service, then we can always tell our police not to take anybody there. And if you don't take somebody there, there's no cost, obviously. I don't like a take-it-or-leave-it contract, which I believe really this is what we have here.
 we don't we're dealing with the entity that has possession and authority and control over the facility and they're saying this is the contract and you ratify the contract you can use it otherwise no so we really have very little bargaining power so even though it's always possible to amend a contract if you have
 very little power on on your side then it's very difficult then to get the amendments you might want so we did a little bit of discussion with them but obviously not totally satisfactorily but at this point in time we would be allowed to have our police take a person that needed to go to the cross-stabilization unit there if we approve this contract
 It is possible that there could be some changes to that through the contract. There are some very simple changes that would make me feel better, but that doesn't mean that that will happen because if the county judge does not desire to do that, I don't think it will happen. And it's not really the county because the quorum court is not involved in this contract. If you look at the contract, it says county judge.
 It doesn't say anything about quorum court. So it is the county judge only that's making the decisions in this particular case. He has a committee, but the committee is appointed by him. That's true. And the committee says it will review stuff, but it doesn't say they'll approve the rates, only that they will review it. So there are a few things that could change in this contract that would make me feel much better about it.
 But that's not what's before you and yet I still believe you ought to approve it tonight because I want our police be able to use this facility when somebody is in need of it and It could be in the future that the county judge will determine that there are a few changes that he should make And if he wants to make him he certainly can Thank you
 Thank you. I share the concerns that were raised. I think they're legitimate and we need to look into that, but I support approving the contract tonight based on the fact that included in the language, it says that they must.
 the review board shall review the fee annually and send notice of modifications by September 1st so that's a good period for us to review this that would and those modifications would go into effect January 1st and that we would have to have the mayor would have to sign those um we're not obligated to make payments beyond the current fiscal appropriation period and additionally the city can exercise its right to terminate this agreement
 by notifying all other agencies in writing at least 30 days prior to such termination. So that gives us an out if we need it, but I think we have people in crisis, and let's act on good faith and move forward tonight, but then do our research, be diligent, and be unafraid to suggest contract amendments or termination if it comes to that. Maura?
 I share the concerns that were mentioned also earlier. And just looking at this and looking at the attachment to it, anyone can terminate. But I do think that it's urgent to have this available to anyone that may need it beginning right now without even a question or a concern that they would possibly be turned away. I don't like kind of being pressured into doing something, but I don't see really –
 really there's a lot of pressure because we do get there's no cost for the rest of the year and the $40 a day I think we could probably talk more about that between now and then but I don't want to see anyone denied access and I don't see how do I say this I want to trust the county but sometimes
 Any political group might not be as open to things as we think they are. I don't know. But what I'm saying there is I think we should go ahead and do it with good faith. The $40 is a good value, but we do have to keep our eye on the activity and be sure that we are –
 very diligent in the way that this is going to be utilized. So I want to go ahead and support this tonight, not to table it. Bottom line, like other people have said, if you're in crisis and you have a mental situation, that's a crisis, and we want to be sure that they have the opportunity to get into this stabilization unit rather than being incarcerated, and that's a matter of compassion for the person that's dealing with it.
 and I don't want to put the burden on that person. We need to take on this and deal with it as it comes day to day. So I don't want to table it. Teresa. Thank you, Mayor.
 Don't want to see anybody that's in crisis denied Entry into this new stabilization unit that that's been created I'm wondering if we can draft a letter to the county Addressing all of councilmember or Smith's concerns and maybe my concerns and see if we could actually get a response to those maybe there's a conflict of staff tonight or on Tuesday nights or something like that, but I
 I think it would be helpful to request answers to many of those questions, many of those details. And not that you haven't done it before, but maybe if we could try again. Just throwing that out there. I will most likely be sending that letter myself. And as suggested, it will probably begin with the words pursuant to the Arkansas Freedom of Information Act, because these are
 questions that I want the answers to okay I still think sorry I still think we need to wait before making and taking action on this because of the number of questions that are out there I understand the the other point of view I if someone were turned away over the course of the next two weeks while we do due diligence on a contract and due diligence on our taxpayers dollars and
 then that would be squarely at the feet of the judge for turning them away. If we choose to vote on this tonight, I'll vote for it because I still think the Crisis Stabilization Unit is the right thing to do. I just want to make sure that we're spending our voters money in the right way to get it. All right, well, let's take some public comment now. Who would like to address us on this? Hi, my name is Sarah Moore. I'm at 400 West Patricia Lane in Fayetteville.
 and first i want to say thank you to the entire to the entire sorry are you okay okay um i absolutely appreciate the robust conversation that's come tonight about the humanity the compassionate side of fayetteville that i expect to happen for my city council members members my mayor and the staff of fayetteville but i also appreciate the other side that's talking about being fiscally conservative and being concerned about a legal contract into
 I really want to focus in on that human side. One in four people, according to the CDC, actually struggle with mental distress. And we know that more folks actually have interactions with law enforcement at a higher rate than that.
 today the way that the decision center has operated we have been putting those folks into the detention center because they get charges like public in talks criminal mischief you know small things where they're loitering what have you and if they're creating some kind of safety concern there's not another avenue besides putting them potentially in the detention center to help the public and to help them as well
 So I'm very excited. If you've ever been a family member who has someone very close to you, maybe a close friend or one of your family members, that struggles with an illness like schizophrenia or bipolar or major depression, and you try every avenue and resource you possibly can to take care of them,
 We, as plentiful and as rich as our community is, we still struggle with having adequate resources to take care of this part of our population. These folks have no voice.
 They have no privilege in our society, and it is up to us to stand up and to make sure that we are doing the things that take care of this population so that we can lift all of us up. Because when they struggle, they struggle on the backs of our tax dollars, and they also, there's collateral damage to the families that are trying to help those individuals. So I really appreciate, again, the conversation you had tonight.
 I also struggle with the contractual side of this and I have really urged and I have appreciated the conversations with both the mayor and with the city attorney. I've really urged them to push forward and with the chief of police. They're probably tired of hearing from me, but I appreciate they always are listening to my concerns and had forged forward to start to use the CSU. And I really hope tonight that you will go ahead and move forward because that one person, Kyle, while it will be at the feet of the judge...
 That one window of opportunity can cost someone their life, and I take that very seriously. So I hope you will too. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening everyone. My name is Madeline Portai. I'm a Fayetteville resident. Um I really want to echo um what Sarah Moore just said. The the conversation tonight uh is something that I'm really impressed with that I really appreciate. Um as a lawyer I also understand the hesitancy of getting into a contractual obligation when you don't have all of the terms defined.
 Um, as an advocate, um, which is winning out for me tonight. Um, I can't stand the idea of criminalizing people with mental illness when we have an alternative that is waiting and ready to be used. Um, so I agree that they're, that moving forward tonight requires a bit of a leap of faith, um, and putting some faith in the county, um, and moving forward.
 Hoping that there is good faith in negotiations moving forward with the contract. But what I think is the most important thing is that the CSU has been hard fought for so long by so many people, which is something that I am so grateful for. The services exist now. People need them now. So I would encourage as...
 as difficult as it may be to make that decision without everything laid out to move forward. But I really, really appreciate the debates and the discussion that went on tonight. So thanks so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? No more. Thanks for me.
 So one thing I haven't heard mentioned, I just want you to know that the county has contract with OGC to provide the medical care there at the CSU. So on a case-by-case basis, there will actually be a Ozarks guidance program
 medical provider sitting at the front door that's making that decision on who they accept, you know, at three in the morning. So I just want to make sure you knew that. As far as the budget goes, and this is not backed up by any data at all, when we submitted our 2020 budget, which I don't think you guys have seen yet, we pulled a number of 50 out of the sky, because like I said, there's no data behind that, times $120 is $6,000. So that's what we put in our proposed 2020 budget.
 Other thing I want to make sure we're all clear on, I heard Sarah use the word public intoxication. I just want to make sure everybody's clear. They, the CSU, have been very clear with us that if someone's intoxicated, they will not be eligible to go there. So if they're having some kind of mental episode while they're intoxicated, they will not be eligible to go to CSU. Okay.
 And they can only stay there for a certain period of time. Is that not correct, Chief? So everything I saw has said three days, but then somewhere I heard somebody talking about four days. But that was the one and only time I heard that. So my understanding is three days max. And whoever you're going to take there, they've got to be willing to go there. Is that correct? That's correct. It's voluntary. Also. So I wanted everybody to have a...
 Okay, any other public comment? All right, what we have is a motion and a second to table this for two weeks before we vote. All right, Kyle. I thought you were going to call for final comments, and I just had one last thing to say before we vote on that motion. And that's I think Madeline made a really good point, that voting on the contract tonight requires a leap of faith, when the reason for voting on the contract tonight is because we've expressed a lack of faith in our negotiating partner.
 That's the decision right now is whether we have faith in the contract they presented or don't have faith in the contract. Either way, it's hard to find consistency in that. Okay, all right. Any other final comments on this issue? All right, the vote will be yes to table it for two weeks. A no vote will be not to, right? All right.
 All right. So I'm going to let you please call the roll. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Motion table failed. All right. Now we're at the original resolution. Still need a motion on that, though. All right. All right. I move that we pass the resolution. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution for us.
 any final comments from the council all right i do want to say a couple of things i know i've said a few things tonight but we've been working on this for a while and i think you know i i agree with the questions that have been asked tonight we asked a lot of those questions i know the city attorney did i did we've been in a lot of discussion with this but at the end of the day the compassion side outweighed any
 about trust or money. It's about taking care of people. It's about doing the right thing. And you know, when we looked at $40 a day and she threw out some numbers of 50 or so, you gotta keep in mind, you think there's gonna be a lot of the people from Fayetteville going there. We're looking at 500,000 people in a region and we've got 16 beds.
 that things needs to be much larger than what it is not you know and so i couldn't think of anything else but thinking of somebody that was take not taken to that unit because we've got into some sort of political jousting mouth match with one another over forty dollars a day so i brought this i think it's the right thing to do yeah the county could
 do something different and yes i had concerns about the committee and how the committee was put together i don't mind telling you that but at the end of the day we have an alternative now instead of taking people to jail we can take them to csu and get them treated properly and it's the right thing and the compassionate thing to do so i certainly do encourage you to go for this by this council i will sign the mou tomorrow
 I just want to reiterate a comment because many times when you have a contract and I hear words like leap of faith or I'm not comfortable or I don't have my questions, even the discussion that we internally had with Lionel is that what is the risk today? The risk is $0 today. It's not $40 today.
 It's the ability to assess it. It's the ability to see if those areas of concern become real, and an ability to negotiate even further and have specific examples about why we need those things resolved. It's also about finding this additional information at a time when we're not paying and there isn't an extra cost to a Washington County citizen or a Fayetteville citizen, because today it will be zero.
 And it gives the council the opportunity, the most important consideration for us in bringing this forward was the ability to not have to renew it in January if we chose not to, which the budget appropriation alone gives us the ability to change that if we're not satisfied. So while we hear the concerns, as Lionel directed us, it's about this service and the risk today is zero in terms of the cost to the citizens.
 And one other thing, council, I could have signed that MOU if I'd have wanted to. I could have signed that last week. I could have signed that two weeks ago. But I wanted to have this conversation with you because at the end of the day, we'll all be in this thing together. So anyway, that being said, somebody please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you, council. Okay.
 Thank you, not only for me, but the people that will be able to use that facility. It's important. All right, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, we have several announcements tonight. The first, a reminder that the plastics and polystyrene survey is still open until August the 21st.
 The Chamber is also hosting an input session for area businesses. That discussion about the plastics and polystyrene study at the Fab Lab, which is this Friday, August the 9th, from 10 to 11 a.m. So if you have business individuals that want to weigh in, please encourage them to attend that as well and participate in the survey.
 business community that the city's business license renewal period began August the 1st. It's August the 1st through October the 31st. Notices have gone out for that. The renewal fee is $15 for those who have already received their business license, but this is the time to keep that license renewed.
 There's also information on the city's website and there's a news release on the city's website about that renewal as well So if you know business owners And individuals who have licenses, please help us remind them of this renewal period Also, we have a lot of activity get ready to start with the beginning of school and the beginning of the university our ward floor
 neighborhoods around the university are being impacted by improvements on Thomas Avenue we've tried to do a really good job of keeping that noted but that went from July 22nd through August 23rd so it's still going while we finish that project the information and details on that are
 on the city's website but also help us get that word out because as people come to the school and I come to the university For move-ins and those kinds of things there could be impact that needs to be planned for also want to remind our citizens that our last Gully Park concert series is August the 8th, it's Brian Titus trio band and
 they say the group grew up like a weed from a tangled and overgrown history of bluegrass american roots music recently talented post-modern barn dance band they write and perform toe-tapping tunes that invoke themes and melodies of yesterday with a pinch of modern irony so come out we expect that to be a good show at our final show for the season and then next week is our last dive in movie at the
 at the pool. It is Ralph Breaks the Internet. It's Friday, August the 16th. So I hope you'll attend that. Just also want to remind that faculty and staff of the Fayetteville Public Schools go back tomorrow and students start on the 13th, which is next week. So it's here. There's potential detours and
 closures on the university movement and things that impact this entire area so we want citizens to go out and make sure that they're staying up to date on where they can travel and where they cannot as they move forward it's six days 11 hours 58 minutes and seconds counting before they go back so and that's the announcements for tonight
 In that vein, Mayor, in that entertainment vein that follow up what our Chief of Staff has said, anybody that is pretty bored and wants something to do tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock, I'm going to make an argument saying that your rezoning of the Markham Hill planned zoning district was legal and actually a zoning issue.
 So anybody that wants to know more than you've ever needed to know about zoning law, Judge Martin's courtroom at 9 o'clock tomorrow, something I'm looking forward to. We already had the first zoning ordinance, which has been sustained, the RIU part of it. And this is the last one, the second ordinance, which was the commercial design ordinance.
 planned zoning district so that will be at nine o'clock tomorrow morning if anybody is really bored and looking for something to do i know i'll be there okay anything else good work y'all good work tonight thank you all we're adjourned