Okay, I would like to call the order of the City Council meeting of August 3, 2021. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Herb. Hertzberg. Here. Tiras. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Aye.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is the nominating committee report. Sarah, I believe you have that. Yes, I don't have anything in front of me, but we had a...
 The Fayetteville Housing Authority had their selected nominee, and normally that falls kind of in line with when we have our regular nominating committee meeting. This time it didn't, so we had a special meeting to interview that applicant, and we are in support. The nominating committee voted unanimously to support the applicant, Christopher Paxton. I believe his term expires...
 You're just confirming the appointment that the Housing Authority wanted to make? Okay, yes, that's what we're doing. I think the term expires maybe the end of this year. Okay, so I will entertain a motion to select Chris Paxton as the nominee of the nomination committee. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any comments from the council? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Scroggins.
 Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Herzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Next order of business we have at 9 is the monthly finance report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is the report for June of 2021.
 This is an important report because June is the first six months of our fiscal year. Generally, what I use to start doing some predictions and forecasting for the 2022 budget year. Once again, the general fund was very strong. Sales taxes for the month of May collected in June, posted for June receipts, were up 19%. So it was very strong.
 The franchise fees were up. Alcohol and beverages were up. State turn back was up. Charges for services were up a little bit, 6%. Courts, fees and fines were down. They were down about 18%. So they still have a way to go to come back to budget.
 Building permits were down a little bit, just about 5%, compared to what the budget estimate was. But all in all, it was very strong for the general fund. So as of the end of the first six months, general fund revenue is up 13%, roughly $2.8 million now. Remember, let's put that in perspective. We added $2.5 million for salary increases, which were certainly needed, presented by the budget
 by the mayor and certainly approved by the council. Catch us up. So we're right about where I'd like to be at this point in time. We've still got six months to go. I'm going to caution the council just a little bit, because there are a couple of indicators coming through in a detailed analysis of sales tax. Number one, hotels, motels, bars, and restaurants started showing major strength that they haven't shown before. They were up.
 substantially for the period, and they were one of the big drivers
 uh for this increase they're up 57 percent compared to uh compared to the prior month so they were very strong retry retail trade again is strong up nine percent for the period but the one thing that uh i noted and we're going to keep an eye on is the internet sales tax was finally it was only up one percent so it was almost flat compared to last year
 So some of the bars and restaurants, retail trade here in the city is coming up. But the internet sales were kind of leveling off. So it's going to be a couple of interesting dynamic. We're going to see some volatility here for a while, especially with the resurgence of COVID a bit. However, we're in a very, very strong position right now. For the street fund, the street funds state, turn back for MFT is up 8%.
 Half percent sales tax is up 18%. Wholesale sales were up 50% compared to last year. So looks like travel's coming back. Obviously, there is more travel throughout the state, et cetera. We're up about 19% for the turnbacks associated with the street fund. So the street fund is very strong at this point in time.
 It's roughly half a million dollars over estimate, so that's good going into next year. Now the parking fund, parking fund's still down 6% compared to budget. Remember, I lowered the budget based on what we had seen last year. However.
 We reduced expenditures, as we talked about before. And we're not making as many personnel expenditures, as we don't have the need for enforcement, et cetera, we had before. We don't have the entertainment parking that we normally have. But we're coming in just about where
 just about breaking even for the fund revenue compared to expenditure so that's good because we still have to keep an eye on our uh our payments of the bond fund so the parking fund i'm not concerned with at this point in time it looks like it's pretty stable parks development hmr that's hmr taxes it's up almost 30 percent 29 percent uh compared to budget at this point in time so parks development is doing well
 Water and sewer water and sewer billings are up roughly eight percent compared to last year I remember two percent of that is associated with Increased costs were passed out to the customers pursuant to our ordinance and
 But we're still up 9% between 8% and 9% for water and sewer billings. Again, we have, in fact, began to add penalties to unpaid charges. We're working very hard with customers to work out payment plans for them. So we're looking at reducing the large amounts of accounts receivable out there, which is in the area of about a million and a half at this point in time.
 Recycling and trash collections is coming back pretty strong. Our fees are 99% of budget. So we're almost at budget at this point in time. We're 2% down from last year, but again, I backed the budget off based on last year's results.
 Again, we're seeing a little change as commercial is starting to come back, but it's still down compared to budget Residential is up the budget of recycling and trash Collections are doing doing well as far as operating revenues and expenses of that match is concerned The airport airport is showing some very very strong figures traffic is up roughly 12% and
 But fuel sales are up over 32% compared to last year. Actually, fuel sales are the strongest they've been in the last five years. So fuel sales are starting to come back. We really need that because we saw some very, very big declines in the 40% range last year. So therefore, it's starting to come back pretty good. So if I'm going to sum all of our operations up for the first six months of 2021, I'm very pleased.
 We're doing very well. We're showing a lot of strength again. We're going to see some volatility, but that's going to happen But right now we're in a very strong position going forward We'll begin to work on the budget and of course I come with the plenum preliminary general fund Budget to you in a second meeting of September So we're nearing that point at this this point in time and I'll be happy to answer any questions What questions do we have Paul on this?
 Thank you, Paul. Thank you. Okay, under proposed agenda additions, I have a walk-on tonight. It is a resolution to request that Governor Hutchinson reconsider and include within his call for a special session the historic and necessary authority of local governments to protect the health and safety of their citizens.
 through an amendment of act 1002 of 2021 i will need a motion in a second to add this to the agenda so moved second second we have a motion to second to add the resolution to the agenda lisa would you please call the role scroggins yes bunch yes her yes
 Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. Kip, would you read the resolution for us? Yes, I'd be happy to, Mayor. Whereas Governor Hutchinson issued his executive order to declare a statewide public health emergency for the purpose of meeting and mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on the healthcare system of Arkansas on July 29th, 2021.
 and whereas the statutory primary purpose of the City of Fayetteville, as all other cities, is, quote, to provide for the safety and preserve the health of such cities and the inhabitants thereof, and whereas the first power granted to Arkansas cities by the legislature,
 And the first act of 1875 is, quote, cities and incorporated towns shall have the power to prevent injury within the limits of the municipal corporation from anything dangerous, offensive, or unhealthy. Thank you.
 And whereas those duties cannot be accomplished, nor the powers utilized by the cities to protect our citizens in this declared public health emergency because of Act 102, 1002's ill-advised prohibition against cities to require face masks for unvaccinated persons.
 And whereas until a far larger percentage of Arkansans have been fully vaccinated, face masks are again being recommended for all public indoor activities in areas of high contagion, such as Arkansas, by the CDC, the Arkansas Department of Health, and the Fayetteville City Board of Health.
 Now, therefore, it be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Fayetteville and every other city in Arkansas to have the historic and necessary authority to protect the life and health of its citizens returned to the local government. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby renews its request
 or that Governor Hutchinson include in any call for a special session of the legislature and its reconsideration of Act 1002 of 2021, the removal of restrictions upon the local government's ability to address the ongoing and increasingly dangerous COVID-19 Delta variant pandemic, including allowance of face mask mandates for persons on city property, in city buildings, and in public indoor areas within the city limits.
 I think that sums it up pretty well. I had Kit draw this up last week. I noticed that the governor has called for a special session beginning tomorrow, I believe, but there was nothing about any discussion on local control. So I wanted to bring this resolution to the City Council because I believe that we need to have local control in our city. In fact, I think all cities should have that local control.
 This does accompany a letter that I did send to the governor on July the 19th requesting a special session to give us back our local control. I mean to sum it up. So with that I will take any questions that you might have. And Kit, thank you very much for drawing this up. Do we have any questions from the council? Okay. All right. Let's then take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those that are attending by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person will be allowed to speak after that. All right, who would like to address us by Zoom? Okay, who would like to address us from the public on this?
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. And woo-wee, local control. We've been around the court on that one a few times with the state legislature. And I think never have the stakes been higher.
 In addition to the special session that begins tomorrow, I think you'll find that a lawsuit was filed today on behalf of a number of K-12 parents across the state. That lawsuit focuses on local control at the school board level and their ability to manage their facilities as a high school teacher.
 My students will be eligible for the vaccination, but I know that many, many of them will not be, and masks will be an essential part of keeping them safe while we also teach them. We cannot afford another year of educational shutdowns like we've had, and this is how we get back to
 whatever our new operational normal will be. I appreciate you bringing this. I would ask you to go a step further and join that lawsuit or bring one similar because it addresses public schools and I think it is
 Equally as important that you have control over your own facilities as a city. It impacts counties and county jails Courtrooms, these are all places where the state legislature has overstepped on this. Thank you very much. Thank you, Kyle I believe councilmember Petty is bringing the lawsuit item Tonight on the agenda, so we'll be looking at that also Okay, is there any other public comment on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I
 It is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 I just want to say something really quick. I think I'm not going to be able to support this. I think that if this passes, there's still going to be an issue with enforcement. And I think this puts the businesses in a really difficult spot. I think requiring proof of vaccination is questionable. And then I think if we don't have an ordinance that we can enforce it, it undermines the city's authority. So I'm going to vote no. Thank you.
 I've got a question. Is this requiring us to do anything? It's just saying that we want the right to discuss this, correct? All it's saying, Sloan, is that we want the local control back to make whatever decisions we need to make, just like we did last year. Okay, thank you. Mayor, I'd like to make a few comments.
 You know, things have really changed dramatically in the last month or so, and I applaud your efforts to bring this forward. I think we do need to have local control. Every community is different, and I believe that the legislature definitely overstepped their role.
 authority last spring. So I hope that folks will support this and at least allow us to make our own decisions based on our own situation here. So thank you for bringing this forward and your leadership. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, here we go. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Thank you all very much. Okay, now we go on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the July 20, 2021 City Council meeting minutes. Yes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas for the unoccupied banquet area in the airport terminal building to be used by the Usher Lifelong Learning Institute to conduct classes from August 1st, 2021 through December 31st, 2021 in the amount of $25 for each day the space is used.
 Number three, a resolution to authorize contract with direct sign group LLC percent RFQ 20-01 to provide professional services related to the city asset management and work order system in the amount not to exceed $25,000 for the remainder of 2021. Number four, a resolution to approve an amendment number two to the lease agreement with Dixon Street.
 Central Improvement District number one for the management of 55 parking spaces in the Greg Avenue parking lot For a term of one year with automatic renewals for up to five additional one-year terms number five a resolution to award bid number 21 dash 54 and to authorize contract the KJAC's contractors incorporated in the amount of three million four hundred seventy nine thousand five hundred dollars for the construction of
 of approximately 10,835 linear feet of water lines in various locations and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $347,950. Number six, the resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $21,590.50 plus political taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of a
 aerator at the nolan water resource recovery facility number seven a resolution to award bid number 21-56 and authorized contract with mcguire iron incorporated in the amount of 153 000 for the painting and rehabilitation of the round mountain water stand pipe and to approve project tendency in the amount of fifteen thousand three hundred dollars number
 Number eight, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 21-01, selection number 14 in the amount not to exceed $107,000 for design and other services related to the rehabilitation of the Markham Hill water storage tank.
 Number nine, resolution to award bid number 21-61 and to authorize contract with 4840 Solutions, LLC for pallet removal and recycling for the price of $2.50 per pallet for a term of one year,
 with the option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms, and number 10, a resolution to express the intent of the City Council to add a full-time police officer to the 2022 budget to patrol the city trails. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Lisa would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Well thank you all. Under old business, an ordinance to amend chapter 173 building regulations with the federal unified development code to align the city's
 building regulations with building codes adopted by the state of Arkansas to authorize prosecution of violations 173 point zero eight unsafe buildings and property nuisances and to adopt the international property maintenance code This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second read So moved second we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading Lisa, which please call the roll Scroggins
 Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? In order to amend Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to align the City's building regulations with building codes adopted by the State of Arkansas
 to authorize prosecution of violations of Section 173.08, unsafe buildings and property nuisances, and to adopt the International Property Maintenance Code. Before we get started on the ordinance itself, I had suggested and presented to the City Council at the agenda session, and I sent another copy of my proposed amendment of Section 5 of this ordinance to them today, and I would...
 Ask if that is satisfactory to the City Council if we go ahead and amend section 5 now before we get into the rest of the ordinance Has everybody read the amendment? Is it everybody? I've sent it out twice and I talked about it at the agenda session I just want to be sure everybody's up to speed so we will need a motion in a second to put the amend the ordinance
 Move to amend the ordinance as presented in Kitt's email. Right. Second. We have a motion to second to amend according to Kitt's recommendations. So any discussion on it? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty?
 Okay, Dennis, I believe you're up on this one. I do not have any additional info, but I'm here to be glad to take any questions if you have any. What questions do we have in the City Council?
 oh i just have i just want to ask dennis one last time i just want to reaffirm our conversation that we had at the agenda session that um in acting uh or passing this ordinance would not increase fines or any kind of other violations that you're seeing it's only to bring the city in compliance with the state of arkansas regulations is is that correct or can you expound on that
 yes ma'am that is correct we we already enforce these violations now through our city ordinance we're just trying to update the code that's out of date thank you any other questions from the council okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak it's five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those that are
 on Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the chambers will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Nobody. Okay, who would like to address this in the chambers on this topic? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance that is now on the second reading.
 Mayor, I have a comment. Sure. I was asked by Mr. Williams, a constituent of Ward 4, to hold this if we could. Because he's not able to attend tonight,
 He had other engagements that he was not able to change. And so I just wanted to let the city council know that. It doesn't seem to me that there's a reason for urgency in this ordinance. So I would ask the city council at least hold it and not have a final reading of it tonight, if possible. We'll leave that up to the council. I'd also be in favor of that. I'd like to hear from Mr. Williams.
 Okay, that's fine. I would just assume go ahead and vote on it tonight. Me too. Yeah, if we don't have a reason, I mean that's just, I know the government is slow by design, but just to be slow, should have emailed us. Okay, well, I guess we can, we didn't have any public comment, so it's up to y'all if you want to. I do have one question is,
 Kidd, are you okay with what we have now? I mean, like, what's in front of us, not what we were doing beforehand. Do you have any reservations about this? Because if Kidd has reservations, I would definitely hold it for two weeks. Kidd? Oh. Okay.
 You're asking me if I have any reservations on it? Yes. Correct. I'm sorry. I thought you were asking another council member or a council member. No, I don't have any reservations on this at this point in time. I appreciate you all amending some of the things that I thought were probably not advisable and so that you have amended it at this point in time. So I have no further comments that I think anything else needs to be changed. Okay. Okay. Moves to spin rules and go to third and final reading.
 second second we have a motion second to go to third and final reading lisa would you please call the roll scroggin yes yes kirk yes herzberg yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 and ordinance amend chapter 173 building regulations of the fable unified development code to align the city's building regulations with building codes adopted by the state of arkansas to authorize prosecution of violations of section 173-08 unsafe buildings and property nuisances and to adopt the international property maintenance code okay any final comments from the council all right lisa would you please call the row scroggins
 Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Moving along to new business.
 An ordinance to rezone that property ascribed to the rezoning petition RZN 21-054, located at 111 and 115 Southwest Avenue for approximately 0.31 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, John. John.
 thank you mayor good evening council jonathan kerth with the development services department let me pull up my presentation here this particular property is in downtown fayetteville it's on the west side of west avenue between the library to the east and the frisco trail to the west it includes two lots with one single family home on the northern of the two lots and they recently demolished or remnants of a recently demolished home on the southern lot
 Although the property is not in the city's hillside hilltop overlay district, it is fairly sloped. If you've been either on the trail side or on West Avenue, you know that pretty much all the properties along West Avenue drop precipitously towards the trail. The property's current NC neighborhood conservation zoning has its genesis in our downtown master plan.
 As a part of that plans implementation that neighborhood conservation zoning district was created despite its name It's not an ecological kind of conservation. The intent was to preserve certain pieces of neighborhoods in the context of the neighborhood or the downtown master plan that was the Mount Nord neighborhood and and some other residences between Watson and Maple and a neighborhood or this area West Avenue
 In this area at least, that has steadily changed. As you can see on the zoning map, there have been a number of rezonings that have nibbled away at that neighborhood conservation zoning immediately to the south. Property was rezoned at Main Street Center recently, south of that to RAU, Residential Intermediate Urban. And further north, just northwest of Mountain Street, another property was rezoned to Main Street Center.
 As the mayor noted, the request is to rezone this property from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. From a long-range planning standpoint, staff considered the request in both the terms of our city's comprehensive plan and our more localized downtown plan.
 Through the lens of City Plan 2040, staff felt that the request was very consistent with our aspirations for not just infill development, but setting the groundwork for complete neighborhoods and also complementing our future land use map, which designates this property as a city neighborhood area, one of our more diverse or intending to be diverse designations.
 The area has access to numerous amenities, as would be expected, being the downtown area services as well as infrastructure. Staff feels that it's a very appropriate place for additional density and the potential for more services as well.
 Looking at it through the lens of the downtown plan, however, the request is a little bit less straightforward. As I noted, that plan did intend for this portion of downtown to remain single-family, and that's where it got its zoning designation. That said, this is also one of our oldest neighborhood or local plans, not to say it doesn't have any value anymore, but it hasn't necessarily kept up with the times and the substantial change in context in the area.
 Despite the lofty goals of the downtown master plan in the early 2000s, it did not anticipate the library expansion, the cultural arts corridor, the creation of Theater Squared for the north, the designation of the Razorback Greenway, all the organic redevelopment we've seen up and down west and down into Prairie. So with that, staff finds that the changing context represents a compatibility in terms of land use as well.
 And that said, among the remaining issues when it comes to compatibility, one of the questions that came up about the Planning Commission and was at the forefront of staff's mind when looking at the request is that there is a very distinct difference in building height allowances between the two zoning districts. Neighborhood conservation allows buildings up to three stories, whereas Main Street Center allows a building to potentially reach seven stories in height.
 While this initially appears to promote an irredeemable incompatibility with some of the existing homes on the street, we feel that there are two reasons that shouldn't stop the council from considering this request favorably. The first is that the property's size, again, at about 0.3 acres, and its terrain, which is very steep.
 limits the feasibility of developing it to that potential. And the second piece is we find that the potential for greater height may be compatible to future development in this area. Again, the rezonings that have occurred further south allow for taller buildings. There's a three-story parking garage on the other side of the street.
 and those circumstances favor or have led staff to favor the request and we are recommending in favor of it. The Planning Commission agreed at their meeting for the item by a vote of six to one. The dissenting vote did speak to the concerns about height that I mentioned before and
 despite that again the council did forward it there has been no public comments on the request and I believe I have Molly Jensen or Alan Austner here as the applicant if the council has questions for them and I'm happy to stand for questions as well thank you would the applicant like speak before the council you have 10 minutes good evening council Alan Austin 312 South Block
 Thank you for the presentation, Mr. Kirk. We really don't have anything to add. I think it was changing fast. I remember that downtown master plan and thinking, boy, this is great, 20 years ago. And I tend to agree that it would need to be updated. There's a housing crisis. More people need places to live than there are places to live, causing prices to spiral.
 I personally think cities are for people, and if we can add gentle density to the particular areas of town that are amenable, I think it's a good thing. This particular zoning district is flexible to allow a light commercial or a type of commercial, which I think is very important to offer economic opportunity.
 Again, in areas of town that are minimal to city services, it's just off Dixon. The Wingate complex, I don't think we've even begun to see the art district that the university is building just south of this piece of property. So I'm here for any questions you all might have. We appreciate your consideration. Okay, what questions do we have in the council for the applicant art staff?
 I have a question. Sure. Hey, Alan. So I know that we can't talk about necessarily plans, but I just wanted to let you know we've got the canopy going from 10% to 20%.
 Is there, you know, is that something that you feel like you could, that you, right, when the first, the current zoning is 20 and then the next requirement is 10 if we approve this, so we're reducing. And I know your personal position on retaining canopy, but is that something that you think you can try to go more toward 20% or, as do you know yet, is that even a question I can ask it? Yeah.
 Did you ask about canopy? Canopy. Can't quite, okay. Yeah. I guess I don't fully know how that works. Right, you may not because your plans aren't really set, so you don't know yet. Yeah. Yeah, and that may be something that we need to talk about more in ordinance. So that's a concern for me, personally. And then just really more than anything, it's not really a question, but being in the cultural arts corridor, it would be great to see some live work for artists. Yes.
 I'd love to see something like that. But in terms of seeing five to seven stories, I think that seems potentially pretty tall. I do see a commissioner was concerned on that. But I think it could be great if it could be housing. So, yeah. Hi, I'm Molly Jensen. I'm co-owner of this property. Mary. I just wanted to say that
 The discussions that we've had have all revolved around workspace below and housing above.
 If you follow Alan at all on Facebook, you know that we've completely eliminated non-natives in our yard. And so to me, any elimination of the canopy would be for non-natives, which is a huge amount. I mean, the whole backyard is to tearing honeysuckle. So I mean, we can't really speak to what the future would hold, but I think we've shown we're responsible citizens.
 and are active members and i mean between the two of us we've lived for over 60 years within less than a mile of the downtown and have been responsible neighbors so can't really talk about the plants because there aren't any but i think that um we would lean towards more candy
 That's kind of what I was thinking because I do follow you so I do know. So I appreciate if there's any possible way in your plans you could. I know that the ordinances say that you could go down to as low as 10 percent but would love to see as much you know preserved as possible. I don't have anything else but thank you. What other questions do we have from the council? I have a question.
 I'm kind of looking through here about the permitted uses between Main Street Center and also between the current neighborhood conservation where it's owned right now. And it seems like they're extremely similar. The only difference, many of the differences seem to be height. And there's a couple of conditional uses. So I'm just kind of curious about.
 If you can speak to why you feel that you need to have a really different zoning that's before us tonight. Sure. The way it was explained to us, and maybe Mr. Kurth could help me, is massing and square footage. You're not here. I don't know. I can't look at you. And that this, I know it seems similar on the neighborhood conservation, but
 i don't have it in front of me there are a couple of uses by right that i believe are different um i don't have my notes mr kurtz sir mayor would you like me to chime in on that yes
 So the neighborhood conservation zoning district is fairly restrictive. I mean, the only things that really allows buy-right are single-family homes and accessory dwellings. Main Street Center is much more expansive in what it allows buy-right. It includes a lot of non-residential uses. You can do offices. You can do retail. You can do restaurants.
 And a lot of those don't necessarily have building size limitations as opposed to if you were to keep neighborhood conservation and do some of those uses as a conditional use. So I can't answer Councilmember Turk's question. I think that was pointed specifically to the applicant.
 Jonathan Allen- Why, why they prefer Main Street Center to neighborhood conservation, but I think objectively, there are some very significant differences between the by right differences are by right allowances. Yeah. Janet Callahan- Thank you for clarifying that Jonathan. I see that there can be some office space with neighborhood conservation, but you're right, there's no restaurants or sidewalk cafes and a few of those. So thank you for Janet Callahan- Illustrating that
 Any other questions from the council? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration, but open in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the chamber after that. Who would like to address us on Zoom? No Zoom. OK, who would like to address us from the public in the chambers? OK, I'm going to bring it back.
 to the city council this is an ordinance and what action or conversation would the council like to have it is on the first read will we suspend the rules and go to the second reading i second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading lisa would you please call the row scroggins yes hutch yes kirk yes earthsburg yes gutierrez yes
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. And your order is to rezone that property as described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-054 located at 111 and 115 Southwest Avenue for approximately 0.31 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. I have some comments that I'd like to point out.
 You know, these permitted uses, the more that I look at them, the more concerned I am. You know, there's the opportunity to have a liquor store right there. That's a permitted use by right. You know, and then, of course, the couple of extra store stores.
 floors of the unit. I do have some concerns about that. And while Mr. Kurth pointed out that that slope is very steep and maybe they would be limited by some of these topographical features,
 I mean, by right, they can go to seven stories. And to me, that seems like I'm probably not going to support this because that scale, that size of massing, it's right next to our trail. I have some serious concerns about that. And then the opportunity to have a liquor store right there.
 The conditional uses are, you know, a lot of other things that could be conditional uses that are allowed under, potentially allowed under this rezoning type. So those are my concerns, along with the tree canopy going from 20% to 10% on a steep slope where you probably have a tremendous amount of erosion potential and water runoff issues. Thank you.
 okay this is a ordinance it's on the second reading what's its wishes the council do I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading I said it okay we have a motion the second to go to the third and final reading Lisa would you please call the roll Scroggins yes yes Turk yes Hertzberg
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Minion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-054, located at 111 and 115 Southwest Avenue for approximately 0.31 acres, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council?
 Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll Scroggins? Yes, yes Pittsburgh yes Tera's yes Jones. Yes Yes, yes, okay. Thank you all let's move along to number two. I
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-055 located at 212 North Crossover Road for approximately 0.63 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, Residential Single Family 4 units per acre, to RI 12, Residential Intermediate 12 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are clear by amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect The zoning change provided in section 1. Okay, Jonathan Thank you mayor This property is in East Fayetteville on the east side of crossover road about three-quarters of a mile north of crossover roads intersection with Huntsville Road and just one lot south of Stone Mountain Drive which accesses the Stone Mountain subdivision to the east and
 On its east side, the property abuts Deer Path Estates subdivision, specifically their stormwater detention facility, while to the west on the other side of Crossover Road is the Cliffs Apartments, one of the larger apartment complexes in the city.
 Unusually, between this property and Cross River Road itself is about 65 feet of R DOT right of way. So despite the fact that looking at aerial or parcel information, it may appear that there should be another lot in between these two. There is not. R DOT has a tendency to purchase land, any land that they do any grading work on. So you may have seen this perhaps other times in the city where there's unusually or what appear to be unusually large right of ways.
 The property itself is undeveloped. It's about two-thirds within the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District, which is a reflection of its soils and slope. The request, as the Mayor and Mr. Williams noted, is to rezone it from RSF4, residential single-family four units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate 12 units per acre. Staff finds the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses,
 It includes a mix of single family homes to the east and south, some of which have been there since well before crossovers widening, some of which are part of more recently platted subdivisions, the Deer Path Estates I mentioned previously and Stone Mountain further to the east. Well, again, across the street is one of the largest multifamily apartment complexes in the city in the cliffs.
 From an adopted plan standpoint, staff finds the applicant's request to be generally consistent with our future land use map. It designates this property as a residential neighborhood area which accommodates a wide spectrum of uses.
 I apologize. As to whether the property is infill or not is less straightforward, we found, which perhaps is not altogether too surprising considering how far east it is. It does have access to all the infrastructure you typically expect to find next to a state highway, water, sewer, and the street itself. It does also have pretty close proximity to Happy Hollow Elementary, and there's also a transit route that is located just within the cliffs.
 apartment complex which all the other staff finds to be complimentary to the request another consideration for council is a piece of public comment that was heard at the Planning Commission hearing a member of the public spoke in opposition that concerns about the existing traffic on crossover and that any additional density here would potentially exacerbate it they suggested the Commission consider our sf8 residential single-family eight units breaker as an alternative
 the Planning Commission did not agree and concurred with staff's recommendation for the RI 12 request and unanimously forwarded their proposal to the City Council there was a general consensus that the request to RI 12 represents an incremental increase in density that was appropriate next to one of our larger transportation corridors in the area
 That said, I'm happy to take any questions and I believe Aaron Peters is the applicant, but I'm not certain if he's here or not. Thank you. Okay. I'd like to speak for the council. You have 10 minutes. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, council. Thanks for your time tonight. I want to thank the staff from way back when we started this to the planning commission and then you guys tonight, including Jonathan.
 been in favor a long time my name is aaron peters i live on wood springs 135 wood springs just about half a mile from this property i'm by happy hollow elementary and um i came across this property i own a brokerage in town off of school avenue in the mill district building and i help people you know buy and sell homes and if i can't find them the right home i help them maybe get land and build on that home i mean i'm not land so my partner's a builder and you
 kind of been down that road a couple times but i kept showing families this this property and there's just some aesthetic difficulties and location um unique location difficulties that kept people from wanting to build a single family residence with the fence and the dog and all that and so it just seemed more uh more of a better fit to maybe
 put a little higher density in there. It's not big enough to put too much in there. It's kind of a very gradual density increase. And so we thought it'd be a good fit. We appreciate your consideration and I'd be here to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have from City Council for the staff or the applicant? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. They have minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those that are participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chamber will be allowed to speak after that. Who would like to address us from Zoom? Okay. Who would like to address us from the chamber here? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 This is an ordinance. It is on the first reading. What actions or comments do we have in the council? Nobody got nothing to say? This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. Okay.
 No, I'm just going to make a comment that, you know, this is a major corridor that I'd love to see eventually having a lot of public transportation on it that could get people, you know, north and south. I definitely use that corridor quite a bit to avoid 49 and 71.
 So I would love to see some density along this road, and there's a lot of potential there. So I'm definitely going to be supporting this. And I haven't heard any public comment of you, DeAndre. It is on our ward. Yeah. Okay, this is an ordinance that's on the first reading. If you all want to hold it on the first reading, I'm going to leave it up to you all. Mayor Jordan and Council, I would like to make a motion to suspend the rules
 and go to the second reading and go to the second reading second okay we have a motion of second to go to the second read lisa would you please call the row scroggin yes bunch yes kirk yes earthsburg yes yes jones yes kenyon yes petty yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-055, located at 212 North Crossover Road, for approximately 0.63 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RI 12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. Would we suspend the rules and go to the third reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes.
 And in order to rezone that property as described, the reason only petition RZN 21-55, located at 212 North Crossover Road, for approximately .63 acres, from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RI 12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. What final comments do we have from the council? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Skaragin? Yes. Funch? Yes. Turner? No. No.
 gutierrez i'm sorry i'm sorry herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes petty yes okay that passes thank you thank you okay number three an ordinance to approve vacation 21-0021 property located at 3988 west mountain
 view derived to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2 that a copy of this order is to be certified by the city clerk Along with a map attached exhibit a to the planning department's memo Shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk and section 3 This vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing Utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developers expense John
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in West Fayetteville, just at the northeast corner of Ripple Road and Mountain View Drive, just across the street from Owl Creek School. That is part of the Mountain Ranch Phase 1 subdivision. This is...
 somewhat symptomatic of newer subdivisions in the sense that they tend to have large amounts of general utility easements dedicated on lots. This being a perfect example where just over 50% of the property's entire area is dedicated within either a general utility or a drainage easement.
 So the request before the council tonight is to vacate approximately 1,100 square feet so that they can locate a storage building in their backyard. Staff does not find, oh sorry, here's an indication of where that is for clarification's sake.
 Staff does not find any issues with the request. All the relevant franchise utilities have signed off and staff does recommend approval with the single condition that any relocation of existing utilities or damage to existing utilities would come at the applicant's expense. And I believe Bill Cochran is available as the applicant and I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes. Thank you, council, meeting the mayor. Not much to add, basically.
 That's kind of what we've got going. They're just on a corner lot, finished subdivision. There's really nothing else that's going to be going on with that and they just they're doing a small outbuilding and that's about it. So if you guys have any more concerns on it or questions please let me know. Pretty straightforward. Thank you. Okay what questions do we have in the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay let's take some public comment.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those in the chamber after that. Is there anyone from Zoom? All right. Does anyone from the council chambers like to address the council?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What actions or discussions does the Council have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 Yes. Eddie. Yes. And Norwich approved VAC 21-021 for a property located at 3988 West Mountain View Drive to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I move motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Herk. Yes. Hertzberg.
 Yes. Katsiris? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Paddy? Yes. And the ordinance approved, VAC 21-021 for property located at 3988 West Mountain View Drive to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes, Pittsburgh. Yes, it's yours. Yes, Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes, Eddie. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all number four resolution to grant the appeal Daniel Hayes and approve a major modification of large-scale development LST 19 days 6780 by bringing a variance to the city's access management standards to allow a second driveway at 2512 West Mount Comfort Road Jonathan I believe you have this I
 I can't hear him. They can't hear you. Okay. Sloan, can you hear him? Am I audible now? Yeah. Now you are. Yeah.
 All right. Thank you for letting me know This particular property is in Northwest Fayetteville at the northwest corner of Mount Comfort Road and Shiloh Drive it also has frontage on Dean Solomon Road to the northeast and a meal drive to the north and
 Excuse me. More specifically, what the council is being asked to look at tonight is the southeastern-most portion of this property. It's the location of a Casey's General Store convenience store and gas station that recently came into operation. And the storage yard and facilities, certain facilities for the Trailwood mobile home part
 Even more specifically than that, there's two elements of the Casey's project, which was a large-scale development that were approved, one of which is a right in right out entrance onto Mount Comfort Road. And the second piece you see here, the red arrow, is a gravel drive entrance approximately 60 feet to the west.
 Before going into the request at hand, I wanted to give a little bit of background to the council because this one has been going on for a few years now. The Casey's project came through. The Development Services Department is a large-scale development. In a nutshell, a large-scale development must go through our technical plat review group, which is where staff gives, as the name suggests, technical feedback. The first public hearing is the subdivision committee, which is a subcommittee of the planning commission. And then the final step is the planning commission itself.
 For Casey's, this started on July 30th when staff identified that there would be a variance from our access management standards to locate a full access driveway onto Mount Comfort Road.
 Our access management standards exist to protect residents from traffic dangers, to minimize the spacing or to maximize the spacing between driveways, particularly on high volume streets. In order to vary that, a proposal has to go to the Planning Commission.
 So there was a bit of a delay between the feedback staff gave the applicant on July 30th and here's what they submitted to the technical plat review meeting, which shows in blue again the driveway that Casey's was proposing, which at the time was a full access driveway. And the red shows the applicant's driveway into the Trailwood mobile home park.
 Again, there was a little bit of a delay, I think, as the applicant digested staff's feedback and it came before the subdivision committee on September 12, 2019.
 The engineer for Casey's continued to propose a full access point for Mount Comfort Road, but they also at that point proposed closing the adjoining curb cut to Trailwood. Staff recommended denial of the project of the subdivision committee because prominently that full access point on the Mount Comfort Road, it lined up with a left turn lane there and Mount Comfort Road is a very high volume street. We did not feel full access was appropriate.
 The subdivision committee agreed and for due process purposes forwarded it to the Planning Commission, although recommending denial.
 The then for your purposes. This was the revised site plan that staff received for subdivision committee again the Casey's dryways in blue the trailwood dryways and red and it's a bit of a Zoom in there You can see that the at that point the engineers would propose to close the trail would curb cut with 86 feet of curb as a part of subdivision committee submittal and
 The applicant again took this feedback and had to deliberate on it for a while. They were scheduled for the September 23rd Planning Commission. They requested the table themselves all the way to November 25th, at which point the site was fully reoriented. And a right-in, right-out access was proposed on Mount Comfort and continuing to propose closing the adjoining curb cut on the trailwood.
 So that's what you see here. Now the building is oriented east-west as opposed to north-south, and that curb cut onto Mount Comfort, which you can see above the blue arrow here, was designed as a right-in-right-out. And again, that curb was proposed to the west to close the trailwood access point.
 Following the Planning Commission's approval, the applicants or the property owner, the Hayes family, requested a copy of the approved site plan that was emailed by staff. The property owner or county records show the property owners sold the property to Casey's the following month. In September of October of last year, grading and building permits were issued, followed by several months of construction.
 And early this year, Casey's requested inspections on the property, at which time planning staff, me in this instance, identified that they had not closed the trail with curb cut and told them they would not be eligible for a full certificate of occupancy until that was closed.
 Casey's representative was advised that a major modification to the large-scale development's approval was required in order to keep the drive to Trailwood open. Casey's representative chose not to act on it. The Trailwood owners contacted staff separately and asked how to proceed or what procedurally could they do to keep it open, and we advised the same thing, a major modification to what was approved, and that was submitted in April of this year.
 So that brings us to the request, which went to the subdivision committee about 2 months ago. To modify the cases large scale development to keep the curb cut open to trail with mobile home park. That was denied by the subdivision committee and staff also recommended denial. That was certainly a piece of our consideration when deliberating.
 the proposed curb cut for Casey's onto Mount Comfort Road. That curb cut was placed within an access easement along with the one on Shiloh to ensure cross access between Casey's property and the adjoining property.
 and keeping that driveway for Trailwood specifically would have run contrary to our access management ordinance, which requires 250 feet of separation between curb cuts on a street of Mount Comfort's classification. After the subdivision committee denied the request, it was appealed to the Planning Commission, which subsequently denied it again, and that is how the appeal came before the Planning Commission today.
 And a couple more items to touch on here is one where there's some confusion about the distinction between staff review and possible contracts between sellers and buyers. When staff evaluates a project of this nature, we look to see if there's a consent of owner and to what properties it speaks to. In this instance, the applicant was submitted with the signature of Ms. Hayes, who is the owner of the Trailwood property and what was at the time Casey's property as well. And it was described as including a
 Casey's parcel as well as a portion of the parcel on which Trailwood is. Staff is not a party to any negotiations typically between a developer and a property owner that may go along with a property sale. I know that is potentially a frustration that the applicant before you tonight has experienced. I just wanted to clarify that that is not something that staff evaluates and that's typically information that's not shared with us as a part of a development.
 And a final consideration here was public comment. We did get a piece, staff, planning staff received a piece of public comment before the Planning Commission hearing in opposition to the request to keep the curb cut open. They had concerns about traffic on Mount Comfort Road. Similarly, the City Council received a piece of public comment immediately before this meeting through the City Clerk's Office. I believe it was...
 a gentleman who participated on the tour last week who felt that there were plenty of alternatives to keeping this curb cut that would meet the applicant's needs.
 So that said, and again, real quick on the recommendation staff and the planning commission do recommend denial. It was a five to one vote at the planning commission. Those who didn't support the appeal felt that there were alternatives available and that keeping the driveway open was a potential hazard. The single vote favoring the appeal felt that this drive was important to the business owner to be able to continue operations.
 As a very brief synopsis of the tour, I was not there, so I'll try to listen to the audio and I'll try to characterize it to the best of my ability. One of the first comments I heard was frustration about the right in, right out, as built, was not being observed at Casey's. Anecdotally, I've heard that from several residents.
 Casey's does not have a certificate of occupancy for the building, which is a nuance to have what's called a temporary certificate of occupancy, meaning they can use the site. But the project's not fully closed out until they finish some final items, including one of which is signage needs to be installed at that entrance. So that is something that the staff is working on with the applicant.
 Another item is there was a question about dimensions as it relates to our access management ordinance. The right in right out access from Shiloh to Casey's is about 278 feet. Beyond that, it's about 360 feet to the Hayes driveway and there's about 50 feet between those two.
 I think I hit on plenty of process items. Please let me know if you have other questions. And lastly, there were some comments about alternatives. I'll let the council members who participate in the tour speak to that. We did get some answers from our engineering division since the tour about the costs associated with that. Our engineers estimated that it would be between $8,500 and $10,000 for a typical 24 foot wide commercial driveway paved 18 feet from the right of way per our standard detail.
 and with that i'm happy to take any questions and i believe i have uh danny hayes or other members from the hayes family here to speak on the applicant's behalf thank you okay would the applicant like to speak before the council you have 10 minutes my name is daniel hayes i live at 2556 west mount comfort road thank you mayor your council um our driveway is uh
 It's been a driveway we've had for all my life, for 50 years. This driveway has gotten where it's not used as often as it used to be. And sometimes we may use it a couple times a month. Used less than a residential driveway. But when the need occurs, we have that driveway. It has been built. It has been renovated.
 Packed developed we can pull large trailers mobile homes. We've got it sloped off of Mount Comfort When the city widened Mount Comfort, that was one of the big concerns was that driveway being sloped where that you could pull Equipment and large trailers on that driveway without scraping tearing up the asphalt and
 The piece of property that the driveway is on that was at no time Casey was that was not what they were purchasing that was not in a easement basically, we feel like I mean Casey is is taking the property and Eliminating our driveway they were there was no compensation for them discussing
 negotiating and taking of this driveway and I mean that was in January that was the first we heard of it was when the construction company for Casey's contacted me and told me that they were supposed to be closing the driveway this driveway we could look at my mother when one of the big things she did when she sold the piece of property to Casey's was her thoughts were future development and that's why she
 uh requested to casey's that there be a joint driveway at the shiloh entrance and the mount comfort entrance for future development um it was wasn't something that we were not intending on we're not planning on developing or doing anything like that but we never authorized casey she never signed anything allowing casey's that piece of property where the driveway is
 for them to be negotiating or eliminating or taking from us. It is a driveway that we do use, but we don't use that often. On safety, Mount Comfort is a high traffic, high speed street. Very seldom do we see any enforcement on the speed or the traffic.
 on Mount Comfort that I mean to me safety was a concern a big concern would see more um involvement in in trying to control the speed that the traffic does on Mount Comfort um I think that's I mean pretty much everything on I'll answer any other questions or any comments okay what questions do we have from the city council or for the applicant or the stack
 I have a question, Mayor. Okay. Mr. Hayes, during the tour, we discussed potential access off of a meal, and I know you had mentioned you were going to talk to your family about if that was an option or you saw that as a plausible option. Have you had the opportunity or do you have an opinion on that that you could share with the other council members or with us tonight? Yes. Yes.
 We had talked the other day when you came out about possible putting a different driveway on the north part of the property. For us, it would be a cost because just more to doing a driveway than just a curb cut. It would need to be...
 You would need to dig it out where you're going to put the driveway. You're going to need to pack it with gravel. So the cost for us would be a whole lot more than we would have the money to be spending on a driveway. Okay. Thank you so much for getting back to us on that. Okay. What other questions do we have? Okay.
 Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute duration, broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those that are in the chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Okay. Who do we have in the chambers that would like to speak on this issue, on the appeal?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the city. I'm sorry. Oh, yes, please. I'm David Hayes My address is one fourteen ninety six Sam Tyree Road in Prairie Grove, Arkansas I'm a non-resident a mark that am I allowed to speak you're allowed to speak. Okay And I didn't want to take time away from Danny. Mr. Mayor members of the council I thank you for allowing me the opportunity to address you and
 I wish to appeal to you that the Hayes family property should not lose the existing driveway and access that it has had for over 100 years simply because they chose to sell an adjoining portion of their land to Casey's. Allowing Casey's retail establishment has been a very positive thing.
 for the community and the city of Fayetteville. It is serving the residents of Mount Comfort Quarter, Dean Solomon and Shiloh Roads, and has had a positive economic impact on the city of Fayetteville, generating additional tax revenue.
 This is an existing driveway that we're talking about. We're not talking about a new driveway. We're not talking about adding something else to create additional traffic on Mount Comfort Road. Casey's had no authority, was given no authority, Mrs. Hayes, to affect decisions concerning property other than the property they were purchasing. Okay.
 This driveway is one property that Casey's did not purchase did not talk about purchasing did not have anything to do with purchasing and that Seems that leaving the existing driveway open Was never a thought in terms of the Hayes family that it was being affected at all and
 When we became aware of that, of course, I started having discussions about the fact that that driveway was very important to us. Leaving the driveway does not add to the traffic burden on Mount Comfort Road. It gets less use than a single family house, like any of the other single family houses up and down Mount Comfort Road that,
 come that the drive pulls right out onto Mount Comfort. As Mr. Hayes mentioned earlier, sometimes there's a fairly significant stretch of time between its uses, but when it is used, it is essential to the necessary access for the 10 plus acres
 that are between the parcel sold to Casey's and the Trailwood Mobile Home and RV Park. The mobile home and RV park is west of that. This land has been agricultural, has been a family farm for years. And this is simply the access to that land without having to come,
 some other way the driveway is built the driveway was properly installed with a base that's rolled and packed and a road that comes from that driveway as you can see from the picture all the way up into the center of that 10 acre area to go into this from any other way would take a significant amount of road construction to build a roadway that is usable no matter what the weather conditions are
 This has a road at that driveway that is significant. It appears that because of the lack of traffic that this driveway would have, that it would have no negative effect
 on the city of Fayetteville by leaving it open. It has not been a source of accidents or a source of near accidents or a source of any safety issues up to this point as Casey's has been operating under their temporary permit to go ahead and operate. Mrs. Hayes never consented to giving up this existing driveway and access. You have 15 seconds.
 I appreciate this council. The city of Fayetteville is a place that promotes the idea that all people are welcome, that all people have value, that all people are... Time, Mr. Hayes. Time. Everybody gets five minutes. All right, who else would like to address this? Okay, seeing none, I will bring it back to the council. So what comments do we have on the appeal?
 So I guess I've got some questions for staff. It seems like there was a land deal that people are confused about what they actually sold or what they didn't sell. And I usually don't like it when council is asked to kind of settle things.
 disputes between two entities. So I'm not a lawyer. So I would like to kind of weigh in on this. This sounds like something that needs to go to court, not something that we need to just give an extra access so that people feel that they've been made whole. So I would appreciate it. Kit can kind of see if I'm anywhere close to reality on this.
 Of course, I've got to say that I have not seen any contract between... I can't hear you. I'm sorry. I have not seen any contract between the Hayes and... We still can't hear you. It's a technical issue, not you. Does it work now? Yes, thank you. Can you hear me now? Okay. First, I want to say that I haven't seen any contract between the Hayes and Casey's.
 So I'm not sure what that contract controls. I am somewhat concerned about the fact that the access to this 10 acres is, at least originally has been for a long time, directly from Mount Comfort Road on a driveway. And if that had no kind of conveyance to Casey's, that does make me somewhat concerned about this.
 I know that this has been looked at by staff and maybe Jonathan can enlighten me about the authority that was given to Casey's that you're aware of that would have allowed the city to in fact close this curb cut. Certainly, I'm happy to speak to that. I have in front of me the 2019 application that staff received as a part of the large scale development submittal.
 As it reads, there's several pieces of information that we require. We require applicant representative zoning information, but among those things is the parcel numbers or the properties being affected. And as it's listed here, it's parcel 765-13582-101, which is what Casey sits on today, and a portion of 765-13582-000, which is the overall property.
 This was signed by, it looks like Joanne Hayes on July of 2019. And that is generally the extent to which staff reviews it. We need to make sure that that form has been signed by the property owner or an authorized agent. We validate those with county records and if it's an LLC, we validate it with the state secretary of state to make sure it's an officer that can sign on behalf or an agent that can sign on behalf of the LLC.
 uh as the application reads as we had it at that time is i we certify under penalty of perjury that i am we are the owners of the property that is subject of this application and that i we have read this application and consent to its filing and you say the second parcel number that you read was actually this 10 acre parcel that the hayes been talking about that is correct
 Okay, that seems like it has given Casey some authority over that even if it was not Purchased I hate to read render some sort of legal decision or anything on this But it appears that this might very well be some sort of dispute between Casey's and and the Hays I really can't render an official decision at this point in time with that I know that it's been looked at and
 I still am a little bit concerned, although of course we've never seen the contract between Casey's and the Hays and see whether or not that which you just read seems to give Casey's the right to do certain things in relation to that 10 acres.
 I'm still a little bit concerned about this even though one thing just because that the driveway has been there for so long and so I am I know that our access management standards are trying to promote safety and certainly do that and
 But from, I really am not in a position at this point to render any kind of final decision about what I believe is potentially some rights the Hays might still have. I can't really advise them. And so I guess I'm saying I'm not as knowledgeable of the situation right now to be able to advise the city council.
 Okay. We definitely don't need to vote on this tonight. There's a lot to play. And, you know, is this something that we need to handle? Or is this something the courts need to handle? And if we're
 I'm in that position. I sure don't want to vote. So I hope we wait two weeks. I probably suspect my fellow council members will agree with that. There's a lot here and it sounds like the Hayes also probably need to go look at some stuff, especially what that contract actually says. Probably talk to Jonathan about what they actually signed when the application was put in and what that means. Yeah.
 I don't like it when councils kind of settle in disputes between people that I believe a court should probably handle. So hopefully we have two weeks. Thank you. I definitely support holding it as well. Mr. Mayor. Sorry. You know, I know I agree that this probably needs to be held for a while longer just so we can kind of sort through some details. But I do know that
 What is, what I would consider a typical process is that, you know, before Casey's, Casey's has to do some due diligence before they,
 agree to buy the property. And that looks like that has been done here and that maybe the Hayes family wasn't aware that they were quite signing what they were signing, but it looks like the due diligence has been done. And I know it's real common. It's not uncommon, especially on a street as busy as Mount Comfort, part of a new development would be to kind of tighten up curb cuts. And since this was, you know,
 split off of a bigger piece of property there um you know i i think i'd like to see this tabled as well but i do think the the typical process is that it goes through it goes back and forth back and forth with the planning city council maybe might be involved at this point it is but um
 You know, before somebody buys a piece of property, if they're going to develop it, they need to know where their drives need to be and that sort of thing. And that's not uncommon to ask for something like that. So, you know, I'll defer to my fellow council members. But if we do leave this driveway, what happens later on if this piece of property gets sold?
 down the road do we you know if it's not used now that's one of the claims is it's not used a lot now and I know it's not used a lot you can tell it's not used a lot but if it was sold and that that curb cut is in there and that drive is allowed then what do we end up with being developed on that piece of property if that gets sold off you know I would not want that driveway possibly to remain if it were developed in the future so
 think that should be looked at and I'm all for tabling this as well. Thank you. What other comments do we have from the council? So does everybody want to hold it right here for two weeks? It is a resolution. It actually has to be tabled. Okay. Well then, council. I make a motion to table this for two weeks. Is that everybody in agreement with that? Second. Second. We have a motion as second to table for two weeks.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Pittsburgh. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Number five.
 An ordinance to amend 114.10 regulation of expanding polystyrene EPS foam single-use plates, bowls, and clamshells, cups, and similar products to comply with Act 751 of 2021. Kip? Whereas the Arkansas State Legislature, through Act 751 of 2021...
 removed a city's power to regulate expanded polystyrene EPS foam except upon, quote, property owned or maintained by the municipality. And whereas section 114.1.0 of the FAVL code should be amended to conform with this new state law by amending subsection C, application, and D, prohibited use of expanded polystyrene foam single-use products
 so that the City can continue to prohibit commercial vendors from using EPS single-use auxiliary containers on property owned or maintained by the municipality. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 114.1.0, Regulation of Expanded Polystyrene Foams, Single-Use Plates, Bowls, Clamshells, Cups, and Similar Products,
 of the FAIL code by repealing subsections C and D and enacting replacement subsections as shown below, quote, Subsection C, Application. These regulations shall apply to all food trucks, concessionaires, caterers, restaurants, and other prepared, ready-to-eat food or drink providers operating on city-owned or maintained property. Subsection D, Prohibited use of expanded polystyrene foam single-use products.
 No single-use expanded polystyrene, foam, auxiliary containers, including plates, bowls, clamshells, cups, and similar products may be provided by any food truck operator, concessionaire, caterer, restaurant, or other prepared, ready-to-eat food or drink provider while on or operating on city-owned or maintained property. And Mayor, I brought this forward because we must comply with state law
 and the state law removed much of our power to regulate the what is commonly referred to as styrofoam single-use containers.
 But it did leave us at least the right to regulate or prohibit their use on city-owned property or maintained property. And since that is as much power as we have, I felt like we should amend our previous code section that allowed us to regulate that in other areas. But at least we can still maintain the regulation when someone is using our property or our maintained property. And that's why I brought this forward.
 Okay. Teresa, do you want to add anything to that? Well, I want to thank you, Mayor. I want to thank Kit for bringing this forward and amending this ordinance so that we are compliant with the state of Arkansas. So I really don't have much to add except to through our actions as the city and...
 we can be the model for the rest of our, for the rest of the vendors here in town. So I'm hoping that the council will support this modification and pass the prohibition of EPS and other containers that we can control on city property and city maintained property. So thank you again, Kit, for your work on this. Okay, what questions do we have from the city council on this? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those that are in person in the council chambers will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Okay. Who would like to address us in the council chambers tonight on this?
 Okay. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 Yes. In order to amend Section 114.10, regulation of expanded polystyrene foam single-use plates, bowls, clamshells, cups, and similar products to comply with Act 751 of 2021. And I want to apologize. I did not bring this forward. The sponsor of this was Council Member Turk, and I appreciate her sponsoring this. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Second.
 lisa would you please call the roll scroggins yes yes yes her yes herzberg yes catiras jones yes kenyon yes heady yes
 And Norland's Demand Section 114.10, Regulation of Expanded Polystyrene Foam Single-Use Plates, Bowls, Clamshells, Cups, and Similar Products to Comply with Act 751 of 2021. Okay, what final comments do we have from the Council? Thank you, Teresa, for bringing this forward. I appreciate it very much. Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to C6, an ordinance to amend 158.05, off-site improvements delays to conform this section to the requirements of ACA 145603 development impact fees definition kit.
 Whereas long before the enactment of ACA Section 1456-103 Development Impact Fees Definition, the City of Fayetteville constitutionally collected impact fees from developers who developments impacted the City's infrastructure needs for streets, water and sewer mains and other types of infrastructure.
 And whereas when ACA 1456-103 was enacted by the state legislature, it provided that a city could collect a development impact fee under ordinances enacted before July 16, 2003, only if collected in compliance with subsections F through H of this section. And whereas the city has consistently followed the requirements of ACA section 1456-103 F, G, and H,
 but the UDC needs an amendment to the old Refunding Code Section, which is Section 58.05, so that it precisely follows state law. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 158.05, off-site improvement delay in its entirety, and an actual replacement of Section 158 as follows,
 Section 158.05, development impact fees for specific infrastructure improvements necessitated or by a particular development. Determination for the need of impact fee. If the Planning Commission determines that a particular development would cause a need for a specific infrastructure development that cannot be built until future development occurs.
 Developers shall pay to the City a development impact fee in the amount determined by the Planning Commission in accordance with the standards prescribed in Section 166.04 to be the developer's constitutional proportionate share of the cost of such specific infrastructure need. Subsection B, Collection of the Impact Fee.
 As part of the approval of the developer's subdivision approval, the developer shall pay the amount determined appropriate, legal, and constitutional by the Planning Commission. The City shall deposit those funds into a special interest-bearing account and follow all requirements of ACA Section 1456.103F and G.
 Subsection C, refund of unused impact fees. If all or a portion of the collected impact fee has not been properly expended upon the specific infrastructure project within seven years from the date the fees were paid, the City shall refund all unused funds plus accrued interest to the present owner of the property that was subject of the new development and against which the fee was assessed and collected as required by ACA Section 1456-103H.
 In Subsection D, Compliance with State Law, this section shall be interpreted to conform with ACA 14-56-103 and all requirements of that law, as well as any future amendments.
 This is an issue that has kind of come up a little bit recently. It's not an emergency or anything like that, and we've been following the state law, but we've been following the state law even though our own ordinance is not precisely in step with it. And so I felt like, well, let's get in step with the state law and follow it precisely.
 However, I would like to leave this on the first reading. There's something else I want to add to it. So if we can leave it here on the first reading, I'll have a very slight amendment to it at the next meeting. Okay. Well, that's very straightforward. Is there any questions on what we have now? I know the city attorney will be bringing something back. No questions. I'm good with holding it. So is everybody all right? We'll just leave it right here then.
 Okay, let's move along to C7, a resolution to support and join a feasible litigation to enjoin the misguided and dangerous Act 1002 of 2021. Matthew, I believe you have this one. Thank you, Mayor. City Attorney prepared this resolution for our consideration tonight. This is a straightforward resolution to enjoin.
 Join, if it makes sense, the lawsuit being litigated by Mr. Mars, an attorney in Rogers. Welcome. Any further explanation from Kip? Well, I was happy that Council Member Petty asked me to draft something on this because obviously Act 1002 of 2021 is 
 not very favorable for cities, removes a lot of our power, and I have a lot of respect for Tom Mars, the attorney out of Rogers that is leading litigation against this and pointed out many areas of Act 1002, which are constitutionally suspect, legally suspect, and so I think that I can recommend this resolution to the city council. Sure.
 What questions do we have from the council on this? I have a couple questions for kit sure If the city does join as a plaintiff how much could this potentially cost the city and legal fees to outside counsel? I'm sorry. Could you repeat that Holly? I didn't get that I was just wondering if we decided to join as a plaintiff how much would this Potentially cost the city and legal fees to outside counsel. No I would be handling this as
 just for my normal salary like I did in the civil rights case that went on for over three years and went down to the Supreme Court twice and I have 5,000 pages of pleadings. I just spent a little extra time and get it done because it needs to get done. So no, there won't be any additional attorney's fees. We're not planning on hiring anybody to do this. This would be something that I would handle in-house along with my other duties.
 Okay, thank you. And then just one more. In your estimation, what would be the quickest that this lawsuit could be decided one way or the other? I think that there stands a pretty good chance that Mr. Marr, Tom Marrs, will be successful in at least parts of his suit.
 I think he has made several very good arguments and cited very strong weaknesses in Act 1002, not only in relation to schoolchildren, which I think is one of his strongest cases, but also for county sheriffs who are not treated the same as the Department of Correction, even though they have some of the same standards thrust upon them by the federal government.
 And so I think that there are several good arguments that can be made.
 The argument from the city itself is not nearly as strong as some of those, and so that's why I'll be looking at it very carefully before I would decide to actually attempt to intervene. But I think that this resolution, if it's passed, would give me the authority to write what's called an amicus brief, which is a brief that is from not a party but in favor of one side or the other. And my argument would be that the city should have the right to,
 to protect its own citizens, to protect their health and safety, and it should be a local decision and not a decision that's been taken away from us by the state legislature. Okay, thank you very much. What other comments do we have in the council? Mayor Gordon and council, I would like to thank Councilman Petty for
 his work on this and again we can't compromise the health and safety of our residents for any reason so I'm looking forward to fully supporting this. Okay well let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first.
 and those that are in the council chambers after that who do we have on zoom okay who would like to address us in the council chambers thank you mayor i guess asking you shall receive i jumped the gun because i didn't read the david agenda you already know how i feel about this but i would like to briefly extend my remarks from earlier this is not actually about masks this is about who gets to make the decision about masks
 Every jurisdiction, every school district, city, county will still have to make that decision, have that conversation if Act 1002 is repealed or thrown out in courts. So this is not about that. This is about standing together for who should make the decision. And we know that our communities are different, have different collective personalities, but also different facts on the ground with regard to the pandemic.
 I wish that I were as confident that my workplace, that my school district where I teach would adopt the mandate given the opportunity as I am that the city of Fayetteville will do the right thing. This is also most likely not about enforcing any sorts of mandates on private businesses, though that was the, uh, uh,
 the city's approach last year, and I was proud to support that at the time. I think it's likely that we would agree that we're past that point, but you have to control your own facilities. And that is the point where I believe whether or not the legislature overstepped good sense, which they certainly did, that aspect I believe they overstepped their authority and what they should be doing by law.
 and so i appreciate uh kit for his time that i know he's going to put into this writing a fantastic brief i hope that it will go further than an amicus brief and that you'll actually intervene intervene as a plaintiff because i think municipalities have an interest that's not strictly represented by the plaintiffs that are currently on the lawsuit but i look forward to this being resolved before school starts thank you thank you kyle
 i don't believe there's anybody else i will bring this back to the city council this is a resolution i'm going to support the resolution i mean we vote on the resolution okay we have motion second to pass resolution um what final comments does the city council have
 I'll just make a brief one. I again thank Councilmember Petty for bringing this forward and for City Attorney Williams doing the research to ensure that we had standing and also any future work that you're going to have to do on this kit to move this forward. So thank you all. I appreciate that. Anybody else?
 i'd just like to i'd just like to thank matthew also for for being so diligent on this i really appreciate his work and kit's work as well to to keep everybody safe and and i believe very strongly that that our city should have the right to determine what we what we do in our community and not not our legislature on this issue in particular thank you okay anybody else
 I do have a couple of remarks I'd like to make. First, I too want to thank Matthew. Thank you very much for bringing this forward. You know, I think Kyle said it best, but this is a pandemic that is a very serious pandemic. And the numbers, I believe this pandemic is worse, much worse to me than the one that we went through last summer.
 I think in the last 24 hours we've seen 2,343 cases since yesterday. It's a serious pandemic and we need to take serious measures with it. I believe the city should be giving back their local control. These numbers continue to rise. And if I can emphasize anything, every city in this state is different. And we need to have our own local control to make decisions for ourselves.
 And the top priority of any city should be the safety of their citizens. And I certainly want to thank you, Matthew, and I know, and I want to thank the City Council for their work. We know that 98% of the people that are hospitalized right now are unvaccinated. That's why it's so important that everybody get a vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination. And if you go anywhere,
 Wear your mask, mask up for everybody to keep everybody protected. I believe Dr. Romero said today that half those that are hospitalized, if I remember this correctly, and I could be wrong, but I think he said that half of those are under 12 years of age. Now, I think if we don't do it for anybody else, we need to protect the children.
 I have grandchildren that are under 12 and I stand. That's why we bring resolutions. That's why we join these type of lawsuits. At the end of the day, we protect not only ourselves, but our children and our children's children. So thank you all. And I certainly encourage you all to support this measure. So with that, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Thank you, Kit, for drawing these up, by the way. Yes. Yes.
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. No. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Thank you all very much. Well, that concludes our business for the evening. We don't have any announcements. I do want to remind the council we do have a a a
 operations tax votes going on right now. Early voting started today. Election day is August 10th. We have a lot at stake. We need to get out and support and vote for this operations tax. Without it, there's $22.5 million at stake, $9 million for the CIP and $13.5 million for operations.
 This is a really important election for maintaining our city's services and operations. And I continue to thank the council for your support on this extension and encouraging people to vote. I appreciate your work. So everybody can vote early at the courthouse, 8 to 430 weekdays through August the 9th, I believe. So with that, thank you all. We're adjourned.