i want to call the order of the city council meeting of august the 2nd 2022. kara would you please call the row harvey here jones here kenyan here weed occur here scroggins present bunch turk here erksberg here mayor jordan here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay. First order of business we have tonight under the reports is Paul Becker has the monthly finance report sales tax update. Paul?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is the report through May, which is exactly half the year of this fiscal year of 2022. Since I didn't give you an update on sales tax at the agenda session since I was out of town, I'll give you a little update on that right now. When we compare it to budget, we're up about 8%.
 For the city one penny, we're up 18% for the amount we receive from the county for sales tax. So we're up combined about 12% for the period of time.
 For comparison to last year, that was up roughly 20% for the county and 9% for the city. So we did very well until last year. We did better than budget. So sales tax is still hanging in there very well. When we actually look and analyze sales tax,
 What was strong this time, retail sales was up 10%. Again, food services and accommodations were up 20%, so that's one of the primary drivers. Again, retail sales was up 9%, and the internet sales, which had been a little bit off a bit, were up 13% for the period, so it was very strong. Okay.
 So again, we're up in the sales tax totally compared to budget for just the general fund was up by 12%. The franchise fees, they were up again about 10% and building permits were up 26%. So they're coming in very strong. Charges for services, which...
 is a lot of the parks, a lot of the park programs, they were up in excess of 20%. Again, courts, fees, and fines are down, and interest on investments are down for the period. But all in all, we were up about 11% in the general fund when we compared this to the budget. So we're doing very strong through the first half of the year streets.
 was up. The revenue was up about 16% compared to last year. Again, we're looking at a lot of that's driven on cost of gasoline. Motor fuel taxes were up that we get from the turn back from the state. The half cent penny for sales tax was up roughly 10%.
 for the period for the month and about 20, we're up about 23% there for the year so far. So Street Fund is doing very strong. That's driven a lot by the increase in gasoline. The parking fees, parking fees were up about 22% of the budget, so they're starting to come back. We're starting to see activity downtown in the downtown area and the entertainment district.
 HMR taxes were up 15% year to date. So we're seeing, again, that being driven by hotel, motel taxes and, again, from some of our restaurant venues. Water and sewer. Water and sewer is up about 6%. That's going very, very strong this year. Driven a little more by sewer than
 than water. And one of the primary reasons for that is we do some sewer averaging. Now, a lot of people aren't out of town for the winter as they used to be for long periods of time. So we're seeing a little more on the revenue side on the water and sewer. But we're up about 6% for billings. Still working with customers.
 As far as back charges and delinquencies are concerned, we're working as much as possible. We're starting to cut back and pick up on some of the backlog and reduce some of those back charges.
 Trash and recycling, this is the first time we're up compared to budget. Actually, we're only up 1%, but we've been down in trash and recycling all of the year. So that's starting to level off, and we're looking pretty good there. Airport fuel sales are up. We're about 50% more per month than we were last year.
 So all of the revenue looks pretty solid. It's hanging in there pretty well for the year. I hope it continues. We haven't seen a lot of the expenditure side. We're going to start seeing some of those. For example, I'll be coming forward probably the first meeting in September and talk about some additional money that we'll need in fuel. Fuel costs are way up. We're going to be looking at almost all of the funds.
 trash and recycling especially because those are all diesel vehicles.
 And of course, we have to keep that rolling. But what we want to do, and what the administration's primary policy is, and I'm sure you agree with this, is we're not going to cancel services based on fuel. We're going to find a way to meet the fuel needs, and we're going to continue those services going forward. And I did give an interview with the television station saying just that. I spoke on behalf of the council and the mayor.
 So going forward, we're looking at good revenue income. Again, we're looking at a push up on the expenditure side, but right now we're looking pretty good going into next year. And we're into budget session season, so we'll be working on that. We'll start talking about that generally at the second meeting in September, kind of what it looks like for the general fund moving forward to our work session in November. And I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do we have? Okay. Mayor Jordan? Yes. I'd like to pull A5 from consent and move it on to the new business. Okay. I'm going to pull A5. Okay. So the rest of the consent, number one, approval of the July 19th,
 Do we do we need to take a vote on that kid or do we just know a single council member can pull it? OK. All right. Number one, approval of the July 19th, 2022 city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of sixteen thousand four hundred and sixty six dollars recognizing reimbursements from the Arkansas Municipal League vehicle.
 Program for damage to city vehicles. All right, number three, a resolution to approve change order number 10 to contract with NAB Host Construction Corporation in the amount of $505,652.42 for paving on Gregg Avenue and West Avenue Street, work on West Avenue and reconciliation of...
 TENGENCY FOR THE ADDITIONAL ITEMS RELATED TO THE CULTURAL ARTS CORRIDOR PROJECT AND TO APPROVE A BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. THIS IS A 2019 CULTURAL ARTS CORRIDOR BOND PROJECT. NUMBER FOUR, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE CHANGE ORDER NUMBER TWO TO THE CONTRACT WITH FLINT CO. LLC FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF FIRE STATION NUMBER EIGHT AND THE AMOUNT OF
 $233,625.22 and to approve the budget adjustment. This is a 2019 firefighting facilities improvements bond project. Number five will be pulled from the agenda. It is resolution to
 Approve the renewal of three special needs assistance program grant agreements with the US Department of Housing and Urban Development in the total amount of two hundred seventy thousand One hundred ninety three dollars for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. This will be pulled all right number six a resolution to authorize a contract with Stantec consulting services to
 incorporated pursuant to RFQ 22-04 in the amount of $69,610 to develop a citywide heritage and historic preservation master plan. Number seven, a resolution to authorize a contract with
 Ecological Design Group Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 22-01, Section 9, in the amount of $65,000 for services related to the development of a master plan for Underwood Community Park and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. Number 8, a resolution to award bid number 22-01
 38 and to authorize the purchase of a dryer feed conveyor for the bio solids management site from Hampton Equipment LLC in the amount of $42,340 plus taxes freight charges. Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 22-40 and authorize the purchase of a submersible pump.
 for the farmton sewer lift station from jack tyler engineering incorporated in the amount of 108 621 plus split taxes freight charges number and number 10 resolution pursuant to 39.10 c4 of the federal city code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of twenty three thousand seven hundred forty nine dollars and fourteen cents to christopher
 Alderson for sewer overflow damage at 727 North Rock Cliff Road. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda except for number five. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read except for number five. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Kirby. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Kerowitz.
 Scroggins yes. Bunch Turk yes. Hertzberg yes. Okay thank you all. Now let's go to number five that we have pulled a resolution to approve the renewal of three special needs assistance program grant agreements with the US Department of Housing and Urban Development in the total amount of two hundred seventy thousand one hundred ninety three dollars
 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. Is Yolanda available? Yes, sir. She's on. Or Sonja, do you want to? Okay. Okay. These are our renewal grants. And what they're utilized for is for the continued service to provide rental assistance down our deposit, our rental deposit and utility deposit for individuals that were formerly homeless.
 And so what this is doing for us is it is providing the continuation of these services. And we also provide, not from this funding, but from another source, we provide our wraparound case management where we assist these individuals with any challenges that they may have. We also started doing monthly grocery deliveries.
 So we're very lucky that we have this guaranteed funding. And so every year, what HUD expects is just the grant to be renewed so that we do not miss a step with paying the rents or anything else, especially if we have somebody that's new to the program, then we do the rental deposit and utility deposit. Okay, I guess what questions do we have for Yolanda on this from the council?
 well I just received a request for it to be pulled and to be sent to review to the committee the CDAP committee so I hope hoping that individuals who are interested in seeing that happen are available to voice their thoughts otherwise I can kind of hit their bullet points could I just make sure that we all understand this these are renewal grants these are guaranteed grants to
 We have a deadline. We have rents to be paid. There really actually is, I mean, it's a renewal grant. It's funding to continue paying the rents for these individuals. So I just want to make sure that everybody is clear on that. And it's time sensitive.
 Thank you, Yolanda. I appreciate that. I'm going to do my best to keep you on time with that. I did want to give these individuals an opportunity to speak, so hopefully we can get it resolved. So we take public comment? Yes, if that's okay with you. There's no other questions from the council. Teresa, do you have any other questions? I mean, do you have any questions? Yes.
 uh no sir mayor i'm good thank you okay then i'm going to open it up for some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on topic give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those president and chamber will speak after that who do you have on zoom susan i have some people on zoom but no one has raised their hand
 And now we have Natasha Coleman has raised her hand. Go ahead. Good evening, Mayor Jordan, City Council members and staff. My name is Natasha Coleman. I'm a resident for Board 4. I'm sorry, Board 4 resident and reside at 3453 West Yale Street. I'm also the chair of the Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board. And I was, I'm here to request...
 this item to be referred to the Community Development and Assistance Program's Advisory Board for the review and advisement. We would just like the opportunity to receive the documentation from the Community Resources Department on this funding request and convene to discuss and advise on this before bringing this item to City Council members for approval.
 And according to the Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board Ordinance, under the powers and duties in Section A-5, it indicates that the committee shall analyze requests for funds in relation to the needs of the community and the amount of funds available and make recommendations to the mayor and city council as to which programs should be funded and at which levels in any given year.
 And we have been asked by community members for the program details to indicate the effectiveness overall. And we would like the opportunity to fulfill those duties to the community. Thank you for your time. Okay, so you're asking to have it sent to the board, the Community Advisory Board, for their review? Correct. Okay, all right. Anybody else?
 i don't see anybody else on zoom with their hand raised right now okay so who would like to address this into check good evening mayor uh kyle smith 2801 west dove drive and since i have struggled with my time last time i was here i did send a couple of slides to the i.t department hoping to keep myself on track and i'm seeing confusion i brought backups no just go to the council uh
 The paper version will probably do just fine. And I should have enough for everybody since there's some empty seats.
 My bottom line request is real simple. I hope you will approve these grant fundings, this grant application, whether it's tonight or whether you refer it to the committee. But along with that, I've got some operational requests as well. And that's that we,
 We hold this program to the same standards of transparency and accountability that we're using money to help most people, just like we would any other program in the city. That we're complying with the processes that Natasha described there. And here at Fayetteville, we don't just do the minimum of public outreach. We go above and beyond that. And that's why we have that board to empower our community leaders.
 The presentation on these grants was pretty short, and there weren't any questions at agenda session. So there's a couple of questions I had that I thought you might ask for me tonight. And in the handout, you've got a very tiny copy of the agenda presentation packet on this, and you'll see that it talks about since February 2016. Okay.
 This is housed 101 adults and 107 children. And so that's over the six year lifespan of the program. It's about an average of 17 adults and 18 or 19 kids a year on average. So I was thinking, you know, how many did we serve in this last grant year? Well, that's not available here, but I pulled up the memo from last year for comparison, and that's also there for you. And so if we compare year over year,
 It looks like we have served six adults and one child with $250,000. Now, simple math here, that's over $35,000 per person that we can just give them. And in a town where the median income for our entire household is $47,000, this makes me wonder if we're serving as many people as we could.
 I'm not sure if we really only served seven people last year. That's just what I can get from what's in the public record. It's possible, and I'm sure Yolanda will fill this in, that there are carryover participants from year to year since this is a permanent housing grant. And so I'd like to know how many people did we actually help this year? I'd like to know what factors in a time where we know housing prices are rising, rents are rising, and homelessness is rising.
 Why would our demand be so low on a program like this? Are there ways that we can be more efficient, help more people? Those are all questions that I think that advisory board could answer if they were included in the process. And I don't mean these to be adversarial questions. This is our opportunity for collaboration with the experts we have in the community.
 So hang on to these questions, and I hope that we'll hear some discussion on them later. I also included excerpts from that ordinance that Ms. Coleman mentioned, and I'll acknowledge this is a point of personal pride for me. It was the last ordinance I introduced as a member of the council.
 That was December of 2020 and the Council of Time adopted it unanimously and made it the policy of the city that this board would be pulled together from our community to advise you and tell you what
 the people who are on the ground see the need for. And the fact that they're not being included is a little bit troublesome. She read to you the critical excerpt, so I'll leave you to the text that's there. As you go forward through the summer season, there are always a couple of other community resource grants, CDBG funds that come up, so I'd like for you to keep that in mind as
 CDBG coronavirus reallocations in future meetings. The 2022 CDBG action plan is due sometime. And I hope you'll question the engagement of the council on that, of the advisory board on that as well. Thank you. Thank you, Kyle. Who else would like to address us? Okay, then I'm gonna bring it back to the council. So Sonja, I assume that you want to,
 I think it would be great for Yolanda to answer questions that Kyle had. I think that's a great place to start. And I'd want to be sensitive to the timelines as well. Yolanda, if you can let us know the dates of everything that needs to be due because we definitely don't want to miss any deadlines. Well, first of all, let me just say that we've already had advances from the city to meet the rental payment. So we've got to reimburse the city for that for July and August with one of the grants
 So all of these, what we're bringing to you, they're not applications. I just want to make sure because that has been referenced. They're not requests for funding. These are agreements. They're renewal agreements. HUD pretty much dictates how many units that are covered by each. That was said. And I want to remind everybody that these were grants
 that we took over because a nonprofit could not execute. So those were already set by that nonprofit. So those remain constant. There's nothing we can change. Not even when we couldn't change anything that was already set.
 So, we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a lot of work to get it to the state. And we had to do a
 So there's no decisions to be made. I want to make sure that everybody understands that. So, I mean, I guess I could take to see the agreements and they can look at them, but nothing that's there can be changed. I just want to make sure everybody understands that this is not an application, a new application or anything like that.
 And so I would be seeking an advance, another advance from the city to, depending on how many months we want to hold this, the city would be looking at advancing us funding to pay the rents. So we don't have anybody miss a rental payment. When did we know that we needed to reapply for this? It's not a reapplication.
 We're renewing the grant. It's a new, we're just signing a new grant agreement to continue the funding. It's not an application. Well, okay, so is there a window? Like, can we ask, you know, two months ago, hey, we're going to ask for this in two months? Well, we didn't ask. I want to make clear, we didn't ask for anything. We, as soon as HUD gets those grant agreements to us,
 We process them. And so we communicated with HUD to help them understand we have a timeframe. We have to get it to our city clerk. We have to get it to council. So they try their best to get these documents to us so that we meet the timeline to get it to
 the next council meeting. And I've got another one that's gonna be coming forward and I've already indicated that the first meeting we could get it to would be the first meeting of September. So they're working on getting that paperwork to me. So it's all driven by HUD and it's not an application. It's a, let's say an extension where we're renewing the grant agreement. Okay, so this is kind of
 not directed at specifically this, this is just in general. We get almost every other, every third meeting, we've got to approve this today or the money's gone. And it's not just- No, no, no, no, the money's not gone on this one. Yeah, well,
 We hear that a lot, that we have to do it now, have to do it now, you can't even really have time to think about it. This isn't directed at just this one department, it's a lot of them. These federal grants are gone, these state grants are gone. Our packet is like a thousand pages, so when citizens come to us and say, hey, I don't
 I don't like this. Can you look at it? Well, we got to read hundreds of pages and sometimes then we got to go and look at other places and then we basically have to
 tell citizens, no, I guess we don't have time to actually look at this. So I'm hoping just across the board when these grants are coming that we're given a little more time so that we can actually look at them. And if there's citizens and residents that are concerned that they can get their questions answered beforehand and then we vote. Because I'm going to be honest, a lot of times we answer questions after we vote.
 And I don't I don't really like that and I'm sorry. It sounds like I'm picking on you it's it's there's a lot of departments that that do that and We don't get time to review and it's basically either a you have to prove this without having time to review it or we lose Money, and that's not a good place. Thank you mayor. I have a few words to say on sure I've been involved with this years ago with Yolanda and
 Again, what we have here is not a contract. HUD will send you this. They say this is what you've done in the past. We will give this to you just like we always have if you'll take it. There's not really anything to discuss. What you can do is see what it is, but we have no authority to change the points that are sent to us in this agreement.
 This is giving us an opportunity to approve it, but we do not have the authority to change it from what HUD sends. So I do agree. It's nice to have all the information in front of us. It's nice to know it. It's year after year. It's the same thing. So we can become educated on it. And the key here
 is to be sure that if there are questions, to go to Yolanda and say, can we review this specific item or this specific element? And you can review it, but there is no authority for us to change the points that are agreed upon in these agreements. So I think that there's a misunderstanding there. Either we want to continue this as it's written, or we don't. Is that right, Yolanda?
 That is correct. And Yolanda, thank you for the leadership you've done on this. I know at state meetings, whenever we were, when I was early in the process on this and I went to training to learn about them, it is frustrating for communities across the
 Because a lot of times Fayetteville doesn't have the impact that other impoverished areas, I don't want to point out names, but you can imagine some communities in the Delta perhaps that would really like to have the opportunity to switch some funds around, but that's not the opportunity they're given. They're given the opportunity to accept this money under what HUD has in their,
 documentation or not so that's what we're faced with Thank You council member Kenyon that is helpful to have someone who's worked with Yolanda on this that was my understanding as well so so Yolanda do you on the amount of money that's offered to us by the state are there real specific uses what we can use that fund for
 Absolutely. Absolutely. And when we took over the grant, those those parameters had already been set. So so there was not I mean, you know, basically what had to do is they came to us. They said, either you all take this money so that you can help the homeless or Northwest Arkansas is losing it.
 And I know that I hear you all saying, we hear that a lot, but that's what they came to us with. The city stepped up, mayor, everyone that discussed it. Absolutely, we are not losing this funding. We will take it because we want to keep housing the homeless.
 And it's HUD's funding, and they dictate how they want it spent. And so it's not an application. The only thing that these documents are are the agreements to continue the services so that the folks that were housing continue to be housed. Yeah, I do remember when we did take that over. I had forgotten that, but, you know, they said we're either going to just –
 you're not going to get it or nobody's going to get it or you can take it and then so this is a continuation of the services that we agreed to. Basically we're the administrators of something that's already in place. So maybe. And it was really exciting at the time that we could step in and that we did have the staff to go ahead and get it taken care of rather than lose it.
 But again, that's I've been around a long time and it's just part of what we had an opportunity to do and we took the opportunity. Yep, Yolanda came to us and said well and Mark was involved in it and he said we can take these over and make them work. So we did and so here we are.
 This is federal money by the way. So maybe, I think the general vibe or feeling that I'm getting from the constituents, from people, Yolanda, is maybe it's more like, well so if there is a certain amount of money that we have for a certain amount of tasks, is there still time or have we already, you said we're getting reimbursed or you're...
 It sounds like the money has already been paid out, so it's going back into the fund. No, no. What you have before you are the grant agreements to continue services. It took HUD a while to get these to us, and the city was gracious enough to advance these.
 some funding so that we could pay rents. So a lot of this is driven by HUD. They, it takes them a while to get these to us. They're the person that actually signs the documents is not in Arkansas, they're in Oklahoma. So they're having to coordinate getting that to me, me making sure I meet the timeframes for meetings. So all of that has to come into play and there's nothing we can change in this document.
 We can say we don't want the funding and return it, but we can't change the unit. Everything's dictated by HUD.
 Sure. So maybe then if it seems like this has already been allocated and already completed, and we know potentially we might get it again, it's an annual? No, it is. We have guaranteed funding. This is guaranteed funding. We will get it every year and every year. I will come back to you with the agreements to continue funding.
 the grant and so had their big push on these funds is we need to protect the renewal funds because those are guaranteed. These are renewed every year with the idea being we are housing people. You cannot run the risk of not having that funding to pay rents.
 Sure. I'm just wondering, and I don't know, and it may just be so specific that what we can do it when I'm hearing you say that we could use it for homelessness. But to have, I think what I'm understanding is the board is wanting to have feedback to how those funds are used or how many people are affected. So is there an opportunity for next...
 next year if this is no there is no feedback i mean hud is dictating these funds can only be used to house the homeless housing and each specific one they dictate how many units they expect us to house with the funding and what services need to be provided to go along with that so so they're they're running this show we are not hud is telling us what to do
 I think that a key here would be to offer education regarding these to the committee so that they have a better understanding of the source of the legislation and the history of this specific funding that came from another organization to the city
 So I think maybe just education, it sounds like. We are working on the development, not only of that, also of a direct specific notification process for them. We are also going to create a, let's call it, training slash orientation process, and that will be presented twice a year, and hopefully that will assist
 in helping to work together.
 that sounds great to me and and i'm thinking that um that will help solve a lot of the questions and answer a lot of the questions help the community community to assist you to get the education and get the media out because i think the com the committee could help a lot with which is why we have the representation from all those different groups um to get the information out so i appreciate your diligence on this and and being able to
 accepted on behalf of the city because we absolutely need those funds I don't I don't think I have any further questions okay Teresa do you have any questions there are any further questions it's an ordinance I would simply not to resolution I'm sorry I do have one question
 I'm sorry, I'm having technical difficulties tonight. So thank you all for your patience. I guess my question to you, Alonda, is in terms of the number of people that you can assist, you mentioned that that was dictated by HUD. So is that,
 Is there a way to, I mean, maybe it's not as transparent as Kyle indicated, or maybe it is. Maybe just those are the numbers. I'm just wondering if maybe you could expand on that just a little bit about how many people. Yeah. I mean, so when we present the total number of individuals that have been housed to date,
 I have to make sure that everyone understands this is permanent supportive housing. Not every single person that we get into the program is successful in meeting all of the requirements
 um let me say the the guidelines that we have in the program some individuals move away some individuals unfortunately pass away so we have a variety of different situations going so whenever we we um i'll just say when a client no longer is with us then we turn to there is a binding list
 What this binding list is, is a listing of every individual that we can document that is homeless and they are prioritized. We use a document that is called the Viespa VET. And so that document in and of itself will take all their information and evaluate their vulnerability. So based on their vulnerability score, then that's where they're placed on the binding list.
 So whenever we have an opening, we pull the next person that's on the by name list and we work with them to house them.
 So it's always a rolling population. I mean, some folks have been with us for a long time, and they will continue to be with us. But then there are other folks that, like I said, for whatever reason, they exit the program, and then we get somebody new in. And so that person may be with us. We have some folks that have been with us for the duration. So since 2016, they've been with us.
 So we're providing services with them, but we count them as individuals that we have served ongoing. We could present to you the number of individuals and how many months we have served, if that would give you a better idea. But in addition to that, we're not only doing their...
 The down payment for rent, utility deposits, and rent every month, we also are providing wraparound case management, which involves many different things for many different folks. So we are now working to gather the variety of different services that have been provided, so we'll have a listing of that.
 So, if you want to see those numbers as far as how many people and the number of months or years that they've been with us, we can provide it in that manner if that would meet the needs that you have for information. Marcie Stowell- For me, that would be really helpful.
 But I also don't want to hold you up because it sounds like there is a very limited time window. But if, you know, I would like that just to have in my back pocket for informational purposes in case,
 this discussion came up again, it would help me kind of fill in the gaps of this kind of HUD federal program that I really don't know much about other than, yes, the federal government can be extremely rigid and it's either take it or leave it. So I'm familiar with those kinds of situations. Right. Thank you. That's all the questions I have.
 Mr. Mayor, this is Yolanda, this is Mike. First, I commend you. There's very little in life as complicated as a federal grant program. And so please continue to work with those and be our mediary between the City of Fayetteville residents and the federal government as a grantor.
 It seems to me that more the issue isn't the money as much as it is we have a good group of volunteer people on a board that are simply looking to appropriately channel their enthusiasm and their energy and their concern for those in need. And perhaps it would be as simple as a calendar being created in which we could simply list
 Here's the grants that the Community Development Assistance Program Board can have input on and here's the time frame in which those will be discussed and the board will make recommendations. And here's the list of all the other grants over which there is no variance allowed and that these are simply coming forward at this time and that that would enable that board
 Caring individuals to fully appreciate when and when they are not able to have input and commentary before things come before this body and I'm not trying to create work for you But it sounds like there's a group of people that are interested in having input and we simply need to let them know about
 the calendar timeframe, kind of like Councilman Scroggins said, just to be able to see what's coming down the road and to know when to anticipate that avenue of input. With that, I'm done.
 Again, I just want to restate that we are working on the notification process for CDAP and we are also, we will be developing an orientation training session that will be provided twice a year, every year. Thank you. Thank you. Unless there are any more questions, I move we approve the resolution.
 i have a motion and second to pass the resolution any final comments here would you please call the room harvey yes jones yes canyon yes we took her yes scroggins yes fudge yes turk yes herzberg yes thank you all uh let's go on the unfinished business
 Number one, a resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Leroy H. Schoffenberg, located at 2860 East Wyman Road in the city of Federal Arkansas, and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $17,800. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Billy Bryant, Senior Code Compliance Officer.
 a quick update to date no permits have been applied for and no work has been attempted is there any questions i can answer billy do you know if the resident was able to obtain accommodations or housing in colorado like they were talking about i did speak with mr scharfenberg this morning on the phone and he did say that they he is planning to move to colorado with his son did he give a time frame
 He told me this afternoon that they were going to leave. Oh, they're leaving this afternoon. Oh, okay. Perfect. Thank you. Is there anyone from the, yes, come on, Scharfenberg family. My name is Maya Scharfenberg. I'm Leroy Scharfenberg's daughter.
 This adventure into the delves of code compliance and city council meetings began for me less than 30 days ago. In that time, I have discovered secrets told to me by my father, serious discussions have been had, and grueling work has begun. My legs have been bruised by rocks and debris, my arms scratched by overgrown trees, my eyes have shed many tears of frustration, and my body is sore from the hours of labor I have undertaken.
 Still, more time is needed to wrestle control of a property that has been neglected for over three decades. In front of my father's house is a cedar tree planted 35 years ago by my parents as they began their lives together. That cedar tree holds memories and hopes, and despite the neglect and turmoil surrounding it, it has grown strong and beautiful. A reminder of what the property can and will be again.
 I look at that tree and I see family, I see hope, I see resilience, but I also see unfulfilled dreams and a sense that Fayetteville, my hometown and my father's oasis, may soon slip away from us.
 My father, Leroy Sharfenberg, was once a great architect. He worked with the likes of Fay Jones and some of the models and hand-drawn blueprints of the University of Arkansas's Fay Jones exhibit are from his hands. In his time with Fay Jones, he contributed to the design of both Mildred B. Cooper Chapel and many of the Fay Jones homes that you see dotted around Fayetteville. The houses he has designed or helped design dot the map of Northwest Arkansas.
 Countless houses and apartment buildings that formed the landscape of Fayetteville were built with the help of his hands. He has also influenced the outdoor community of our beautiful state, even being described as a local legend in the rock climbing and outdoor guide communities. My dad has been an invisible hand shaping our area. Being invisible has its costs, however, and my family has slipped through the cracks for a very long time, and we have suffered for it.
 My mother died of ALS in the emergency room of Washington Regional when my brother and I were just 16. We had been her caretakers. We made decisions for her and for us that no child should have to think about, and we slipped through the safety nets and local aid agencies. A decade and a half later, I feel as if we were slipping through again. Yes, the fault lies at our feet, not at the feet of the city. Asking for help has never been my family's strong suit.
 However, we and I now have a better understanding of our options available to us and the help we can receive if we simply ask. Thirty-five years of neglect and oversight cannot be fixed in a few short weeks, it cannot be fixed without help, and it cannot be fixed without funds. What I am simply asking the council for is more time to demolish the structures that are now uninhabited so my family can have a chance to catch our breath and move forward.
 Forcing demolishment at such an exorbitant cost would force us to sell the land and in doing so effectively force us from Fayetteville due to the ridiculous current housing costs of the area.
 In a few short weeks, even in record-breaking heat and myself suffering from a bounce of Pachyentitis, I feel I have made significant progress in revitalizing the property. My father is no longer living on the property and we are in the process of selling valuables and raising funds to achieve our goal of keeping the land.
 I am certain we can demolish the structures for much less than the council's estimate. All we require from the city council is the gift of time. I am asking for 60 more days to demolish the existing structures, two months to try to keep my father's land within our family and provide him and my own immediate family a safe, beautiful and stable home. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Do we have any questions for staff or the owners?
 I've got a question for staff while they're coming up. Hopefully we can give them the 60 days to do that. I just want to ask, is there...
 risk of having them take it down on their own. I mean I'm a general contractor I've hurt myself before. There is potential risk depending on what tools they choose to use. I will note that there is no demo permit on file that has been applied for. So but yes to answer your question there is a potential risk. Okay.
 I obviously want to hear what other council members say about that, but I know that, I mean, there's a house going down in South Fayetteville and a lot of people are contacting me and they're upset. And I actually told them, I looked at it, another house, and I was like, I don't know how I would be able to repair it or even take it down safely.
 maybe we need to get a report on that process because I would hate for that to fall on somebody. I guess, Kit, do you have anything to add
 I really don't. It's really up to the city council what they want to do. Through the years, city councils have had to face this again and again. I'm certainly glad that no one is living there now, and that certainly makes a big difference. I kind of wonder, is it secured at all so people couldn't go in there and
 and just squat or something, do you know? I do not know if it's secure. I can re-inspect it tomorrow and find out. I don't know if the homeowner might be able to speak to that, if Leroy's daughter might be able to. Okay. I know in the past city councils have given owners additional time when the house was no longer occupied.
 to if they were actually making progress on demolishing it. And I remember one time a guy was taking his house down brick by brick. So it took him a while, but he actually got it down. Well, I mean, I'm hoping that's something we can do. Mr. Mayor, one of the questions that I have would be with dealing with the utilities.
 You know, as my understanding was that the electric and water and possibly gas were still on in this structure. Is that, do you know that for sure, Billy? As far as I know, they are. Okay. That is a great concern to me if someone is taking down a structure on their own and, you know,
 And it's in a really bad condition anyway. If there's gas there, there could be a pipe that comes loose or is rusted and there's a gas leak and you know, it can be very, very dangerous. And especially with electricity as well, that could also be a problem. I'll just, I just wanted to ask about that and see what the other council members think about this. Any other questions from the council?
 I'd love to have the daughter, if you could come back up, have a couple questions. It sounds like we all have a lot of questions.
 Are you planning to apply for a demolition permit? I thought my father had already done that. Demolition permit will definitely be applied for. As far as the utilities, they are planned to be shut off tomorrow. We just needed to get my father out of the house first before we left him without electricity.
 Absolutely. Did somebody else have another question? As far as the demolition concerns, my boyfriend and his family are in the construction industry. And we absolutely plan to, we're not doing this as, you know, I'm just saying.
 going in completely blind with no construction or previous experience in that. My father-in-law worked as a master electrician for 30 years. He has connections to people who can help us get the equipment. And he is the one who will be using the heavy equipment.
 And so what you're asking is, please allow us to do the demolition, and your father is still planning to come back and preferably live on site in a prefab home. Yes, we're planning on putting a double-wide trailer on the land. That's our ultimate goal. Hang on just a minute, because Jonathan, didn't you say that
 That was something that was brought up at the previous public hearing. This gets into a question of zoning allowances. Depending what kind of structure they're putting on the property, it may or may not be permitted. The current zoning is RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre.
 that doesn't allow by right manufactured homes, depending what kind of prefabricated or manufactured home they're using, maybe it may or may not be an option. I'd encourage you to please reach out to our building safety group to coordinate what could or could not be done on the property. Thank you. Because of your father no longer living there, I think that gives us a lot more flexibility to allow you some time. So thank you for helping to make us aware of that.
 I think I have a question for Jonathan to hopefully help you. What would the appropriate zoning be if they are looking at putting a double wide on the property? It would probably be our agricultural zoning district. I'm not familiar enough with the property to know if that brings up other issues as far as like the size of the property. But that's the zoning district in Fayetteville that allows it by right.
 Yeah, so it takes a while for the zoning to come through, so if you need to do that, let us know so we can help you out. Okay, thank you. Jonathan, could we just apply for a conditional use permit for the property? Or would it have to be down zoned? It would have to be re-zoned or down zoned as you said. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the council? Theresa, do you have any questions? No, sir, I don't. Okay.
 All right, then I'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? No one is in there. No one on Zoom. Okay. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Okay.
 Hi, I'm Sarah Moore. I live in Ward 2. I actually wasn't here to speak on the side. I was just attending council tonight, but I couldn't help. But working with individuals that are very vulnerable in our community and following city council very closely. This isn't the first conversation we've had about properties getting into disarray in
 possibility of possibly having to raise the property. I'm located and work to you in the Bay Hill neighborhood and unfortunately I just didn't know enough I watched a mentally ill neighbor who basically had to be pulled from his home about eight or nine years ago and watch it as it was demolished by the city on North Street. You know he just I don't think he understood how to navigate the process and I think he was in a pretty diminished state and so
 I really want to appeal to the council that we really have a bigger conversation about the growing disparate need in our community and how we address it. We just heard from our finance personnel that
 We're above budget. I mean, we're sitting on a pile of money, and it feels morally wrong to allow anybody in our community to end up in a situation. I mean, their family story is really compelling, given, obviously, all that they've given in our community. But people don't have to prove their worth. Every human being in the city of Fayetteville, we love this city. We're a welcoming city. So I really challenge us to think about
 We've been very lucky economically, but our community services area is very, very small and finite and has not grown. We really need to challenge ourselves as we're looking at the 23 budget and how we work on the needs of our growing community that's struggling. I want to let you know there was really interesting information that came out of
 I don't know if you guys have looked at asset limited families. Alice.org is a really great website, but you're going to go down a black tunnel when you do that because I knew it was bad, but looking at the statistics was really staggering. In our workforce in the state of Arkansas, 51% of the jobs that are out there are for less than $15 an hour.
 So if I look at the estimate of $17,800 that this family is facing, at $15 an hour, that's almost 1,200 hours.
 If you put in 40 hours a week, that's 30 weeks of the year that you would have to pay to raise this property. I really want us to be really mindful that those are really numbers that are being faced in our state, but they're here in Fayetteville. As I've been doing work in pandemic relief the last two years, unfortunately, the numbers of those individuals that are in crisis are really increasing, especially in Fayetteville.
 I really, I love our city. I know our city can rise to the occasion. And so I want to stir up our sleeves and figure out how we get to work to make care of those that are the least of us. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Thank you, Mayor. Kyle Smith again. We have or have had a residential rehab program here in the city. And I'm not sure how many people have used it in the last few years, but I guarantee it's not enough.
 That program is designed to keep properties from ever falling into this level of disrepair. It would be amazing if that program had the resources to be proactive, to use all of the funding that y'all have made available to it so that we are not tearing down affordable housing. I'm sure that this property is far too gone for that. But it would also be great if we had a committee that could explore that option and see how to make it a reality. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. So I do have a few words about that. I would like to say one of the things that is evident about this property is it hasn't been that many years ago that it was rural and undeveloped and so it I don't think that it would have caught anyone's eye perhaps as it is now and we have a lot of activity of development going on around there and
 So I think that was part of it. And this guy does have, this family has such a heritage here. I certainly have no problem with allowing some extra time for the family to deal with the situation. I'm empathetic with that. It's hard when your parents are older, your family has a situation where they have to come in the next generation and change.
 and help out things that were neglected. So I certainly think that 60 days is, you know, certainly at anything a minimum amount of time that we should give them to go ahead and let the family take care of this. And again, if you're familiar with the property, it just wasn't that long ago that it was just country. You know, it's on the way out to Elkins. Even up to, well...
 the Hopkins family on that part up in towards the mountain there and I spent a lot of time as a youth and it was just brambles and ticks and it wasn't that long ago so anyway I certainly support this. So I take it to council as considering 60 extra days so
 Is that October the 4th is what I'm looking at or do we just say that first meeting October? Is that what you want us to do? Yes Second we got a motion to second to go first meeting in October Any other discussion are okay care which please call the roll Harvey. Yes Jones yes, Indian. Yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes Yes, sir
 Yes, Hertzberg. Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, number two. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 22-022 located at
 3061 East Kilmer and Road in Ward 3 for approximately 2.99 acres from RA residential agricultural to RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre this was left on the second reading I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading so moved second I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading Karen would you please call the roll Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-022, located at 3061 East Skidland Road in Ward 3, for approximately 2.99 acres, from RA, residential agricultural, to RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. I don't have any updates to the request itself. There has been some additional public comment that the Council may have seen that came through this morning and into the afternoon. It appears to have been uniformly in opposition to the request. From what I can tell, it appears to be exclusively from the Brookbury subdivision neighborhood, which is to the south and east and is zoned RSF4, similar to the applicant's request.
 Depending on the comment, the concerns vary from issues of traffic safety, traffic congestion. There's concerns about runoff or drainage and also the potential lack of connectivity.
 And as a reminder, since we've been looking at this one for a little while, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission concurred. Both bodies and staff, or both that body and staff felt this is compatible with the existing uniformly single family character of the area. We no longer feel that the agricultural zoning is appropriate given its uses that may not be compatible, such as commercial agriculture and animal kindling and things like that that could be a nuisance to a residential neighborhood.
 I'm happy to take any questions the council has and Daniel Bearden appears to be available as the applicant online. Would you like to speak for the council? Go ahead, Mr. Bearden. You have 10 minutes. Hello, I'm Daniel Bearden, 3061 East Skillern Road. I'm here tonight to ask you for your vote to rezone the property to RSF4.
 I did speak with Robert Rhodes and heard his pitch. My wife and I do not wish to offer a bill of assurance at this time. As you already know, most of the surrounding properties are zoned RSF4, so we are not asking for anything out of the norm.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council, for your time throughout this process. We hope we can move forward after tonight with our plans to build our family home. Okay, what questions does the Council have for staff or the applicant? I just had a quick question for Jonathan. Could you give us a number or a percentage of what properties around that proposed property are zoned RSF for?
 Certainly, and for what it's worth, and I appreciate Council Member Hertzberg letting me know she was asking me this question, so this isn't necessarily something I had precisely at my fingertips until then. The property is butted by 13 parcels.
 Um, of those, uh, about half of them, I believe it was, um, our zone, the, there's of course, the 1 larger ones of the East that zone. Uh, and then there's the, the plant zoning district to the West, which.
 As you can see on the aerial, it's very similar to RSF4 in development pattern, although it had some requirements for slightly larger lots, but similar frontages to RSF4. But all told, it's just over nine acres around it, of which about four and a half acres are zoned RSF4. Does that answer your question, Council Member? It does. Thank you very much. Anything else?
 All right, now let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one, Mayor. Okay, who would like to address us in the chamber? Okay, I'm going to bring it back.
 to the council. So we're on the third and final reading. I did get several emails on this. I think people are concerned that it's gonna be developed
 bigger than the one home, which I think is reasonable to look at. Usually RSF4 is developed at two and a half, sometimes three units an acre. This one actually would be pretty difficult to even do that. So in my mind, if this was built as a development and we choose not to believe the story about a single family house,
 It would be several single family house. I'm thinking like seven to nine. There's not even the acreage to go up to 12 if they wanted to, but by the time you add a road, cause it's, you would have to, it almost be impossible. And we are pretty much a housing crisis. One of the last items we looked at talked about
 the cost driving them out of the city. So this is, I think, a reasonable request. It matches basically what's around it. It is still single family. They wanted multifamily. They wanted duplexes or quadplexes or something like that. I would probably hesitate on that. But this is gonna be very similar in character, either one house or a couple. And I definitely don't think that they'll break the traffic
 situation over there. I'll be voting for this. Thank you, Scott. I'd like to second Council Member Scoggin. I think that this is a very reasonable request. I don't think that they should be asked to offer a bill of assurance by the surrounding neighbors who have RSF4. That seems unfair. So I think that this is reasonable. I will be in support of this. So I hope you will as well. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else that were...
 final comments what a Building seven houses kick in the need for a large-scale development if they are
 if they wanted to plat it build a public street and build it a lot and block pattern as planners like to call it and as you described that would require platting which would require our full tree preservation standards and drainage criteria manual standards and requirements of that nature yeah i believe that would take care of a lot of the concerns and if they weren't platting that i don't think they have the street footage to add very many houses if they were going to go that route so i think this is reasonable thank you anybody else
 this is this your Ward Sloan it is okay there's not any other comments care would please call the roll Harvey yes Jones yes and yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes okay Teresa I won't apologize I should have seen if you have any other questions
 I'll do a little better. You're fine, Mayor. I would have butted in, you know. So thank you. All right. All right, let's go to new business. Number one, resolution pursuant to 166.04B2 of the Federal Unified Development Code to approve the dedication of a reduced amount of right-of-way on East Sparrow Circle of the Creekside Meadows subdivision in Ward 1.
 to 44 feet from the center line of East Sparrow Circle and to reduce the Master Street Plan right-of-way dedication requirement of to 44 feet from the center line of this portion of East Sparrow Circle. Now this was pulled from the consent because there was a
 Yes, Mayor. We had a typo on that. We were asking for a double-sized street that we don't really have. So instead of 44 feet from the center line, it should read 22 feet from the center line. I prepared a resolution, uh,
 that has the correct figures in it and I would ask the City Council to please amend to the resolution that I handed out to you that corrects that mistake from 44 feet to 22 feet so I'll read the title of it and then you can vote on it well we need a motion a second to amend the resolution I move to amend the resolution second okay all right so care would you please call the roll
 Harvey? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes.
 Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Okay, now I'll read the resolution. A resolution pursuant to 166.04 of the Federal Unified Development Code to approve the dedication of a reduced amount of right-of-way on the east Sparrow Circle of the Creekside Meadows Subdivision in Ward 1 to 22 feet from the center line of East Sparrow Circle to
 Reduce the Master Street plan right-of-way dedication requirement to 22 feet from the center line of this portion of East Sparrow Circle. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Let me have one moment here.
 All right. We are in southeast Fayetteville for this item. The property was once an overall larger property that's located immediately south and east of Morningside Drive and 15th Street. It's located within Ward 1. Even more specifically, though, we're talking about four lots that were recently platted as a part of the Creekside Meadows subdivision, which you can find here along, as Mr. Williams and Mayor said, along Sparrow.
 As a little bit of background, the subdivision was originally approved in 2019 under the Oak Creek subdivision name. At that time, about 12 acres of parkland dedication was made along the town branch in response to the floodplain there. However, there was still a little bit of floodplain that continued north into the site.
 which affected the four lots that are in question. You can see the parkland that was dedicated here and the four lots that were here, and each of which was somewhat impacted by either 100 year or 500 year floodplain.
 After the plat was approved and construction began, the City adopted City Plan 2040, a new master street plan with new associated street designs. The final plat was recorded last year, 2021, and this year the developer had just finished working through the floodplain map revisions with FEMA to address those floodplain encroachments on those lots to make them buildable.
 A concurrent plot went through the Planning Commission about a month ago and was approved. As a part of that, the applicant expressed a preference to not dedicate right away under the new Master Street Plan, but keep their existing right away as was previously dedicated and a sidewalk was built to and green space was built to. So these four lots as a part of that concurrent plot would turn into nine with that proposal.
 And as I said, the request is just to dedicate right away in accordance with the previous plat, not with the new requirements that have since come into effect.
 Staff has not identified any issues with this item. We recommend the approval of it. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded it to Council on their consent agenda. I'm happy to take questions. And to date, we've received no public comment on the item. And I believe Jesse Fulcher is the applicant for the item, but he wasn't certain that he would be able to attend tonight. So I'm not clear. It does not appear he's in the chambers, and I don't believe he's online either. Okay.
 Alright, what questions do we have for the staff or I guess you don't have any questions for the applicant because they're not here.
 anything okay then we'll take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that do we have anyone on zoom no sir does anyone in the chamber like to address this on this topic
 bring back to the council move to approve the resolution second any final comments council care which please call Rob Harvey yes Jones Kenyon yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all let's go number 2
 A resolution to approve the 2023 employee benefits package. Miss. Thank you, mayor and council. Uh, last week we presented the renewal data from 2022 and our utilization information. And that should also be included in your packet. Um,
 It is staff's recommendation along with Gallagher, our benefits consultant, that we approve the employee benefits packet using the same vendors and plan designs that we have currently in 2022. The only exception to that is we are recommending a move on our vision plan to VSP, which is going to give staff a couple of additional options that they've not had in the past. It also helps with reducing our premium.
 increase that we're going to be seeing as a result of utilization. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have. And I have Christy, I think, on with Gallagher on Zoom. Hello, everybody. She's not going to give a presentation. She's just here for answering questions if you have any. That's all right.
 I'm back. I do not know that. I was looking for you. So Mayor, Missy just finished her comments and so now it's up to the council. Okay, what questions do we have for Missy on this? I'm sure you have a lot. Did any of my fellow council members receive any calls or anything about this? Okay.
 I didn't get any. That's why I'm asking. Sure was plenty last time. There were a lot last time, yes. I will say from my personal situation of leaving my job, I went and I signed up for Citi. I think that it's an incredible option that they've put together. So I'm certainly supportive. Thank you. Okay. Anything else? Then we'll take some public comment.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or in council. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, and those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Do we have anyone on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. Does anyone in the chamber would like to address us on this topic? Okay. So what action would the council like to take? Do we have a...
 there aren't any questions I'm will be approved the resolution second have a motion second to pass resolution any final comments from the council good work miss you care which please call the roll Harvey yes Jones Kenyon yes we'd occur yes Scroggins yes bench yes yes Hertzberg yes okay let's go number three
 An ordinance to amend 72.15 parking restrictions on city street in general and for large trucks, tractors and trailers and non emergency repairs to also prohibit overnight parking of motor homes, recreational vehicles, RVs, fifth wheel truck trailers and camper trailers. Gee, let me read. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. Sorry.
 Whereas citizens have complained about large vehicles such as motorhomes, RVs, fifth-wheel trailers, and camper trailers in addition to trucks and trailers that have been parked overnight on city streets and caused traffic and pedestrian safety as well as aesthetic problems for the neighborhood. And whereas all of these large vehicles cause the same sort of issues and should be regulated in the same manner. Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 72.15B, Large Vehicles, by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a new Subsection B as follows. Subsection B, Large Vehicles. No person shall park a truck, tractor, or trailer with a capacity of over one ton or chassis thereof
 or a motorhome, recreational vehicle, fifth-wheel trailer, or camper trailer on any city street between the hours of 12 midnight and 6 a.m. Okay. Chief. All right. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I think the Mayor and certainly Kit pretty much summed up what we're asking for tonight. Certainly, City Ordinance 7215 currently prohibits the...
 Parking of a truck, tractor, trailer weighing over one ton between the hours of 11 or I'm sorry 12 a.m. and 6 a.m. But it also prohibits any truck from parking on the street for 14 consecutive days as well.
 And so I think it's pretty clear cut what we're asking for is we're just staff is recommending that this ordinance be amended to also prohibit overnight parking of motor homes, recreational vehicles, fifth wheel trailers, camper trailers on any city street. What's precipitated? This is just the amount of complaints that we get on this issue.
 from our residents here in Fayetteville and just trying to have a mechanism to deal with those complaints. Most recently, we received a complaint, we being the police department, the city attorney's office as well, from an elderly woman that was having difficulty with a neighbor that had a
 a 40 foot motor home that was parking it in front of her residence instead of across the street in front of his residence. And when we talked to him and tried to reason with him to try to be a good neighbor, we found out quickly that he was just doing it out of spite. And once again, there was just no mechanism for us to enforce that. So that's why we're here tonight. Just like I said, just a bunch of complaints that we received.
 over time and that's the most recent one that we dealt with and then talking with the city attorney's office this was the best approach that we could come forward with and see if you were willing to to legislate uh this particular amendment to this ordinance so with that i'd be happy to answer any questions what questions do does the council have chief chief does this include this is i'm sorry councilmember turk i have a question yes ma'am um i'm sorry
 So with school buses be included in this because I know that some are converted to recreational vehicles and some are not so I just wondered if How that would be affected by this rule?
 Well, I certainly think that by the spirit of the ordinance, that if it was a school bus or, you know, it was converted to a recreational vehicle, then it certainly would fall under this ordinance. That would probably be a test case maybe for a,
 a jury or judge at some point, but I certainly think that if that's what an individual was using it for, then yes, it would fall under this particular ordinance. It's just hard to cover every particular item that we're talking about here when it comes to motor homes or recreational vehicles that people use to cohabitate in.
 The biggest issue with this is a safety issue that I didn't mention. I think Ketch mentioned in his ordinance, it's just being able to see around these vehicles to pull in and out of your driveway safely.
 Just a follow-up question. Have you had any complaints about school buses being parked in the road like you have with motorhomes? I'm just thinking about one that has not been converted to a recreational vehicle. No, I do not recall any school buses being converted over, any vans being converted over, anything like that. Particularly, it's been these large motorhomes that are being parked on city streets within the city.
 So, I don't know if we need to amend the rule or add this item, school buses, to it for clarification or not. Do you think you have enough discretion with the way the ordinance is written right now where if there was a school bus, you could have a rule that would say, you know, if there was a school bus,
 blocking the way and it is a safety issue that you would have the authority to ask them to, obviously you could ask them to move it, but if it became contentious, do you have the authority to do something about it?
 Well, once again, I think if it was a school bus that was converted for someone to cohabitate in, I do think that underneath the ordinance, if it's passed as is, we would have the authority to do that. Now, if it's a school bus that's being utilized for school children, no, I do not think so. So I think we have to be very careful for that issue, or maybe we don't.
 Okay, thank you. I don't have any more questions. I have a comment on that because there are some businesses that are going around and picking up people in old school buses and taking them to the point of business. So that would be an instance where it's not a public school bus, but it is a school bus that's being used. And I don't know if any of them are being parked in the street now or not.
 I have not heard any complaints on that. I am not aware of any being parked overnight. What we are seeing here is these vehicles that are being parked for an extended period of time within the neighborhoods. I have received no complaints on any type of school buses. It has all been regarding RVs, motorhomes, things of that nature that are being parked for long periods of time. I want to say that we drafted this and I follow the Chief's direction on this, directed at problems we were having.
 We'll never be able to solve all the problems. But if there's a new problem appears, we'll be back in front of you and say, we need a little more authority if we do. But at this point, I think the chief of police has said these are the vehicles that have been causing problems. And so that's what this ordinance is directed at.
 Yeah, we've got another one. It's a good example of that, just to expound on what Kit's talking about. We had another one that just recently came in that deals with alleyways in the city. We have nothing that deals with alleyway in the ordinance. So within the coming weeks or months, I'll be bringing back an amendment for this as well, for your consideration on alleyways. I feel comfortable enough with the way that it's written that we don't need to include anything for...
 School buses that people might be living in, you know, you could always say like people take horse trailers and turn them into campers, too I mean you can't pick every single thing I don't like the idea that we're focusing on what we actually have a problem with and If we need to rewrite it or expand on it, we can do that in the future Yeah, I promise you I won't be shy about bringing something forward if we start experiencing a problem any other questions from council
 Yes, I have someone ask a question about how many calls or complaints have you been receiving generally on the...
 I would say probably somewhere about a half dozen, maybe less than a dozen on an annual basis. It usually picks up around school time when university is back in session. Sometimes parents come up and visit their children. They park on the streets and it's very difficult for traffic to get through there. Sometimes it's difficult for emergency traffic, specifically fire trucks, to get through there as well. So it's...
 I would say that it's not frequent, but it's frequent enough that it's become somewhat of a problem for our residents in our community. And I certainly feel like it's my job to bring forward that complaint to try to rectify that because we're running into issues like the most recent one where we're just not able to reason with the individuals and certainly without this language, it just there wouldn't be any type of enforcement mechanism for us. Sure. May I also add to that, please?
 Councilman councilmember Harvey planning also gets a lot of complaints too I think we also understand that there's limited capacity in the traffic code to address this sometimes it has to do with people living them and living them and living in them as well so I think this could be a two birds with one stone kind of situation if that is a concern thanks that's all thank you I would also
 assure the council that we would use progressive enforcement measures. We'd sure try to reason with the folks, try to warn them, try to educate them on the law before we move to anything like a ticketing situation. Any other questions? Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or in council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom,
 are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? Now I'm there. Okay, is anyone in the chamber like to address us on this? Thank you again, Mayor Kyle Smith. I live on the west side of town. I'm not going to give my full address this time because I don't want you to take this as a complaint against my neighbor.
 I do have a neighbor on my street who frequently parks a trailer on the side. Occasionally it's a very large motor home there for a few days. It's not a problem. Any street has a lot of different meanings in this town because we've had various street cross sections over the decades and decades.
 I would encourage you to vote against this in the form the way it is now.
 Because, while I think it's totally reasonable to not want to block a narrow street in the Wilson Park neighborhood or a street with unimproved ditches and sidewalks that may be fairly narrow, we want to preserve emergency access for that. Out on the west side of town, we have some ridiculously wide neighborhood streets.
 and that my neighbor can park his motorhome out there and we can still get two cars side by side without any problem at all. It's pretty common on my street for people to be parking across the street from each other to, you know, where normally that would drive me nuts. I realized like, okay, I'm gonna let that go because I can still get through and so could a fire truck. It's just not a problem everywhere. If this is something that we really have to address, I would encourage you to amend it
 To only apply to streets under a certain width where we could ensure that the emergency vehicle access, but to not interfere with streets where it's just really not causing a problem.
 Safety is definitely something we should address if we've just got neighbors complaining because they don't like to look out their window and see it Not sure that that's worth a restriction across the entire city and Aesthetics was mentioned as one reason we've been told in the past. That's not a great metric for
 for regulating the way things look. So please don't prove it like this. If you want to amend it with a weight limit, I think that'd be great idea. Thank you, Kyle. Who else would like to address us? Hi, Sarah Moore in Ward 2. Again, I wasn't going to speak, but I was reading this item and then after hearing the discussion. Sorry, I'm having just a. Can you hear? I'm sorry. I hate when it makes that sound. Is that better? Yeah, yeah. Sorry.
 I'll try to speak a little louder too. Whenever we were shared that the reason for bringing this forward was 6 to 12 complaints,
 I'm always curious about writing laws or creating legislation on small case basis. We have over 90,000 residents in the city of Fayetteville and I don't know how much we should be legislating on considerations between neighbors where there's dispute between not wanting potentially a motor home outside of one's house. I understand we all should be good neighbors.
 There are lots of avenues to go about that. I actually live in an area that has no sidewalks in Ward 2, an older neighborhood developed in the 60s. I have a 92-year-old neighbor. When her older children from out of state come to visit her for extended periods of time, they often stay in their motorhomes for periods of time to get a little bit of distance from time to time with their extended stay with their mom and their other siblings.
 It's a little bit of an inconvenience whenever she runs the generator, but at the end of the day, honestly what she provides when her motorhome is parked there is a slowing mechanism. In the City of Fayetteville, we've looked at putting these large flower pots and things that start to protrude into the streets, and there's been some questions and conversations about the efficacy of that, the safety, the concerns that have been raised, so I think
 we have to ask ourselves what we're solving for. And if we really are talking about street safety or what we're trying to legislate for, I will say again, I'm in a neighborhood that's older with no sidewalks and there's a lot of rental in my neighborhood and a lot of on-street parking. My biggest concern a lot of times is the on-street parking
 would not allow a emergency response vehicle, especially to get to my 92 year old neighbor. So I would really ask for you guys to table this and to really talk about what we're trying to solve for and whether or not we really should be legislating on very small case, individual basis for citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, did I ask for public comment on Zoom? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council then.
 i've got some questions for the chief sure um are people allowed to park rvs on their own property yes absolutely okay so um if somebody needs to to live at one of these
 single-family home houses they can park the RV there. I have a concern that if we have people living in these, where is their waste going? I don't think they're going to go down to one of the RV parks. There's concerns there.
 But I do realize that some people do live temporarily in these and if this removed that ability I would hesitate on this but we're not taking that away.
 something that's complaint driven or would you direct your officers to look for this? No, this would be complaint driven. You know, our officers, obviously you've heard me speak many times in front of you, they just don't have the time to drive around and look specifically for parking complaints. So usually anything that's a minor violation like this is complaint driven by the neighbors.
 We heard Mr. Smith talk about in his neighborhood he wouldn't have a problem with it. If he didn't have a problem with it, he didn't complain or any of his other neighbors didn't complain, we wouldn't go in there and just proactively enforce something like that. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. What other discussion or questions would you all like to have or action or items
 maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second motion second to go to the second reading care which please call the row Harvey yes Indian yes we did Kirk yes Scroggins yes bench yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes
 an ordinance amends section 72.15 parking restrictions on city streets in general and for large trucks tractors and trailers and non-emergency repairs to also prohibit overnight parking of motor homes recreational vehicle rvs fifth wheel trailers and camper trailers and maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading care which please call the rough harvey yes jones
 Excuse me. He's absent. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Yes, Hertzberg. Yes in Orson men section 72 point one five parking restrictions on city streets in general and for large trucks tractors and trailers and non-emergency repairs To also prohibit overnight parking of motorhomes recreational vehicles fifth-wheel trailers and camper trailers any final comments new counts a
 I just want to thank the chief for bringing this because I do think it allows people to have a measure to
 If there's something blocking the way that they can get in or out of their driveway, it's really a big deal. So, I mean, if it was happening to me on my very narrow street, I feel like it would really be helpful. We actually get quite a bit of parking on our street. That's not supposed to be the way that it is. I don't complain about it, but I could. There's supposed to be no parking at all.
 We have the single driveway homes on our house. We have no sidewalks. But it's okay. We don't complain about it. But if it was an RV, I think that would be very incredibly problematic. And I could see that happening because it's a lot of students that live nearby. So thanks for bringing this forward. Okay. Anything else?
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scrockin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. OK. Let's go to number four. An ordinance to amend 51.170, standard specifications for water and sewer lines, and adopt standard specifications for design and construction of water lines.
 and sewer lines 2022 edition kit. Whereas pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated Section 1455-207, the City may adopt by ordinance technical codes, regulations, or standards without including the full text of the regulations in the City Code. And whereas the standards specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines 2022 edition
 has been developed to represent the culmination of several years of product reviews and field observation of best practices. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 51.170,
 standard specifications for water and sewer lines by repealing the current version and enacting a new section 51.170 as follows, quote, the City Council adopts the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines 2022 addition as recommended by the utilities director and attached to the enacting ordinance.
 All technical procedures and design standards contained therein shall be enforceable as part of the Unified Development Code through enforcement procedures of Chapter 153 as well as Section 150.12 penalty. Tim. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. So the standard specs for the design and construction of water and sewer lines is intended to standardize and simplify how the water and sewer lines are to be constructed within the jurisdiction of the city.
 The last revision to this standard specs was in 2017, the last major revision. This 2022 edition includes a variety of technical adjustments and clarifications that were brought on by several years of evaluation, product reviews, field observations, and the best practices used. So the modifications provide better clarity for the developers and their contractors in the construction of our infrastructures.
 Some of the changes to standard specs for the 2022 edition is the clarification on who's responsible for what.
 what the process is for requesting variances we have the domestic steel requirement and we have clarification on easement and building offsets for easements for utilities we've got we've updated references to the other city standards such as the minimum street standards and we have clarification to common field questions from engineers and contractors
 this revision was approved by the health department on may 31st and now we're bringing before the city council for consideration we did present this to the water and street committee on july 12th with the unanimous vote to bring it before the city council for consideration do you have any answering questions any questions do we have for tim all right let's take some public comment everyone has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone
 Anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic, please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first. Those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, do we have anyone? No, sir. Alright, does anyone in the chamber like to speak on this issue? Okay, bring it back to the council. What's wishes of the council? This is an ordinance that's on the first reading.
 Will we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second. Do we have a motion to second to go to the second reading? Caravans, please call the roll. Harvey? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Yes.
 in order to amend section one section 51.170 standard specification for water and sewer lines and adopt the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines 2022 edition
 i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second motion second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the row harvey yes inyon yes peter yes scroggins yes punch yes kirk yes earthsburg yes
 In order to amend section 51.170, standard specifications for water and sewer lines and adopt the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines 2022 edition. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Lederkerk? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Dixon?
 Okay, number five, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $150,671.03 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, DBA, Riggs Rental.
 services for the emergency rental of a 2,000 kilowatt generator for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $30,134.21 kit. Whereas on July 8, 2022, the 2,000 kilowatt generator at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility failed,
 And whereas the facility cannot operate without a generator due to load shedding requirements and a rental generator was procured on July 9, 2022 from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Rental Services to temporarily replace the failed generator.
 and whereas Riggs Rental Services, which is the region's sole certified Caterpillar distributor and maintenance provider for our area, provide a quote in the amount of $150,671.03, which will secure the rental generator for up to four months while the failed generator is rebuilt. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fable Arks hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding, accepts a quote of $150,671.03 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Rental Services for the rental of a 2,000 kilowatt generator for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $30,134.21.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. As Kent, as Kit described on July 8th, the 2000 kilowatt generator at the Nolan plant failed. The engine's wet sleeve cylinder inserts failed, which put antifreeze into the oil. So the engine and the generator will need to be rebuilt. We cannot operate without a generator due to load shedding requirements. Quickly unload shedding is performed the same time every year from June through September.
 Load shedding requires the city to avoid being on the grid during the time when the peak for a given month is set. And the peak is set by the Arkansas Electric Cooperative Commission, which covers our area. It's the program set up to penalize anyone who is using power at all during the 15-minute period each month when the demand is the highest. The city would have to pay an enormous penalty for each kilowatt of demand that we are using during that time. And the peak can be established more than once in any given month.
 Rental generator was procured on the 9th of July and was set up that very day to temporarily replace the failed generator. Riggs Rental Services provided the quote in the amount of $150,671.03, which will secure the rental generator for up to four months while the failed generator is rebuilt.
 Riggs is the only authorized and certified caterpillar dealer or distributor and maintenance provider for our area. If the generator rebuild does not take four months, then Riggs will only invoice us for the correct number of weeks. The city actually used the generator. If the city didn't get the rental generator online in time, we would not be available to the loadshed when required, and the fines can be substantial for that. The funds are available in the wastewater treatment plant building improvements account within the water and sewer fund.
 As I mentioned last week, the item did not go before the Water and Sewer Committee because of when it happened, but they were emailed in the prize of the situation. Do you have any answer to the questions? What questions do we have, Tim? Are your photos the new one or the old one?
 pardon me the photos that we were seeing yes those the new one or the old one uh the photos you should have seen is the is the rental generator the rental one just as big as the as the original generator you'll just see the nice little space that it sits on looks like it fits there perfectly it certainly does yes okay just wonder if it was the new one thank you any other questions theresa do you have any questions on this one
 uh no sir i don't thank you tim for first sending that to the water and sewer committee and ahead of time okay i want to be sure you all got that um all right and let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak they have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or in councilman stay on topic please give us your name and address and those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those president and chamber will speak after that susan you have on
 so nobody mayor who have anyone in the chamber like to address some decision okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council this is on the first reading this is an ordinance so what's the wishes of the council what discussion with the council I move to suspend rules and go to second reading second we have motion second go to second reading care which please call the roll Harvey yes
 Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt?
 Yes. Herzberg. Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $150,671.03 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as J.A. Riggs Rental Services for the emergency rental of a 2,000 kilowatt generator for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $30,134.21.
 and so uh moose suspender rules go third and final reading second we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading coverage please call the row harvey yes kenyon yes peter yes scroggins yes bunch yes turd yes herzberg yes
 And ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $150,671.03 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Rental Services for the emergency rental of a 2,000 kilowatt generator for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $30,134.21.
 what final comments do we have in the council on this care which please call the wrong harvey yes canyon yes lena kirk yes scroggins yes yes kirk yes herdsburg yes okay
 Number 6, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $251,509 plus applicable taxes and free charges from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, DBA Riggs CAD for the rebuild of a generator from the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility.
 to approve the purchase of a five-year warranty in the amount of $15,181 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $50,301.80. Whereas on July 8, 2022, the 2,000-kilowatt generator at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility failed.
 And whereas J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, doing business as Riggs Cat, is the region's sole certified caterpillar distributor and maintenance provider for our area. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determine that an exceptional situation exists...
 in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and accepts a quote of $251,509 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, doing business as RiggsCat,
 for the rebuild of a generator for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility, approves a purchase of a five-year warranty in the amount of $15,181, and further approves a project contingency amount of $50,301.80. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. So as we talked about the original generator failing,
 Basically, we had Riggs evaluate the current generator to see what was up with it, and they said it was a candidate for getting rebuilt. The quota of $251,509 plus taxes will fully rebuild not only the generator generating unit, but also the diesel engine.
 The five year warranty, staff feels like it's a very good deal for $15,181, which will cover almost all the generator faults. Also cover rental costs and travel fees in the event the rebuilt generator fails within five years. And once again, Riggs is the only authorized and certified Caterpillar distributor and maintenance provider for our area.
 um to put it in perspective a new generator of this size costs 2.2 million dollars and there's a lead time in today's time of one year or more the city would endure the cost of rental for that entire year and based on the price we got for four months that would be over 450 000 just to rent a temporary generator while we're getting a new one uh delivered
 Funds are available in the wastewater treatment plant building improvement account in the water and sewer fund. Again, this was a quick item to not go before the water sewer committee last month, but they were notified by email and apprised of the condition. Do you have any answering questions? What questions do we have for Tim? How long does the rebuild take typically? They've estimated four weeks. Like I said, if it takes less than that, we won't have to pay, or excuse me, yeah, four.
 I said that wrong, four months. Excuse me, four months to rebuild, and if it takes less than that, they won't charge us four months around, just what it actually takes. Okay, thank you. And any other questions? Teresa, do you have any questions on this one? No, sir, thank you. Okay. All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute curation. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 stay on top and please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who you have on zoom susan no one on zoom there all right anyone like to address this yeah come on uh mark coolberg 77 southwest avenue i would just say i'd recommend getting some more bids on it the big chunk of cash three bids usually the rule that's all i have all right thank you anyone else
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What staff like to respond to that? Yeah. Thank you. As I said before, Riggs is the only authorized dealer in our area, so you get into territorial conflicts whenever you try to bring them from outside our area. That's why we went with Riggs. Thank you. Anything else? Yes.
 this is an ordinance it's on the first reading moves then rolls and go to second reading second we have a motion to go to second reading care which please call the roll Harvey yes Indian yes we do Kurt yes Scroggins yes but yes hurt
 Yes, Hertzberg. Yes in order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of two hundred fifty one thousand five hundred nine dollars plus affable taxes and freight charges from JA rigs tractor company doing business as rigs cat and
 for the rebuild of a generator for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility, to approve the purchase of a five-year warranty in the amount of $15,181, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $50,301.80.
 moot suspend rules and go to third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading coverage please call them up harvey yes inyon yes whittaker yes scroggins yes bench yes turk yes herzberg yes
 in order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $251,509 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs CAT for the rebuild of a generator from the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility to approve the purchase of a five-year warranty in the amount of $15,181 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $50,301.80. Any final comments from the council?
 care which please call the road rv yes canyon yes whittaker yes scroggins yes punch yes turk yes erksberg yes okay thank you all very much number seven an ordinance to approve vacation 22-017 for property located at nine south block avenue in ward two to vacate a
 30 square foot portion of an alley right away kit whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions that are up which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of an alley right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes
 now therefore be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby vacates the portions of an alley right away as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo section two that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached to exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk in section three this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one
 Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense. And number two, the existing water meters within the vacated right-of-way must be relocated at the property owner development's expense. The remainder of the right-of-way should contain the existing water line and relocated meters. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us into Ward 2, immediately out the front doors of City Hall. To orange you a little bit more specifically, the exact piece of right-of-way we're talking about is on the westernmost edge of the building that is just south of the Miss Young building. And to the south of that is the building where Mustache is found. So we're talking about the building in between the Miss Young building and the Mustache building on the right-of-way that runs along the west side of the building.
 I'll give you a little bit closer view of it here. You can see 9 Dixon, which is centered on the image there, in addition to the surveying document that was submitted with the request.
 As for what that request is, as Mayor and Mr. Williams noted, they're proposing to vacate approximately 30 square feet along the western edge of the property from the existing alley. The applicant has shared that the intent of this is to be able to accommodate a staircase to access the roof and rest of the building.
 oh when it comes to issues uh staff definitely had a lot of initial concerns with this um our downtown alleys are considered fairly sacrosanct they're very sacred in a way we we planning staff does rue the day that we opted to vacate the alleyway that was behind the mountain end project that that was returned to that property owner so we take a hard eye to these and i don't want the council to think that we we didn't want to scrutinize this just as much
 So when we consider these requests,
 One of the first and foremost items we look at is the public's interest and will affect negatively connectivity or access. In this instance, our assertion is that it will not. The existing city alleyway, the paved width, if you think about the specific alley exists outside of where this right of way is being proposed. That dovetails exactly into our next consideration, which is the existing encroachments that already exist along that alleyway.
 Again, going back to their aerial image and then delving a little bit deeper into what we call a sand borne map. These are the old fire insurance maps that people can use to look at old building layouts. There are about 215 feet of, or excuse me, there's about 150 feet of existing encroachments in this alley on about a 215 foot block. That is to say the vast majority of the alley already has about this two foot encroachment into it.
 Staff does not anticipate seeing the buildings associated with those removed in the near future. A lot of those are historically significant buildings, and that certainly factored into our ultimate recommendation to approve vacating this 30 square feet. The Planning Commission felt similarly comfortable with the request to the point where they left it on their consent agenda, and they forwarded it to the City Council also recommending approval.
 To date, we've not received any public comment on the item. I'm happy to take any questions the council has, and I believe Joe Holcomb is available online as the applicant. Thank you. Joe Holcomb, NJPW, NJPW Board Member, NJPW Board of Trustees Meeting, Page 1 The applicant would like to speak for the council. Ms. Holcomb, go ahead. Mr. Hi, Joe Holcomb. I'm at 1966 North Juneway Terrace. Mayor, council members, and staff, I appreciate the time tonight. I'm available for any questions you might have. Thank you. Joe Holcomb, NJPW, NJPW Board Member, NJPW Board of Trustees Meeting, Page 1 Okay. Mr. Holcomb, I'm at 1966 North Juneway Terrace. Mayor, council members, and staff, I appreciate the time tonight. I'm
 What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant? Teresa, do you have any questions? No, I'm fine, Mayor. Thank you. Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay. Would anyone like to address us on this issue? Anyone like to address us on this issue? So...
 seeing none i'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what's the wishes of the council can we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion to second go to the second reading care which please call the rob harvey yes minion yes we did kirk yes scroggins yes punch yes turk
 Yes. Ertzberg. Yes. And in order to approve the AC 22-017, we're properly located at 9 South Block Avenue in Ward 2 to vacate a 30 square foot portion of an alley right of way. And will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Harvey. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In order to approve VAC 22-017 for a property located at 9 South Block Avenue in Ward 2 to vacate a 30 square foot portion of an alley right of way. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk?
 Okay, thank you all. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Thank you, Mayor. I would like to remind the Council of the special workshop we have planned for you all Saturday, August 6th,
 From 9 to noon, we're going to have the ARPA workshop in this room because we really need to be able to have the technology in this space to be able to show and tell with the Zoom and the hybrid meetings. It'll be held much like your budget workshops are held so that we will bring to you as much information as we think that we've got. I've been sending you all these weekly updates, so hopefully you've had an opportunity to
 before Saturday, but just to go over very quickly what the format of the workshop will be. We'll have an overview of the program, just the same as we have been reminding, but from the time that we began, and Steven Dotson will help with Paul, host the main points here.
 We'll have a discussion of the programs that the city set up over time through last spring when you all brought us the ideas that you were having about the subrecipient grant application process. And so we've got that broken out for you. It's also on the website, but we'll go ahead and go through that information. We'll go through the city's teams process for how we have evaluated and ranked the different projects that we've received.
 We'll talk about the process for the evaluation and we'll talk about the internal ARPA and internal infrastructure projects. So you've got several different categories to review.
 the external and the internal, and then we will have a recommendation for you all on our recommendations for the external and internal projects. And then at a subsequent date, you will decide when it's time that you've had enough information, enough discussion, and we'll ask for your vote.
 Saturday workshop we are contained to three hours. I think that'll be plenty of time for what we have to go over But then we want to make sure we answer all your questions and come prepared so if you have anything else that you'd like to make sure we cover on that Saturday, let me know and
 We'll send out one more reminder with a revised summary spreadsheet. We sent one summary spreadsheet a couple of weeks ago. There are a couple of additions, but now you'll have the complete information. Everything's on the website. We'll have these instructions for the day and we'll get one more reminder out. It will be a hybrid meeting again in this room.
 It'll be people will be able to it's on the calendar so people can zoom and observe y'all's discussion in your deliberation Any questions? Is there any public comment for that event? Not on Saturday. Okay. Thank you Anything? Okay. Well, thank you all very much. We're adjourned