I would like to call the city council member meeting of August the 2nd, 2016, to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Here. Here. Join me in the Pledge of Allegiance, will you? Here. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. First order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of July 19, 2016, city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve change order number three to the contract with Utility Service Company Incorporated in the amount of $22,736 for structural repairs to the Baxter water tank to approve an additional project contingency in the amount of $56,675.50 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to authorize acceptance of the 2016-2017 Justice Assistance and State Drug Crime Enforcement Grant for federal and state funding of the fourth judicial district drug task force in the amount of 242 610 dollars and to authorize mayor jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive grant funds number four A resolution approved a one-year amended contract with Icon Enterprises Incorporated, DBA, Civic Plus for website content management system services in the amount of $18,228.55 for the first year with automatic renewals for three additional one-year terms with a price increase of 5% each time. The contract is renewed, and to approve a project contingency of $5,000 each year, the contract is in effect. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment to move funds from various audiovisual subprojects to Master Project 13004 City Hall Audiovisual Renovation. Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing increased parking revenues in the Off-Street Parking District and the Dixon Street Improvement District. 7. A resolution to approve a grant agreement with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program for a certified local government grant any amount of $9,030 and approve a budget adjustment. 8. A resolution to approve the 2017 Employees Benefits Package. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mark. I move we accept the consent agenda as published. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business number one. An ordinance for zoning net property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5442 for approximately 99.10 acres located at 2514 West Lurie Road from RA Residential Agricultural, RSF1 Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, and RSF4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation, RA Residential Agricultural, and NS Neighborhood Services. Jeremy. Mayor, before we move on to the next reading, we received a letter from the property owner, I believe today or yesterday, essentially requesting withdrawal of this application. The applicant for the rezoning, who was a potential buyer, has backed out of that contract, and so this rezoning is no longer wished to be pursued. My recommendation would be to take some action to either table this indefinitely or to, you potentially deny the rezoning, whichever you prefer. I'll lean on Mr. Williams to give some advice on that as well. Okay. Well, normally in this situation, you just table it indefinitely, and it automatically dies on December 31st. Okay. Allen? Motion to table this indefinitely. Mark? I second that. We have a motion to second the table indefinitely. Any discussion on that? Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Yes. yes yes yes yes yes yes okay Number two, a resolution to clarify and extend the timeframe to solicit proposals for development of the West Avenue parking lot and to consider parking neutral proposals for sale of smaller parcels on the southern end. Matt? Yes, thank you, Mayor. We did get a portion of the parking study in hand about two weeks ago. However, it did not contain the analysis of future demand that we expected. It only contained an analysis of existing demand. inventory and utilization as I said several times up here and to a lot of you personally I didn't want to ask for a council vote until we had that information in hand and I want to be true to my word and so I will make a motion that we table this item indefinitely at this time okay I'll second that motion any discussion on the table John Mr. Mayor, I understand our council's reluctance to move ahead before we have a full study, but I want us to look at the danger of this also. Seldom can you take an action where you only get advantages and no disadvantages. We want investment in downtown Fayetteville. We want investment in Fayetteville in general. The first to move on this particular proposal hired an architect and came and brought us plans and drawings. I don't know what Mr. Sharpe's billing rate is, but I'm sure it's not free. And from what I saw, he did extensive work. So I'm sure the owner who's made this first proposal has invested substantial sums of money. Now what we're telling that owner is, well, you spend all this money and all these Johnny-come-latelys with all these, quote, better ideas. Now we're going to give them equal footing. or equal opportunity to develop. I think we're discouraging people from taking those risks. I think those risks should be rewarded when they want to spend a million dollars or whatever it is they're spending, or two million or five million, for a third of an acre of the parking lot. That I think is a reasonable request. And I think we should be rewarding those risks that he took. And here by tabling indefinitely, we're saying, You just lost your bet. We'll let you come before us with all these 20 or 30 other people and make proposals, and we'll choose the one we like the best, which, again, could just be a thinly veiled disguise of which developer do we agree with in his political view instead of which building do we like or which architectural drawings we like the best. and that's what I don't like about it that's a danger and I realize we're gonna probably table it indefinitely but I just want to point out that danger and just I wouldn't want to be in that owners position I don't think you would want to either Thank You mr. mayor okay thanks John Don Mayor, just to remind the council that when this item first came before you, it was because we actually had four different developments who had all invested fairly significantly, some even more so than what we actually saw from the Rendell Sharp investment. A different plan, more of the lot. we had multiple people making these types of investments to try to get the council to prioritize to an rfp process where everyone did feel like there was an open and transparent process so just i want to be clear that not only is this developer having to wait there are others that also spent money and then secondly we're waiting just for the rfp process to be open and then bring those recommendations back to you all at the end of the year which was part of the original time period when we first started this discussion I just wanted to clarify, Alderman Latour, I know you haven't been on the council as long as some others, but when something is tabled indefinitely, any time before December 31st, any alderman can bring it back to the agenda. So that doesn't mean that this dies tonight if it's tabled indefinitely. It can be brought back. Mark? To reiterate, we've had several projects that have come before us with a considerable investment up front. And as I said, and I... continue to believe a sound investment in the future is exactly that. Everyone's taking a risk whenever they're looking at a long-term investment development. A good investment in a development project today will also be a good investment in a project tomorrow. We have made a commitment to the people to do a complete and exhaustive study for the parking so that we know exactly what we're looking forward to, and I think that it is the responsible thing to do until we get the numbers to put this on hold. This is not throwing away an investment, but what it has done, it has given people the opportunity to look at the value of the property. It's giving a lot of investors the opportunity to think forward in opportunities that this property has to offer. And I think that it has opened a very healthy dialogue with the merchants, with the investors Individuals that want to see the property used as a gathering place, as a central point for Ward 2, which I represent for activity. The healthy discussion has certainly been a valuable tool as we move forward in looking how to handle this extremely valued property as we move forward. So again, I'm supporting the indefinite tabling of this because we have made an agreement to look at an exhaustive parking study and I'm anxious to see that as part of the value of the future investment of this property. I acknowledge all your points, and some of them are more valid than others. And I agree it's a good discussion, and good discussions are good for all of us. I just want to realize that there's this investment perspective. there may have been four or five at the beginning but the first one i spoke with was mr rendell and mr sharp mr sharp came to see me first that's the only proposal i knew of for several weeks until it was announced here at the city council then a lot of other people came forward and said well i'll do it and blah blah blah i think mr rendell was the first and the danger is still in discouraging someone from being the first and if there were four or five at the beginning maybe there were But all of them would be discouraged to think, I spent $200,000 in architect's fees, now it's open for everybody. And they could lose that investment. As far as a good investment today is a good investment tomorrow, I'd have a hard time convincing stockholders of slide rule manufacturers and buggy whip manufacturers. I don't think those investments are static over time. I think they're dynamic. And good investments today are not necessarily good investments tomorrow. Well, from the administrative perspective, I know that we brought the – resolution forward to begin with because we had three or four i believe jeremy did we not we looked at some plans we looked at actually the first proposal was from hunter haynes second proposal was from rindle and charlton i also met with the dixon tree business owners that had a proposal there was at least three and that's why i brought it to you all again with john i'm just saying okay um but anyway is there any discussion on the tabling end of this Am I good? All right. Do we have a motion in a second? All right, Dawn, you're still on the, are you? Okay, that's okay. All right, son, would you please go over it? Katie? Yes. Dennis? Yes. Sean Mark? Yes. Lucera? No. Wong? Yes. Ray? Yes. Mark? Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, under new business, Number one a resolution to accept a donation in the amount of $30,000 from for the LBR a to construct the David Lobby re music playground at Wilson Park and to approve budget adjustment. Yes Allison a few months ago, mr B re approached Park staff about the possibility of donating a music playground in honor of his son at Wilson Park and These types of features are highly unique and interactive and attract children and people of all ages. They're often made of multiple musical instruments of durable materials that are capable of handling public use. We thought it was a great idea, a good fit for Wilson Park. We're excited to be able to work with him on that. We are currently in the design phase of a playground restoration for Wilson now, so we can easily incorporate that into our project. So we would just like to thank Mr. Bayari. Absolutely. He's not here, he was not able to make it today, but we do want to express our gratitude for him considering Wilson Park as a venue to honor his son. This does include a request to name the music playground David Lyle Bayari Music Playground that was presented at Parks Board, and they approved that in July, and that would also require council's approval. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. Yes, we certainly want to thank Mr. Bayari for his very generous gift. Any questions or comments? All right, any public comment on this? See, now I'll bring it back to the council. Mark. I move that we approve this as a public. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Katie. Yes. Kenneth. Yes. Scott Martin. Yes. Wilshire. Yes. Yes. Yes. Greg. Mark. Yes. Kenneth. Yes. Yes. Okay, number two a resolution to prove an agreement with the Rotary Club of Federal regarding the funding for them and the naming of the Rotary Club of Federal playground at Kessler Mountain Regional Park To approve a budget adjustment recognizing the donation from the Rotary Club of Federal and its members in the amount of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars for the project contingent upon receipt of the funds and to express the City Council's intent to provide matching funds to in an amount of $120,000 toward the playground project contingent on approval of the 2017 budget. Allison. Thank you. As many of you know, the Rotary Club has been working very hard to raise funds for the playground at the regional park. Tonight we're bringing forward an agreement for you all's approval. The agreement includes several items, the first of which has already been accomplished. The Rotary Club has raised $100,000 for the playground, has already presented a check to the city for that, and we're very excited that they have been able to do that already. The agreement also includes commitment from the Rotary Club to raise an additional $50,000 by the end of the year. As the Mayor read, the City intends to match that with $120,000 pending Council's approval of the 2017 budget. Both parties agree to cooperate in identifying and applying for grant funding to go towards a playground, and the city has done that. We have applied for a Blue and You Foundation grant through Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield, and we hope to hear back on that at the end of the year sometime by December 31st. It also includes naming the playground the Rotary Club of Fayetteville Playground. Lastly, the City will work with the Rotary Club to design and install a plaque or donor recognition wall to recognize their members and other contributions to the playground. That will be subject to the Council's approval. Again, we're very excited about this That the Rotary Club has chosen this project to make an impact in the community and we do have mr Pittman here from the Rotary Club if that's okay. He would like to say a few words or at the appropriate time I'm Harrison Pittman. I'm president of the Rotary Club this rotary year and I I haven't got to look behind me as I'm standing up. If you're with the Rotary Club, please stand up real quick. As Allison indicated, this is a huge project for us. I have to tell you, when we presented the $100,000 check, you guys may not know this, but we made the mayor cry. He broke down. Just a little. Just a little. I know he has a heart. I know you'll have trouble believing that. But it was an honor for all of us. And for our club, we are the largest civic organization in the city. We're the largest civic organization in northwest Arkansas. We're the second largest Rotary Club in Arkansas and the second largest Rotary Club in our district, which covers several states, and we're one of the 100 largest clubs in the world. Despite that size of a club, this is a huge undertaking for us. And it's something that we've put our heart into and we're really proud to be a part of it. I know I promised to be brief. Let me make sure I didn't leave anything out. This is an outgrowth of our ongoing partnership with the city. As you guys know, we do an annual charity softball tournament for girls. This upcoming year will be the 17th year. And that was a piece of the fundraising so far and something we're looking forward to in investing in the city and making Fayetteville an even better place to live. Absolutely. And so we appreciate the mayor and his staff and everybody we've worked with and look forward to working with everybody. If there's any questions, I'm glad to answer that and would appreciate a friendly vote in favor of the playground and look forward to finishing this this year. Thank you, Harrison. Thank you. Very much. Very much. Mr. Mayor, as Harrison sits down, I'd like to take a moment of personal privilege. I want to thank not only Harrison for his hard work on this, but our previous president who just left office, Ray Boudreaux, a longtime city employee who was present when we began this project. I've got to honestly tell you, I was a little bit skeptical when I heard $150,000. But because we do have a large club, but that's about $1,000 a member, which is pretty tough. And so I want to really thank Harrison and his team that have worked very hard on this, Jimmy Beach, and I see out there many others that have worked very hard in raising these funds. And it makes me glad not only to be a member of the government of Fayetteville, but also of the Rotary Club of Fayetteville. Absolutely. Okay. Okay. adela yeah we accepted resolution mark i second that we have a motion to second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council mark no okay all right thank you all again very much you've been great to work with all right sandra would you please call the row yes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. All right, number three. Let's give them one more round of applause, please. Thank you. All right, number three. An ordinance to approve Vacation 16-5494 submitted by Kraft and Tull Engineers Incorporated for property located at 3641 West Weddington Drive to vacate a portion of a utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition. Any costs associated with the relocation of or damage to utilities and the new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Chairman. Mayor and Council, this is a request to vacate utility easement located on the Ozarks Electric Cooperative property on West Weddington Drive. This is part of an expansion project that is currently underway. Planning Commission reviewed this application as is staff. We all recommend approval with a vote of 9-0. Thank you. Okay, any questions from the council? Okay, any public comment on this? So you want to bring it back to the council? And so, yes, Alan. I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Justin? I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Are they not seeing their front screen? It just popped up like right that second. That's why I didn't go. His isn't popped up at all. Teddy? Yes. Yes. yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance approved the AC 16-54 94 submitted by craft and tall engineers incorporated for property located at 3641 West Weddington Drive to vacate a portion of a utility easement alan motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading sarah second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading sondra would you please call the roll i'm having the white for it's okay it's all right we're good yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes ordinance approved vac 16-54 94 submitted by Kraft and Toll engineers incorporated for property located at 3641 West Weddington Drive to vacate a portion of a utility easement do we have any final comments from the council on this okay shall the ordinance pass yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to authorize the City Council to grant a variance in the single-family infill standards to support attainable, affordable housing. Kit. Whereas the City Council has long supported an increase in the amount of affordable and attainable housing available to favorable workers and their families... And whereas City Plan 2025, adopted by the City Council, expressed, quote, housing concerns, unquote, because housing costs were increasing faster than incomes, quote, which significantly impact the ability of homeownership for many potential home buyers, unquote. And whereas City Plan 2030, unanimously adopted by the City Council in July of 2011, expressed the identical housing concerns of housing affordability as City Plan 2025. We're at City Council placed within city plan 2030 a new general guiding principle goal six we will create opportunities for attainable housing and to emphasize how important attainable and affordable housing is to our citizens and city. And whereas a provision concerning garage placement within the newly adopted single-family infill standards can in some circumstances significantly and unnecessarily raise the cost of home construction and impair the affordability and attainability of housing, And whereas the City Council should be able to consider and grant a reasonable variance to such provision which would preserve the legitimate aesthetic concerns but allow home builders to offer attainable houses to our citizens. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw, Section 1. at the city council the city of fable arcs i hereby amend section 164.23 single family infill standards b1b by adding the following at the end of this subsection quote the city council may grant a variance to this requirement to ensure affordable and attainable housing can be constructed for our citizens mayor i sit with the planning commission and when the third developer was surprised by these standards and had problems meeting them and had invested a considerable amount of money into developing house designs that would not meet these standards i thought it was probably time that that i informed an alderman of the problems that i had seen now in two of those cases The Planning Commission did grant some variances, even though the Planning Department had recommended denial, but they were granted partially in one and fully in the other. uh in one uh roush coleman was building the fourth uh i think phase of their code and even though they could make some of their houses comply according to jesse fulcher who was their representative at the second meeting there 21 lots he said could not work and so the planning commission then granted a variance to them But the variance procedure in the Planning Commission is very difficult. So I knew that the City Council has made a commitment by saying we will create opportunities for attainable housing right there on our goals, number six. and i thought that you are in a unique position as a city council you are the policy makers of the town you're the one that does the city plan and tries to enforce that the normal variance procedure that the planning commission looks at is much more difficult they have to find its unique situation to this property that it's undue hardship and it's something that will not stop the intent of the regulation. So they really are much more restricted in what they can and cannot do. And so finally when I was having a meeting with Andrew Garner and Chris Brown and Mark Marks over their new subdivision on a different subject, not even on this subject, at the end of the meeting, Andrew informed Mark Marks that This ordinance had been passed, and that was the first time that Mark had heard about it, and of course he said that, well, he had already done an extensive design operation and advertising operation with house designs, none of them which would fit in this particular proposal. And that's when I went and talked to Alderman Schottmeyer and said that we might have a problem here that we might want to look at, and Mark decided to... go ahead and sponsor this, which is a variance procedure, a very simple one. It would be something that would be handled right here in this body. Because you all are the ones that decide these basic policy issues about affordability. The Planning Commission decides variances really on a more case-by-case basis of like one house at a time or one thing at a time. And I think you really are better set up in this body to take the broader picture and look at the affordability that we're trying to sponsor for our citizens. And so that's why I drafted it in such a way, and Marty agreed that it would be coming back to this body if there was an issue like that. So that's what's before you. And I don't know, Marty, if you want to add anything onto this. But that's my position. Thank you, Judge Kitt. OK.
 John. Well, this is a question for Mr. Williams. Kitt, educate me. Because we state in our goals that we want to build affordable housing, Does that adversely affect someone's ability to build half million dollar houses or million dollar houses or like real big nice houses? Well, absolutely not. I mean, what I think that goal states is that we hope that there will be houses built on all ends of the spectrum so that people that can't afford a half-million-dollar house can, in fact, afford a house and become a homeowner in Fayetteville. And we have, obviously, the developers that... were surprised by this build houses that are less expensive normally than a half million dollar house, but they're still quality houses. I know that Riverwood builds houses with granite countertops and things like that, brick houses, so they're not crummy houses at all, but they're not half-million-dollar houses. And I think it's good for our government to encourage that sort of affordable, attainable housing to be available for citizens for starter houses or maybe even for a final house. Well, I agree that there should be a variety of housing to accommodate all economic levels of those people seeking housing in our city. We want affordable housing at the lower end. We want expensive housing. We want mid-range housing. We want all types of housing. That's what I would advocate is variety in the marketplace so that whatever your economic status you can find a place to live and have a degree of equity in that property. I think our city is always strong when we have people who own things instead of people who rent things, although we do have a lot of rentals. To rent it to your own is just really an economic decision in my mind. We study that in accounting. Sometimes you lease an asset, it's just another form of financing for that asset. But I like the idea of variety in the marketplace. So this, what we're voting on tonight, is... amendment to some ordinance that was passed earlier yes you passed an ordinance for single-family home design standards and one of the provisions in that said that the garage must be recessed behind the front of the house by five feet if you look around what has happened in favor the last 40 years you that kind of design very often. Usually the garage is slightly in front of the facade of the house, and that's the way the designs had been made by Mr. Marks. Now, I'm going to ask him to come up here, if that's okay, Mayor, in just a second. His designs do enclose not only just affordable houses, but he has different sized lots and he has different size and more expensive or less expensive houses within the same neighborhood, which is also something that I think that the City Council has wanted, a mixture of houses in the neighborhood so that there is what you say, one for more expensive houses and then less expensive houses. But that's what he had decided to do. That's part of what our plans were and what we encouraged, what the planning department encourages, a mixture of sizes of the houses within a neighborhood so you don't just have one size. And so that's what he was doing. Unfortunately, every one of his designs had the garage slightly in front of the front of the house and therefore would not qualify him. did you say you wanted to bring the developer if he wants to come up and address about what his design was and and what happened that'd be fine okay with that we'll get there by here you want to come up mark i'm going to give everybody a handout just give it to the clerk and we'll pass it around okay i'm mark marquis i'm the owner of riverwood homes i've lived and developed in fayetteville since probably 1988 i believe it is And I just really want to thank you first, Mr. Mayor and Council, for listening to our saga here. We know that Fayetteville is a very good town to build affordable housing. You just recently passed an ordinance that allowed us to have the eaves and some of the fireplaces on the smaller lots not count towards the setbacks, which was very good when we were trying to build on smaller homes. The subdivision that's in question is a new subdivision that we just started called Sloanbrook. And along with that, we have the new rezoning that's neighborhood conservation that was passed. And that allowed us to really bring a broad mix of things to the subdivision. This is a master plan community that is going from Brolls Road all the way to Ruppel and the new extension that's just now getting ready to open up in the next few months. When it's all developed, we expect it to be 500 to 600 homes. So it's a rather large subdivision, but it's one of the first and unique subdivisions that Fayetteville's ever had where we're going to do a full blended mixture of affordable, middle-priced, and upper-end homes. As you look at the handout that I've given you, we wanted to specifically talk only on the – Item B of ordinance one. I'll have to use my glasses now 164 point two three and it's item B one B and that specifically talks about the five foot setback of a garage in a home now a In this subdivision, we have lots that are 60 feet, lots that are 70 feet, and lots that are over 80 feet long. As you'll look at this first phase, it's 97 lots, of which 55 are affordable, about 30 are middle-priced, and 12 are going to be what we call estate homes going for over $300,000. So we're blending a whole community together with homes that will start in the 150s for the affordables, Homes that will start in the 200s for the middle priced and 300s to blend in the nicer bigger homes And what we've seen in that we've done that successfully with mixing Crystal Springs and cobblestone together We have first second and third generation families living in that whole circumference we've got starter homes or retirement homes we've got families and then we've got larger homes and But what's so important to this is that when you're blending a subdivision together like this, you want it to be compatible with everything. You want the transition to just drive through and really not even know you've left one side of the subdivision going into the other. Now, naturally, they're going to be a little larger on the estate side. But when we met with Kit and the staff about three weeks ago, we were really shocked at that ordinance, and we did not know anything about it. Now, that's our ignorance, I agree. But we have meetings monthly with developers, builders, and even some of the city staff, and this is the first time we'd heard about it. Our designs... were all built off successful homes in Cobblestone and Crystal Springs. And in this brochure, you'll see that I've taken some pictures at the back, which show some of the homes that were built in Cobblestone. And you'll notice that they have brick, they have stone. A lot of them have front porches all the way across. Some of them don't. But some of these homes started at $139,000 and others went over $200,000. At the very back of the brochure, you'll see where we've got color renderings now, where we're designing everything to come together with this subdivision. And again, trying to keep it where everything goes together, both brick and stone to architectural design. We'd heard a lot of comments on the possibility of looking at it and worried about concern of crime. When you look at our affordable subdivisions, Cobblestone, Holcomb Heights, even Fiesta Park, I think that the city's very familiar with most of those. They're not a crime-ridden area at all. Secondly, our garages all have door openers, and most of the people are pulling into their garage when they pull into their house anyway. But we've had a lot of experience over this 26, 27 years in Fayetteville building. We've built over 1,000 homes in Fayetteville, most of them under $175,000. I was looking at some new buildings. things coming on in Fayetteville. And about three months ago, we were ranked number three in the best affordable places to live in America. And they redacted that. And about a month ago, we were ranked number one by U.S. News as the best places to live. And that's by cities. That's quite a statement. So we turned around and looked at that. And the medium home price in Fayetteville for used and new blended is $177,000. When I looked at that with the average salary of $42,000, that's going to put them in at 3.5% interest today, around $1,000 a month for their principal and interest payments. Our homes start in the 150s, and with that, their payments are going to start around $700 in today's interest rate. So I think we embrace the attainable and affordable vision that Fayetteville has. I don't think anybody has to be embarrassed by what we build. And again, it wasn't saying we don't like what's going on with this. It was just a really hardship to turn around. All of our plans are very open inside. So to turn around and start trying to go back from day one revamping this, we just started having complications with how we design these homes. And so that's what we're asking for, is this ordinance to turn around. Even though these are 60-foot lots, if we have one 67-foot and go right beside it with a 70-foot lot that starts at 1,750 square foot, this doesn't encompass anything Over 70 foot wide and I think it's almost an you know economic hardship number one to discriminate against the smaller homes They're not You know out of they're just not designed to where they look out of place so I really would appreciate your all's consideration on this and This subdivision is phase one. As we go through it, we'll let market dictate it, but we're hopeful that with 17-acre park going through it, the city's trail system wants to put their bike trails through it, and it's going to have lakes and waterways all the way through it. You know, this will be the litmus test to how well we do blending a community together where we're mixing affordable, middle price, and high end together. So I just ask that you all consider this today and I'm open for any questions you may have. I have any questions. I have a question. Yes, Mark. Kit, I believe what we're talking about today is a variance ordinance, not a design standard for a specific development. This is a remarkable presentation. But I'm trying to get back to what we're doing with the change in the ordinance that was brought forward, back when it was brought forward, to offer a front porch type infill development that was more urban, less suburban. And then now we're looking at a variance for single family infill standards, but not a specific development. Am I correct? Yeah, you're just looking at how actual developments will occur. The design standard that was approved, its purpose was to stop crime. That was actually written in by the planning department that it was supposed to help deter crime. And it didn't have a lot of design standards. Its primary design standard was requiring that instead of having the garage either flush with the house or in front of the house by four or five feet, which has been the normal case in Fayetteville for the last three or four decades, that now is going to be required to be recessed from the house. And that was the problem that Mr. Marks had, is that none of his designs were like that. And so any lot that was not at least 70 feet, his designs, and I think you had some that were already pre-sold, In that presentation you'll see we've already got over 20, I think, that are, and we haven't even started the marketing, that show that people have already taken these lots to hold if they could. And so that's what we're talking about really is the recessed garage. That is the only design standard that is of issue here. This is the first time, except for cottage housing, that the city council has ever adopted any design standards for a single-family home. Normally we have, in the past, city councils have kind of thought a person's house is their castle and they get to design their own castle. But at this point, the only real design standard that's of issue here is the recessed garage because that can, in fact, cause some affordability problems, I think. My question is the ordinance that we're looking to revise and to pass has to do with granting variances yes it would write a variance in the exhibit d which was passed before this was what the section is that would be revised it's under the applicability and it says for lots 46 feet to 69 feet of street frontage subsection b says garage openings that are on the same side of the house as the front door shall be recessed at least five feet behind the principal facade This would simply add one sentence to that that says that the city council may grant a variance to this requirement, the only requirement in that subsection, which is a recessed garage, to ensure affordable and attainable housing can be constructed for our city. So I guess my point is that's what we should be looking at our discussion rather than making it cloudy with points that may not be pertinent to what we're doing And while I have the floor, I certainly will go ahead and move forward with the motion. I think it should be considered, and I think it's valid, but I do think that our argument needs to be based on what we're discussing. Are you making a motion? I'm making the motion to consider it as published, but I do want to be sure that we are discussing what we're what is in this motion specifically as we move forward because it's getting real clouded with the suburban development or infill or urban development or because that's not what we're looking at what we're looking at with this is a very nice addition to authorize the city council to grant a variance for single family infill but it has nothing to do with a lot of what this broader discussion that we're bringing forward And we need to be sure that there's no implication in the long run or any maybe false promises or false understanding with a clouded discussion when we're talking specifically about an ordinance to authorize the city council to grant a variance, which is a nice thing, and a single-family infield standards to support attainable and affordable housing. So that's my point, and I'm moving – that we do consider this motion and move forward. Are you saying you want to suspend the rules or just you want to consider... I want to consider the motion as published and move forward. Okay. That way we can have a discussion on the motion. We need a discussion on the motion on the floor. And your motion was to consider it as published? That's right. That's the first time I've heard that at a city council meeting. I'm just trying to be sure that we stay on track with what we're... Discussing. Unless I'm missing this, I thought the discussion was about whether the Planning Commission authorizes the variance or the City Council. Or the City Council, that's right. Am I wrong? Certainly, City Council can discuss anything they want to in relation to this. I'm just trying to read what we have in front of us. So your protocol in this scenario would be you have an ordinance on the floor, the ordinance that's been through its first reading, so you can have your debate, take public comment, and then you would advance to your second and third readings if you want to continue it. We don't need necessarily a motion to consider because you're already considering it on this first reading. That's all I'm saying. I guess I should ask if anybody else has any more questions for Mr. Marcus so that you can sit down if you don't. Yes, I think that would be appropriate. Do we have any more questions for Mr. Marcus? Okay, thank you. Thank you. All right. Okay. So, Mark, your motion is to continue with what we had before, the published version. That is correct. All right. Do we have a second? We don't need to have a – we can just continue. We don't need to have a motion. So anybody else might want to discuss the ordinance. So we really don't have a motion. All right. Well, let's continue on then. I believe, Matthew, you're up next. Thank you, Mayor. First, I want to say, you know, I have a deep, deep appreciation for what – the developer presented to us in terms of trying to mix incomes together in housing I know that that's not something that a lot of production Builders have done in the past and so I want to personally thank you for for trying to do that and for seeing if it'll work for you I think there's a lot of evidence to show that that's important for a city so I'm really encouraging ways trying to do And I also wanted to thank you for your kind words about the setback ordinance. I wrote that ordinance. I'm glad that that's actually helping people today. And I say that because I am very much committed to encouraging or at least removing the barriers for smaller infill projects to happen. We have a lot of barriers to that today that we don't really even realize are barriers. And so I'll continue to do that. But with regards to this, you know, I don't think this is the right approach. I think it's trying to do a good thing, but I think it's approaching it in the wrong way. And I want to be clear that I... I have some criticisms myself about the infill standards. I really don't think that they're beyond criticism, and I think that this is probably one of the valid criticisms. But I think the approach that we're taking here is wrong and you know here's, you know, when we look at our variance process in general if there's a variance from the zoning regulations you go to the Board of Adjustments. If it's a variance from another part of the Unified Development Code, in general, you go to the Planning Commission. Maybe there are a couple other variances I'm missing that you come straight to the City Council, but I can't recall ever seeing one in my almost eight years up here. And so what we're talking about is adding, you know, one leg is the Board of Adjustments and one leg is the Planning Commission, a third leg just for this infill standard to come to the City Council. And I don't think that's the right approach. Now, I understand that the way our variance ordinance is currently written, that the Planning Commission has a very limited set of considerations that they can discuss, primarily being hardships, whether those hardships are born out of the partial configuration or some extenuating circumstances or even economic hardship. What I would much rather see, is an opening up of the considerations that the Planning Commission can discuss. I think that the Planning Commission should be able to consider things broadly based on the merit of the proposal, and I think that we should trust the people we appoint to the Planning Commission to go through – what is probably one of the more intense vetting processes of all the Commission's and boards that we have I think we should trust them to use their judgment whenever we give them the ability to consider things broadly whether that's on the merits of design or you know the the claims of affordability or even the economic impact that something might have I think we should trust their judgment on that and I would support amendment to the variance code that we have today that allows them to consider exactly this for exactly the reasons we've heard tonight and if uh applicant disagreed with their determination to do the exact same thing they're allowed to do now when they disagree with the variant with the variance decision of the planning commission which is to appeal it to the city council i think that's a process we already have in place and changing that code and allowing them to consider more things is the simplest way to do this that catches this issue and all the other issues that we might have uh in the future um yeah You know, there was, I think also they're allowed to consider things at scale so it doesn't have to be one house at a time. Planning commission reviews preliminary plats, concurrent plats, all the plats out there except for basically lot splits of four parcels or less. So I think they can consider these things at virtually any scale that a developer might bring it forward. So I would ask you to consider that process as being more general than what we've got here tonight and more appropriate and more in parity with what we already do. Okay. So you're making a motion? I'm not making a motion. I have to vote against this. I prefer to table it and work something out. Oh, I thought you were going to present an amendment. No, I have nothing worked up. Oh, okay. Okay. All right. um sarah um i actually agree with a lot of alderman petty's comments about the need to empower the planning commission to take a broader more holistic view of the projects before them but it seems like the primary issue here was with the projects that were caught in transition that started just the before this ordinance was passed and that are now trying to move forward. And it seems like our planning division is going to do a lot of work in terms of making our codes more legible and helping to educate the developer community. So I don't think that this is a problem that is going to be ongoing as far as ignorance of the law. But I do want to mention or point out that in addition to creating opportunities for attainable housing, our 2030 city plan goals also states that we will make traditional town form standard. And traditional town form is not garages in front of houses. We call them snout houses in the architecture world. And they do degrade the quality and value of neighborhoods. There are a lot of studies that show this. You know, if we want to get serious about affordable housing, there are many alternatives, such as parking on the street or using a carport, you know, or maybe reducing our residential parking requirements. housing affordability is truly our goal there are many other avenues to approach that while still adhering to our goal of making traditional town form standard so while I do think that that these developers caught in transition you know do I understand their difficulty in navigating this but it appears that the Planning Commission was able to deal with this and we were they were able to demonstrate a hardship it seems that the variance has been granted so it seems like we're solving this problem So that's all the comments I have. JOHN GUTTAG- OK. John? JOHN GUTTAG- Sometimes a pause for effect gives reason to think. I'm surprised, I'm a little bit shocked that we would purport as a city government to tell a person your garage has to be five feet behind or five feet in front. Why isn't the garage placement left to the builder and the homeowner? What's happened to personal freedom? to personal choice. You mean to tell me if I were to go out and build a house, you would dictate to me where my garage has to be? I mean, I don't think we should be having this discussion even. I'll be supporting anything that lessens the impact of this so-called design standard. I want to lead people free to choose for themselves. I don't see that moving the garage five feet forward or five feet back is going to greatly affect crime rates in our city. I mean, with all due deference to whatever study we'd like to cite, I'll go back to the original study in this country of the U.S. Constitution, what we fought for in 1776. It's freedom from tyranny, just gross control over our lives. That's got to weigh in here. Let's leave people free to choose for themselves. And I'll support any measure that removes the impact of the design standards, so I'll probably be voting for this variance, really. Thank you. Mark. In an effort to better explain what I was saying earlier, I want to take a barrier also away from the developer by having them go to planning and also to, City Council for the variance and I want to empower our professionals in the planning division and our appointed members of the planning commission to have the authority to do this. And as such, perhaps I'm going to suggest that this be sent to ordinance review for further study so that we can see if there is a way to streamline this. and make these types of decisions that we're going to be seeing more and more. We're going to be faced with this more and more as we're developing the areas of town that have been opened up for development. It should be easier for the developer, but at the same time it should protect the standards that we've set in our 2030 plan This ordinance specifically, as I mentioned, is talking about granting a variance and taking it to city council. I don't think city council needs to be involved in every single one of these. I think that we need to somehow empower our planning division and our... to streamline our ordinances in order to make it easier for the development of this type of activity. So I would move that we send this to ordinance review for further discussion because every point that was made this evening was valid and real coming from a development background I know the important that importance that it is to the developer we have some real issues and trying to force design standards for say our infill downtown into lot sizes as they're being developed in the suburbs. So I think that this perhaps needs further discussion with professional staff input so that we can stay on track. So you're making a motion to send it to Ordinance Review. Yes, I am. Thank you. Now, I have a question here because I've got Alan next to speak, but Mark has made a motion. Well, I think probably there ought to be full discussion before it's cut off and referred to another committee. Okay. Certainly, this City Council can ask Ordinance Review if they want to accept this and if the Ordinance Review Committee does want to accept this, then they certainly can have a hearing. But I would think that we would allow all the aldermen to at least talk what they think before it is cut off and goes to a different committee. Well, I don't think I would cut it off. Okay. Anyway, I don't think we— If we have a motion, we would continue on. Whatever you want to do on that. I mean, you don't actually have to have a motion in the Senate Ordinance Review Committee. It's really up to the Ordinance Review Committee chairman to accept some ordinance if they want to review it. Well, let's hear some more, folks, and then you can think about it. All right. All right. Al. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You're welcome. I've been just listening tonight. Alderman Latour, you made some good points. Matthew, you made excellent points, and so did Sarah and Mark. My question, I guess, I have a question for Marty, if that's all right, since you sponsored this. One of the things I see when I'm reading this ordinance or change to an ordinance is that we may not have fairly applied metrics, and we talked about that at Planning Commission. And that's something that's very important is that we apply the laws that we write across everyone the same. And also standardized variance procedures, several people have talked about that tonight. i think the idea of having this go to the planning commission before the city council would be consistent with what the rest of our laws do so i would be supportive of sending this to the ordinance review committee or allowing them a chance to rework some of it because i really do like the spirit of your ordinance i don't want to vote against it but i would like it to be changed If there was a motion to send it to ordinance review, I would second that. The city attorney says we don't need a motion, so it would be up to the chair of the ordinance review committee if they want to look at it, I suppose. Now, let's see. Mark, I believe we have you up next. No, I don't. All right, Justin. I may or may not agree with it actually needing to go to ordinance review, but with three of – I saw three – I had nods anyway that they would be supportive of going to Ornish Review, so I certainly am not opposed to it. And I can see both sides of it, frankly, so I'll err on the side of more conversation. So, yeah. I'm certainly good with that. I can work with Sandra on a time frame and a schedule for the room. Do we have a goal in mind to bring this back to the next meeting or the meeting after that? That would help me in trying to figure out when to plan your interview. Are we in a hurry? Well, it's certainly only on the first reading, so it would just be on the second reading of the next meeting. All right. my opinion we should hold it here and then give me a couple of days to work with Sandra and the other members of the committee to come up with a time and then it'll be published and we can have a conversation with city input and input from anyone here I'm good let's see we have Sarah I would like to request that we get an opinion from the Planning Commission and our planning staff since they are the the ones most educated in these issues and are running up against them. I would like to know what they recommend as far as what is the best course of action in order to support our goal of creating attainable housing and if this is their recommended compliance route or not. Okay. Okay. do you want me to ask jeremy now or do you want to wait till the ordinance review or um i i don't know that he i mean he's welcome to answer it now but i think that that's something that staff should look at and issue a written recommendation uh to consider go ahead and just i'm sorry i have uh no i understand i have adela next um mayor i just wanted to clarify now we are not holding up this developer. He can move on because they have taken action. Is that true? Well, you better ask him. Okay. Mark, would you come back up? Yes, we are. We are going to final plat hopefully this month. The streets are finishing paving today and tomorrow. And I guess the biggest thing that I would challenge everybody to is, This is discretionary for the purpose of affordable housing only. This doesn't turn around and say that the person with the 70-foot lot has to move their house back five feet. It doesn't say that the person with the 80-foot lot in that same subdivision has to move their house back five feet. You know, the great thing about Fayetteville is its diversity. We don't turn around and dictate that everybody has to live in a brick home. We don't dictate that everybody has to live in a craftsman home. We don't dictate any standards of size and design like that. If we're going to impose this five foot, and that's all we're talking about on this ordinance, is 1B. Maybe it should be struck and given further discussion. But how can you turn around and take away the rights of one group but leave it for everybody else? How can you turn around and say that's okay for that $200,000 or that $300,000 or that half-million-dollar home to design it however they want as long as it complies within the covenants of that development and subdivision? What we're doing tonight is we're trying to design covenants specifically for one group of people. That's wrong. We build homes over a million dollars. We built over 100 homes in Fayetteville alone last year, not counting Benton and all the other cities collectively. But our home is here. We live here. Our kids go to school here and college here. We want people to stay here. You know, I haven't spoke up here in many years. But when we turn around and we're carving out a section of people that we're saying, this is how you have to live and this is how you have to build, that's wrong. Now, maybe there needs to be some conversation on if this is what the city of Fayetteville wants to do with all their design standards. Okay, let's make it all for one. But as strong as we are on our diversity, I think it also applies to our affordability and those buyers' ability to turn around and say, Mark, we want one with a front porch, or Mark, we want one that's designed just the way it is today. And by the way, these have been the most successful selling homes in northwest Arkansas for the last five years per project. I don't know that it's my – well, I guess it is my decision if I'm putting the money up to decide how I want to build those homes, and the market's going to dictate whether they sell. But we're breaking classes up, and I don't think that's correct. If – You want to challenge everybody to build under this type of design standard? Okay, let's make everybody. But why should the affordable have to be the one that we're pulling out and holding hostage? I'm not going to get into the sheer economics of dollar per dollar and nail per nail on what it costs, but it does cost more to do that on an affordable home. When you move that back and you put a front porch up, and I have no problem with that design. I like it. But at the end of the day, we're challenged with what they can afford. We're looking at some affordable housing complexes out here right now that are going to be subsidized. That's great. These aren't subsidized. This is free enterprise. And if a person can afford it, if you're not going to impose that on the same person that can afford the $500,000 house, I absolutely don't think that this council, this planning commission, or this city should dictate one class of people how they're going to design their homes. And with that said, we do hope that we'll get final approval on this plat to start building homes in the next 30 to 45 days. And so time is of the essence here, especially for some of the people that are planning on moving in, hopefully by December and January. So, Mr. Marks, you did not get a variance from the Planning Commission? No, we did not. We just found out about this and came to it. I mean, my suggestion, Mr. Mayor, is why don't we just consider CPS? striking one B out of that. We're not striking the ordinance. We're just taking that one thing that is specifically aimed at affordable housing out and giving it time to vet and see if this is what everybody wants to do across the board instead of singling out one group. It's wrong. We know it's wrong. It's came to the up the last three new subdivisions just recently. And it's only that one item. I'm not saying take and cut the whole ordinance out. Just take 1B out and consider taking that one paragraph out for right now. I think what he's also saying is that he would like to have the ordinance review committee meet within the next two weeks because his final plat is getting closer to being finished, and he's got some houses already sold, and he wants to start working on them, so he doesn't want it delayed too long, I think. So I really misunderstood because I thought you had said that they had the variance and they could move on. No, two of the developers had gone through the variance procedure. Buffington Homes, which were building French cottage styles, about $300,000 houses, very pretty houses. They were two-thirds of the way through their development when they were informed that they wouldn't get any more building permits because their garage was about where the entrance was. I don't think it was really in front of the entrance, but it was not five feet back from the entrance. And so they did go to the Planning Commission. The Planning Department recommended denial, but they went to the Planning Commission, and the entire neighborhood, everybody that already bought a house there, two-thirds of them, came out and said, please let us finish this beautiful-style house. Please don't stop us. And the developer showed up and said, you know, it would be a substantial delay. Some people had already sold their house because they were having another house built in the subdivision, and they were paying rent while the house was going to be built, and now it couldn't be built. And so the Planning Commission granted that variance. And then the second one was Ross Coleman. They came in, also said they had not heard about it, even though Jesse Fulcher was working for them, and he's the one that sponsored this particular ordinance. Took them by surprise, I think, and eventually the Planning Commission granted them 21 variances out of about 50 houses because Jesse informed them that they could not meet the ordinance. They just could not meet it, and so the Planning Commission granted 21 variances. And it wasn't until a couple weeks ago or a week ago when I was meeting with Andrew Garner and and Mr. Marks, that he also was surprised. He has not been to the Planning Commission, but he was just informed then that he will not be able to develop his subdivision as he had planned and as his priest sold one. So he has not been to the Planning Commission yet. I'm concerned about always going to the Planning Commission under the various procedures for this because it is such a difficult thing. One of the things that the Planning Commission normally would have to consider is, is that this situation is unique to a subject property. Well, here we have a plat that has been approved and is probably going to be finaled pretty soon with a bunch of lots on it, but it's really out on fairly flat land. Is that so unique that nothing can be done? So the standard that Mr. Marks would have to establish might not meet the variance test. so that's why i thought a different variance that would only consider the affordability and attainability of the housing would be something that would be justified in this particular case but this is stuff i think we ought to do at the ordinance review committee if possible and and and go forward and and i'd like to just say one more thing as you see in that that design we're going to have three four five more phases coming through this uh development We're just trying to start this first one that we've spent so much money and invested in this town and never face this issue ever We're not Trying to ask for anything else if you decide that this is what you want to go with in the future Then we'll look at it in future designs. We had this 97 lot subdivision approved without these ordinances in it or we may have needed to change to the 70 foot Lots and Okay, so you did not we went through all that and you did not get a variance. No, okay Thank you, and so we will be slowing your your process down. Absolutely. These are ready to go. Hopefully within 30 days In the next few days Yeah, I mean, the only thing I was going to say was echoing a little bit of what Oliver Marsh said, that I definitely want city staff input. And so I will work with them as well to give them enough time to make sure that they can do that. The last two ordinance reviews, we've had city staff input, and it's been extremely valuable. So I'll work. Both sides of that. And we'll get something planned as soon as possible, I assure you. Because as an ordinance, it could go two more readings anyway. Anyway. Anyway, but we're probably not going to get that far. Keeping in mind that I understood that he doesn't have a variance. Yes. Okay. So we'll have that goal in mind. All right. Not to delay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alan. Well, I just wanted to thank you, Mr. Marcus, for bringing that to the council's attention. I think that developer input is very important, and I appreciate it. Okay. Well, shall we take some public input? Is there any public input on this? Please. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I live at 3001 West Weddington, and I agree wholeheartedly with Mr. Latour's comments. The developers that come into this town... and invest their time and their energy and their designs have but one goal in mind, to provide housing for people who might be willing to move to this area. And discouraging them from that effort is absolutely the wrong way to go. Thank you. You're very welcome. I believe that's why we're going to ordinance review. Yes, Chung, come up. Good evening, Council. My name is Chung Tan. I work for the Fayetteville Chamber. I am here today to support Mark's effort to continue to build in Fayetteville. And like he said, Riverwood is a Fayetteville-based company. They have been building for the past 25 years, and Mark's personal... philosophy has always been trying to build affordable and attainable housing so that more Fayetteville residents can own their own homes. So from the perspective of economic development, this is helping economic development in Fayetteville for several reasons. Number one is that if y'all have attended Kathy Dagg's Skyline Report today at luncheon time, the... rental vacancy rate is really low in Fayetteville, so that's not enough even if you want to rent. And like what Kit has spoken in the memo saying that in terms of our annual salary rising, it's not compatible to the price of the house for sale. So here we have Riverwood, a private developer investing and taking a bet in Fayetteville, creating designs that he hopes that will sell, and hoping that he could help a few hundred families in Fayetteville to own affordable housing. So we want to thank him for that kind of commitment. The city too, you're having a great partner and really understand, very progressive to understand that attainable and affordable housing is actually a workforce problem. Because without affordable housing for our workforce, they may have to go elsewhere. And so that impacts our employers as well. So that is important for us. And thank you. And then it helps individuals and families who own this housing. There is a capital gain thing going on too, because if you pay rent, it is the landlord that kind of have equity on the property. But if you are a homeowner, you know, you hope that 25 years later, your home price may double. So we are in fact helping to create wealth for our economically challenged families. It also spur economic development because Mark plans 500 homes in this area. And you are aware with rooftops, it will spur community services type of businesses. So again, it is helping us with economic development in Fayetteville. Last but not least, as strictly pertaining to this ordinance, what happens is that if it goes unchanged, it will actually increase the cost of development, the cost of constructing the homes by setting the setback further inside homes. the lot and so because of that then the prices of those houses actually have to go up and then when that happens, so the consequence is that it may price the houses out of the hands of the families who are thinking that they could buy. So right now at $170,000, maybe the families can afford it, but if this ordinance goes unchanged, then the price of construction and everything can go up to more than that, and then some other families may not be able to buy them. So for those reasons, we hope that you all would give some very strong, positive considerations to what is before you all. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. I assume this is going to go ordinarily. Mr. Marks, I'd like to ask you a question. Please. Oh, I'm sorry. Alan, you had the floor. Well, I was just going to say in an effort to... keep this moving forward like we should and Show the developer that we do want to give him an up-or-down vote I would like to go ahead and make a motion to move this to the second reading so that at the next City Council meeting It can be considered based on the recommendation of ordinance review I guess my my greatest concern that that I have at this point is that we would we would think about a stopping this developer when we've allowed when we've given to other developers who were in the process maybe they were a little farther in the process, but It's really concerning to me that we allow Okay, a developer to get this far and then kind of put the brakes on and so I really hate to I to see that we as a council are treating this developer this way and i'm i'm i'm very disappointed okay uh john well alderman graham i'm not sure did you did you second alderman long's motion yes i did thank you i i think we need to give this developer relief i i mean I would make a motion that we strike 1B and make it a level playing field for everyone. Why just impose that standard on just affordable housing some of our poorest residents i think we already have a motion a second on the floor so parliamentary wise i don't think a motion to amend is appropriate it wouldn't be appropriate now but that's where i'd head with this to give him relief and give everybody relief i don't think it's reasonable that we tell people where they have to put their garage they should put it where they want uh within certain broad parameters okay anyway that's where i am okay Now, Mr. Marks, I know that my staff has been meeting with developers for the last seven months trying to work out a lot of these. Have you been in those meetings? Yes, sir. And this was never brought up or – This particular item hasn't. But I just want to be clear to the council, this application for variance has not been requested yet. So had it been requested, then maybe it could be considered. It has not been submitted to the Planning Commission to be considered. So just, I don't want, there's multiple comments I would go in, but I'll wait until you meet as an ordinance review comment. But I want to make sure facts are facts. You can't grant a variance that hasn't been requested. So once the request is made at the Planning Commission, if the Planning Commission denies it, we can bring it directly to the council as any of you can appeal that requirement. So if they deny it, but it needs to get to the Planning Commission, am I correct, Jeremy, before that can be considered? Which I think is where they're saying is they were kind of heading there But then there's also this route of changing the ordinance in general which then might not require them to go forward So they have two options They can wait until you make changes and revisions to the ordinance or they can move forward With the request of the Planning Commission requesting the variance while the ordinance is going forward for a change If it is more time sensitive than your ability to get to the revision of the ordinance Okay, mr. Mayor So, Mr. Morris, I'm just trying to get my facts and my bearings straight here. So you've been meeting with my staff for seven months, and you knew this project was coming up, and you never brought that to their attention? I've had this project been going for a year and a half. We have it approved with the lots that are exactly like they were approved by the Planning Commission and the rezoning by the council. Okay. I just want you to think that if you went out and approved one of these apartment designs, to go out here and they buy the land, they put in the infrastructure, and they get ready to build the buildings, and you say, no, now you've got to change this. This was never on the table when we did this design standard on this subdivision. And, Mr. Marks, I'm not disputing that. I'm just saying that we've been trying to meet with developers for seven months to get out these kind of things ironed out. And, Mr. Marks, I'm not disputing that. and i'm interested or this first two weeks ago and uh... as you know we said in the builder developer meetings charlie sloan and i thought and it was a total surprise to us mayor if i could add one other comment because mr marks has been very active in the development meetings he specifically is helping us with the drainage criteria review manual which was the last meeting we had a lot from developers in talking about those consequences so we appreciate his participation and want to continue that um on these types of items remember there's many of these codes that we're looking at and bring forward much like Jeremy brings forward unintended consequences as a result in ordinance changes that we've done the reality of it is and Alderman Marsh our council member Marsh brought this up on last Tuesday an area that we are focused on and are hearing from the development community is when codes change that we have educational opportunities to make sure that everyone is informed and communicated to those changes. It is the, I mean this is not to pass the buck, but it is any developer's responsibility to make sure that things are following the codes. And as codes change, our clerk codifies the codes. Any codes that have not been codified in the code are listed on our website at the bottom of the code to show that those are in place. But we can do a better job of communicating those. And a lot of these changes you're talking about came through in time periods when development was not taking place, when we did not have record permits. We did not have developers watching the code as closely as they do when they're actively building. And so some of them weren't here. And that's some of this feedback we're getting today is a result of the fact that we're now using these codes that the council changed to implement some of your policies. So it's not unexpected to have These things come forward as developments get uncovered. This particular one, you know, I could turn around and say last council meeting you actually had a citizen stand before you that did not like the non-setback garages because cars were parking across the sidewalks because they didn't have stacking distance. between the garage opening when the garage is used for something other than car storage and the car is parked. That's not necessarily the situation we're dealing with in these particular designs, but that came up as a consequence that resulted in some of these safety considerations when you look at this. These are your policy decisions, whether you want to have design requirements or not, what you do to enforce your town and country. These came from citizen feedbacks in the 2030 plan, the 2025 plan, and the 2020 plan. And it is staff's responsibility to actually try their best to do this. The other items is we often give advice when we think something is... not able to have a variance so if we if if it doesn't meet the criteria that allows planning to get it we can recommend in the mile because it doesn't meet the narrow definition the way that something is and opening that up i think would give either yourselves or the planning commission whichever you choose it the ability to consider these options which i think our staff would be willing to do but it's going to need more latitude than the current code provides we also see designs that come in in these smaller lots in other parts of town where the garages are on the side or in the rear which this setback requirement when they are designed when that is the design does not come into play even on the 60 foot or less lots so you know it's all about I would say it's more about the frontage allowances that have made the differences that came up, I think, in the conversations. But we're supportive of what the city attorney has talked about. This is an issue. We're seeing it. We're supportive about better education with it. But to be clear on this one, there are two options that Mark can do. He can apply for a variance simultaneously while we go through this if you, for some reason, need. Use all three readings in your design. Okay. And I think there's a motion on the floor, Mayor. Okay, I'll go to Della. Okay. Yes, I wanted to ask Mark, when was it that you learned about this problem? Two weeks ago, and I might add, we do sit on the developer and builders committee. We do work with the drainage with Don and his staff. We're not trying to be contrary or hard to get along with. No, I'm not. But I absolutely do not think that something should be put on, whether it's a developer or one builder, When you've invested this much money, spent this much time, and we're at the end of the process, and all of a sudden a new rule change comes in on something we invested and made huge commitments and millions of dollars of decisions on that this wasn't even on the table when we had the subdivision approved to be what it is today. How can you come back in and change it in the middle of the game? Well, Mr. Marshall, we're going to address that. Thank you. Okay? Okay. Thank you. We'll address that. All right. All right. Is there anything else? Okay, we have a motion and a second. We'll go to the second reading. Do we not? You do. Senator, would you please call the roll? Katie? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Scott Martin? Yes. Lature? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marge? No. Higgins? Yes. Yes. And ordinance to authorize the city council to grant a variance in the single-family infill standards to support attainable, affordable housing. I guess we're going to leave it on the second reading and schedule a meeting for the ordinance review. All right. I believe that concludes our business tonight. What announcements do we have? John. We have an election coming up. We're going to discuss whether we want to raise the library tax by over about 300%. That vote is taking place on August 9th. Early voting is taking place right now down at the courthouse. Be sure to get out and express your opinion. If you favor a tax increase, vote yes. If you're against a tax increase, vote no twice. Thank you. Sarah. we'll be having a ward one meeting this thursday evening at 6 p.m at the fayetteville senior center we'll be discussing the 2030 city plan and walker park master plans as well as sidewalk and street improvements and our new economic development plan and as well as giving advice on how to interact with the different departments of the city so i hope everyone from ward 1 can come out and make it okay Any other announcements? Don? Mayor, several things. First, I want to inform the council that our new financial system, New World, or ERP, has gone live, and we are now operating on that system. There's multiple phases to come forward, our HR and payroll conversion, our utility billing conversion. So as those things take place over the next 6 to 12 months, we will have new services available, like e-mailed. utility bills and things of that nature that I know were important to you all. Just want you to know that we're now accepting payments, doing our payables, check requests, purchase orders, our financials on the new system, and that is moving forward. Secondly, the Gully Park concert, our last concert, is this Thursday, August the 4th at 6 p.m. It's Efren White. We encourage you to come out at that concert. We're also presenting and receiving comments on the Gully Park Master Plan. I'm sorry, 7 p.m., excuse me. And there is also an online survey to provide feedback for the Gully Park Master Plan at the city's website, www.fayetteville-ar.gov. On that same website, the city is changing our conversion for our emergency notifications from our Everbridge notification system to Code Red. That is being done because of our citizen feedback about those that participated in the county notification system. It's more comprehensive. We think it is ultimately the common use of the technology creates a stronger communication for our citizens in the event of a disaster. Okay. Anyone who is currently signed up on the Everbridge system is automatically converted into our Code Red system. We just ask that if you have moved or have a different address that you would need to go in and log in and create a profile to actually change your address because the notifications are by the longitude and latitude. location of your address. So you only receive warnings if you're in the line of a tornado, a severe thunderstorm, or flash flooding. Those are the three emergency notification items, but it's code red. There's a sign up on our city website. For citizens who are driving on the north end of town in Councilmember Tennant and Schottmeyer's Ward, the activation of a traffic signal at the intersection of Steele Boulevard and Van Asch will be turned on on Thursday. If you want to join the mayor for that turn on, it'll be at 1 o'clock. but that will it's flashing now but be prepared to follow the yellow red and green indicators as that turns on our last dive in movie ratatouille is at the wilson park pool it is this friday gates open at 7 15 p.m the movie will start at dark Mark your calendars. Now, the grand opening of the Kessler Mountain Regional Park will be Saturday, August the 20th. Festivities start at 8 a.m., so for early birds, they go throughout the day. The actual ceremony for the open and ribbon-cutting of the park will occur at 10 a.m., but we hope all the council will come out. We know that's been very... big project, one of the biggest projects we've had in the city in some time. August 20th. That's a Saturday. And I'm sure I've hit everything. Yes, that's it. The university starts back August the 17th. 22nd, the school district is August the 17th. So if you get questions about our new program, student housing complexes are currently under construction we're still waiting for permit requests from many of those builders that have to be completed prior to students being able to move in to ensure that the structures are safe and it will be a lot of last minute requests as those projects try to meet the deadline we're working closely with the university keeping them up to date so they can communicate to parents and students we are planning our staffing requirements outside of just our normal business hours to be able to try to accommodate that but i want to let you know that you might hear things about that since we're getting really close to the move-in period okay anything else Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned.