Okay, I'm gonna call the City Council meeting of August 1st 2017 to order Sondra. Would you please call the roll? here Here here here here here here here Would you join in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is a special presentation, which is the Distinguished Budget Presentation Award. And I'm going to present this to Paul Becker tonight.
 This is the distinguished budget presentation for the City of Federal Arts Hall fiscal year January 1st, 2017. All congratulations. Well, and council, I'd like to give special recognition to our budget staff who worked very, very hard on this. They're here, and if they'd stand up, I'd like to introduce you to them. These are the people in the trenches that work on this every day for us. They do an outstanding job. Kevin Springer is the budget director.
 Liz Hutchins is in budget, as is Barbara Fell, and I would like to give special recognition to Barbara Fell because she did a lot of the nitty-gritty work to get this ready to present to the Governmental Financial Officers Association. And this is a distinguished award, and I'm going to accept it on behalf of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and the budget staff who worked very hard on this.
 Thank you, Paul, for your work and your department's work. You do a fantastic job. Thank you. All right. On consent, number one, approval of July 18, 2017, City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $10,000 to allow replacement of fences at the Mount Sequoia and Baxter water tanks.
 number three a resolution to approve amendment number three to the contract with garver llc in the amount of seventy six thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars for additional construction management services for water sewer relocation associated with the arkansas highway and transportation department project bb0414 poorer road highway 112 71b widening in
 interchange improvements. Number four, a resolution to award bid number 17-41 to authorize the purchase of two submersible wastewater pumps from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated in the total amount of $68,736 for use at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 17-42 and to authorize the purchase of two Freightliner 114SD dump trucks from Truck
 from truck centers of Arkansas in a total amount of $251,208 for use by the Water Sewer Operations Division. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 17-43 and to authorize the purchase of two Craftsman HP-20T Lowboy trailers from Craftsman Incorporated in a total amount of $32,310 for use by the Water Sewer Operations Division and Transportation Services Department.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a 2018 Ford F-150 crew cab 4x2 from Lewis Automotive Group of Federal Arkansas on the total amount of $24,581 pursuant to a state procurement contract fused by the
 Police Department. Number 8, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $4,094 and increasing the related expense budget.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve and certify the participation of B Unlimited Incorporated in the Arkansas Tax Back Program and to agree to authorize the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration to refund City Sales Tax Back to B Unlimited Incorporated for qualified purchases.
 Number 10, a resolution to approve task order number 9 with Garver LLC in the amount of $98,000 for design and bidding services related to the Taxiway B widening and rehabilitation project at Drake Field. Number 11, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with
 Surf Co restoration and construction LLC for office space in the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of four hundred and eleven dollars and sixty cents per month and number twelve a resolution to approve a short-term lease agreement with our cell fashion week for the airport hangar at 45 78 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $1,000 of except
 The consent agenda, I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Adela. I move we accept this consent agenda. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. I move and second . Okey-doke, good. All right, would you please call the roll, Senator? Yes. Yes. Montero. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Yes.
 Next order of business is unfinished business. We have none. Thank you, council. Under new business, number one, an ordinance to approve vacation 17-5867, properly located at 858 North Jackson Drive, to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement. Blake. Thank you.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under Arkansas code annotated section 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following portion of the described water and sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a water and sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. 1, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-slash-developer's expense. And 2, a corrected easement document shall be filed to replace the existing water and sewer easement proposed for vacation. Okay. Andrew. Okay.
 This is an undeveloped parcel of land on Mount Sequoia off of Jackson Drive. We have the place marker pulled up there on the screen. It is a steep and wooded site. There is a water line that bisects the property. However, there's also a utility easement that is not located over the water line, and the applicant is requesting to vacate the existing easement and put it on top of the existing water line, which will give them more developable area, potential to develop the property for a house.
 this went through our planning commission with a unanimous recommendation for approval and all the franchise utility companies have signed off and approved the request thanks okay what questions do we have in the council on this okay what public comment do we have on this okay now i'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading adele i second that motion we have a motion and a second
 I've got John Latour as the seconder. I'm sorry. We changed that. Okay. I'll be glad to withdraw my second. Okay. Thank you, John. We have Alan as the mover and Adele as the seconder. So we have a motion and a second. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Take me. Yes. Patch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to approve VAC 17-5867 for property located at 858 North Jackson Drive to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement. Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Don. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Latere? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 17-5867 for property located at 858 North Jackson Drive to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement. What final comments do we have in the council on this? Anything? Anything?
 Okay. Shall the ordinance pass? Saunders, please call the roll. Eddy. Yes. Match. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Union. Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance to amend 162.01, Unit 18, Gasoline Service Stations and Drive-In, Drive-Thru Restaurants to clarify that oil change businesses are included with gasoline service stations. Blake.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 162.01S, Unit 18, Gasoline Service Stations and Drive-In, Drive-Through Restaurants, by amending Subsection 2, included uses first line to read, Gasoline Service Stations to include businesses providing only oil changes and or lubrication for cars, vans, and light trucks.
 Okay. This is something I would bring it forward. I know that the city attorney had approached me last week about classifying, changing the classification in the unit 18, and I took it to the chief of staff, and we opted to bring this forward to the council. I think, Don, do you want to?
 Yes, Mayor. Currently there's two use units that handle automotive services. There's use unit 17, which is auto body shops and garages, and use unit 18, which is gasoline service stations, which use unit 18 also handles drive-in drive-through restaurants and drive-in car washes.
 a question came up about where do businesses that provide services that are similar to use unit 17 but not as invasive um similar to services in use unit 18 but not as invasive as you shouldn't 17 should be classified meaning that a jiffy lube as an example that just does oil changes is different than an auto body shop that does metal repair air condition replacement things of that nature
 Use Unit 18 is clearly a unit that allows individuals to arrive on the property, be serviced and leave in the property without leaving their vehicles to be worked on. And this was recently highlighted in an application, but this item is not a result of that application. It's a clarification of what does the use unit do?
 defined as it relates to only an oil change business because as businesses have evolved in history gasoline service stations used to do oil changes Within the gasoline service and then automotive shops might have done more significant garage repairs today you see businesses like Jiffy Lube or the
 Tech 5 or something like that. That is a drive-in business that is a drive-out business. You never get out of your car. Your oil gets changed and you leave, much like when you drive through a car wash and your car gets washed and you drive out. Those units are in currently use unit 18, but oil change businesses are,
 could be interpreted to be in either of those. It's just to clarify that. So it specifically assigns a business that only does oil change businesses for cars, vans, and light trucks in a drive-in, drive-out manner.
 And so, Alan. I only had one question. Since we're restricting it to lubrication and oil changes for cars, vans, and light trucks, I was just talking with Blake, and it didn't look like we have a definition in Chapter 162 for light trucks. I was going to ask Andrew if that is something that he feels that we need. I don't think so. I think it's, you know, I haven't actually thought through that issue or even thought that that would be something that needed to be clarified before.
 Is that, I'm assuming from the city attorney's description of that, that that was meant that large trucks like 18 wheelers would not be able to be serviced at these places. I think that would be the common reading of that. I think that, just make sure that's the intent. If that's the intent, I think that's, I would be fine to leave it as is.
 And I would just say I believe that was the city attorney's authorship intent, that it would not include dump trucks or semi-trucks. It was primarily for automotive trucks that one might have at their home in a garage. I know Alderwoman Marsh had emailed the clerk, and the clerk had emailed us to hold it. Maybe between now and if we do hold it the next time, we could—
 possibly define that a little bit. I just feel like if we're legislating that, we should be very clear in what the definition is so that we don't run into any situations where people open up a business and then are doing something that wasn't the intent, and then we have to go back and retroactively try to do something that wouldn't be fair. Well, I don't mind, and I don't mind leaving it on the first reading or the second reading, whatever you all want to do, but I think it's relatively straightforward. I mean, but I know that she requested it be sent back to the Planning Commission, and so I'll leave that up.
 Sorry, sorry John. Yes. I would like to see us move ahead with it. I mean this is not a controversial issue. I mean we've got businesses that are wanting to build here. This is the sort of thing that might encourage someone to build their business in Springdale instead of Fayetteville. You know, just delayed another two weeks because somebody couldn't make the city council meeting and they want to express an opinion. This is non-controversial. We're just saying that an oil lube change is the same as a filling station.
 I don't see a good reason to hold it for two weeks. I think we should go ahead and let this business move ahead. There is a proposal to build a drive-through oil change business. I realize our regulations are in limbo. When we keep a business in limbo, they get discouraged and go someplace else where they have firm past rules and they can operate.
 I just think this is an example of a place where we can say we are a welcoming community. Let's change the rule. Let's move on instead of holding it up for two weeks. I just don't see if it was a controversial issue and an alder person is absent, sure, let's hold it and let's get everybody's opinion, but this is this could almost be on consent. It's so mundane. It's just a housekeeping sort of issue.
 So I don't see a real reason to hold it for another two weeks. I think we should go ahead and move forward and let this business go ahead and move forward with their plans. And this would be a good show that Fayetteville is business friendly. That we do care about investments to be made in our city. So I'd like to see us move ahead. Okay. Who else would like to talk weigh in on it? What public comment do we have? Nobody. All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Yes.
 Blake Blake do I remember correctly that a motion does it spend the rules requires six affirmative votes? That's correct. Okay. Thank you Okay, so I take it y'all hold it here. Oh, it's here then Adele I made that we moved to the second reading John in that motion. We have a motion a second to go to the second rate. So, please call the roll Yes
 Batch. Yes. Lutere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Motion passes. Be it ordained by the city, I'm sorry, an ordinance to amend section 162.01S unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants to clarify that oil change businesses are included with gasoline service stations. Okay. Adele. I move. I move we go to the third and final reading. We have a second. Second.
 Okay, John. I second the motion, Mayor. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Cady. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 ordinance to amend section 162.01 s unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants To clarify that oil change businesses are included with gasoline service stations. Okay Yeah, I just want to say briefly I did think this was a Monday night and the logic makes a lot of sense for putting these things together in the same use unit, but also being aware of the context and
 how this item came to be. I don't want anybody to mistake my vote today for more than what it is. In particular, I wanna highlight a suggestion that's been made by the Planning Commission in time past, that this use unit be moved over into conditional use generally for the zoning designation in question. And I've expressed support for that in the past. I still support that. Okay.
 My decision was not based on any individual project.
 But it did bring to my attention that we needed to classify this in the area where it needs to be classified. Otherwise, it's just sitting there in limbo. So we need some, you know, I want to do this as a housekeeping measure. Don, you had something. Yes, Mayor. I just wanted to make clear that Andrew and I have both had recent direction to the Planning Commission that when they would like to see policy changes like changing use units to conditional uses or taking –
 accessory lots and requiring them to be built at the front end as opposed to the outlot components, that those are items that they should have a subcommittee make those recommendations, pass them at the Planning Commission if the majority agrees with that, and send them to the council for policy decisions, that we shouldn't be using individual applications individually.
 as a method of advocating policy. And so this discussion about whether that becomes a conditional use, I think it's certainly something that I think there's interest among the commission to have a discussion about and potentially make a recommendation of policy to put it into a conditional use versus a use by right. But again, this is just a clarification of a use unit, what items go together. You know, and the one I brought forward to you, to me,
 An oil change place is different from changing out a transmission or rebuilding a motor or doing body and fender work. That's a mechanic shop. To me it was more in line with the gas stations. I remember as a kid that we had, they did gas and oil.
 Mayor, I do want to make one other clarification that Andrew has reminded me. The car wash is actually in use unit 17, not 18. So I don't want to misrepresent that. This is gasoline service stations, drive-in and drive-through restaurants, and would add this oil change business in that category. Okay. All right. Do you have something else to honor? No.
 Any other final comments from the council? OK. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. OK, thank you all very much. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $26,905,000 to appropriate proceeds from the 2017 library improvement bonds to fund the library improvement project. Paul.
 At long last, we have issued the bonds for the library expansion. This is the final step. We've sold the bonds. We've got $26,900,000 to begin the construction, do the architectural work, et cetera, to move on the library. So this is a request for the city council to budget the $26,900,000 generated by the bond issue.
 for the construction of the new addition and renovation of the current facility.
 I just run down the bonds. The interest rates were anywhere from .9 percent to 3 percent, 30-year bonds. We'll pay them off quicker than that probably, backloaded so the largest payments are at the end of it. And I think we got a very, very good interest rate. Again, the average interest rate was roughly 3 percent on these bonds for 30-year bonds. I think that was excellent, and I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do we have for Paul from the council? OK. What public comment do we have? OK, I'll bring it back to the council. Allen. I'll make a motion to pass the resolution. DELLA? All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. This is a great moment in the city. This really is. This is something that just advances the city
 to a different level. This reminds me of the Theater Square vote and I certainly am, it's great to be part of this tonight and be on this council with all of you. So thank you all. With that, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right, thank you all very much. That's a big moment.
 That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Yes, Mayor. A couple of announcements for the Council and the citizens. Of course, our 21st Annual Gully Park Summer Concert Series is coming to a close. We have two remaining concerts. The next one is August the 10th prior to your next meeting. It's Waylon Pierce.
 He has two top 10 singles, one top 50 song of the year in Texas music charts. His roots of music come from Waylon Jennings, George Strait, Dwight Yoakam. So if you're a country buff, and it appears that that would be a good option for you. And then of course, August the 17th, we have the United States Navy Band at Gully Park. So we encourage folks to come out for those two remaining events.
 First Thursday is this Thursday for the month of August, so come out on the downtown square. We close off Block Street, Mountain, East, and Center around the square to host intimate First Thursday events featuring food, gardens, music, Town Center Plaza. We hope you'll join us for First Thursday this week.
 And the last dive-in movie of the season, Moana in Wilson Park, is on August the 11th. Gates open at 7.15 p.m. There's free admission. Concessions are available. So before you head back to school, come out for one last dive-in movie. Okay. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. Very good. Good work. We're adjourned.