I would like to call the City Council meeting of August 4, 2015 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Here. Kenyon. Here. Hattie. Here. Tennant. Shopmar. Latour. Present. Ray. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? To the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, with liberty and justice for all.
 All righty then. Good evening, everyone. We're going to start the evening off with a consent agenda. Number one, approval of the July 21, 2015 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 15-27 to authorize a contract with Austin King Incorporated
 EBA King electrical contractors incorporated in the amount of eighty two thousand seven hundred dollars for the purchase and installation of electrical busways at the Nolan wastewater treatment plant and to prove a project contingency in the amount of eight thousand two hundred and seventy dollars number three a resolution award bid number 15 dash 41 is to authorize the purchase of bulk crushed rock salt from Central salt LLC and
 primary supplier in Oakley fertilizer incorporated secondary supplier for materials delivered and Oakley fertilizer incorporated primary supplier and central salt LLC as secondary supplier for the materials picked up for varying unit prices is needed to the 2015-2016 winter season number four
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of three 2015 Caterpillar 420 F2 backhoes from Riggs Cat of Springdale, Arkansas, in the total amount of $286,007.58, pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative Purchasing Agreement for use by the Transportation Services, Parks and Recreation, and Water and Sewer Operations. Number five, a resolution to authorize the purchase of two 2015 Caterpillar 420 F2 backhoes
 Bobcat E45 T4 excavators from Williams Tractor at Federal Art and Sewing, a total amount of $118,800 pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Go-Off-Depurchasing Agreement used by the Transportation Services Department and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $20,910 representing donations to the rangers, pantry, and community development block grant program income received from housing lien payoffs and the sale of public facilities equipment. Number seven, a resolution to authorize
 An application for 5050 matching grant through the Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism Outdoor Recreation Grant Program. Any amount of $150,000 for the construction of playground and parking improvements at Wilson Park.
 Number eight resolution to approve a two-year master services agreement with a mintus corporation To upgrade the city's electronic utility bill payment services for initial setup fee of fifteen thousand dollars and this made it cost $35,000 per year number nine a resolution to express the City Council's agreement that the city should facilitate the construction and financing of a water main along Hamilton Road by accepting a
 debt service payments as part of the consumers water bills and remitting those payments to the financing entity and number 10 a resolution to approve the 2016 employee benefits package that will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is red so moved second we have a motion and second to accept the consent agenda is red sondra would you please call the road marsh yes canyon yes patty yes
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, right. Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance rezoning that property described was only petitioned RZN 15 dash 5044 for approximately 16.02 acres.
 Located at 4065 East Huntsville Road from RPZD 08-3071, Residential Planned Zoning District, Ridgedale Plaza to RSF 7, Residential Single Family 7 Units per Acre, NS Neighborhood Services, and CS Community Services. This thing has been tabled, and now we're bringing it off the table.
 And the staff have anything on this issue? Mayor and Council, as you all know, as the Mayor mentioned, this item has been tabled several times since its original introduction on June 2nd, so I thought I'd just remind everyone what we're looking at. This is a project in southeast Fayetteville at the corner of Highway 16 East and River Meadows Drive. It contains about 16 acres. It formerly was approved for a planned zoning district, which has expired since it was never developed.
 The proposal and the request is to rezone the property, two acres of which would be community services along the highway frontage, two acres of which would be zoned neighborhood services and the south acreage, about 12 acres, would be rezoned to RSF 7, residential single family, seven units per acre. Back in May, the Planning Commission and staff recommended approval of this rezoning request.
 We've heard several discussions about primarily traffic and drainage I think has been the primary discussion related to this proposal. You did receive a letter late this afternoon from Mr. Robert Rhodes representing the Bridgedale developer proposing some potential changes.
 Go over those in more detail. There is reference to a bill of assurance to my knowledge. You've not received a bill of assurance and so We really don't have anything formal to look at but these are the things that Apparently they're looking at revising as part of the rezoning request and that's all I have. Okay Robert yes I have Robert Rhodes I would represent a
 I'm the developer and I'm a lawyer with Paul Estill Law Firm here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. If someone does not have a copy of my letter, I've got extras if you'll- We handed them all out. You did? Okay. I will highlight what I put in the letter.
 Certainly will be glad to answer questions. I've got Mr.. David Jorgensen the projects engineer who I'm sure you all know he appears before you a lot He's here today. He can help answer questions and the developer unfortunately is not here tonight, but we are representing them so as you recall in your July 7th meeting this matter came up to a third reading and
 After one member from the public got up and spoke and the developer spoke then you all the council talked amongst yourselves And during the course of that meeting before it was put to vote the developer asked that it be tabled to rework the plan And that's what this letter tells you is what that rework plan is and I've attached with the letter a new plat and really the only change in that plat is just a designation in that 12 acre part and
 The rest is the same. The 12-acre portion has been reclassified to request neighborhood conservation instead of RS-7. As you know, neighborhood conservation allows for 10 lots per acre. However, the developer will enter into a bill of assurance to limit the number of lots at 57 or 4.7 lots per acre.
 Also note that this is compatible with the surrounding area. I've also enclosed with that letter, for your reference, a plat that was also prepared by our engineer. It shows that there was about 16 developments around the plaza. Actually, there's more than that, but those are the ones that he counted. It shows a total of 1,224 lots amongst those 16 developments.
 And so as I say, I think a good argument can be made that this is the type of project that the city is looking for when it talks about infill. To show further the compatibility of the plaza, which is the development's name, the planning department supports the project at the 4.7 acres per lot request. The prior PZD from 2008 allowed 60 family dwellings and 24 multifamily dwelling units over offices. On May 11th,
 2015, the Planning Commission voted in favor of this project six to one. And I bring this up in the letter because recently I've appeared before you all in another request, and I know some of you folks specifically said, well, I feel like I'm...
 when I'm on the fence here, if the Planning Department and the Planning Commission have supported a project, then if I'm on the fence, then I should follow suit with the Planning Commission or the Planning Department or both of them. That's why I bring that up. Further, on the July 7th Councilmember meeting, Alderwoman Marsh stated that this project was, quote, compatible, end quote. And Alderman Mark Kenyon indicated that
 quote, compatibility wasn't an issue, end quote. Actually, none of you specifically said the project was incompatible. And I bring that up, the compatibility, is because from my days on this city council, I have recalled numerous times, city attorney would say, when we're talking about rezoning, we're talking about compatibility. In addition, the developer will add
 Five other promises on a bill of assurance that speak not only to the single family 12 acres, but also the residential office and the community service portions of the rezoning request. Those contractual promises are a gas station will not be built, although it is permitted in that use, it will not be built. There will be three points of ingress and egress plus, besides those three points, there will be a stub out on the east.
 that the developer will pay his fair share of any future traffic signal when one becomes warranted by the State Transportation Department. The developer will pay his fair share of work to alleviate an off-site drainage issue that the city and the developer had planned on fixing as stated in the original 2008 PZD. And specifically, there are neighbors on Roberts Road
 that would love the fact that that fix to that problem that they thought would happen shortly after 2008 will now finally happen. And then lastly, in order to ease any traffic issues before the light can be installed, the developer will pay a reasonable amount to re-stripe a third turning lane with the highway department's permission to serve the main entrance of this particular development that we're asking you all to vote for.
 It is the engineer and the developer, in my belief, after looking at it, that with the widening of Huntsville Road that's already been completed, there is plenty of asphalt to restripe it and make a third lane. The developer for this project... Let me speak a little bit about a bill of assurance. The reason I put this in a letter
 as well as speaking now before the public, is because we didn't have time to write a bill of assurance. This plan fell into shape in the last few days, and so I wanted you all to have it in a letter and with me saying it. And obviously if questions come up, and we certainly, if this is voted upon, we certainly will put that in a bill of assurance.
 The developer for this project has owned this property before it was a PZD, but unfortunately, due to the economy downturn, he couldn't develop it. As you know, it has expired. It's not zoned RA or anything. I think it's still a PZD zoning. It's just an expired PZD.
 What is unusual about this particular developer is that the entire time, and even before it was a PZD until today, he has lived on this property and therefore knows the benefit that the commercial services and the offsite drainage fix that has been contemplated and all these things will be to benefit this neighborhood. Also if people can get to commercial services, he plans to build on the PZD.
 on this project without having to get on Huntsville Road, if they can get to it through many points of access, then that should have a lessening impact on the traffic on Huntsville Road. These commercial services would be accessible to the people of Stonebridge Meadows, Crescent Lake, the Hamptons, Bridgedale, etc. In reviewing the planning department's memo addressed to you on May 15th, here's a few things I'd like to highlight.
 The zoning is in compliance with many of the goals of City Plan 2030. Quote, the proposal provides the opportunity for neighborhood services in an area where services are limited. Quote, providing nodes of neighborhood, commercial, and mixed-use zoning discourages sprawl and can potentially reduce the number of vehicle trips in the area.
 In a May 11th memo from Planning Department staffer Andrew Garner to the Planning Commission, he talks about water and sewer being available on the site.
 A lot of that is due in part to this developer, as well as the developers I represented before on the Falling Waters project, that ponied up pretty good-sized money to get the water and the sewer underneath the West Fork of the White River. In this case, this particular developer ponied up $850,000.
 that project underneath the White River not only would help this particular project that we're asking you to rezone, but it has already helped projects in the neighborhood around there already. In the same memo, Mr. Garner indicates that in regard to the subject of drainage, any additional requirements would be determined at the time of the development. As Kit Williams can confirm, drainage should not be a determining factor to rezone.
 Instead, you should be looking at compatibility. Nonetheless, this developer believes that between him and the city's requirements that the engineering department will lay down at the time of development, that this area will actually should be better served when it comes to draining, sediment issues, what have you. And with that, I would entertain any questions or I'll sit down and you can call me back up, whatever you prefer.
 Okay. What's the wishes of the council? Any questions? Yeah, John. Just going back to the beginning of this rezoning effort by the developer, Mr. Rhodes, why was the original zoning not adequate for what he wanted to do? Why was the original zoning? Yes. Well, if I'm not answering your question, please ask it again. The original zoning was for RF7, but...
 I think the developer indicated in public meetings that he would only develop it to the tune of 57 lots, which is the same thing that we're asking for today. And today, we are asking for the neighborhood conservation, which in conversations with city staffers, the developer believes to be maybe a better fit for that neighborhood.
 So in the original zoning, it was a residential zoning, and now we're moving into a zoning that would allow some commercial development? No, in the original PZD, it was pretty much like it is now, except it was denser. And in the original zoning request that was before you on July 7th, it was exactly like it is today, except for the fact it's neighborhood conservation on those bottom 12 acres. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor before you get to public comments I think I need to make a couple statements about the law that we're looking at. I appreciate the fact that mr Rhodes has brought in a letter indicating some of his desires to eventually provide us with a bill of assurance, but until we have a signed bill of assurance in front of the City Council and
 you can't rely upon it for a zoning decision, which means it would be very difficult to vote on that tonight in reliance upon what has been presented here that his developer is willing to do. Certainly in my recent memo to you, I repeated what I have been saying many times. Compatibility is probably the most important factor, but there are many factors. I listed 12, including traffic, which has always been an issue at this particular meeting.
 But if you'll notice, I did not put grading and drainage because that is a development issue and not a zoning issue. And so you should not consider grading and drainage, or especially drainage, as some issue for zoning because that will be handled during development and cannot be a factor in a zoning decision. But certainly traffic can, as well as the other 12 things I listed in my most recent
 that all have been supported either by the state statute or by state cases where they have looked at various cases and zoning considerations. And any of these can be considered, including the 2030 plan objectives. The other thing is that I would encourage you not to look at the plat.
 Again, a plat is a development decision, not a zoning decision. Now, you can look and see where the particular zones would be divided, but don't look at the lot configurations and things like that. Don't look at the access into the highway. We don't know how many highway accesses the developer would be allowed by the highway department.
 And so that's something, again, that's a development decision, not a zoning decision. The final thing I think I need to say on this is that if you want to consider the factors and the conditions that have been suggested by this applicant,
 Then tonight is not the night and it would need to be tabled so that an actual bill of assurance which is a form of which is in the planning department and Pretty easy. I think to fill out Could be done and signed by the proposed developer and I have one one other thing this is an expired plan zoning district, which means nothing can be built on that land and
 I don't like that. It needs to be zoned something. If you turn down this zoning, we need to have some sort of zoning in there, whether it's RA or RSF4 or something, but I don't like land where, because the planned zoning district has expired, basically you can't develop it.
 That's, as probably Alderman Latour would tell you, that's a taking if you're not allowed to develop your own property. So one way or another, we need to do some zoning at the end of this process, whether it's the zoning they request or another zoning that could be recommended by planning, and I would encourage planning to look at maybe a fallback position in case the City Council is reluctant to zone it.
 as planning has originally recommended, but as some of the neighbors have objected to. Okay. Any questions for the city attorney? Okay, now we'll take public... Yes, ma'am. Well, given that we can't consider the item tonight, I was going to move that we table it for two weeks so we can consider the item of the bill of assurance if it's presented. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second. The table. We do have some people here to speak on it. Would it be the council's...
 Don't you hear them tonight before we table it or? It's hard to speak on it with just having a few minutes to look at. I mean, we can, it would be speculation otherwise, I think. Okay. Okay. We will, we have a motion and a second to take. Any other discussion among the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 I'm not sure what the number is. I'm not sure what the number is. I'm not sure what the number is. I'm not sure what the number is. I'm not sure what the number is. I'm not sure what the number is. I'm not sure what the number is. I'm not sure what the number is.
 In order to rezoning that property, describe rezoning petition RZN 15-5066 for approximately 3.98 acres located at 1338 and 1326 West Cleveland Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, and RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to DG, downtown general subject to a bill of assurance.
 entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion as second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Hattie? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning position 15-5066 for approximately four acres located at 1338 and 1326 West Cleveland Street.
 from residential multifamily 24 units per acre and residential single family four units per acre to downtown general subject to a bill of assurance mayor we received a request today this afternoon for this item to be considered at our next regularly scheduled meeting of august 18th so procedurally you can either table that or leave it on this reading which whichever you prefer but we were not prepared to discuss anymore this evening okay um
 Yes. Well, I know we have quite a few constituents here tonight that may like to speak on the matter. Sure. And since it's only on the second reading, I would like to hear from them. Absolutely. I'm good with that. Okay. Any other comments, questions from council on that? All right. Probably applicant goes first again. I will just fix to get to that. Would the applicant like to speak before the council first?
 Thank you Mayor, thank you City Council, I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design representing the owners of the property and we are working on a number of different options, some different zoning options that we're trying to work with the different stakeholders to come to a way to make as many people happy with our request as possible.
 As Mr. Payton mentioned, had requested that the council give us a little bit more time to work on that. Okay. Could I have ‑‑ I'm sorry. I have one question for him. Will you have enough time if it's just at the next meeting, or do you want to table it beyond the next meeting? No, I think we would prefer to table it to the next meeting. Well, it doesn't need to be tabled. It will automatically show up. You've got two weeks, Ron, unless they decide to spin the rules and go on. I just didn't know if he needed more time. Right. Okay.
 could i ask the council members from ward 4 what their thoughts are we're going to take public comment but yes well you know i think that this is an appeal from the planning commission to downtown general if there was a new type of rezoning requested i would think that that would need to go back through the process
 planning commission and planning staff and just a new type of zoning. Is that not accurate? Actually, the city council has a lot of authority in this area, but you can. One of the things the city council can do is refer it back to the planning commission if you feel like that's necessary, but you certainly do not have to. You can make a decision here either to support or deny or change what the request is.
 You have, this is a legislative power that you have, and you have a lot of legislative power, so you do not have to send it back to Planning Commission, but if you so choose to, you can send it back to Planning Commission. Good. I'll just follow up. The reason I was saying that is, in order to maintain the integrity of our process, by sending it back to Planning at this point, for a different type of zoning, the neighbors wouldn't receive all the same notifications that they normally do.
 I just feel like it would be better for the developers to give them an up or down vote on the downtown general zoning. And then depending on how that turns out, if it was denied, they could submit a new packet. But if it was approved, then we would know. But it just seems like it'd be a better process to just not change this in the middle of the appeal. John, you wanna weigh in? Or you wanna hear from the neighbors first? I know how the neighbors feel. I've already heard from the neighbors.
 This is a legitimate dilemma for myself. I'm going to go back on my core principles of, you know, I stated from this seat of power that unless you're asking for a nuclear waste dump or a junkyard, I'm going to go with the landowner and his request.
 Because the landowner assumes the risk he puts in all the time and effort You know, it's his money. He's or her money that they're risking or they're signing the note. They pay the taxes They do everything if they build something crummy. Nobody's gonna want to buy it or rent it. They bear the loss Here I've heard from neighbors and I understand and I too have concerns about bringing a downtown general classification out of the downtown area and
 So if it comes up to an up or down vote, I'd be voting against the proposal tonight. Now, saying that, I'll say this. Speaking with both the neighbors and the developer, I think both sides are fairly close to arriving at the same conclusion. I'd like to see them have another two weeks to work together to continue the dialogue, and I think we could come up with something that might be workable from both perspectives. Thank you.
 I spoke with Paul this afternoon and we had a very good conversation. He told me of several steps he plans to take, even this afternoon, to try to arrive at a conclusion that the neighbors would find acceptable and they would find acceptable. So I'm encouraged that we might have some compromise and some consensus in the brewing
 And I think two weeks might be enough time to reach that. I could be proved very wrong two weeks from tonight, but I would like to give everybody two weeks to try to come up with a workable solution. So if you leave it on second reading, I would give you two more. Yeah. That's all I'm just saying. Yes, Sarah. As far as sending it back to the Planning Commission, we certainly didn't propose to do that for the last zoning change. I don't think we've done that for any zoning change since I've been on the council, so I don't really feel that that's necessary.
 We should go ahead and make the decision here. Okay. Taking a few notes. Anybody else? Okay, we're going to take some public comment now. Now, here's the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone, unless the council member brings you back up to ask your questions. Give us your name and address, please. Keep your remarks to the chair. Okay.
 Don't engage council member or another member of the audience. Stay with me here and let's be courteous. Who would like to be first? I'm Archie Schaffer. I live at 1404 West Cleveland, just a couple of doors down from this property. As has been said, we've been trying to work with the developers for months since January.
 and we'll continue trying to work with them, I guess, but we really would prefer that you go ahead and deny their appeal to get Downtown General off the table. I mean, that's the big stumbling block, and while they have floated out some other ideas, they have not proposed getting away from Downtown General. They continue to talk about needing to reduce the tree canopy to the level Downtown General allow,
 So we would really prefer that you go ahead and deny the downtown general, but that's not on the table. I guess the motion that's on the table now is to table this. So I guess what I'm saying is we'd like for you to vote against the motion at the table and go ahead and deal with the appeal.
 Well, there's not actually a motion to table on here. The rule, state law says that you will read each ordinance separately and distinctly on three different meetings unless the rules are waived by the city council. And unless they waive the rules, suspend the rules, and go to the third and final reading, then it will just be left on the second reading, and then the next meeting will be the third and final reading. Well, if we have to wait another two weeks and continue trying to see if,
 the developer will get more reasonable about really changing their proposal. We'll try to do that. I'd be glad to answer any questions. Any questions? Thank you, Archie. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Oh, sorry. Got some bands. All right.
 Good evening again. Hi, my name is George Hamilton. I live at 1400 West Cleveland Street with my wife, Sarah, and our two little kids. I'm directly next to the property in question. Thanks again for spending your time on this matter. You know, we outside of this meeting, whether it's with some of you folks or with Brian and Paul, have spent an inordinate amount of time talking about this, and often generally time well spent. But I do have to say I agree with my
 my friend Archie that the question of how we develop the land or what we put on the land is a question which we will continue to engage Paul and Brian on, but the how we go about it, the big stumbling block has been the downtown general and the precedent this will set and so forth. And so we do ask you to consider that and deny that appeal to the Planning Commission. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it.
 Okay. Anybody? Yep. Hi there. I'm Susan Gardner and I live at 909 Hall Avenue. We're adjacent property owner to the property in question.
 I know that there's been some discussion, they were talking about the neighbors, that they've been trying to meet with the neighbors and things. And I just wanted to say, this is the sixth meeting that we've been to, and I understand that's part of the process. But we have, from the beginning, we have all understood that the property is gonna be developed, and we do not necessarily have a problem with that. We do have a problem with the downtown general. And when they keep talking about, they've come and talked to the neighbors,
 To us, the developer has not moved off the downtown general for any of the discussions. They've not really offered us any other option for that. So, you all also discussed possibly sending it back to planning, and your planning commission voted nine to nothing to defeat this. And so, we felt like that they gave it some due diligence and looked at it. Again, we just wanted to say, we understand the property is going to be developed.
 We have suggested several times possibly the PZD route, and they seem to be set on this downtown general. And that's the first thing that we're really objecting to is that that designation, we do not feel like belongs in that neighborhood. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, now I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 I understand developer wants to table it just for two weeks, so it's left to him. If I could. Yeah. You know, I'll echo some comments a few Ward 4 constituents have made tonight, and I think they made good points. Since January 24th, there have been multiple meetings with the neighbors.
 countless hours over the phone and conference calls. We've had three Ward 4 meetings regarding this proposal, all discussing downtown general. I think that what my constituents would like for me to communicate is that if we are going to consider other types of zoning for this project, that we do so in a separate consideration, separate from the appeal of the planning department.
 decision. So I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading tonight. Second. Okay, we got a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Loutre? No. Long? Yes. Wright? No. Okay, so it stays on second reading. We've established that. Anything else?
 Okay, stays on second reading and we will continue on for another two weeks. Right. All right, thank you. All right, number three, a resolution expressed the City Council's intention to investigate a possible purchase of the Federal Chamber of Commerce building on Mountain Street. I believe you all had a tour, Mark. Yes, Dad? Yeah, we had an excellent tour yesterday of both buildings.
 And I think that was very beneficial to us. I'm anxious to hear what other aldermen have to say. I still think that this is something that we need to look at and consider, but I'll be anxious to hear what other aldermen have to say about this intent to look at the possible buying of this building. Mark? Yes.
 Well, again, as I said before, this is just a request to gather information. It's not a request to buy the building. And the tour did add additional information that I think was valuable. Okay. What else do we have from the council? Do we have public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 I'm going to go ahead and say something. Okay. I've spent some time thinking about this, put together a real quick financial analysis on it and all that seemed fine. At least it was ambiguous about whether or not it was absolutely a bad idea or absolutely a good idea. So all that being awash, what I kept coming back to is what are the compelling reasons to purchase it, what would warrant putting more staff time into it because it seems like
 has already had staff put a bit of time into this and The only compelling reason I can come up with is that it's contiguous some of some of the other properties you own which is a point that all we can you've made several times and That was what the that's kind of fulcrum of my thoughts ultimately I've decided that I don't think it's worth the time to investigate more and that's simply because I think we have enough land down here where if we did have
 a need in the future that we haven't anticipated today or that's so far out that we couldn't anticipate it today i still think we've got enough land downtown to meet that to meet that need
 Yes, sir. I did attend the tour yesterday and it was very helpful. But ultimately I'm going to agree with Alderman Petty about not really wanting to invest more staff time in this. I feel like the administration has investigated the possibility very sincerely. We're not seeing any need in our foreseeable future for the facility.
 You know, and the suggestion was that potentially we would move some of our police departments into the building, but after touring their facility yesterday and seeing the amount of technology that is integrated into their space, it would be a major undertaking to transfer that into the new facility. Plus, you know, when the chief says that it's not the right fit, I take a lot of stock in that opinion.
 And I have other priorities for our reserve funds right now. I think we're gonna see a lot of other needs in our community coming up and investing in real estate that we don't need at this time is not really a wise decision. But ultimately it comes down to we need a vital downtown area and that includes making that space more for retail or restaurant space and not another dead office space that closes at five. So I am gonna vote against this resolution.
 Okay. Anybody else? Do we have a motion and a second? Yes, you need a motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 so moved second mr mayor if i may interrupt just for a second whenever you call for public comment you went through so quickly and as i was about to arrive why don't you address if you don't mind i would i would like to thank you i appreciate it my name is lorraine o'neill and i did go on the tour and it's a very impressive building my one concern was that they didn't really have any concrete information regarding the age of the roof or the condition of the roof and i guess you know i think i may have
 had the question in my mind. I'm not sure if I asked it outright, but I don't know what use the city would put that building to and the police chief did
 whenever posed the question as to whether or not that would be viable to put some sort of a Fly over or something there to connect the two and he didn't think that was a good idea at all I mean, I'm not trying to put words in his mouth Trust me, but that's what I observed during the tour and I don't think this would be a wise purchase It's a wonderful building, but it could be put to a better use in the city's funds could be put to a better use Thank you so much
 Okay, well is there anyone else would like to address this on this? Okay now I'm gonna break back to the council I think there is a motion and a second to pass it any final comments council. Yes out No, I really appreciated the intent of this resolution And I know that the intent of the resolution was to from the City Council to ask the administration to study To study it farther
 But I think we got a lot of really good information while we were on the tour. They talked about the basic price of the building. It ended up being a little bit more per square foot than originally we had thought. It's only 5,400 square feet instead of 6,000, so that upped the price per square foot a bit. But with the initial investment and the cost of retrofit, that information being presented to us, I just feel as though that we have enough information to make a decision with and
 There were just a lot of costs and things about the building that didn't fit what we need, I think. I do think that would be a great property to have for the City of Fayetteville in the future, but I'd like to leave our reserve funds where they are in this amount of money. So I'm not going to be supporting the resolution, but it's not because I didn't support the intent originally of it. Thank you both for your time you spent on this.
 Mayor, one thing that I am going to vote for it because I thought just in our brief discussion last week there were several good ideas that came up that the building could be used for. Not just the police department, if that's not a good fit for them that's fine, but
 As Alderman Kenyon has said, it is a connecting property, and there are a lot of good uses for that, as well as the 14 parking places behind the building. So I still see a lot of good uses for that building, and so I will not be voting to pass the resolution. Or I will be voting to pass the resolution.
 Just to support the reason I did this, again, publicly, I'll just say, due to the location of the property, it seemed valid to investigate the
 value to the city, both in the short run and in the long run. And so that's what was the intent of the resolution. And of course I will support that because I do think it was valid and is valid to look at the value in the short run and in the long run. It wasn't with immediate occupancy by the city for any urgent need. And I know that there is a concern of being a landlord in property, but it is a valuable property with the potential for
 generating income if it's managed properly. Some people would want to manage that, some people would not want to manage that. But that would also, we would have the deed of the property if there was a need sometime in the future, and I think that it is a property that will increase in value along the way. The location would also be ideal for a lot of ancillary services or
 retail and we've talked about that. If the city owned it, then it would have to be managed as a income producing property. So that was one of the angles that I was looking at when we were discussing is it a viable property that we would want to invest in now?
 Not in the short run that we're going to run over there and put parks and recreation in there, but in the long run, do we need the property or may we need the property? And, of course, the location since we own all the adjacent properties around it. So that was the thought behind why we needed more information, and I think we have gathered a lot of information. Thank you.
 Okay. Anything? Yes, Alan. I do have one question for the sponsors. The resolution is only asking the city administration to examine the possible purchase or acquisition, but on the tour they did mention leasing the facility. That's a very good point. Thank you. So my question, I guess, would be to the administration, if we were to lease the facility with an option to purchase after a number of years or first right of refusal, whatever
 What would we do with that and would we be able to cash flow the building on a rental basis without exposing ourselves to too much risk? Well, obviously we don't have the expertise actually to manage that. We would have to contract with somebody to look into managing it and marketing it. Of course, once you do that, they always assume the market risk. So if in fact we couldn't rent it or we couldn't rent it for the cost of it,
 That, of course, would be a bar to that or a risk that we would take on. As far as funding it, we would have to fund it out of reserve, just like we talked about before, at whatever we could negotiate for the purchase of the building. Is that a sufficient answer? I think so. I will refer to the language that we used was for purchase, not for lease. Anything else? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? March? No. Mann? Yes.
 Leter no long no right yes okay thank you all under new business number one
 A resolution to approve amendment number one to the contract Kester Consulting Incorporated in the amount of $39,980 for assistance with the design and implementation of a commercial food waste pilot program and a single stream recycling pilot program and to approve a budget adjustment. Good evening, Mayor, Council. I'm Jeff Coles with the Director of Recycling Trash Collection Division. The item before you.
 Being that contract amendment, as you mentioned, I will give a little back story here. I believe I can be brief. I will attempt to be clear. As you all know, the city and the Recycling and Trash Collection Division entered into a contract via resolution, a council resolution in September of last year with Kessler Consulting,
 to develop a 10-year master plan which became the waste reduction, diversion, and recycling master plan to increase and attain a four-fold increase in our waste diversion, which diversion being diverting from landfill, diverting waste from the landfill. During this process of months of working with Kessler and the consulting group,
 which, going back again, that was a rigorous process, a vetting process where we made that selection and selected them in particular because of their expertise. But there were a number of associated, many things associated in the scope of work that they have conducted to this point, and there are remaining items to continue with.
 But when we came to the, when the waste audit was conducted, that became the impetus for a lot of discussion and the proportionate amounts of certain elements in our waste stream that were not recovering. So then that effort or an effort to see what we could, what was available to us and the possible pursuit
 of at least some pilot elements, pilot programs, for food waste, commercial food waste, to integrate into our existing composting system and also a residential recycling pilot so that we could derive going forward, ultimately we could derive data, information that would tell us from a, that would tell us and then give you all information as to what options we have, what's viable,
 what we could possibly conduct, what we could potentially implement. And so, again, that's why this was brought forward, this contract amendment, for Kessler to assist us in these pilot programs, which would be very much boots on the ground as far as they're on their part. They have experts who would come and work with us, work with our people,
 directly and very intensively, but this was not in the original scope of work under the contract with Kester for the master plan. So again, that's against the contract amendment. So if there's anything, there be any question or anything that I might answer or discussion? Chair Greg Musil. Yes, you mentioned in your presentation a fourfold diversion rate.
 What is our current diversion rate? Approximately 20%. Okay, and four-fold would be 80%? That's correct, sir. I understand the philosophy of, you know, going to a single stream diversion rate with food waste from the university and as Alderwoman Marsh so amply described it, low hanging fruit. It would be sort of a no-brainer. I'd like to be able to vote for this, but I'm concerned that there may be a hook in this worm.
 I'm concerned about coercion of our citizens. To attain an 80% diversion rate, I'm not sure we can get there on a strictly voluntary basis. So before I can vote for a proposal like this that would obviously make a lot of sense, I want commitments from our council saying we're going to educate, we're going to persuade, but we will not coerce people to attain this four-fold diversion rate. I'm very concerned about that.
 I don't want to participate in the process if there really is a hook in that worm. So I'm just concerned about what road we're getting on here and where we're headed with it. I think this action is probably a good one, but if it's going to put me on a road that I'm going to regret later, I don't want to vote for it. You see my dilemma? I do.
 Well, again, speaking to your mention, you just mentioned the fact that this piloting, these pilot projects would be and could be valuable to us, and we believe they will be very valuable from the standpoint of the data that we would derive information and what we're able to do, what we're actually able to implement. Any questions? I need to move so we can get a motion and a second on this.
 Can we get that person who just had a question? Then I'll tell you what water sewer. Sure, absolutely. Yes, Al. I just had a question. Jeff, what MRFs or sorting facilities have we been in contact with and met with or are meeting with?
 Well, there are representatives here tonight with Harmon Recycling who we have talked with. Right. Just as a partner as far as this, a potential partner in this pilot program on the residential recycling. Harmon Recycling, would that be the only market that we would be in contact with for the single stream program? Because I know we've in the past always had at least two solid markets for recycling. That's going to be the—
 With respect to this particular instance or this effort, as far as initiating a pilot program, we've had a very positive response from them. There's not necessarily that potential with others, at least that I'm aware of, and that might possibly be out there. Okay.
 Okay. Well, I know that we had talked a little bit, and you had mentioned Georgia Pacific was one of the companies that they're building MRFs all around the country. And is that something that may be coming to this region? Well, we would— I know that they were toured, so I didn't know. Harmon Recycling is Georgia Pacific. Georgia Pacific. And they buy all of our paper products. Brian, you're this way.
 We do buy our food. They buy our food. Come on out, Brian. Don't be yelling back here. Mr. Knox. Brian Pugh, Waste Production Coordinator. Yes, they do buy mixed paper and some of our cardboard. Councilman, I do want to make a comment about processor versus commodity selling. You can have multiple places that you go to to push your commodity in terms of sale.
 that are outside your processor. Currently, we're the single processor, the city of our current recycling program, and yet Bryan markets to multiple markets to get the best price. So the part with this pilot is because obviously we don't wanna use the whole, if I understand Kessler's report, we don't wanna put the whole city on it and find out about it. It was a plan to use 1,000 households and to find a processor that would
 be willing to do that at a cost because obviously if we decided to go down this road, it would have to be a bidded process because of the dollars involved. So in that particular case, the processor would have to be selected and an RFP written to ensure the things that I know are important to our citizens and to our mayor. One of those are the technology of a processing center, the individuals used, the wages paid,
 cleanliness, contamination, residual aspects. We've been touring facilities, I believe, for the last four or five years and seen some very poor ones and also have seen some very good ones.
 In this particular item, it's identifying one processor before it was bitted. Okay. I guess I'll get back to my question with Brian or Jeff. So I know that in fall of 2012, the city collected a lot of 3-7 plastics, and that was because the person we were sending it to stopped taking it. And that's why I just don't want that to happen again. And so if we get involved with one facility who's taking our
 for lack of a better word, trash, because it's all mixed together, who's going to pick it up without that second contract? I understand that, sir. Really at this juncture, again, I go back to this effort to gain whatever knowledge we can, whatever data we can, via these pilot programs. Now as far as assurances contractually or otherwise and then that perpetuity, if you will, of a program.
 And these would be recyclables, collectively recyclable. So that would be a matter that I would imagine that would have to be vetted as far as the contractual obligation and securing from a financial standpoint, gaining assurances. Those are some things that I don't know at this point.
 I guess those are just things I wish we could find out. We're moving forward with a pilot where we're actually collecting materials. I don't know. I just think that more transparency in the process should be there as far as collection and where it's going. That's very important to me. Those will be things that we will be working on and invest time and effort into making determinations and finding out, getting that information. Is that information we could find out in two weeks or four weeks?
 as far as another processor there. We can attempt to do that, we will attempt to do that. And the Water and Sewer Committee chairs here, he might be able to answer. You're jumping ahead a little bit of the process. What we're talking about tonight, as a result of the audit, is we need to add another component to the Kessler study so we can answer those questions that you're asking tonight. We don't have the answers yet because it's part of the study that we've funded,
 And in order to have a more complete presentation to answer those questions that we all are concerned about,
 and to have a more complete picture, we need to include one more area to look at so we can have a more complete picture to answer those questions. This, what we're considering tonight was the result of the waste audit, which was already part of the process. And so by adding this to the data that Kessler is putting together, we'll have
 more information to make the decisions as we go forward to answer those questions that you have. We simply don't have those, we don't have that information. They don't have the information.
 We're paying to gather the information and what we're doing tonight is adding another element so that we have more complete data so that the answers can be more completely presented and we can understand the bigger picture.
 when we get the report from Kessler Consulting. So what we're considering tonight is adding something that we did not in our preliminary design of the consulting agreement have included in the project for Kessler. And it's very evident if you look at the waste audit that they did that one of the most
 One of the things that we have to look at and that's all this has done is looking at it in Order to reach our rather lofty goals is the value of diverting commercial food waste That's what we'll get out of this what we're voting on tonight And then it will be integrated into the larger study where we'll have a lot of information So that we can make determinations of how we need to move forward so tonight the discussion is on
 based on the waste audit, we know in order to meet the lofty goals that have been set by the City Council, we've got to look at the return on the investment and the value of including food waste in our complete program as we move forward. So that's what we're looking at tonight. And it's just as a result of the waste audit, which was one component of what we asked Kessler to do.
 I got up to say something and Alderman Kenyon pretty much summed up what I was going to
 Based on over a year ago when we brought up the 80% diversion as a lofty goal to look forward, what we've tried to do is evaluate this by hiring a consultant. Through those evaluations and what we've determined we needed or what we found from the food and the waste audit on what we were finding was potential other things that we could recycle.
 So what we're doing by bringing this forward is to try and gather as much information as possible so that we can answer all the questions and give you the best information possible when we come back and make a decision on how we go forward in the future. We feel like it's our due diligence to come forward with this plan to add this, to get that information.
 The processor that we're looking at now, we met with several groups. We met with Waste Management, with Mark, the other processor in the region. They don't really have—they pretty much indicated to us, Mark, that they did not have the capacity to take all of this. So in the meantime, Harmon, Georgia Pacific, gave us interest in doing that and working with us.
 and give us this option to come up with this evaluation in the short term. We're hoping 60 to 90 days will lead, once we initiate this, will lead us to have some understanding of what additional material we might be able to do. Our consultant has told us if we've,
 If we meet the goal of 80% and get to that, he says, based on true numbers, that will be the number one recycling city in the country. No matter what anybody else is saying, they do not exceed that because...
 They're not looking at the hard, true numbers we would be looking at. So we feel like this is a process to go through to get you that information so you can make the most informed decision before we go any different route than we're going now or decide that we want to go that because we feel like it will get us the closest to that 80% rate that you ask us to study. So that's where it is, and tonight we're just asking for permission to get that
 information to you that we feel like is important for you to make the most informed decision. Yes, sir. I guess, Mark, and I appreciated your comments. I wasn't trying to jump ahead, really. I'd already read the waste audit actually before it came to the committee.
 I hope that we've learned information from the pilot that the city did on its own in 2012. Because this isn't just about the commercial food waste program. This is also a single stream pilot recycling program. Those are just some initial comments. I know there's probably some people here who talk about it. Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this? Lettuce Tiffany from, I live at 105 North Willow Street in Fayetteville.
 Lots of thoughts came to my mind while I was listening to the discussion and some questions. For one thing, I really had some concerns about a shift in the focus that we're doing with our recycle program. I think it needs to be strengthened. I appreciate the opportunity to increase the diversion rate.
 I'm really concerned though that we have enough accountability that we can say that we know that what's being diverted is actually being diverted to recycling and not being diverted because I'm sure people are aware that there's a number of stories out about haulers who are not being entirely accountable with what they're doing with what they pick up.
 So considering that really carefully, and I'm really curious to know if, because my reading of the contract with Kessler kind of indicated that this was a test, this was a pilot that was testing the efficiency and the low cost of single stream.
 And I wonder if there's other... Is there also anything that's asking questions about dual stream? And dual stream is, you know, it's kind of a mid...
 way to think about that, that I'm sure other people here will know a lot more than I do, but I think if we do this study and the pilot project shows that yes, single stream is cheaper and more efficient, are we stuck with that then? Are there ways that we could actually rethink other options even after, if this pilot study proves what it says it's going to prove, that may not necessarily be the best thing for the city.
 So that's the question, you know, whether dual stream has actually been considered. I do not know the answer to that question. Jeff, did you all look at dual stream?
 Well, that has been, this dual screen has been discussed. I wanted to speak specifically to the issue or the matter of are we stuck with, I mean, if we conduct these pilot programs, are we stuck with, are we then forever encumbered? And that would not necessarily, that would not be the case. With existing personnel and equipment that we do now have, that is our intent to move forward with these pilot programs.
 So, it would not be something necessarily if we found, if whatever was determined, it was not a viable means or we were not unable to achieve the results that we were expecting, then no, we would not, again, we would not be able to, we're anchored to that, by that. Which would be a council action at the end of the day. All right. What other public comment do we have? Brian Alexander, Fox Center Road.
 I wanted to say to you the reason that I'm even speaking to recycling is because I've got 45 years behind me in the grassroots area of recycling. I've also attended numerous state, I was on the State Recycling Coalition Board. I've been on the board of Ozark Recycling Enterprise, and I've traveled to national conferences from coast to coast.
 over the last 45 years. So I come to you not as a complete novice to recycling. And considering the pilot programs, I don't have any problem with the food waste whatsoever. I've also been involved in educational efforts to teach people about composting on a personal level.
 once lived in a town that was initiating citywide composting. However, I have things that keep recurring in my mind that reminds me of sayings we've heard all our lives. Watch what you wish for. We wished for 80 percent, and we tasked the consultants to come up with how we do that. And really, that led me to another thing that goes around in your head.
 Know your head from a hole in the ground. I remember what something my mother used to say. Well, the holes in the ground we've got right now are landfills, are ash fills. And we've got to have the expertise to know that those techniques are terrible for the environment and for our health. And so if we watch what we wish for and we know our heads from the hole in the ground,
 We have to decide what goals we're going to set. And this has been the problem, I think, from the get-go about hiring consultants, is that as a city and as a culture and as a society, we have not said that our goal is to save resources versus making it as convenient as possible for us to get rid of stuff we don't want.
 If we would, as a community, commit to our value of saving resources, then we would be directing our programs to that. If we are simply tasking folks like Jeff and Brian to get rid of it for us, which has been the whole impetus of what they have presented to you for consultants, suggestions, and pilot programs.
 They have not included, as far as I can tell, a pilot program for extensive value research of what the community wants, or research on the educational techniques to get there. The other thing that goes around in my head is we told you so. I sat back there on that side of this room 25 years ago and told the...
 public works director, that his idea for recycling bins that were bright, razorback red was horrible because we could turn down a street in Fayetteville and see nothing but red bins. How terrible that would be. And then we began to progress from there through recycling festivals, and we...
 We did a whole grassroots educational thing to try to get us to the point of having a recycling program in Fayetteville. So that's 25 years ago in this room. So that told you so stuff. We now have a drop-off named for Marion Orton. May she rest in peace. And even before Marion, people were trying to get recycling in this town. And they told us.
 value the resource. They broke their backs hauling newspapers and cans and glass to wherever they could just individually volunteering to save those resources. But what they learned was that quality equals marketability and if you don't have the quality
 what you're trying to sell is no different than going to a garage sale and somebody's just poured their garbage can out in front of you and they're expecting you to pick through it and buy something and that's exactly what we're up against with single stream and that's what the years and years of experience of putting together all these citizen efforts has brought an institutional memory to some of us to tell you that in
 What you're suggesting for a pilot on single stream, I'm not talking about food waste, I'm just talking about single stream, is going directly against what we have learned all these decades. I don't care how much technology has been invented to put stuff on a conveyor belt and blow it off, and the lightweight stuff goes here, and the cans go there, and the glass goes there. Those cost millions and millions of dollars. We also said...
 And this is where y'all got it. I want you to remember this. Never try to market something if you don't have two markets for it. That came out of the grassroots. That came out of the citizenry learning that. We also said, don't sell something like three through seven to an industry that has not proven itself. We also said, get it right the first time. Because if you have to change, once you've tried to create a habit and get a direction out of the citizenry,
 to try to change their direction and their habit is like trying to take a steering wheel to a freight train. You just can't quickly change. And so 1,000 households might be exposed to single stream and love it so much that they'll never want to change back. So I'd rather have it be that small amount than citywide agreed. But watch what you ask for.
 Because you're asking people to be acclimated to a habit that is not a good habit. It's almost like saying...
 Try these cigarettes. Remember, most of y'all are too young, we used to get on an airplane and there were four little cigarettes in a real narrow little box. Try them. You might like them. Well, that's exactly what we're getting into with Single Stream. Because it's taking away the responsibility that people have of their own generation, of their own waste. And one of the things that we have done in this town is allow...
 college housing to be developed by the hundreds and maybe thousands of units to the point where I think there are more of them than there are single-family homes in Fayetteville now. And we have not required that each one of those facilities has got this waste separation and waste pickup or trash pickup or recycle pickup spots so that people have to go and be responsible for what they're creating.
 and they've got a place to put it. It's no different than building all those buildings, those gigantic buildings with no bathrooms. You have created something that makes it impossible for people to behave correctly. So it's very hard to educate somebody to something that they don't have access to.
 So that's another part of getting it right the first time. Jeff here and I have talked about this. He says, you know, in fast food places, we get up, we take our tray, we dump it in the thing, we put this over here and that over there. We're habituated to behaving correctly in fast food places. Why can't we be in our own homes? And then I always remember my mom saying when I wanted to do something that she didn't want me to do, and I said, everybody else is doing it.
 And that's what we're being told in the solid waste field. Everybody else is going to single stream. So you need to get on board and do it too. And of course my mother used to say, if everybody was jumping off a cliff, you can jump off a cliff too. And that's what we're doing if we get into the single stream. You get a toe in the door and it proves that it's just great and everybody's gonna participate and we're gonna get to that 80%, we're jumping off a cliff because we're losing quality. And when you lose quality, you lose market.
 And I really would like to have us keep in mind that we need to set the goal according to what our society wants. We should either say, yes, we want to preserve resources, and this is what we're going to do to get there, or we just want to get rid of it. Waste not, want not. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, council. My name is Rob Moore. I'm here on behalf of the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District. That's the regional solid waste management district that represents Washington and Madison County, of which Mayor Jordan is one of our board members. It is imperative from us as a regional standpoint that you all understand that Fayetteville is very much looked at as a beacon throughout this process. You all are the first city within our district to put money behind this. You've already spent about $200,000 on Kessler Consulting.
 You are halfway through the process of gathering data, which will not just be used for the city of Fayetteville, but is literally the best and basically first real localized recycling data that we have. It's far more extensive than the Beck study that was done before, and we are following this extremely closely and are very, very interested in what comes of this.
 I think it's really, really important to realize how necessary it is to get localized data and that these pilot projects are specifically for the purpose of gathering that data. I would be bummed, to be honest, if we got this far and then didn't get to see the rest of this data. I think there's a couple of things that do need to be dissected. I'll be extremely brief with this. Alderman Long specifically mentioned multiple markets and the issue with multiple markets.
 Effectively, with 3-7s in the markets, Fayetteville serves as its own MRF, so they market their own recyclables. For a pilot project like this, as best I understand it, you all can correct me if I'm wrong, you would be moving through, let's say, Harmon. They are their own MRF. That's not a single market. That is access to all of their national markets.
 So it is as though you're bringing it to them and saying, you do what we've been doing and show us how it goes. It's not as though they are one single market handling threes through sevens, they would be processing, bailing and then remarketing those. So it's important to realize that there are multiple markets available there. As a matter of fact, if you're dealing with Harman, you're dealing with one of the largest market bases in the country.
 Specifically when we talk about quality and marketability, as Fran is very poignant to point out, I would strongly recommend that the council do as much research as they possibly can on current data regarding single stream recycling, dual stream recycling, curb sort recycling. This information is available. Part of the reason you paid so much money previously,
 to Kessler Consulting was to gather this information for you. I think with a localized pilot, that data coupled with national studies, other case studies coming from cities that are very similar to this, you could gather an incredibly accurate understanding of the industry. There
 I've been in this industry for about three years. It is infinitely confusing and infinitely complex, and I understand that the council has a whole lot on their plate. But I strongly, strongly encourage council members to educate themselves above and beyond just city council meetings. Come to Environmental Action Committee meetings. We're dealing with this constantly there.
 Talk to your local waste haulers, in this case Brian and Jeff. Come talk to myself and Robin out at the waste district. These things are not as simple as they seem. Once we get into sorting, and Fran's absolutely right, this is not just a matter of technology. There are hands involved with single-stream recycling, lots of them, with dual-stream recycling, lots of them, and with curbsort. So I just highly, highly encourage the council to...
 Approach this as an educational opportunity to remember that this pilot is gathering data and to remember that that data is relevant Not only to the city of Fayetteville But incredibly relevant to our region which at least at this time as a region is very much looking to Fayetteville And it would be disappointing if Fayetteville decided halfway through Now two hundred thousand dollar investment to not gather all of the relevant information necessary. Thank you All right
 I'm Marilyn Braswell, and I just come as a concerned citizen. I haven't been in this for 45 years, but my concern is that I love to recycle. And when I put my recycling out at that curb, I want to know that it's all going to be recycled.
 And if it all goes in one container, it's too easy just to dump a whole bunch of stuff in that one container. And when the Coke stuff spills out on the paper, the paper sticks together and as somebody said the quality goes down. And then that part of the load or trash is not recyclable and so where does it go? We think it's recycled but where does it really go? It's not quality anymore so where does it go? So my concern is that.
 When I put my stuff out on the curb, I want to know that all of that stuff is recycled. And some of it is not just put on this big thing with a whole bunch of other crap and gets, well, dirty, messed up, whatever you want to say. And it cannot be recycled. So what does it end? So we end up going to the dump. And we think it's going to be recycled. That's my main concern as a citizen of Fayetteville. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This is a program. My name is Lorraine O'Neill, 3001 West Weddington. And this is a subject that I have been very keenly aware of for many years and have attended many programs educating me. I've attended some of their presentations. And I think single stream is a very good idea. I know it's complicated in the sorting process.
 There's a lot of money invested in it already, and the more information you have, the better decision you can make. But at some point, you've got to say, let's do it. We've got way too much money in this now, spending more money on consulting and studying and this and that and the other is sometimes the only way you're going to know how something turns out is to do it. Because once you begin the process, the dynamics change.
 And I think that it would be a very good thing to move forward on this without, you know, trying to bog it down with more information because at some point the information becomes so overwhelming that you cannot make sense of it. So I think it would be a good idea to move forward with this. Thank you.
 Good evening, I'm Dana Smith at 2832 North Centerwood. So I'm a resident but I also work for Fayetteville Public Schools as their environmental education coordinator, formerly sustainability coordinator.
 I wanted to speak briefly about waste within the school district because it is a large part of our community and part of what we are dealing with here. To share a little bit of information with you, the school district currently has a 30% waste diversion rate. All of our schools do recycle. We have done some waste audits within our school district and we recognize that food waste is a problem.
 one of if not the largest component of our remaining waste stream that is currently going to the landfill so we feel that addressing that food waste is going to be
 an important issue, not only to address it, but also to educate our students about this whole process of recycling and waste reduction as well. So for this measure, approving this pilot program is something that I think would be very beneficial to give us
 like rob was saying to give us that necessary data to make informed decisions in the future and the school district definitely is behind that we do pilot programs for a lot of different things and we are especially excited about this food waste pilot and would love to participate in it as well uh... to get our students engaged in this can i ask you a question what is the public school i mean are you all doing single stream or
 We participate currently with the city's recycling. So we work closely with the city of Fayetteville and follow. We have dumpsters at all of our schools for paper and for cardboard, for plastics and aluminum cans. We follow the commercial recycling. We have a five-bin limit.
 at our schools for collection of those items. And that actually is a limiting factor for our high school and junior highs especially. We produce much more plastic and aluminum cans than those five bins allow us. So we are actually taking those items to the recycling facility. So also would love to explore other options within the recycling to help address the efficiency that is needed to make that a successful program.
 thank you thank you i'm louise mann i own two acres and a cottage on gray avenue it's for sale can i describe it now lionel or do you want me to get back to garbage i'll give the website later oh i'm wearing my five gyre t-shirt the five gyre institute is out in california and they study a plastic waste in the ocean
 And they've done a study where they went 1,200 miles. Y'all have heard about the five gyres, the big plastic things, the size of football. Well, actually, it's not the size of a football field. They did a 1,200-mile sail, and they scooped water, and they scooped water, and they scooped water. And what they have found is rather than having big puddles of plastic that could just be scooped up,
 It's miniscule. I mean, it's micro, you know what I'm talking about, Matt. It's all over the ocean. So while it's good that we recycle plastic, it'd be better if we would reduce our use of it, because it's ending up in the ocean, it ends up in the seafood that we're eating, and it's a mess. I got about six points I need to make. I want to share with you a Kodak moment. Some of y'all are old enough to remember that camera company.
 In the last century, way back when I first got in the waste reduction business 25 years ago, I was having breakfast with a Kodak representative.
 And I was fussing at him over the disposable camera, because here we were trying to recycle and reduce. And he was telling me, well, Louise, there are parts of the camera that you can recycle. And I was saying, well, you know. Anyway, he gave me a nugget of wisdom that influenced my entire career. He said, Louise, as long as the consumer buys it, we'll produce it.
 And I learned the power of the consumer in either reducing the waste stream or adding to it. I want to applaud you for looking at the food waste and doing a commercial composting project. I'm so thrilled to hear you're doing that because food waste is such a large component of the waste stream. And I can certainly understand how people would think single stream is a magic bullet.
 When I came back to Arkansas in 1993, I think I feel his ghost around. Phil Frederick's EarthCare. I walked into the solid waste meeting, solid waste district meeting, and Phil was showing a video
 And this sofa, Kit may remember this, this sofa was being thrown into a grinder. Steel, foam, textiles, and it was all gonna be composted. And everybody was sitting around the table going, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, because they didn't want to put another landfill out on Hobbs Mountain. So we were looking for a magic bullet.
 There was a feisty little redhead from upstate New York, Susan Hubbard, and for three years she stood up and spoke out against dirty MRFs. A dirty MRF is when you put the garbage on an assembly line and people get to pick through the poopy baby diapers, you use Kotex condoms, kitty litter, etc., and pull out the recyclables. We had one in South Arkansas.
 And when some of us spoke against it, we were called negative and unprogressive because it was going to be convenient. I got a call about six months after that dirty MRF opened from a young woman at DEQ, and she said, Louise, I apologize for calling you negative. A friend of mine needed a job and worked on that sort line. She got stuck by a needle. She's got to go through six months of AIDS testing, and she's scared to death.
 Even when recycling is done well, it is dirty, nasty business. As an educator, I've made it a point to get on the sort line. I used to go over to Madison County and invite all of you to go get on a sort line. I used to get on the sort line at Madison County. It's a dual stream setup and it was pretty gross. But I can understand if you haven't ever been on the sort line how you think it's the magic bullet.
 I'm sorry to bore you by reading to you, but I have to because there's new news about single string in major publications. And if I may, I'd love to leave that information with Sondra to give to council members who are interested in reading articles, recent articles from the Washington Post, from the Wall Street Journal, from National Public Radio. Thank you.
 Here's a quote from June the 6th of this year from the waste management CEO. What he says about single stream is, we screwed up. So let me read to you about that. This is from Resource Recycling. This was taken, this article was done by Bobby Elliott, and this was down at Waste Expo. Waste Expo is the big recycling conference that's held annually for the haulers.
 Leaders at four of the country's largest waste management companies told attendees at last week's Waste Expo that it's the single stream, high volume, residential stream that's completely broken. That's David Steiner, CEO of Waste Management. His quote, we all screwed it up.
 The executive said low recycling fees and prevalent revenue sharing with communities fails to account for today's increasing processing costs associated with single-string programs and falling recycling commodity pricing. The processing costs are going up. Well, let me show you something.
 We might need a rocket scientist to explain this to us. Here's Fayetteville's current curbsort program. Everything's segregated. You don't find dead dogs or cats. They had a cat on the Harrison single stream line, I understand. I think they found body parts up in New England. Here's single stream. Can we figure out why the processing costs are up? Once you start asking machines to do what people could do,
 you're increasing your carbon footprint. I think we can make this more cost-effective, and if we get citizens engaged. I also want to read to you from, let's see, oh, this one's the Washington Post. American recycling is stalling, and the Big Blue Bin is one reason why. The Big Blue Bin is, I mean, a single stream. This is from June the 20th, 2015.
 Once a profitable business for cities and private employers alike, recycling in recent years has become a money-sucking enterprise. The district, meaning Washington, D.C. district, the district Baltimore and many counties in between are contributing millions annually to prop up one of the nation's busiest facilities here in Elkridge, Maryland. But it's still losing money.
 In fact, almost every facility like it in the country is running in the red. And waste management and other recyclers say that more than 2,000 municipalities are paying to dispose of their recyclables instead of the other way around. The Houston-based company, Waste Management, their recycling division posted a loss the first quarter of 2015 of nearly $16 million.
 In recent months, it has shut nearly one in ten of its biggest recycling facilities, and an even larger percentage of its plants may go dark in the next 12 months. The problems of recycling in America are both global and local. A storm of falling oil prices, a strong dollar, and a weakened economy in China have sent prices for American recyclables plummeting worldwide. Trying to encourage conservation
 Progressive lawmakers and environmentalists have made matters worse. By pushing to increase recycling rates with bigger bins, while demanding almost no sorting by consumers, the recycling stream has become increasingly polluted and less valuable, imperiling the economics of the whole system.
 We kind of got everybody thinking that recycling was free, said Bill Moore, a leading industry consultant on paper recycling. He's based in Atlanta. It's never really been free, and in fact, it's getting more expensive. Then they go ahead to list some problems with single string. Many of the problems facing the industry can be traced to the single string program. And that old saying that if it sounds too good to be true, it just might be.
 Anyone who has ever tossed a can into a bin knows that's what's supposed to happen. Anything recyclable can go in. And then somehow, magically, it's sorted and separated. We got into this single stream thing. They go on to say advocates believe that was the only way to increase participation in recycling programs. As someone who has been the coordinator of the design, the construction, and the continuing education program,
 And I've never seen a continuing education program like the one I was involved in 25 years ago, but You can get people to do more if they're committed and people don't get committed until they get educated And I'm not talking about an Earth Day event or a brochure or showing up after the test in April I'm talking about real education where people have a deep understanding But they thought single-stream was going to be the answer so it goes on to talk about how I
 once these facilities were built, that all of a sudden glass was getting into the belts. And you all may have been on that National Recycling Coalition webinar in February, in which the plastics buyer from out in California said, because people were saying, oh the technology's improved, the technology's improved, the machines can do it. And Melinda Jacobson from Envision Plastics said,
 No, the machines can't get it. She said, we just rejected seven huge loads from a major MRF because of contamination. We need more human eyes on the line. Today, more than a third of all glass sent to recycling facilities ends up crushed. It is trucked to landfills as daily cover to bury the smell and trap gases. The rest has almost no value to recyclers and can often cost them to haul away.
 The problem of contamination has spread beyond glass. The problem has been exacerbated when municipalities began increasing the size of their bins, believing that bigger was better to keep more material from the landfills. Consumers have indeed been filling the bins, but with as much garbage as recyclable material. I guess we could have recycling police checking everybody's bin to be sure they're recycling correctly.
 Residents have also begun experimenting, perhaps with good intentions, tossing into recycling bins almost anything, rubber, metal or plastic, garden hoses, clothes hangers, shopping bags, shoes, Christmas lights. I was in a MRF down in Tennessee and it was stopped that day because, and the guy told me, he said, people throw garden hose in every day and it gets wrapped around our things and stops the whole process.
 But back to the DC project, what's happened in Washington, DC, they said that this increase in garbage, because you know on the single stream, nobody's checking the bin, and they can't check every bin. It's automated, so nobody knows what's going in there until it hits the sort line. So of course, duh, there's a bunch of garbage in there.
 So they said this has driven up the city's processing price for recyclables to almost $63 a ton, a 24% higher than if it had all been trucked to the landfill. The D.C. Council recently approved a payment of $1.2 million to Waste Management for that contract year that ended in May.
 In 2011, the city made a profit of $389,000. A large part of the problem for recyclers is falling global community prices.
 Brian can tell you all about this. It gets real interesting about what used to be real popular recycling and what things have gone down. One thing that's going up, they said there's an increase in cardboard because of all the online purchasing. I think that's kind of interesting. Used to, we could kind of follow what was happening in housing because newsprint was used for insulation. So you knew when the housing market was doing better because there was an increased demand for newspaper.
 But with less demand, you know, a lot of this used to go to China. And then y'all may be familiar with the concept of the green fence. First, when single stream was so hot and heavy, before waste management and others started losing all this money, stuff would get shipped to China. Well, some colleagues told me about being in a conference down in Florida
 and the Chinese fellow would not speak English, but he pointed his finger at the audience and said, quit sending your garbage to China. They don't want to take our single stream stuff anymore. They realize that it's real contaminated.
 Last week in Eldridge, an inspector from a Chinese company studied bales of paper being loaded into shipping containers bound for the port of Baltimore and eventually Asia. If the inspector found more than five non-paper items protruding from any one side of the bale, it was rejected, forcing workers to break down the material and send it all back through the processing facility. That's not free when they have to do that.
 The lightweight vacuum packs for food and paper-thin plastic bottles are also a part of the problem. They are so light they get blown upward and in with the paper. Brent Bell, Waste Management's Vice President for Recycling, said the company has yet to see municipalities abandon recycling and the company is maintaining its ability to recycle whatever cities send their way, but it is downsizing its operation expecting little increase in recycling rates.
 Last week the EPA announced a nationwide tally for recycling in 2013 that showed overall recycling had contracted for a second straight year to 34.3% of the waste stream.
 With those trends, this is the important part because you know, y'all need to hear this. With those trends, Bell said the company, Waste Management, is beginning tough discussions with cities about what it sees as long-term economic reality. Cities must bear more of the financial impact of falling commodity prices. That's the only way, Bell said, for companies like his to invest in the business.
 Then the CEO, Steiner, said, we want to help our customers, but we are a for-profit business. We won't stay in this industry if we're not making a profit. So what I want to ask y'all to please consider doing...
 Lionel will fuss at me if I cuss, so I won't. But I have some feelings about single stream. I'll tell you later, Lionel. What I want to encourage the council to do is please maintain control of your resource stream so that it does not become a waste stream.
 Colleagues I've got working at Walmart, they don't call it a waste stream. They call it a resource stream. And by golly, you better believe those associates are taught how to keep that stuff separate and clean so that Walmart can get some money for that material. I want to ask you to slow down a little bit.
 Instead of doing a pilot on single stream, why don't you consider a pilot on dual stream? Dual stream you could have your fibers in one side, your containers in the other, minus your glass. The glass is just really, really, really a problem. I'd love to see us encourage the Green Committee over at the Chamber to find some uses of glass right here so it's not being transported. Every time we're transporting stuff out of here, we're increasing the carbon footprint.
 If you go up to the Bella Vista Recycling Center, that quarter-mile entrance is made of glass fault, and that company was in Missouri. I don't know if they still exist, and the boys up there tell me that when it snows, boy, that stuff just melts so fast, and you can see the kind of shiny particles in it.
 By the way, the Bella Vista program is an all-volunteer program, and instead of costing their community, they have been able to donate back over $5 million over the years. Citizens come in and work, and whatever organization you're working for, I went up and...
 Help pull the covers off books with the choral group. And you get credit for your group, and then at the end of the year, you get some money. You get grant money. And why I love that is because citizens get some hands-on experience. They get a better understanding of contamination. And the community gets to have some money spread around.
 I want to invite y'all to a trash class that's going to be held at Fayetteville Public Library on August 13. I'll be Skyping in some people from around the country, people who were proponents of single stream, and now that they have seen the results, they're kind of like waste management. They realize that we might want to expand our thinking a bit rather than jumping into that.
 And thank you so much for doing that. I think the food composting pile is a great idea. Thank you for that. And I want to close by inviting you all to head on over to Madison County and get on the sort line. Thank you, Louise. Yes, Mark. We've talked a lot tonight about single stream versus dual stream, and I would like to refer to the RFP
 and our study is much broader than that. So I'm going to just say a baseline operational assessment of the current system, okay, we're assessing it. We want to know what the value of it is. A waste audit and litter composition study with an option to partner with the university to assess their solid waste generation and composition. They're one of the largest entities where we collect
 trash, an analysis of waste reduction and diversion options, so we're looking at options, recovery scenarios, modeling and financial evaluation, and this will be a broader aspect of how we can compare the data to other trends, policy recommendations, development of the final solid waste master plan and a master plan project coordination community input
 We will have community input. And we got a lot of it tonight from some of my heroes. I love you. You two right there. I mean, they brought it to our city, and they're great. And then we'll have a final presentation where we can come up with conclusions. But let's not just think that...
 Sarah and I and Mr. Latour and Mr. Schottmeyer, who are on the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee, are only looking at single stream options. We are looking at a very broad array of options
 And we're going to get that vision that has been presented to me as I have grown to love this city. So I just kind of wanted to reassure y'all, we are not just looking at a single stream. All right? Got it? Thanks. Okay. My name is Kim Johnson, and I'm a director with Chartwell's Dining Services at the University of Arkansas. And so I'm appreciating what you just said, Mr. Kenyon.
 I just wanted to echo what the young woman with Fayetteville Public Schools had to say about the importance of diverting food waste from the landfill. I mean, we feel so strongly as a company about that. We are definitely aligned with our partners at the university on trying to achieve a zero-waste campus by 2020.
 food waste is a huge part of that and we're so excited that we have been able to be a part of discussions with the city on this pilot program and that that just is it's just really a great thing and that's really what I wanted to say I wanted to make sure that that was still top of mind and thank you to chart Wells for being so kind to let us out
 utilize your garbage, your trash, your collection? Sure. We're doing other things on the campus to reduce food waste. We're partnering with Razorback Recycling to actually
 distribute unserved food to not only our own campus pantry, but then also to agencies within the city of Fayetteville as well. So we're looking at all ways that we can reduce that. And the food waste right now in the pilot program is production waste. We hope to achieve a post-consumer at some point. That would be huge. We serve a little over 1.3 million meals a year on campus. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I'm Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive. I didn't come here on this issue tonight, but I do strongly support the city's efforts at recycling. I would gladly support anything that would send more garbage to Red China. I'm a pilot based in Minneapolis. They have just switched, or within the last year or two, they've switched to this single
 And it's changed people's attitudes somewhat. Those who don't want to be bothered recycling now have an excuse not to recycle. So I'm going to keep this remark real short. I don't know about the technology. I don't know about the economics of it. But I have studied World War II a lot. In World War II, the American people were asked to save scrap metal. And they did that.
 When you read back now in history, I mean my parents were a part of that. My father was in the service, but my mother tells me about rationing, but also saving metals, scrap metals. When you read history now, you find that it really didn't gain much for the war effort. The amount of metal they collected was inconsequential.
 It's just like glass. 70% I think of the Earth's crust is silica, or at least it's the most common element in the Earth's crust. So saving glass doesn't amount to much. But the reason our leaders did that in World War II was not so much that they were getting metals that they needed and couldn't get elsewhere, but that they kept the home population involved and invested in the war effort.
 And I think it does change the way people think about recycling. I know we recycle. When they come and pick up the little square bin with the recycling materials, I can have a type 1 PET, but if it's a square box, they won't take it. They'll only take the round bottles. Why? I don't know. It's the same plastic. But when you have eyes...
 the process starting with citizens like me I think it helps and I think it keeps the citizen involved in the process and it keeps the citizen involved in thinking about the future Material the materials he's bringing into his home and buying that are going to become Potential landfill or recycling so I would just ask you all to keep that in
 historical note in mind that there may be a value in keeping the citizens involved in the process thank you I'm garnet wise 31 90 North Cheryl or for an appointed industry rep on the city's environmental action committee
 and after about 20 years in environmental regulatory compliance, the past five years I've been working in recycling and diversion specifically. First I wanted to just,
 say that I, you know, how much I support the ongoing study with Kessler. And as Alderman Kenyon said, you know, the ongoing study already is going to provide you guys with tons of data on current program and how far it can take the city versus what the next steps would be to achieve the goal. And I want to also, you know, applaud the city taking the leadership stance that's 80% goal. You know, it's phenomenal.
 And it's going to be challenging. And I think Kessler's report will tell you how challenging that's going to be. It's going to take everything. I mean, they've already given preliminary results. But it's going to take everything that you've got
 not just commodity recycling and not just composting, but construction demolition debris, you know, commercial, residential, everything in between, industrial. It's going to be a big deal, but I applaud the city for taking the leadership stance, and I think that's awesome. So I fully support that. And I'm here to speak in support of the resolution to do the amendment to further the agreement with Kessler.
 I don't know how I can address everything that was brought up earlier, but I think the value of the Continuing the study is just more site-specific data You know, there's tons of industry data out there East Coast West Coast, you know places that have Multiple bin systems, you know recycling trash organics Some work better than others Still have you know contamination? and
 80%, again, I can't say enough how that's going to be a challenge. So site-specific data, I think, is the key for the organics and for curbside recycling. And I think that's the value that continuing the study will provide you beyond what they're already going to provide you. Thank you.
 A few things, I guess, just to illustrate, you know, the site-specific, the importance. It was brought up, you know, number one, number two bottles, for example. Fayetteville currently takes ones and twos with the neck smaller than the bottle because it's a certain grade of number one and two for blow molding, where, you know, a few miles away they might take other number ones and other number twos. And so I think this study is going to help, you know,
 show pros and cons. Can we take more ones and twos or only certain high quality grades? Those are the kind of things that you need more data on. And again, not to get off in the weeds too much, but to get the 80% diversion, it's going to take everything you got. So I think, I would presume it's going to take more than
 low-grade, you know, bottles, 1s and 2s. Probably going to take every 1 and 2. Probably going to take all the 3-7s, which are the nasty stuff that very few people want. It's very low-grade. I shouldn't say that. Low value, typically. But that's part of the challenge, you know. So we need to know the data. We need to study that and see, you know, what's out there and what's it going to take.
 The collection challenges and opportunities are going to be different, and Kessler knows that, and that's part of what this study is going to help determine what's it going to take to collect this stuff because it's going to be completely different to get to 80% than it is to do what the city is doing now. Whether it's single stream or not, it's going to—
 It's going to have to ramp up, you know, phenomenally. So I think that's part of what the study is going to help determine is the collection process and efficiencies and opportunities. Same way with organics. We have to figure out how the city is going to collect that. You know, new containers, new trucks, you know, they'll help determine that. So I think the study is valuable for that reason because organics are huge. As Dana Smith mentioned...
 The schools, I was involved a few years ago, three or four years ago, when we did a pilot at the Butterfield Trail Elementary, and since then they've done additional studies in the school district with Dana's help. And we did a cafeteria audit, and, you know, it was like 30, 35 percent of the school's waste was cafeteria. So, yeah, the organics is huge. And I think that carries through the other schools and the—
 Not to mention restaurants and commercial producers. So again, the data is going to be critically important to figure out how to wrangle all this stuff. And where is it going to go? The city, part of the organics study will be to try, I don't remember the acronym, but to try a different technique for
 for composting with an inoculant so they need to test that out to see if it truly can speed up the composting to allow the current operation to handle more volume without odor so we need to do a pilot to figure all that out um the uh just a moment y'all please turn off your cell phones if you would thank you yes go on thanks
 I do want to mention a few things that I think Kessler is already going to include probably in their study, and that is, it's been mentioned about cost. The single stream or other dual stream, other source separated at the curb, there's costs associated with all those and there's values associated with all those.
 to get the volume that the city wants and the goal the city has set, it's going to take an effort above and beyond what the current curb-sorted system can handle. And so with the increased volume capacity,
 is going to come challenges. The company I work for has single-string facilities, and I guarantee you they do not like contamination. And this man is correct. The costs are high, processing costs. As automated as you can make it, it's still a challenge, and it still takes people to sort out the contamination.
 And the psychology is something that I don't understand and I think that's, you know, that comes back to education, trying to get people not to put the dirty diapers in their, you know, in their recycling. Those kind of challenges are going to be out there and are going to need to be dealt with in any case. And the landfill option is probably always going to be cheaper, but
 I applaud the city's leadership again because we don't want to take the easy way out. I mean, we could landfill all this stuff and be cheaper than ramping up the recycling program, but that's not what we want. So it's going to come with costs and challenges, and I think the study is valuable to help us get there the most cost-effectively as we possibly can. I...
 I guess that's what I need to close with is just that the existing study is going to provide a lot of data And it's going to have the elements like what education is going to be needed public education things like that, but I think this Expansion of the study will help with more site-specific data for recycling and for organics that are going to be critical to Coming up with proposal to get you to your goal that you said. Thank you. Thank you Okay
 Good evening, John Coleman, Ward 2. I just wanted to say, first of all, I'm encouraged that the city's leadership put this 80% number out there. I think it's a bold goal, as has been described all evening. But I think we should be bold in this endeavor. It also represents a long-term commitment from the city towards this measure. I don't think anybody that's knowledgeable of this situation believes that we're going to achieve 80% within the next two or three years. It's going to be a long-term process.
 My understanding of this proposal that's put before you is that it's trying to address two immediate items that are in front of us. One, food waste, which is a large percentage of the resource stream that we're currently not collecting. So that's obviously an encouraging step and an immediate step, and then single stream,
 to try to address the volume issue. We have a large volume within our resource stream that currently goes to landfill, is recyclable and we're not collecting that. I think that it's responsible step to at least try this. It's something that is being done all over the country. It's one of the more popular technologies if not the most popular technology to try to address
 large volume recycling. So I think we should try this on a local level and see what it represents for us as a community. So I'm in support of it. I've been studying this issue for the last decade or so, not quite to the degree of Ms. Alexander or Ms. Mann, but I'm relatively knowledgeable of the subject and I think these are appropriate steps in the short term to take.
 I'm also excited that we're looking at waste reduction and some of these other options that are out there, things that we're going to have to do in order to get to 80%. But this proposal and its immediacy, I think, is the right step to start. Thank you. Thank you, Jim. Okay. Who else? Aubrey Shepard, South Duncan Avenue. Our house, we usually have four bins out, so things get complicated.
 get there pretty clean and the guys pull them out nicely and all that. I agree that we really have to do something about food waste. Many people have the luxury of throwing it out in the yard and watching the crows and the fox and the rabbits and things clean it up. Not everybody does in the city. So maybe we do need that study help from this corporation. I don't think we need to discuss single stream again all these years. I think we need to
 just ignore that part of it louise brought in a few documents and what she said and showed you with those documents is accurate single stream will never in my lifetime and even the youngest up there i think the the way it goes okay thank you thank you all who else would like to address us on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 Mr. Mayor? Yes. I had a question. They said their representative from Harmon was here. I think it'd be good to use their time. Okay. I have a couple questions if they're here. All right. Good evening. My name is Chuck Schmidt. I'm with GP Harmon. Hi there. Thank you. I just had a couple questions. So if a single stream pilot was initiated with the City of Fayetteville, would Harmon, GP, would that be a similar pilot to what you do with your commercial recycling?
 No, it would not. Our commercial recycling is basically large volumes and bales, if you will, of cardboard, plastics, mainly post-industrial plastics. Like sandwich bales? Yes, exactly.
 A single stream pilot would entail us using an intermediary processor. We're willing to participate at the local level to be kind of a consolidator of the pilot material. Okay.
 When it comes to information that comes back to the cities, be it from the MRF or secondary processors, and I understand that GP is a secondary processor also on some level, so you are a market in and of yourself.
 but would you is GP or Harmon willing to give the city that information all the information complete transparency absolutely the hallmark of our participation in the pilot would be a complete transparency of you know what we've received and working closely with the with the actual process I want to be clear that we do not have a single stream system here in Fayetteville
 So we would be engaging with another entity to process the material, but we would engage and contract with that entity to make sure that there is a transparent avenue back to the city and to this council in particular. And who do you think that would be? We've got a couple options that we're weighing right now. Of course, we want to make sure that or at least see where the pilot ends up tonight before we engage any further with the city.
 Who are the couple options? One is called Midwest Shredder. It's probably the most likely candidate that we have, but there's others that are...
 You said there are a couple, so Midwest Shredders is the most likely? I would say at this point there's others that we're looking at, but we really want to see where the council ends up tonight. Okay. What about third party audits in your facility, your MRF that you would have or contract with and the secondary processors that it may go to?
 I'm sorry, what's the question? Third party audits, would they be allowed? Yeah, of course. We'll be working very closely with Kessler to make sure and to participate in those audits to the extent that they'd want us to participate in those audits. Well, I'm just looking at a single stream program. Usually when you do a pilot program, the end goal is to evaluate if it's reasonable to move forward with the programs. If it were reasonable to move forward with the program, are the single stream audits
 secondary processors, the MRFs that you've worked with, are they all willing to, from your experience, share that data with the cities and municipalities and have third party office? You're speaking of post-pilot? Yes, if that was even a possibility. Well, our plan would be to look at the potential for standing up a plant here so we would in fact be the processor. We just, as I said earlier, we do not have a system in place here in Fayetteville to process the material.
 I don't want to speculate too far, but if the pilot was successful and we were invited to participate in a sourcing event to see if we could be the ultimate processor here, we would be that processor. We would absolutely offer up the transparency and the audits that you're referring to. Okay. So, okay. I think that answers my question. Thank you. Okay. Anything? Yes. So, I'm sorry.
 all of our kin kenny and i must have been about a year ago oh thank you i just i'm just going to make a general comment um we wrote the resolution that kicked all this stuff off together and uh i remember catching some flack from the paper and some hard questions from the other council members whenever it was time to vote on it specifically about the 80 goal and my comments on that time were that it was a moonshot um and for a long time when i was writing the first draft of that
 trying to decide what that goal should be. You know, there's this idea, and a lot of you have taken it up, Walmart's taken it up, of becoming a zero waste institution or having a zero waste goal. And ultimately I decided to go with the 80% goal because I wanted to make it what's called a SMART goal, so specific, measurable, attainable. I wasn't sure about that one, but I thought we were close. Results focused and time bound. So that's what we did with the resolution.
 80%. We wanted to do these things. We wanted to measure all of it and we wanted to put a date on it, 2025. And who knows whether or not we get all the way there, but we'll have something to stand up against whenever we do. We'll have a yardstick. So I stand by that. I think it was the right way to do it. You know, a lot of people don't know this about me, but before I was on the council, I was, I had the distinct honor of being a worm farmer.
 We would, on our farm, produce about 10,000 pounds of worm castings, which is a polite way of putting it, every month. It was compost. About that time, too, I was running a real small advocacy nonprofit doing workshops here and there. I remember being in Wilson Park and I invited a bunch of, through the neighborhood listservs, a bunch of people to come participate, bring their kids, and I had a handful of worms.
 in dirt in front of a, I was on my knees in front of a three-year-old girl, and she looked down at the worms and she said, can I eat it? And I thought, yeah, I never forgot that. It's one of my most cherished memories, and I remember thinking, that's not the kind of composting I had in mind. And what I'm trying to get at is recycling is in my bones. You know, Buy Nothing Day is a thing in our family.
 I volunteered on the Bella Vista line. I haven't been on the Madison County line, so the Bella Vista line is pretty darn clean. I built one of the buildings out there back when I was in construction and got an opportunity to see how that worked and see the glass fault. I've advocated for that several times. It's ongoing, trying to get us to do that here at the city. I've been out to the stadium.
 when people are tailgating with crews of students trying to get people to understand that they had an option to recycle on game days. And, you know, I learned something whenever I was out with the teams, which was that we needed a lot more education, but we weren't successful in what we were doing. Because every time we went out there, it was 50,000 different people who didn't live in Fayetteville. I didn't have an opportunity to reach them except for...
 at that moment. And it speaks to something else that's going on in Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas in general. Our region now is 60% transplants. We have more people moving in and out of the city every year than we have staying. It's a lot different than it used to be. And it makes this education component, this deep, so essential education component of not buying things you don't need or learning how to repair the things you have so much harder. It's way bigger than Fayetteville.
 So when we wrote that resolution, we put education as the highest priority because it has to be. But we included all those other things because it's not enough. It's just not. When you've got 50,000 new people at a game throwing all their stuff away, you can't educate them. When you have 60% transplants in your region and that's a steady state condition, you can't educate all the new people that are coming in as quickly as you need to.
 So I think a lot of times we underestimate the scale of this problem. It's incredible. I mean, we have, we've been fond in the past of touting our 57% participation rate in our recycling program. That's only 57% of the people we offer it to. We don't offer it to most of the city.
 So I bring all this up to show you just how seriously I take this. And I read the articles we've heard tonight. I've been trying to become educated. I still don't think I am for the last six or seven years in earnest. And what I've come to believe is that there are, well, I would say on average, single stream is terrible. On average. Mostly old systems. People that got into it with...
 poor expectations, they got into it too quickly, they didn't study it, they jumped in head first, and suddenly they're in the deep end, and here a decade later, two decades later, three decades later, we're starting to see those ramifications come to bear in the markets, and at scale, because it's happened nationwide. So I support this idea of a pilot, because I suspect,
 And because I've seen examples of programs that aren't in the red. Because I've seen examples of programs that are safe. Because I've seen examples of programs that have contamination rates on par with our current system. And I keep coming back to this question of scale. How do we stop throwing away 80% of our waste? To give you a ball, you know, to put this in perspective,
 You could fill Razorback Stadium with our trash every year. How do we throw away, how do we recycle 80% of that? Or reuse it, or repair it, or make sure somebody else gets it? It's a real problem. So I would pose this question. What happens if we have both best-in-class education and a best-in-class single stream program? I'll just leave you with that. Sure.
 We've heard a lot of good points this evening. And I guess my perspective is that we are seeing a demographic shift in this city. And, you know, I've heard a certain disdain for the...
 the student housing and i know there's long been this idealism of the single family residence but the reality is that our demographics are shifting and the single family residence is no longer appropriate for a large segment of our population and so that necessitates things like apartments and co-housing and large multi-family structures and currently our single stream or recycling i'm sorry our
 curbsort recycling method that we have is not appropriate to serve these other types of developments, including commercial development, you know. And so we have to find another solution. And maybe the solution is shifting to single stream. Maybe it's a hybrid system where we can continue to serve our single family residential with the curbsort and do the single or dual stream for other residents.
 housing typologies, but we don't know the best solution until we get in here and do some investigating. You know, I've been to...
 single stream recycling facilities in Seattle. When I was working there, I was a sustainability consultant and was in charge of construction waste management plans for large projects. One of the things that we found to achieve 95 to 97 percent diversion rate of construction and demolition waste on large, we're talking 33-story office buildings, was to make it easy and make it accessible.
 we were able to get these really high diversion rates and i think you know if we can make this system easier for people to participate in um that we can have more success diverting things but again you know we don't know until we actually get out there and get the data and see what is possible in our community um and the other issue is the worker issue and that's something that we haven't really talked about this evening and right now um our
 recycling workers are out there at the curb in 100 degree weather in 60% humidity sorting trash
 In the winter when we have ice storms, when it's cold, when it's raining, we've got that workforce out there on the side of trucks sorting trash. And when I've been to a MRF line, what I've seen are sort lines that are ergonomically designed, that have a reasonable degree of temperature control, and that have more safety requirements.
 considerations designed in place to help care for that workforce. I know that we have incredible turnover amongst our recycling and trash workers and I think that's unacceptable and the system that we have right now takes an incredible toll on their body. So, if for no other reason, I think we owe it to our workforce to look at different collection methods.
 You know, I think by doing this, we get a really good look at what a single stream system can and can't do for us and helps us get that data, you know, how does it impact particular
 participation, how does it impact the quality and the marketability of the product we're collecting, and how can it better serve different types of residences. You know, I've heard some criticism that we don't require recycling facilities in large multifamily buildings. And, you know, I looked into doing that, doing a resolution for that. But the size of the sorting containers is so huge. And then not just the container itself.
 But being able to access that with the roll-off truck to pick those trucks or to pick those containers up It was just not feasible So I think that we have to explore other alternatives and you know We want to make science and fact based decisions here and this is our way to get the data in order to do that Yes Another brief comment
 I really do support this commercial food waste pilot program. I think that's wonderful. I wish we were voting on these two separately because I can't support a single stream pilot in the City of Fayetteville until we have a detailed education plan first and until we have one, we need to lay out the percentage of commodities that we are going to say need to be recycled first before we start a pilot program. Second, I think we need to have it in a resolution that we need third party audits.
 Three, I think we need to understand worker safety a little bit better. And I do have the data from the city on worker safety. I'll talk about that in a second. Four, I think we need to make sure that we have 100% transparency from all MRFs and secondary processors, which is something we don't have in writing yet. And I'd like to have that. Talking about worker safety, in 2012 there were six claims filed.
 two of them not related to recycling. They were more just on the job injuries. In 2013 there were two claims filed. In 2015 there were two and in 2014 there were none. That looks to me more like a report that I would see in, you know, the industries I've worked with and probably a very low
 Right, but what bothers me about this is that we're talking about pushing those worker safety issues off to other communities instead of keeping it here. Matthew mentioned, you know, we create enough trash to fill up Razorback Stadium every year. Well, so we're going to push those worker safety issues off to another community to deal with instead of focusing on reducing our own...
 waste stream. So I cannot support the single stream pilot program. So by my voting against this, I'm not voting against the commercial food waste pilot in my heart. But I cannot support a single stream pilot program in Fayetteville at this point with what we have here. Chair Jerry Cook. Mayor, could I make a comment just to address a couple of staff related items and then return it back to the council debate. Alderman Kenyon hit a very important point and that is we are trying to study.
 all of the options. I grew up learning from the two people who spoke tonight, Fran and Mark, that Mark referenced. In fact, Louise did so a way of teaching me by making me teach a trash class on Fayetteville's system. I learned more about it trying to put that class together in months of data, doing it.
 We still internally as a staff have a lot of questions about any system that we design. I'll say that in the sense that we hadn't identified a community who had a pay as you throw system with single stream.
 And our concern was people going and being motivated for a $9 rate of a 32-gallon can and increasing contamination in a 96-gallon recycling bin. We haven't seen that in the country as we do evaluate it. And we're trying to, as a part of looking at these pallets, to see what would happen in that system.
 We also can't imagine, I can't imagine making a recommendation to the mayor that we're going to go to a system that takes away our 32 gallon can at their lowest rate to go to a can that is 64 or 96 gallons for trash like other communities are doing because that just generates more space for more trash and it's at a higher rate to process it. So we have questions about the rate structure of the system.
 Items that the council is talking about that the city should have been looking at when we passed the resolution are things that we are actively involved with Regularly, we're working with Walmart providing data on the types of items that get thrown away To help them talk with their suppliers to reduce packaging to create less waste we're one of the only cities doing that and we brought other cities in Northwest Arkansas to the table to do so and
 worker issues. We don't see lots of workers comp claims because by the time their body gets to an age that they just can't physically do it anymore without wearing out shoulders and knees and the first thing they do is look to bid for an opening on any other position in the city. And so we do have
 worker justice issues in any system that we're designing that we need to look at. We've had this council in one-on-one discussions tell us, you need to do commercial recycling. You need to do multi-family recycling. Our current system has limitations in the process of that. That's another part of this study. We're trying to design a system that does that. We heard the school district today tell us that we have
 a high school that recycles aluminum cans and bottles and soft drinks, that they're only allowed to have five containers and their volume is significantly greater. And so how do we both give them tools to collect that also don't impact parking and their accessibility and the efficiency of picking that time up, of picking it up, because they want the lowest cost also associated with it, and recycling is not free.
 We do know that. We sell commodities. We have subsidized rates in the city by selling what we used to pay to throw away. One of the first years it was seven or eight hundred thousand that went to our rate structure. We're not interested in going to a single stream process that takes that away where we pay someone to process it and don't get the commodity sale back to subsidize our rate. That's a part of this study.
 We're also pretty good to have such a system that people want to critique because our division won the state's highest environmental award this year from the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality. And while we don't have a perfect program, we are one of the only cities that commits dollars per household for education, which could be approved, I agree with that.
 That's a part of this. Policy is a part of this. Some of you want no policy, some of you want more policy around it. That's a part of bringing recommendations that you could look at. So this is a comprehensive study and what was identified in this study is that there are pieces that are missing that are pertinent to our community where we need more specific local data.
 How contaminated? Well, I will tell you as we're using this as an education opportunity, we have contamination today in our bin structure. I rode a truck with our staff to actually pick it up. And if I did it very long, I'd be a lot thinner than I am right now today. Because it's hard work and they're fast. But they deal with tampons, they deal with condoms, they deal with cigarette butts. We have things that we're dealing with in a bin that are, the difference is we see it today.
 We leave it for them to throw away. We tag it to try to educate. We bring that data back for education programs. So we have the same concern expressed about when you're picking it up automatically and you don't see that, how do you use that data? So these aren't easy things to come up with. I mean, we've also talked about what commodities we sell because I have a saying with the staff, no matter how far you go down the wrong road, turn around, it's still the wrong road.
 if we identify that it's not the right route. And that's what we're trying to do with these things is identify which are gonna be routes and hoping that we don't have to turn around as often. So, and what we take is important. We've talked about in our multifamily and in our commercial, where should we start? Do we start with taking everything or do we start with cardboard and paper and commercial?
 We have companies who contact us today with waste items that they want to get rid of that we don't accept. And that's a part of this study. What should we accept? And you have two resolutions that we have had guide us in this entire process. One was the goal of increasing diversion and looking at every avenue possible. And the second is the resolution of transparency, right?
 to make sure that we didn't have people who said, we take the time to put things out that we found out you throw away. We have things that we sell that we have to make sure end up in something. And Brian audits that to ensure that we aren't doing that. So these aren't things we wanna abandon. These are the things that allowed us to win the program for the Envy Award at the ADQ.
 I just think it's important to do that because whenever you talk about improving something, some people get the perception that you're not doing anything well. I think we do a lot of things well. There's a ways to do it better. There's a way to do it for more people. There's different systems that we need to do it for. When this discussion started, it really was multifaceted. It was looking at all these...
 areas that we needed to work with. And I'll tell you one of the things we identified is a lot of people's numbers about what they recycle and divert aren't accurate. So, which I will say we gotta compliment all is not the case with the city's own data.
 But now we're trying to see all these areas that we don't service today. So just keep in mind, I mean, we're looking at packaging. We're looking at process. We're looking at collection. We have been clear in our RFP that we do not want to lose our stream, our resources. Louise and Fran should know that that is one thing they have drilled in my head, that it is money. And it's a resource that we shouldn't let anyone else take.
 And that's why we are the only city in northwest Arkansas that has our own trash and recycling service, because we control our own stream, our own asset, our own resource. We're able to do something with it. So there are things in this that I think are very good, and the reason that we're having this dialogue is to...
 Be able to say to our citizens, we have exhausted every avenue of looking at this. And if we decide that single stream is not it, we've ruled it out with good data based on our local market and education. And I think we can all agree, we've even heard tonight, we need a plan for food waste. So I just want you to understand the staff is really on board and has internally had these conversations that we're hearing tonight at the direction of our mayor.
 so it's coming from the top what else do we have yes mark well i'm going to be brief because a lot of what i wanted to wind up with because there are two elements here don hit and it's real easy to say we don't want to look at single stream because of the data that we know about but wouldn't it be nice to have local information to see specifically
 how we can support that argument one way or the other. And obviously tonight from the arguments we've heard, the food waste pilot I guess does have pretty good support. But if you're wondering about the single stream element, in order to have real accurate complete comparative data, I endorse having a local controlled, local controlled
 pilot so we can see if there is even a shred of evidence of some unserved part of our current system that might benefit from the single stream. And there's so much more about this too because when we've looked a lot at costs and numbers and a lot of it for affordability is going to be regional, so if we went
 in one direction or the other then it comes down to us to try to if we've built a murph for example that we wanted to control we're we're probably going to have to go to other cities to join us to make it financially possible so this is a baseline and i do think that it is important to have a baseline uh single stream recycling pilot program here so we know uh
 in our current market, what the impact is and where the impact may be. So, and we are not abandoning anything. We're not abandoning, and the revenue stream is probably something I look at more than other people because it is important. And we are very proud of the revenue stream that we have here because we have clean recycling products to put into the market.
 I would encourage everyone to vote for this just so that we have complete data. What else? Anybody else? John. Since no one is speaking what I'm thinking, I'll go ahead and speak again. I wish I could vote for this. It sounds like a good deal. It really does. Low-hanging fruit, as it was described at our committee meeting. And I'm all for low-hanging fruit. One of the people that spoke tonight mentioned recycle police.
 Alderman Petty admitted that education alone won't do the job. The question in my mind is, are we going to resort to coercion or manipulation? I'd be glad to vote for this, to learn, to gather the data. If I could get commitments out of this group that says we will not manipulate our citizenry, will not coerce our citizenry, educate, persuade, talk about it, hold public meetings, fine, talk about it from here.
 educate, persuade, but please don't coerce us. No one likes that. I mean, if we were all a bunch of conservative Christians and we passed a law that says you have to go to Sunday school every Sunday, would you like that? Probably not, and I wouldn't vote for something like that. I think brushing your teeth three times a day is a great idea, but I'd never vote for an ordinance that says you have to do it. I want all of us to be free to choose, even if you choose badly. Please show
 Me and people who think like me, that same respect. I wouldn't impose my will on you. Please don't impose even good intentioned will on those of us who might dissent. I have eight recycle bins at my house. Top that. But there are a lot of people that live in my house. And we recycle religiously because I'm trying to save dollars. We throw milk jugs out the window into the recycle bins all the time. And we recycle everything we can that I know of.
 And if there's something I'm missing, I'll try to find it and save that dollar. But please don't impose. And I realize I'm touching deep emotions here on the council and probably deep emotions here in the audience. But please respect your fellow man, and please don't impose your will on someone else against their will. Nobody likes that. I'd love to vote for this if I could get that commitment out of this council. That's my piece. Thanks. Okay.
 Jeff, how many households are we talking, did you say a thousand households? The residential recycling, 800 to a thousand households. Yes. Okay. What other comments do we have? Yes, Matthew. I just wanted to quickly underscore something Alan said and Don mentioned, which was how important transparency is. I really hope that as we get specific about this pilot that we can even get down to the
 um so i'll just put that out there and then uh i'd move we pass the resolution second amen motion second to pass resolution it would appear that i will be voting one way the other here tonight and i have uh as you know i've not really been real crazy about single stream recycling but i do know this that we've been this administration has been charged with the task trying to reach a goal with eighty percent diversion by twenty twenty five
 You all pass the legislation and then we try to adhere to that best we can. Now I've had many conversations with the staff, many, about how we gotta get our diversion rate up. And I've been very concerned about food waste for a long time. So, this council passed to do about a $200,000 study, from what I remember, is that about right?
 Is that about right? Yes, sir. Thank you. So we need 39,000 more to finish the study. I believe there will be public comment, and the main thing that I want to know is the data. If single stream is the best way to go, I need to know so we can properly, and it may not be the best way to go. We'll never know until we do the study. We've got to have the facts. We make decisions on proof and facts, not hunches or.
 The hair sticking up on the back of your neck, but we try to make decisions based on fact. And it's going to take a long-term commitment to do this. And as a mayor, I need to know the best way to go here. And until we do the study, I don't know if I can determine that. So if need be, I will support this pilot program. So with that, Sauna, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 Latour? No. Long? No. Gray? Yes. And as you anticipated, Mayor, you may vote if you choose to. I'm going to vote yes. All right, the resolution passes. All right. Would you all like a break? I would. Alrighty then, let's go ahead and get started again. Number two on new business.
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $40,000 to provide funding for payment of the costs related to the Uniform Non-Discrimination Protection Special Election.
 Paul, I believe you have it. No, I think this is Sandra's. Oh, I apologize. That's okay. Paul can explain it to you, but, Mayor, Council, when you approve the Uniform Non-Discrimination Special Election, you do not approve a budget adjustment to pay for that special election. See, it has to pay for that election, and so this is a budget adjustment to pay for that election.
 Okay, Paul you want to add anything to that? Well that kind of sums it up. I put in a classification of housekeeping. The council decided that they wished for the special election. It's $40,000 which is our estimated cost for the election to reimburse the county for election costs. Majority of that goes to election workers. Also is used for ballots and advertising and notification as is necessary required by law.
 By law? Yep. Okay. Mayor, I might add one point. Since we've had a lot of TV inquiries on this particular item, the city pays for any election that is held within the city limits, whether it's special or general election. Okay. Yes, ma'am.
 Um, Kit, Paul said this was required by law. Is that true or do we really even have an option whether or not we do this? I think it'd be pretty hard to stiff the county. Uh, you know, you all called the, uh, called the election and we need, we have to pay for it. So it's, uh, this is going to be a bill come and do. They estimate it's going to be 40,000. Hopefully it'll be less because we used to do them for 20,000. I don't know what's happening. But, uh, regardless, uh, we have to pay the bill.
 Well, I guess in my mind, I figure that's all the discussion that's necessary, and I'd move we pass the resolution. Second. Hang on, Peter. What discussion? As I understand, the rules of order, we're pretty informal about it, but when there's a motion and a second to do something like this on the floor, the vote's required. Actually, no, that's not right. I mean, oftentimes we wait and make the motion and a second at the very end, but it doesn't mean that because there's a motion and a second that that's not required.
 That has ended discussion. Okay. The only way to end discussion would have to be a motion for an immediate vote, which requires a two-thirds vote to do that because then you're cutting off discussion. Okay. All right. Chairman. Thank you. I'm looking at an email I received from one of my constituents talking about flooding in her yard.
 Chris Brown, you know, I've always maintained that flooding is a mathematical solution. I mean, we can figure out how to get rid of water. Either pump it out or run it down the other side of the hill or somewhere. And Chris Brown told us all it's all a matter of money. And here we're going to spend $40,000 on a special election that Kit Williams himself admits that this issue is going to probably be decided by a judge sometime. So I'm not sure that investing the $40,000 is going to get where we want to get.
 And we have other things we should be spending money on. It's what I said during the discussion when this was originally passed. Listen to us. We're discussing theology and human sexuality. Shouldn't we be talking about trash collection and street repair, the things that the city is engaged in?
 Those items that we all agree on. In Fayetteville, we have liberals, we have conservatives, we have Democrats, we have Republicans, we have homosexuals, we have heterosexuals. We have very many diverse citizenry, but we all agree on five things. We all want fire protection, no matter what your political stripe. We all want police protection, no matter what your political stripe. We all want streets without potholes, no matter what your political stripe. We all want city services protected.
 I went to my mechanic's shop today. There was a city crew repairing a water line that had broken. They were telling me that the water mains in their city are old and need a replacement. I shook their hands and patted them on the back and said, look, when I turn on the water in my house, I take it all for granted. You guys are out here making it happen. Thank you. We sit here in our seats of power, and we make these decisions of policy and whatnot. Thank you.
 and they're the ones out there making it happen. I appreciate them very much. But this is something else, a deteriorating infrastructure. I mean, it's state law. We're going to pay for it. I understand that. But I just feel like somebody needs to speak out and talk about priorities. And I know you'll say civil rights are a priority, and I would agree, but there's going to be a debate about what is a civil right. And we did have a state legislature act earlier this spring that passed a law that said cities and municipal governments...
 and county governments cannot grant civil rights to a greater extent than the state. I think that's just what we're doing, so I think it probably will be challenged. I agree with Mr. Williams. Probably the issue will be decided by a court of law, not by a vote of the people. But I understand if it's state law, we have to fund it. We can't stiff the county. I know that. But I'm just trying to highlight I think it's been a wasteful effort. My piece. Okay. What public comments do we have on this?
 I'm Kyle Smith at 2801 West Dove Drive, and there was a lot in that that didn't have anything to do with funding, but I think we should remember that that's what this is about, that you all have made a commitment, and now it's simply time to follow through on that. There are many things that we do all agree on in the city, and one of those is that we should have a nice functioning democracy where all of the citizens get to participate. Okay.
 and that has a cost as well, and this is simply that cost. So I appreciate your scheduling the election, and now I would appreciate you paying your bills. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Peter. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. Mark Twain said a lie gets halfway around the world before the truth can get its boots on, so we're getting our boots on here to deal with this lie. I'm opposed to this,
 because it's basically a fraud against the citizens of this city, and it's a waste of their money, and it's going to create a situation where very great amounts of money are wasted on litigation. How do we know that this is a fraud? This is essentially, at its heart, the same law that the citizens rejected last year. It's a law that intends to use the police power of the government
 to punish people for the exercise of their personal religious faith. That's what it is, and it hasn't changed. Kit Williams has it masquerading now as some subset of the Arkansas Civil Rights Act. However, it omits the key provision of that law,
 section 16-123-102 sub 8, which is the definition of religion. And it also does no justice to the Arkansas Constitution, which has its own right of conscience in, I think it's Article 2, Section 24. But how do we know this law is a lie? Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. said...
 Sin has many tools, but a lie is the handle which fits them all. And the handle for this law is that it calls itself a uniform Civil Rights Protection Act.
 Now let me tell you why it's not uniform. It's not uniform by definition because uniform means something. It means not varying or changing, staying the same at all times in all places or for all parts or members. This law is clearly designed to protect one group and it has this phony counsel
 that can be completely stacked by the city council. Let's ratchet it down just a little bit. No, no, actually, you know, there is something in the minutes for this city, and I don't know how they got in here, in which you seem to think that you have the right to tell citizens that we cannot criticize government officials. There were two cases decided in 1964...
 New York Times versus Sullivan and Garrison versus Louisiana both would Well, we actually do have rules of order and procedure and the mayor is the presiding officer to maintain that the rules of order procedure shall be Followed and our rules say that any member of the public shall first state his or her name and address and
 Followed by a concise statement of the person's position on the question under discussion And that is whether we should have money to pay our bills It has nothing to do about whether this civil rights ordinance is a good ordinance or a bad ordinance Should be passed shouldn't be passed the question that is before the City Council tonight is is
 Should we do a budget adjustment so the city clerk can pay the bill? That is the whole question. Nothing about what you're talking. You're trying to argue about something that was decided months ago. No, it was decided with no discussion by the public. The whole thing was rammed through on three votes in one night with a three minute, one top, one chance. That is not what is before us and the mayor has every right.
 What's before you is the wisdom of spending money on this misbegotten law. Peter, you need to have a seat. Do you realize that I have the right? Peter, please have a seat or I will have you escorted down. Thank you for allowing me to make my record. Okay. Any public comment on this?
 Mr. Mayor, thank you for letting me speak, but I happen to agree with Mr. Thomas, and I think he is absolutely right in expressing his views, and I think he has every right to do so, and I think the city spending money on a special election that is totally unwarranted and gives special rights to certain citizens is completely out of order. Okay, you need to have a seat, please. Thank you.
 Hello, Laura Phillips, 2055 South Klein, Ward 1. Yay. It's a simple question. Mayor, do we have the money in the budget for this? We do not. Okay. But we have places we can get the money to put in the budget for this. It's a budget adjustment. Budget adjustment. So it's not going to be, it's not, I mean, we're not going to have to, like, take out a mortgage on the city to pay for it. No, I think we can cut it. Okay. That's all I wanted to know. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the Council. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have from the Council? Mayor? Yes, John? I understand you have to keep order in your meetings. I'm appalled that you let other people in the previous discussion go on for 20 or 30 minutes, but Mr. Tolleson wants to make his points and you shut him off. I just think that was unfair and probably uncalled for. I understand he was emotional.
 and I understand the need for meeting orderliness, but I wish you'd have given him more time to make his points. When we shut off debate, when we tell people you can't speak, that's what leads to violence. Things build up in a man or a woman, and they want to lash out. That's why we have freedom of speech. And Supreme Court decision after Supreme Court decision has taught us
 It's not popular speech that needs protecting. It's unpopular speech that we have to protect. So I hope in the future we'll show some deference to the citizens' ability to speak their mind if for no other reason than to help them vent so they won't vent in another forum or another way that might lead to something very undesirable.
 I think the mayor has shown great patience on this, but the rules that were passed by this city council for their rules of order and procedure says the concise statement of a person's position on the question under discussion.
 The only question under discussion was never commented on by Peter. Instead, it was simply an attack about an issue that was decided months ago. This is a limited public forum, not an open public forum for anybody to say whatever they want. It's controlled by your rules of order and procedure. You must stick to the question under discussion.
 Mr. Mayor, I agree with what Mr. Williams just stated. There's no controversy there. I'd just like to see a uniform application of that rule. In the previous discussion, people droned on about recycling for 20 and 30 minutes, and no one shut them off. No one said you can't speak your mind. But when we get to this issue, we have to shut everybody off. It was just an inconsistent treatment of people. No, it's not, John, because under our rules, it says that we're not to be rude to one another.
 when i hear comments that the city attorney has done some kind of masking of some law and when i hear that we have a bad council which was another term to use but it's a rude and i think
 disrespectful comment and all I asked him to do was to ratchet it down a little bit and he absolutely refused to do that so I had no alternative to ask him to take his seat to keep order in this meeting and I have the authority to do that I respect your authority I'm not trying to be mean or ugly to anybody but I must keep order and John I will keep order in these meetings I certainly expect that
 All right. Any other comments from the council? I think we have a motion and a second. Saunders, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Loutier? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Resolution passed. Okay, thank you. All right, number three.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 15-5103 for approximately .23 acres located at 1837 West Mitchell Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. Kip?
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classifications following the described property from residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to residential single family, 8 units per acre, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Okay. Jeremy. This property is located on West Mitchell Street, which is in central West Vail, east of I-49. There's a single family residence constructed in 1939. The current property zoning is RMF 24. The request is to rezone it to residential single family, eight units per acre. And applicants indicated the need for that is so the property can be split for development of two single family dwellings.
 We feel like this proposed zoning would be compatible with the surrounding mix of single and multifamily residential uses within this neighborhood. City Plan 2030 Future Land Use Map designates this area as a city neighborhood area, so it does support increased infill intensity within the area. Planning Commission voted 7-0, and staff is also recommending in support of the ordinance. Okay. What questions do we have in the City Council? Mr. Chairman. Okay.
 Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the Council. I'd like to make a motion. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Heady? Yes. Latour? Yes.
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5103 for approximately 0.23 acres located at 1837 West Mitchell Street from residential multifamily 24 units per acre to residential single family 8 units per acre.
 I move it go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Henion. Yes. Petty. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. Long. Yes. Wright. Yes. And ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5103 for approximately 0.33 acres located at 1837 West Mitchell Street
 from residential multi-family 24 units per acre to residential single family eight units per acre any final comments from the council saundra would you please call the role marsh yes kenyan yes teddy yes yes long yes ray yes okay number four an ordinance amending title 15 unified development code of the city of federal to amend chapters 161 164 and 172 to modify the bulk
 area regulations to encourage small lot single-family and two-family infill in multi-family zoning districts and to include minimum design standards for this type of development whereas the city of Fayetteville recognizes that the opportunity to provide appropriate neighborhood density through small lot development support city plan 2030 goals of prioritizing infill development and discouraging suburbans sprawl
 And whereas small lot development with reduced lot sizes and building setbacks may encourage the creation of housing that may be financially attainable to a large segment of the Fayetteville community. And whereas the City of Fayetteville recognizes that small lot developments are appropriate in many areas of the city zoned for high density multi-family housing.
 and whereas the overall residential density of single-family and two-family developments in multi-family zoning districts will better match the underlying permitted density by reducing the lot size requirements for residential development.
 whereas design standards for narrow lot development shall be utilized to maximize Visual transparency between homes and the street to increase eyes on the street and promote safe urban environments Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 That the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals and replaces chapter 161 zoning regulations with exhibit a attached here to made a part hereof and
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends chapter 164 supplementary zoning regulations by inserting section 164 point 2 3 single family infill standards as shown on exhibit B attached here to the made a part hereof and
 Excuse me section 3 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends chapter set 172 parking and loading by repealing one section 172 point 1 1 G to driveways beyond the property line and replacing it with the following language section 172 point 1 1 G to driveways beyond the property line driveways shall be paved from the property line and or master street plan right-of-way and
 with asphalt, concrete, brick or stone pavers, or other solid surface, and shall extend 18 feet length into the property. To prevent vehicles from parking over the public sidewalk, garages and carports, shall be positioned to provide at least 18 feet between the sidewalk or Master Street plan right of way and the garage or car park.
 thank you mayor the underlying purpose of this ordinance amendment the staff is bringing forward is to calibrate our multi-family zoning districts to allow for an increase in our single family development if you look at the the densities in a lot of our multi-family development our multi-family zoning districts
 it really encourages only multi-family development if you try to develop a single family home you might get half or less of the density within that same district so just like the rezoning application you heard just before this item someone was actually down zoning to get an additional single family unit on the property
 That's the underlying purpose. Rather than go through that tonight, however, we are investigating a few more changes that we'd like to incorporate within this ordinance that have come up in some discussions from the council members in the last few meetings. We'd like to be able to do that with this ordinance. In order to give us a little bit more time to do that, I would like to ask that we table this to September 15th in order for us to be able to present this item back to you with those amendments.
 Do we have a motion to that? Yes. I will be at the Destination Downtown Conference on September 15th and I'd like to participate in this discussion and vote. So if there was another- Two weeks after that would be fine as well. Two weeks after that I think would be- Six weeks. All right. It should be October this first week of the- Sixth. Sixth, I think. I have the fourth day in October. No fifth. October 6th. That's right. Okay. Okay. So- Okay.
 I just wanted to say that I absolutely love this ordinance. I think it's been something that's been needed for a long time. If I had any complaint at all, I'm trying to give a compliment sandwich here, it would
 When Kit read the purpose, I think so much of that is so correct and has been so correct for so long. That's what makes the ordinance so overdue. But so many of those benefits that are enumerated for small lot development are also true in many of our single family districts or many of our form-based districts. And so my only complaint would be that maybe we should include districts like neighborhood conservation or neighborhood services as we –
 if we're gonna go through the trouble of making these changes to all these others. You have to adjourn. Yes. And I guess my question on it is about the lot minimum widths of 50 feet. That still seems quite generous and I would like the staff to examine either eliminating that or ratcheting it down to accommodate smaller housing types. But otherwise I think this is definitely going in the right direction. Mayor. Yes.
 Yes, sir. Jeremy, I have a question. Yes, sir. If we make this change, are we saying that the lots have to be small or we're saying you have an option to make them small? You have an option to make them small. Right now they're— We're leaving the option with the landowner. Yes. That's correct. Thank you. It's nice to have options. I move we table it until— Six weeks or October the 6th. October the 6th. Second. October the 6th. Mm-hmm. I'll do that one. All right.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Mouture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay, number five. An ordinance to repeal Chapter 171, Street and Sidewalks, and to enact a replacement Chapter 171, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Unified Development Code. Kent. Whereas it is proper and appropriate for the City Council to enact a purpose section to Chapter 171, Streets and Sidewalks, and to better define and clarify retaining walls.
 And whereas the minimum street standard manual needs to be updated from its 1996 version and be adopted as a technical supplement of the street and sidewalks chapter, and whereas certain technical criteria for street and sidewalk construction should be moved from this chapter and placed in the newly adopted minimum street standards manual.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals the existing Chapter 171, Streets and Sidewalks, and enacts a replacement Chapter 171, Streets and Sidewalks, along with a replacement Minimum Street Standards Manual of the Unified Development Code as attached as Exhibit 8. Chair Greg Musil. Oh, Chris. I waited all night for this.
 I know you're excited. I won't bore you with a lot of details, but I do want to say that this is a culmination of really several years of work that our staff has worked on this.
 and really probably over the last six to nine months, we've been to the Transportation Committee two or three times, had lots of input from the committee, in particular from Alderman Petty, and I appreciate his input throughout this process. So we're excited to bring this forward. It's got a lot of new things in the document that
 We didn't even know about related to bicycle facilities, walkability, those sorts of things. Still has the good old hard engineering materials and testing requirements and all that that we had in there before. This was presented to the Planning Commission in July and the Planning Commission recommends approval.
 And the Transportation Committee also recommends approval. So we respectfully request approval of this ordinance tonight and I'll answer any questions. Questions, yes, yes, Alan. I have one and we talked about it at the Transportation Committee meeting but I believe y'all were going to review that as staff. Section, and I'll be brief, this is just very quick. Section 171.02
 Section D of the new code, it's page 377 out of 579 in your packet. When talking about gated communities, this wouldn't change anything in our policy, but the last sentence, it says, and the city's policies in favor of connectivity, openness, and neighborliness. We had discussed just removing the last three words and just leaving it the city's policy in favor of connectivity and removing the words openness and neighborliness. You're not in favor of those?
 Well, I just think it's superfluous language. I don't know why we even need that in the code. Because we're a welcoming and loving city. Some people are. Excuse me. Ah, John.
 That's something that we're going to look at. Did you all look at that? That's certainly fine. Yes, we talked about that. If you want to make that, I guess that would be- That would have to be something at this point that the city council would have to vote on because it's now presented as part of the ordinance. That's what we discussed at transportation. I'll make that amendment as a motion to remove those three words, openness and neighborliness.
 CHRIS JERRAM, DO YOU THINK THAT WOULD MAKE ANY MATERIAL CHANGE? I DON'T THINK SO. OKAY. I'LL SECOND THAT. OKAY. AMENDMENT TO REMOVE OPENNESS AND NEIGHBORLY. NEIGHBORLY. NEIGHBORLY. IT MAKES IT CONNECTIVE. ALL RIGHT. ANY DISCUSSION ON THAT? OKAY. THIS WILL BE AN INTERESTING VOTE.
 I can't vote against friendliness and neighborliness Mayor Anyway Senator would you please call the roll
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. LaTierre? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. It passed. I move we spend the roll call to second reading. Second. I might have had a little trouble with that one myself. Anyway, all right. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long?
 Yes. An ordinance repeal Chapter 171, Street and Sidewalks and enact a replacement Chapter 171, Street and Sidewalks of the Unified Development Code. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. In Orangetree Field Chapter 171 Street and Sidewalks and an Act of Replacement Chapter 171 Street and Sidewalks of the Unified Development Code. Okay. Any final comments from the Council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. LaTuerre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. Is there any announcements?
 Yes, Mayor, we have a couple of announcements. The Gully Park, the last Gully Park concert series is this Thursday, August 6th at 7 PM. This last concert is, the band is Fast Times, and it's your chance to pull out all of your 80s wear and dress up. It's an 80s night cover band, so I hope you'll come to that. It's Thursday.
 6th this week at 7 p.m. Secondly, the city is hosting an input session to review the design concepts of College Avenue improvements this coming Tuesday on August the 11th from 4 to 7 p.m. to review the design improvements, the phasings of College Avenue projects. It's a planned...
 improvements on sidewalks, streets, trees, lighting and safety enhancements. Sorry, Jeremy writes about this pig for me, so. Any other announcements? Yes, John. Mayor, next Tuesday night at University Baptist Church at 7 p.m., there'll be a meeting of people who are for free Fayetteville, and they'll be featuring a couple from Oregon who were put out of business, their bakery business was put out of business by the ordinance, a similar ordinance to what we're going to vote on in September.
 So for those people who want to hear that perspective, I encourage you to attend. Mr. Mayor, it looks like someone left some flyers on our desk. We're cycling in Fayetteville. The Omni Center for Peace, Justice, and Ecology will have an educational seminar on August 13th from 630 to 730. That's next week at some point. And that's going to be at the Fayetteville Public Library in the Walker Room.
 Okay. Yes, sir Energize Southside is hosting a four points training with the Main Street, Arkansas program on August 13th that's a Thursday night from 530 to 730 and we'll be working with the Southside business owners and residents to help re-envision Redevelop or not necessarily redevelopment but an energy is an empowerment plan to revitalize our South School business district And the public is welcome and encouraged to attend. I
 Anything else? Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned.