I would like to call to order the city council meeting for August 1, 2023. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whittaker? Here. Verna? Here. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Here.
 Hertzberg? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic of Michigan, one nation, under God, indivisible, and with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight on reports is the Monthly Financial Report and Sales Tax Report from Paul Beckett.
 Thank you.
 Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a report for the month of June. So this is six months of the fiscal year. So that's exactly half of the year. First off, the general fund, I didn't get to talk about the sales tax. The sales tax was very positive. It was up roughly 7% compared to last year. For the city one penny, when we analyzed the actual sales in there,
 It was, it was, there were some very interesting scenarios we noticed. The actual retail sales for food were down. The collections on sales tax for that was down. Construction was way up. Automobile sales were way up. And what they have posted is miscellaneous, which they can't explain exactly what it is, was up dramatically. So we're seeing some shifts. We're still being driven quite a bit by...
 by restaurants and alcoholic beverage sales. But we're starting to see some definite shifts in sales tax. I'm not quite sure how to analyze that. And I'm going to keep an eye on that as I come forward and talk to you about sales taxes for the general fund in the future.
 As I look at property taxes, property taxes were down a little bit on collections through the month of June, about 2%, but that should come back pretty well. It just depends on how many individuals paid their property taxes in advance.
 Sales tax, again, as we said, was up 7% so far this year. Franchise fees are up 8%. They're holding in pretty good. Probably has a lot to do with the new construction, et cetera. Beverage taxes were up. Building permits were up, but they were leveled off a bit in June.
 Charges for services, which are basically those services for programs in the parks, things of that nature, they were actually down 6% for the period.
 Cork fees and fines, which had been down most of the time in the last two years, most of those revenues were under budget. They were up 5% over budget. Interest, which I had very conservatively estimated at that point, is up quite a bit as are investments, which most of our investments are in bonds up to a five-year period of payback.
 federally backed bonds. They're up quite a bit, so we picked up money there. But all in all, we're up 6.73% to the general fund for total collections so far this year. Straight fund was up about 3% for the period. That was driven by the half-cent sales tax turned back from the state.
 That was up pretty strongly. MFT was basically flat, so the remittances for MFT coming from the state for streets was pretty flat. But all in all, we're up 3% so far at this point in time. Parking was down a little bit. Parking was soft the last month. We're down about 1%, so we're essentially flat for the period.
 But we're doing all right this year. We're meeting budget. So we're flat to budget. HMR is up about 10% at this point in time. So that has a pretty good showing through June. Water and sewer is up about 1%. So that's pretty flat at this point in time. Water is up and sewer is down a bit. But that's pretty flat at this point in time. So it's holding us on trash and, excuse me,
 recycling and trash collection was down roughly 5% so far this year. Remember that our
 that the transfer station was down for renovation for almost two months period. So that would account for why that is down a bit. The airport revenues were down roughly 26% compared to last year. However, if we compare that back to 2021 and the years prior to that, it's pretty steady.
 When the fuel sales are down, the amounts that we have to expend for fuel sales for sales, that's also down. So I'm not concerned at this point in time. So all in all, we're holding our own in the airport. And with that, that's my report at this point in time. I'll be happy to take any questions. Do we have any questions? Paul?
 Thank you, Mayor. Paul, you mentioned that we're up 6.7% in the general fund for this six-month period. What is our – I'm sorry, I keep asking you this. What is our target? Oh, 6.73, so right there. So I thought we had to be around nine. Am I misremembering? We're talking sales tax only. Okay. No, excuse me.
 Yes, it was higher when we compared to last year. The figures I'm giving you right now are compared to budget, and we're looking for about 6.732 budget. Okay. So we should be right about where we expect to be. Thank you for clarifying. I appreciate it. Sure. I'm sorry. I neglected to say that. I should be remembered every time. Okay. Do we have anything else? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Thank you.
 All right, on with the consent. Number one, approval of the July 18, 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to award RFP 23-04 and authorize a one-year contract with ASHEA, Consulting LLC for the organizational development. Consulting services is needed with an option to renew up to four additional one-year terms.
 Number three a resolution to award RFP 204 and authorize a one-year contract with skills lab training LLC for organizational development Consulting services is needed with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms number four resolution to approve a budget adjustment transferring the amount of two hundred sixteen thousand four hundred seventy seven dollars from the east side water storage tank account to the
 water system rehabilitation replacement account. Number five, a resolution to approve the purchase of 1,780 cellular advanced metering infrastructure water meters from Hennard Utility Products incorporated in the amount of $455,413 plus applicable taxes and freight charges for use by the Utilities Department to prove budget adjustment.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services contract with e-source companies LLC for water loss investigation services in an amount not to exceed ninety five thousand dollars and to prove the project contingency in the amount of ten thousand dollars.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of five Ford vehicles from Lewis Ford of Federal in the total amount of $401,869 plus any additional surcharges or delivery fees pursuant to Ordinance 6491 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number eight, a resolution to approve the purchase of an international dump truck from Rush Truck Centers of Arkansas Incorporated
 for the amount of $241,210.78 plus any additional surcharges and delivery fees up to 10% of the original purchase price pursuant to source wealth who opted in purchasing contract and to approve a budget adjustment. Number nine, resolution to award bid number 23-20 and to authorize a one-year contract with Ravology LLC for the
 Purchase of wraps and decals for fleet vehicle and equipment rebranding with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms.
 a resolution authorized purchase of the cabota tractor from springdale tractor company for the amount of 28 045.50 plus any additional surcharges or delivery fees pursuant to source well co-opting purchasing contract and to approve budget justice number 11. a resolution to award bid number 23-27 authorized purchase of bulk crushed rock salt from hutchinson salt company
 for 40 dollars per ton for materials picked up and 89.49 per ton for materials delivered as needed and to authorize use of other bidders based on price availability as needed
 number 12 a resolution authorized acceptance of the federal aviation administration grant in the amount of 189 450 to fund 90 of the cost of an environmental assessment for the taxiway extension project at drake field to approve tax order number seven in the amount of two hundred and eight thousand dollars with garver llc to complete the assessment and to approve budget
 Number 13, a resolution to approve the renewal of four continuing of care grant agreements with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
 the total amount of three hundred thirty eight thousand two hundred and sixty dollars for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents number 14 a resolution to designate an authorized marriage ordinaries designate to execute certain documents in connection with funding administered by the Arkansas National Resources Commission to obtain loan funding for the
 West water transmission main project and to prove budget just my little entertain of motions except consent agendas read so moved second the motion the second to accept the consent agenda Jones yes more yes, we dicker. Yes, Erna. Yes lunch yes Kirk yes Hertzberg yes Thank you all
 Now let's move along to unfinished business number one, the resolution to adopt 2024 through 2028 five-year capital improvement plan. Paul. Yeah. Well, while we're ready for a slide to come up, let me make a few comments. Yes.
 Remember, this is not a budget. This is not an appropriation. This is not the authorization to spend money. What this is, it's a five-year plan. It's a part of the interim planning process as we go forward to look at some of the capital needs the city has.
 Based on the current revenue sources and projections, they're forward suggestible as we go forward. It's the recommendation of the administration for what we feel we need here at the city. All of the departments, all of the divisions have submitted what they feel they need to go forward for the next five years.
 Generally, it centers on infrastructure, maintaining infrastructure, improving infrastructure, replacing equipment, a lot of technology needs, et cetera, as we go forward.
 Again, we talked about input to this we get input from many many committees here at the city also citizen calls also some Information and discussion that we have with council members and the committee's that they are on so we do Receive input with that pass it on to our division heads when we put this plan together as we see
 The request for the plan was actually $294 million. We felt we could fund $262 million. This is a visual presentation of what the specific
 needs would be as far as general categorization. If we look at the table that comes next, I think it's a little more clearly that we can recognize there. And if we look at it, we can see that water and sewer, obviously, biggest enterprise fund, very capital intensive. That's where the majority of the funding is looked at. $142,851,000 going forward over the next five years.
 That is driven primarily by the new water connection we're going to run headed up the 48-inch line headed up to and tapping in up roughly near Springdale for Beaver Water. We're going to need this because our demand is continually rising. We have a strain on demand. So we look at this, and this project's probably going to get underway next year, hopefully get completed within two years.
 This plan provides for a $5 million loan that you actually approved the application tonight. It will save the ratepayers quite a bit on interest rates going forward, but that's part of the keynote.
 This is the capital plan that was submitted as far as the water and sewer rights study Was was done when it was developed that that will be coming forward Also at the next meeting second biggest one is vehicles and equipment remember that's vehicles and equipment for the entire System throughout the city all of the divisions all of the departments That's substantial
 Almost all of that is for replacement of equipment. And so collections are done year by year. So most of this has been already collected and the revenue is in the system to this point in time for the replacement.
 The next largest is of course the transportation system and that involves sidewalks, trails, and street overlay things of that nature. Public safety again is a big player in this. This is where we get apparatus for the fire department, where we get the technology and safety equipment that we need for the police department and those are rather the biggest ones.
 Then we come in and we have trails. I'm sorry I said transportation included trails. It does not. It's basically street overlay and sidewalks. The trails are separate, and that's $8.3 million over the five-year period. With that, I will be happy to take any questions.
 We had a presentation about an hour long at the agenda session at point of time. Any public who wishes to view that, it's out there on our on our website. We talked a little bit about this at the last council meeting and I will leave it up to questions at this point in time or anything the council has they wish to discuss. Okay, what questions do we have from the council? Yeah, Andre or...
 Sarah, do you have questions? Sarah Moore does have her hand raised. Okay, go ahead. Council Member Moore, you're muted. Council Member Moore, you're muted. So sorry, can you hear me now? Yep.
 Thank you sorry about that. So just so you can follow me, I'm looking at Paul's and I apologize. I'm not able to be there tonight, but Paul's presentation that he did is the summary. A supplement to the plan on page 19.
 I just wanted to try to just open up for discussion. You know, we've talked a lot about housing and our community. Obviously, it's in the media constantly. And when we had our. Workshop session, you know, that was a big priority that all of council said we want to focus on this area going forward.
 And looking at the detail behind the 500,000 that's listed under economic vitality's land acquisition. I wanted to explore and kind of see I understand that.
 that we have only so many funds and have to try to, you know, fund many priorities. However, you know, this has been identified as a priority area and part of the description for what this money can be used for is for looking at housing opportunities and attainable workforce housing. And so, you know, I guess my question and putting this out to discussion to the rest of council and Paul is,
 You know, I understand, you know, we'd have to look at other areas potentially to maybe find this funding. However, I feel like, you know, when you look at the scope of what's being asked for on the CIP housing, you know, there's not, there aren't a lot of other areas that housing is seeing investment. And so wanting to explore where that might fit. Okay. What discussion would the council like to have?
 Tracy. I would like a little bit more explanation about what the plan was for that economic vitality land acquisition fund. So if that's possible, because I feel similar to what Sarah is expressing. That during our retreat, that was our number one item that we had a big concern about and
 You know and I know that we're limited and what we can do as a city with with housing but So I would I appreciate some additional information Devin was prepared to answer that question if you could ask them absolutely Devin would you care to expand on this I
 Again, we carefully went through things. We spent a lot of time analyzing and funding things. If in fact we wish to make an amendment or modify, I'm going to ask the council members, one of the council members, to tell me exactly where we should take the funding. But with that, Devin, would you care to explain exactly what you had in mind?
 I'd like to, Council, preface my statements, not so much for you, but for maybe members of the public at home that are watching this and that see economic vitality unfunded. This entire CIP has economic development benefits. Your parks, your trails, the planning, the long-range planning that we're doing, infrastructure, etc. So I just wanted to first say that we're not supporting economic development in Fayetteville. The purpose of this specific item was to provide funding which could be used to acquire property.
 that could be leveraged to expand employment or housing opportunities. And it can be land sales like you've seen me do in the past in our Commerce District. It could be a key parcel along College Avenue or within a growth node or growth center.
 However, we too still currently have a few sites left in our Commerce District. I've got three left, I believe. And we do have property throughout Fayetteville, if you've ever looked at our GIS map at our land holdings, that could potentially be leveraged for housing opportunities. And so I mention this just to assure you, our work in these areas is not going to stop with an unfunded CIP request here. And if a key site comes along that we feel is imperative, that would be such an amazing acquisition for us.
 um this unfunded request is not going to stop us from taking that to mayor and if he agrees bringing something to you for your consideration and assessing funding opportunities at that time when we've done land acquisition in the past that's what we've done with centennial and others that i've worked on so happy to answer any additional questions but just to expound on councilmember moore's statement it had employment and or in those just because we're running low in the commerce district thank you please
 Does that sufficiently answer your question, Theresa? Yes, it did. I hope it answered Councilmember Moore's questions too.
 I also want to reiterate where I started. Remember, this is a plan. As we look at the individual's years, we can look at things. We can discuss things at that point in time, see where we are in a funding position, et cetera. So again, this is not a final budgeting tool. It's going forward what we feel that the capital plans are what we can afford at this point in time. Right. And counsel, keep in mind, you can make amendments to the CIP.
 you have before like when we bought kessler and we bought centennial you made we made adjustments for those so it's not like we're not going to buy any more land so so sarah does sarah does not have her hand raised anymore okay all right we will assume then that question is answered
 i have a i have another question on page 11 under parks and recreational improvements there's a aquatic facility feasibility study um could could somebody really discuss that that's for 100 000
 I'm sorry, is that the one about the aquatic center? Yes. Yeah. You know, I think maybe the labelization there is a little misleading and I probably led you to believe that this was more than it was, but I am going to ask somebody from Parks to come forward. Allison is here. Allison, if you would do that and more carefully explain what it is.
 Thanks for the question. So the aquatics feasibility study is a recommendation that came out of our parks master plan that we just recently adopted. As you know, the Wilson Park pool is relatively old. It's a core program that we have. Swimming is one of our core programs that we offer. And so this aquatic feasibility study would be a citywide study that would help us understand what the needs are for the city for aquatics. So that could be
 pool that could be a more flash pack or park area it could be a water park so it's all things aquatic that it would be evaluated so it's not specific to wilson pool wilson park pool it's just the all the aquatic resources and interest and and options that's right okay thank you for clarifying you bet anything else
 Sorry, I keep looking to see if anybody else has some comments, but it doesn't seem that anybody had some questions.
 I'm not prepared to make an amendment tonight to the CIP because it is just a plan. It's not locking us into a budget and we'll make adjustments along the way depending on our revenue and the changes in our city. But for the record, I would like to express that my interests are funding the climate resiliency and not reducing it by $50,000.
 and also the Forestry and Outreach and the Public Art Commission. So I hope that when the budget comes around, that we can really take another look at those budget items and see if we can adjust them, because I do think they're really important.
 And during our retreat, along with affordable housing, we also talked about quality of life. And all of these things are quality of life components that we need to keep our wonderful city vibrant and exciting and interesting. So, again, I'm not...
 I'm not moving or changing or adjusting the CIP because we're not locked in, but I did just want to mention those couple items. Well, and I'll just address that very, very briefly. Those are relatively new programs we're talking about, and some of the amounts were pretty large. We tried to fund what we thought we could. We can certainly look at that at budget time and have another discussion on it at that point. Thank you, Paul. Anybody else?
 I would if there's no other comments, I would make a motion that we go ahead and adopt the 24 28 capital improvement plan That's okay Public comment Everybody has one turn to speak you have a five-minute duration Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmember. Please stay on topic and
 Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this in the chamber tonight? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, ma'am. I'm going to bring this back to the council. We had a motion, and I would second that motion. Your motion stands. The motion to pass the resolution, right? Yes, yes. Motion to pass the resolution. Okay. Any final comments before we vote?
 Thank you all and I want you to understand this is five year plan so there will be some adjustments as we go along in five years. So anyway, that all being said, Jackson, would you please call the call? Jones? Yes. Orr? I'm going to interject. I apologize. I have my hand up for some final comments before I place my vote. I apologize. No, all right. I didn't think you had your hand up.
 Okay. Go ahead, Sarah. Okay. I'm in agreement. I understand that this is a plan that we can continue to have conversations on as it goes into the budget, but I do hope that we'll continue to have discussions.
 more robust conversation about, you know, things that are in a plan to me or can create about and show the direction that we're headed. Um, and I know the public is, is really wanting to see us showing what our roadmap is going forward. And I know we're working diligently to, to figure out what that pathway is for, um, you know, solving for, um,
 the housing solutions that the community is needing. And I know there's a lot of diligence behind the scenes happening and want to make sure that going forward in the budgets and in the CIP that folks are able to easily kind of pinpoint and point out where we are making those placeholders for those projects because they will need funding going forward. And so I'll be in support tonight knowing that I'm holding hands in good faith with everyone that this is
 something that before we adopt a final budget that I hope we'll continue to talk about and tweak given you know housing numbers that we'll be getting inventory on the downtown I'm sorry the 71 corridor plan and others that I think might influence this going forward thank you okay thank you anybody else we were in the middle of a vote I'm sorry Jackson more more yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 A resolution to order the raising and removal of the dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Kevin Roy Calhoun, located at 3301 South Coach Road in the city of Febville, Arkansas, and to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $17,500. Phillip. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Billy Bryant, Senior Code Compliance Officer. The demo permit for 3301 South Coach Road is issued.
 Staff spoke with M&M Excavating today for a progress update. The owner of M&M stated that progress is going well and the structure should be ready for removal soon. With the issuing of a demo permit and a good progress report from M&M, staff recommends tabling the raise and removal indefinitely. I can answer any questions at this time. Any questions from the council? Okay. Well, I guess we'll take some public comment.
 uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those press chamber are allowed to speak first though participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber that wishes to discuss this issue have any comments no one on zoom here okay i'll bring it to the council what discussion council like to have or what you want to do i'd make a motion that we take one definitely second
 second we have a motion second table and death Jackson would you call the roll Jones yes Moore yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all well let's go on to new business
 number one resolution of 2024 employee benefits package missy thank you mayor and council last week we gave a presentation with brown and brown going over the 2024 benefits renewals and just as a recap of the items that staff is recommending
 We are recommending moving forward with the Blue Cross Blue Shield health insurance. As you'll recall, our utilization numbers were going to warrant a 19.8% increase in premium. And through negotiations with Blue Cross Blue Shield, we were able to package some different benefits to them, such as the dental and the life insurance products. And by doing that, we've been able to reduce that increase and save about $1.2 million on the medical loan next year.
 So in addition to the health insurance, we would like to move the dental insurance to Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield. Renew the vision insurance with Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield with the same rate plans that we have. We're going to request moving the city paid life, AD&D products, voluntary life, AD&D and long-term benefits.
 to the USABLE product, which is an Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield product that is moving from One America. We are recommending renewing the One America voluntary paid benefit short-term disability, the renewal of the flexible spending accounts with American Fidelity, the health savings accounts with First Security Bank, and continued COBRA administration through
 And then finally, renewing our products for supplemental benefits through American Fidelity. And I'm available to answer questions along with our benefits broker. Okay, what questions do we have, Council? Okay. Council Member Moore. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, Missy, I appreciated at agenda session the presentation, and I had asked a question about dental because I'm impacted actually personally by the changeover that my current dentist actually does not currently take Blue Cross Blue Shield. And I just happened to be in their office and kind of asked.
 Um, it sounds like the University of Arkansas made the change with Blue Cross Blue Shield, um, a couple of two or three years ago where they went to the dental as well. Um, and that local dentist office did not come on board. Um, and so what I understand is that, um, those, um, employees have to pay out of pocket and then they get, um, filed with insurance and get a reimbursement. And so I was just trying to think back, I believe, um, when the presentation happened, um, that there was...
 So the goal, I believe that Blue Cross Blue Shield was going to try to get all of the current used vendors to come on board to Blue Cross Blue Shield. I think I heard a target of 100%. And so I was just curious, like what that potentially looks like just now that I was given that new information. And it made me kind of pause for a minute knowing, you know, over $100 for a cleaning out of pocket. You know, some families that's a bit of a struggle to then get reimbursed for.
 Thank you, Council Member Moore. I think I'm going to have Todd come up with Brown and Brown and explain what the process is with the geo. 100% that he was talking about was the zip code checks, as well as what the process would be for current dentists that potentially are not in the Blue Cross Network. Yes, so the goal is always 100%. The geo access was...
 You know, trying to, I think, cover the needs of the employees, we're not going to cover 100%. We're kind of limited to the providers allowing or signing the contract with Arkansas Blue Cross or U.S. ABLE.
 for the provider reimbursement fees. And so what generally happens is if we have a provider such as yours that is not in the network, we'll try to recruit them into the new Blue Cross network and then it's gonna be based on that provider and the agreement between the dental carrier. And so though we may not get 100%,
 We're in the real high 90s, but I think the main focus, and not that dental wasn't the focus, was I think that we were trying everything we could do to get the rates down off of the medical and it was concession that we gave up. And so if we have those providers that are, you know, would agree to go into the Blue Cross network, then we'd facilitate that negotiation. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 So that answers your questions there. Okay. What other questions do we have from the council? Yes, please. Thank you, Mayor. I have a follow-up question. I would, do you have off the top of your head, do you have an idea of how many dentists in the area are with Blue Cross Blue Shield or in that network? Yes.
 I don't, Teresa, but we can get it. It's a substantial amount. Okay. I thought it probably was, but I thought I just... It is. I should know that. We talk about that at dinner all the time. All right. Thank you. But just so everyone's clear, we gave up the dentist portion of it. We made a concession. Okay.
 to offset the 19% increase, to pull that 19% increase down to roughly four. Is that correct? That's correct. And in doing so, we saved about $1.2 million. Right. Okay. That's right. Anything else? Did I take public comment on this? Not yet. All right. Well, so we shall.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the room on the benefits package? No? Do we have anyone? Yes, sir. All right. Then I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have? It is a resolution. Okay.
 I was just this is more like a comment I just wanted to say thank you to Missy and your staff and consultant for working so hard to negotiate this rate and saving the city and the taxpayer a considerable amount of money so thank you for your efforts I'm sure it was a challenging negotiation but very helpful to our residents here.
 I agree with that. I know that takes a lot of time to get that worked out completely and to come up with that type of resolution for the employees of the city of Fayetteville. That's a big employer in Fayetteville, and that's a big deal. I would like to make a motion that we approve the resolution if no one else has any other comments. Second. Second.
 uh any other comments or i have a motion in the second to uh pass the resolution jackson would you please call the row jones yes moore yes weiner yes erna yes punch yes turk yes herzberg yes okay thank you all very much let's go to number two
 a resolution authorized mayor jordan signed a contract with federal advertising and promotion commission for the funding of the downtown federal coalition in the amount of six thousand dollar services through the end of 2023 susan
 Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I explained a little bit last week at the agenda setting session, and we're here again tonight to request support. The mayor and I have worked on this with Experience Fayetteville. We want to request the City Council approval of the scope of work with Experience Fayetteville with the services that are enumerated in the contract that's attached to the agreement to support with –
 to provide support for the establishment of the startup of the Downtown Fayetteville Coalition. We'd like to be on the ground floor of this organization. We believe in it, and in the packet, you'll find the metrics for and the reporting on the deliverables that are in the contract.
 The funding is available from the Economic Vitality Office. Future funding will be determined based on the performance of the existing contract and the budget cycle in the coming years. This is to see us through the end of 2023. I'm going to ask Molly Ron to come ahead from CEO of Experience Fayetteville to give some comments and we also have some public comments here tonight. Go ahead, Molly.
 Thank you so much Susan. Thank you mayor and members of the council. I thought it would be the best use of my time since we have spoken to this group before about the need for an organization like this and then we have public comment here to speak about that as well. I thought I would go over the proposal deliverables and explain what they mean and what they do not mean. So the proposal deliverables of what experience Fayetteville is going to do if we receive these funds is
 Our downtown staff will support community engagement efforts for the city's upcoming downtown master plan, working closely with the development services team. This does not mean we are in charge of the master plan. What it means is that we can be a good liaison for Jonathan and his team in helping reach our businesses downtown. Our downtown businesses deserve to be heard. And oftentimes, particularly in the restaurant and hospitality industry,
 The hours that those businesses keep just by nature of the work that they do, it can be difficult to engage and liaise directly with the city, and we believe that we can fill that gap.
 We are offering to serve as a point of contact for the city on behalf of downtown businesses and residents related to matters of parking. I can't imagine that we will ever have to discuss parking in Fayetteville, but in case we do, that would be something that we would like to assist with. Mobility, infrastructure improvement, historic preservation, long-range planning, beautification, and safety.
 Administration of the Aura program. This is one that I want to make sure we're being very clear about. The legislation that defines entertainment districts is not up to us. The enforcement and public safety, that's up to the fine folks at our police department. This is simply about providing businesses who participate the resources that they need, specifically the wristbands from time to time, the
 compostable cups that are used throughout the district and providing education about compliance as well as promoting the district by making sure information is up-to-date and on the website. This is a lift off of Devin Howland and his staff and Economic Vitality. They do all of that currently.
 play a role in the city special event permit approval process. This is another thing that I want to make sure is understood. The mayor has final approval on special events downtown. We are not proposing that that change. That is still up to the mayor. What we are proposing is that we be another step in the process.
 Currently, Justin Clay in parking, Chief Reynolds, there are multiple people that sign off before it gets to the mayor's desk is my understanding. We are simply saying that for events in the downtown, Kelly on our team would be a part of that process, largely so that she can help with communication. Oftentimes, despite our best efforts and the best efforts of people organizing events, we hear from...
 Businesses downtown, well I didn't know this was happening. And they're upset because it is, despite best efforts again, adversely affected their operations. And that's what we're hoping to mitigate and to avoid when we can.
 And the last piece, the part that has probably gotten the most attention that people get the most excited about is events. Develop and produce six signature events for the downtown area. I was so pleased earlier to hear Councilperson Turk mention when we were discussing the CIP, mention quality of life.
 and keeping our city vibrant and you talked about the arts council and and things like that this to me is a perfect vehicle to help ensure that those things are still happening in our downtown area in particular and i am
 Susan, what is appropriate? Take questions. Take questions, please. And if anybody has any questions for me or Molly or the mayors, and we were all working on this together. Susan and Mayor Kelly Rich, the Director of Downtown Initiatives and the Acting Executive Director for the Downtown Fayetteville Coalition is also here. And if it pleases you or the council and you all have questions directly for her, she is available if that's appropriate. Okay.
 What questions do we have? Tracy. Thank you.
 Thanks so much for clarifying some of this. I certainly had some concerns and some questions, so you explained those really well, Molly. So I guess a couple of questions here. You know, it seems like downtown is thriving. You know, it's vibrant. We have First Thursdays, we have Lights of the Ozarks, we have a lot of farmers markets two or three days a week. I mean, it seems like it's going really well.
 So, you know, I've already been asked, why do we need to spend this money? How is that going to improve the downtown area when we have other needs within the city, other competing things, other items that are unfunded? So that's kind of the first question. And then the second question is, why are retailers or providers or restaurants, I don't know
 not kicking in to fund such a group. So I'm trying to see where the gap is. Why do we need city funding to do this? Sure. Okay. Well, I will start with the second question first and answer in that order. As to why retailers and businesses downtown are not kicking in, that's inaccurate. They are. They have...
 first of all in terms of time, which as you can imagine when you own a small business or you're a sole proprietor or you're in the restaurant industry, giving of your time is synonymous with giving of your money. And we have the most...
 It is very heartening to see the amount of volunteer support that this organization has already received and the people that take time out of their day. It's one thing for me to be there. I'm paid to be there, right? It's my job. But when people literally leave a lunch shift to come to a meeting, it's really, really heartwarming. So they are putting in their time. I also expect that, excuse me.
 We develop and as we grow that they will also be putting in their money currently right now We already accept sponsorship support from small businesses from retailers in the downtown area I think that that will continue and grow once they're able to continue to see the ROI and what we are doing down there as to the second part
 Yes, our downtown is vibrant and wonderful things are happening But wonderful things are happening because people are giving of their time and they are doing quite a lot on a volunteer Basis that is not compensated and if we want that to continue and we don't want to fall behind our peer cities who are all Investing at the city level in an organization like this then we need to make sure we are doing the same I
 I really, my Wi-Fi just went out, so I can't pull up the presentation that we had, so I could go to the points there, but Molly, you mentioned, no, it's okay, don't worry about it, it's too late now. You mentioned peer cities, so what are some of the things that our peer cities are doing, because I can't look them up, and I remember they were on there, and it's like Springdale is doing something, Bentonville's doing something, downtown Rogers is doing something, and
 They're all doing something, except for us. So I'd kind of like to put that in perspective there. Sure. Well, I don't want to position myself as an expert on what other cities do or do not do, because as you can imagine, I spend most of my time thinking about what we are doing in Fayetteville.
 However, I will say that you are correct that yes, up and down the I-49 corridor, our cities in Northwest Arkansas region do have, it varies as you can imagine from city to city and the exact structure and the nature of how it works, but they all do have organizations that are supported with civic dollars for initiatives like this. And I think it's important to look not just in Northwest Arkansas.
 But throughout the rest of the state, Little Rock has Little Rock Downtown Partners. Fort Smith has a 646 Downtown, the organization many of you recall several years ago, the Unexpected Festival, which brought all the public art to downtown. So this is North Little Rock, I believe, has a downtown association, as does Russellville. Some of them are Main Street programs, some of them are not.
 And this is also something that nationally cities are doing. So I want to make sure that we're not giving the impression that this is something that our cities to the north of us are doing, so we better also do it just because they are. They are doing it because they recognize that it's a good idea, and it's why cities across the country support these types of initiatives. Thank you.
 I would just say that, you know, I don't necessarily like spending this amount of money, but I think it's very important that, especially with the arts corridor coming, uh, that we get, we have a plan and, uh, that's going to be necessary to, uh,
 maximize our investment that we have and I think it's a Good project. It's a good idea and everything that that I do if I'm standing still I'm going backwards and So we've got to push forward so I will be in support of it. Thank you, sir Mr. Mayor I feel like I
 You know, when we spend money on vehicle fuel, for instance, it's a consumable. You know, you drive a mile that's gone, you never get it back. I feel like this is an investment rather than disposable income being spent on something. Because this city runs on sales tax, not property tax. We get less than four cents out of every property tax dollar. We get an additional two cents annually.
 out of property tax for roads and that's it. So I view this as an investment that we can make to help ensure our foundation of sales tax which is our downtown we continue to plow and fertilize that field because I think that that's critical for the well-being of Fayetteville and that pays for so many other services and infrastructure improvements etc. etc. So
 With the Ramble coming on board, let alone having a program in the CIP for a downtown strategic plan to have assistance in coordinating input from our business residents that occupy the downtown, I think would be critically valuable for us as a community. So I just think that that's another way of viewing this as an investment. Thank you.
 Mayor, Councilmember Jones has his hand raised. Go ahead. Yes. Thank you. I just wanted to say thank you to Molly and her team. And I've had several residents reach out to me supporting this. And so I look forward to supporting it as well because it is certainly conducive to a more meaningful quality of life for Fayetteville residents. Okay. Thank you.
 One of the things I really appreciate about this is it takes certain things. Yeah, you said... Watch for a little bit. Sorry. Go ahead, Sarah. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry.
 One thing I really appreciate about this is it takes certain elements like aura and it puts them under one Instead of this person does this and this person over here handles this it kind of unifies everything a little bit and kind of puts them under one umbrella instead of Multiple umbrellas, so I really appreciate that. I think they'll be a lot easier to handle them So I'm in support of this any other comments, you know
 When we started down this journey, as you would say, I've been, we had another downtown organization and it came and went. And I'm watching all the other cities and we can say what we want to say, but we're in competition with every city in this region for the sales tax dollars. That's what makes the boat float. Now, we've got an arts corridor like nobody else has got, will have within a year.
 and we got to have plans on how we're going to program that arts corridor that's important it'll be important for the long-term investment of the money in this city we have seen other cities do downtown master plans we need to do this now things are not always easy but they have to be done
 And if we're going to gain the kind of sales tax dollars that we need to do all the things that we have around here and to program that arts corridor, we need to spend the money and invest in the arts corridor. So we talk all the time about investing in the arts and this downtown master plan will help us do that. So I hope you all will support. It's important for us.
 I need a motion and a second. Do we need public comment? Do we need some public input? Oh, yep. All right. OK. All right. What public comment do we have? Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first. Those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 BO COUNTS, I'M A RESIDENT OF TWO BLOCKS THAT WAY AND I OWN A BUSINESS TWO BLOCKS THAT WAY, TEN POINT, MAYBE YOU'VE HEARD OF IT.
 I'm not going to do a big sales pitch because, you know, sounds like we all agree that this is a really great thing. But instead, I want to tell you kind of a story about a kid who moved here in the 90s and watched this town evolve and spent my entire life investing in this town. I didn't come from money. I didn't come from anything, you know, no trust funds, no out of town dollars buying condos for me.
 I put my life savings in Fayetteville. I started arts organizations. I was doing things scrappy with my own two hands, my own investment. And then I decided I wanted to have a brick and mortar to do the same.
 I've been investing in this community for 20 years and I'm so excited to see people like Molly and Kelly to form an organization that can help invest back into these small businesses that make this town what it is. Because yes, downtown is thriving, but if you really kind of peel back the onion, it's not all local business. There's a lot of just outside money that's coming in here that is
 for better or for worse, sometimes, in some people's opinions, stripping away what makes Fayetteville, Fayetteville. But organizations like this are going to protect what makes Fayetteville, Fayetteville while keeping us relevant to our neighboring cities down the corridor as we've seen.
 it's not a new idea it's something that lots of places have been doing and it's one of the things that we used to be the standard of people's idea of arts entertainment and culture and we're starting to lose that title and i want to make sure and that's why i'm volunteering on this board i was honored to be selected to be a board member representing bars and hospitality and restaurants on this board and i continue to hope to serve this community with public funding from the city so
 Thank you for your support. Thank you both. Who else would like to address us? Good afternoon. I'm Curtis Arnold, owner operator of Cheers at the Old Post Office in downtown. I'm just here to give my support to Molly and Kelly and the mayor and hope that you all vote yes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi Council Members, my name is Hannah Withers. Thank you for taking the time to consider this. My husband and I have owned and operated several businesses within downtown and created and executed many public events in the last 15 years. And I also live two blocks from City Hall and I'm a downtown resident and property owner in Ward 2.
 Ten years ago I was invited to a Northwest Arkansas council meeting for all six of the Northwest Arkansas downtowns and they were trying to assess what makes a healthy downtown. And they were offering guidance and funding for all of the missing pieces for each city. During their assessment they found that Fayetteville had many healthy things in place that other cities didn't at the time, such as a downtown master plan and a thriving local economy. And the only piece that we were missing was a downtown association.
 I spent almost two years with many stakeholders in our community researching and gathering public input on how we could best build an organization for Fayetteville. After hundreds of voluntary hours and many tears, we came to the conclusion that an organization such as this will need city funding to kick start it and help it become sustainable. We
 We've seen many events and organizations since then stop operating in our downtown because they're run by people who volunteered to build them and simply because they love our city. Without support from an official organization, they've ceased to exist and I don't believe that I had funding then from City Council in 2015 and I'm hoping that we do now.
 I respectfully ask that you support this organization to help market our downtown to the outside world, create a network of communication between our hundreds of businesses, create events that translate to tax dollars, and fund the position of a liaison between our businesses and the city. I ask that you invest in the sustainable health for our downtown.
 Experience Fayetteville has seen the advantage an organization like this has to Fayetteville and made an amazing hire in Kelly Rich. I believe that we're a decade behind the other five downtowns in the Northwest Arkansas region. I wish I'd pushed harder to make this happen 10 years ago. The Fayetteville Downtown Coalition needs a shot at becoming a sustainable organization with help from you. And I wanted to thank you for considering the immeasurable value of what this brings to our business community.
 I'm really happy to hear that all of you sound like you're on board with this. This was a really big push 10 years ago and we tried really hard to make it happen and we just didn't have the, I don't know what we didn't have, the gumption maybe, but I'm really happy to hear that this could happen. I think it's a game changer for events and foot traffic and I think just the cultural health of the shift that we're in the middle of now in downtown. So thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, my name is Mary McGatrick. I live here in Fayetteville and I don't have much to add, but I just wanted to say that in my previous work with the city of Fayetteville, it became extremely obvious to me how important a dedicated support association and master plan would be for the future of our downtown.
 I wanted to come tonight in person to share my support for the city's contract with Experience Fayetteville. I've worked with Molly Rahn and her amazing team and absolutely know that they will do a wonderful job in supporting and expanding all of the great things downtown Fayetteville has to offer. I can't wait to see what they do next and I'd like to urge you to vote to approve this funding tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I was really hoping for some questions, but Molly did such a fantastic job, and it sounds like y'all kind of get what we're trying to accomplish. Several of the things that were in the packet went into detail further into what we're planning to accomplish, but I think what...
 i think one of the most important aspects of this job and this role that i've already picked up in my few months that i've been here is to have that central straight line of communication not only with our businesses and stakeholders but to the city as well and so i have been so blessed and so thankful um that everything has been would you introduce yourself i didn't introduce myself
 Man, I apologize. I am Kelly Rich. I am the Director of Downtown Initiatives with Experience Fayetteville, and I am leading the charge of the new Downtown Association, Downtown Fayetteville Coalition, and I apologize. So all of that to say there are so many different programs that we're hoping to bring to support our small businesses that I'm really excited to bring here to Fayetteville. In addition to the events, I have created this –
 been able to form these relationships already with our city departments that have opened the doors and welcomed me, our businesses downtown, our board members that we're creating. It has been a wonderful opportunity and experience already, and so I'm excited to be a part of it. The funding coming forward, hopefully, would be just the kick start that we need to start our programming. We've got so many plans and ideas and thoughts and I'm
 really will be what we feel will bring Fayetteville into the next step. And it was an exciting aspect to move here and to see that downtown Fayetteville is a wonderful, thriving community, but it really does need that extra touch to help strengthen it and carry it on into the future. So thank you so much for letting me be here. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? You do have someone on Zoom there. Okay. Who do you have? Elliot Hunt. Okay.
 okay go ahead go ahead yeah i just wanted uh my name is elliot hunt i'm the chef and owner of uh atlas the restaurant um and i just wanted to voice my support and i i wanted to thank you guys for your consideration in this i think this uh this organization is really important as an investment in fayetteville um an investment in the business um that helps support the city so i just wanted to thank you in advance and and i hope you we can get this passed through thanks so much
 thank you thank you i see no other hands raised okay i'm going to bring back to the council what final comments this council please i have a question for devin um if he could come forward thank you devin it looks like the funding for this for fy 2023 is coming from your office and so i wondered if you could just talk about why you have
 while you're reallocating funds and what items may not get done or maybe were not needed for this year in your department? Absolutely. Thank you for the question, Councilmember Turk. These are coming from our professional services line. We keep a bucket of funds in our account to address things that may come up throughout the year. Maybe they're outside of our expertise.
 Maybe it's an opportunity, maybe y'all have made it clear you want something looked at. Last time I dipped into professional services funds is I was doing an economic impact study, a scholarly one, for the SLS community project in South Fayetteville. The law required it, so we had to expend those funds from somewhere. And so...
 With this, I think I couldn't think of a better example. I don't think a better opportunity is going to come up, and this account's not empty still. So if other things arise, we're still going to be able to address those between now and the end of the year.
 Thank you. And for your, I mean, I'm sure you're putting together next year's budget for your office. Would those, would these funds be coming from your office next year or do you think you would have, is there a way to share that? How would that? We were not anticipating doing it next year from Devin's budget and we will be bringing forward our ideas during budget. Okay. Thank you.
 However, you will see in our budget that we submit to you for your consideration the same professional services line to address things that come Up next year as well. Thank you I'd like to make a motion we approve the resolution So I can thank you. Sorry. I'm sorry councilmember Moore's hand is raised. Okay, go ahead. I
 I just I wanted to say thank you to the small businesses that make Fayetteville so incredibly great and unique and the reason that folks want to be here. You know, I've witnessed and gotten to participate and take part and benefit from the energy and efforts from so many of these incredible folks, you know, that make our city so great. And so I, you know,
 You know, also, you know, empathize with the same comments that Council Member Turk, you know, made as far as, you know, it is very hard to wrestle with all the competing needs within our community. But I really see this as a very deep and broad investment as we do look at the downtown master plan and thinking about how we truly invest.
 put back into and create sustainability like I heard it mentioned some of the comments going forward making sure that those folks that make our city so great can can live here can work here and thrive here in the city of Fayetteville and so I look forward to supporting this okay there are no other hands raised okay so what kind of comments do we have for the council anything
 okay we have a motion in a second one other thing i want to say before we vote on this that i want to be on record for when we we make these kind of investments like microsoft um that was very well put is that it's like we're putting seeds of faith we're investing seeds of faith in this city and we have done this with theater square we've done this with kessler mountain we have done this with centennial park
 And we have invested the seeds of faith in this city. And I believe we're going to see a bumper crop of success in this city because of the seeds of faith that we sow today. And this is one of those times. So thank you all. All right. Do we have anything else? Jackson, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Okay.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. All right, thank you all very much. All right, let's go on to number three.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 23-016, located at 2900 Humon Road in Ward 4 for approximately 4.35 acres from RA residential agricultural to RSF 1 residential single family, one unit per acre. Kip. Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RSF1, Residential Single Family, one unit per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. The question I have is, what is the role of the Department of Development in the development
 The property before you tonight is in Ward 4. It's in northwest Fayetteville at the outer extent of the city's boundaries as you get towards the northwestern side of town. It's northeast of the Humont Village subdivision on the east side of Humont Road. It includes an undeveloped 4.35 acres that was annexed into Fayetteville just last year.
 At the time, as with any default annexation, it comes with RA zoning as the designation. That's our residential agricultural lowest density zoning district. The request before council today is to rezone the property from RA residential agricultural to RSF1 residential single family, one unit per acre.
 When beginning the review of the request, staff first began considering it from a compatibility standpoint. Given the existing area, which is granted a mix of existing subdivisions,
 It is still predominantly a very low density, low or low density rural area. And we found that the RSF one zoning district, which is the third lowest increment of density allowance in the city of Fayetteville, is appropriate at this site as it transitions towards unincorporated Washington County area.
 Similarly, staff found the request to be consistent with our constellation of land use plans, where our residential neighborhood area includes a wide spectrum of intended residential uses from single-family homes and multifamily that's also informed by context and other tools we have, such as our infill rating.
 For this property, it is perhaps unsurprisingly that that rating is quite low, out of two. That's given that it only has access to existing water and sewer in the area. Here's an image of that future land use map if you did not have a chance to consider it in the packet.
 With that low infill score in mind, again, staff does find the very low increment of increased allowance to be appropriate here. Anything higher may be inappropriate as it may tax our infrastructure or otherwise set the city up for a more sprawling pattern of development.
 In a sense, summarizing the entitlements on the property, what would be allowed is a shift from very low-density residential and agricultural uses to simply low-density residential uses, going from a density of 0.5 units per acre to one unit per acre.
 The bulk and area allowances on the property would allow it to be able to develop into three standard lots, to put it in the numerical terms, and our tree canopy requirements do not change going from the RA to the RSF for zoning districts.
 With all that in mind, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly with limited comment. They forwarded it to City Council unanimously by a vote of 8-0. And to date, we've not received any public comment on the item. And I'm happy to take questions. And Mayor Bo Renner is the applicant for the item. Okay. Ms. Atkin will speak for the council.
 No, Mr. Mayor, like you said, you summed it up pretty well. I'm Bo Renner. I am the applicant along with my wife, Allie. She had, was planning to come, but our 10-month-old got called home from preschool with a double ear infection, so we thought we'd spare you all the screaming. Nevertheless, I'm here for questions if anybody has them. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have from the council? All right. Well, let's take some questions.
 some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating as soon as speak after that who would like to address this on this it's in the chamber who do you have on zoom nobody mayor okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance but have you all heard anything in your ward okay so this is an ordinance
 so what discussion would the council like to have what action would the council like to i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second i have motion second to go to the second reading yes would you please call the road jones yes moore yes wiedecker yes verna yes bunch yes perk yes herzberg yes
 In order to rezone that property ascribed in a rezone petition, RZN 23-16, located at 2900 Humont Road in Ward 4 for approximately four and a third acres from RA, residential agricultural, to RSF1, residential single family, one unit per acre. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I move and second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Moore?
 Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. And your ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 23-16, located at 2900 Humont Road in Ward 4 for approximately four and a third acres, from RA, residential agricultural, to RSF1, residential single family, one unit per acre. Okay. What final comments do we have on the counts on this one?
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now.
 We have some existing water and sewer rates that have been tabled. The city attorney, we talked this afternoon, and we need to update the existing water and sewer rates to the new water and sewer rates before we have the public hearing on the 15th. Is that correct, Kip?
 Yes, sir. In order to follow state law, that's what we need to do. I sent you a memo out last week and give you another copy there. But basically what it is is that we have to introduce the new ordinance with the new rates before we call, we publish the notice for the public hearing. So therefore, we need to take, remove from the table the old ordinance.
 Once we have the old ordinance here then we need to amend it to the new ordinance with the new rates So that then has been presented properly according to what state law tells us to do the notice for public hearing will then be Published I believe in the Thursday paper which has to be ten days before our next meeting and that means you can consider the public hearing and Consider the ordinance at their all August 15th meeting. So if somebody would make a motion to remove the
 the old water and sewer rate ordinance from the table so we could consider it to be what I like. I move that we remove the old rates from the table. And do you want to update to the new rates? We have a new ordinance too, so if you're moving the old ordinance from the table, then we'll take action after it's actually before us.
 i think it's a motion to remove it from the table has been made all right i'll second that okay we have a motion to remove from the tape jackson would you please call the roll jones yes moore yes wedeker yes verna yes punch yes hurt yes hertzberg yes
 Okay, at this point that ordinance is before us and now we need to move to amend to the new updated ordinance with its new updated rates and just for the To really present that properly to the council and the public. I let me read the new ordinance It's only a page long not even that and
 An ordinance demands section 51.136 monthly water rates and section 51.137 monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates as recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Veatch. Whereas the City of Fayetteville's current water and sewer rates were adopted in 2008 based upon a cost of service study conducted by HDR Engineering,
 and whereas on august 15 2020 the city council approved resolution 212-20 authorizing a contract with black and beach for an updated cost of service study
 And whereas the Black and Beach cost of service study recommends initial changes in both the water and sewer rates that reflect the true cost of service by customer class for the years 2024 through 2027 and an annual 3% increase in rates thereafter until a new study is conducted. And whereas the City Council has determined after the public hearing required by Arkansas Code Annotated 14-235-223
 that the proposed rate changes reflecting the true cost of service should be adopted and the new rate shall take effect on January 1st of 2024. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal Section 51.136, Monthly Water Rates, and enact a new Section 51.136 as shown on Exhibit A attached to this ordinance.
 And section two, that the city council, the city of Thale, are hereby repeal section 51.137, monthly sewer rates, and enact a new section 51.137 as shown in exhibit B attached to this ordinance. So that is the ordinance that I would like you to amend the old ordinance to be this one. I would like to move that we amend to the new ordinance and new rates as read by the city attorney. Second. I have a motion and a second. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 And thank you, that does include the new rates, which are, we've got three pages of them, so there's a lot of them. As read by the city attorney. As read by the city attorney. All right. Any final comments on that? Jackson, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Do we need public comment? Do we need public comment on this? Okay. We don't necessarily need public comment. No, we don't use public comment on this. This is an amendment. Let's move along here. Jackson, what was it? Start again for me, please. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Thank you. And as I told you in my memo, this is all going to be discussed, all the public comments, the exclamation from Paul will all be discussed at the public hearing on August 15th.
 And there will be additional public comment allowed when the ordinance itself is considered after that on August 15th But I think now with the presentation this probably no public comment is needed at this point I was just want some clarification on your definition of a public hearing On this is it basically what we're doing now with this public comment, or does it go a little more in depth? I
 It's similar to what we do really in a lot of ordinances, but we have, but the state law here says there will be a public hearing which requires public comment. Right. If you look at state law, it doesn't require that we allow public comment in ordinances. So it is actually by state law that we must have public comment then, but we go above and beyond that and allow public comment in our ordinances too. Yep. Everybody good?
 Any announcements? Yes, sir. An important announcement for all of our furry friend lovers, our animal shelter currently is full with the capacity to take in more dogs. We have the capacity to take in more cats. But right now we're doing two things for the month of August.
 The adoption will be free for anyone who wishes to adopt a dog or a pet this month, but at the same time, unfortunately, we're going to have to limit intake of more dogs into the shelter to what we're calling emergency only.
 and we appreciate the community support both for understanding that we will not be able to take in new pets unless it's an emergency but also to generate the community momentum to please come adopt some of these beautiful puppies and dogs
 because they really are wonderful. We're going to be having, we've already put out our media announcements in our social. We'll be having some pictures around the chambers and City Hall so that people can see the kinds of animals we have. But this is a really important time for our animal services and our community for our pet lovers. Thank you. Yes, and I would encourage everybody to share on the Facebook pages. I know I've been sharing online almost every day. Well, I have been every day. So,
 Please share that. And the City Council would like to wish your Chief of Staff a very happy birthday. Also, I was going to remind everyone about the ribbon cutting for the refurbished basketball court. Oh, that's right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yep. I forgot about that.
 Thank you, Council Member Burner. So this Friday and this Saturday, the big event will be the unveiling of the refurbished Walker Park Basketball Court and the giveaway for the backpacks and school supplies and shoes for the kids who want to come. And it'll be a big party all day from 10 to 1, I believe, at Walker Park. So please come enjoy. Did I miss anything? The artwork is incredible. We're actually doing...
 the ribbon cutting on friday morning aren't they nine o'clock uh yes now that's an event that is sponsored by the um provider of the service and then the big party for the kids in the community is saturday that's right okay all right anything else thank you all good work tonight