all right i'm going to go ahead and call the meeting we're on the arpa funding that we will be discussing today this will be a chance for you as a council to look over everything that the staff has put together that you have asked for that we know of so at this point in time stephen are you
 Or is Paul going to start this off? And where is Paul? I had thought that he might be zooming, but I don't know. He's upstairs. I'm sorry. We can go ahead and get started. All right. Steven, go ahead and take it away. Sure. I can just take it from here. Paul will probably jump in when he arrives with a few other comments. But I'll go ahead and get it started off. I'm going to bring up the slides. Here he is. There he is. All right, Paul, would you like to say a few words?
 I will. Lionel, and let's begin as a little reminder, we'll go back to something we discussed in April. We discussed the ARPA funding and what our plans were and how we look at distributing it. The council was involved. We took suggestions and recommendations in consideration. We came up with the ARPA funding plan here at the City of Fayetteville.
 We're looking at beneficiaries. Now, beneficiaries, we're reimbursing them for a loss. So all they need to do is have a provable loss. We looked at beneficiaries under $5,000 in case there were some out there, small ones, who couldn't do all the paperwork and had some difficulty. So we tried to streamline the paperwork and make it easier for them. And then we also had the provision for beneficiaries
 which were larger than $5,000. So that program was set into effect at that place. We haven't had a lot of activity on the under $5,000 that was in fact qualified. We're actually looking at one at this point in time that we intend to fund, and we're waiting for the final paperwork to come in on that.
 So that was the non-for-profit on the revenue losses side again. That's that's easy They got to prove revenue losses. We've got to document that and we've got to retain that in case we're audited on the
 On the other side, we have subgrantees. So you could have a subgrantee, and a lot of the items that were submitted to us are for subgrantees. Subgrantees, now that requires a lot of monitoring. We're going to have to have staff monitor them. We have to have quarterly reports. We have to report that to the federal government. One thing we need to remember when we're dealing with the ARPA fund, even though it was put out there, it was very flexible.
 It's all subject to the same rules that any grant, any federal grant is required. We have to audit it. We have to look at subgrantees. We have to clear and have a reasonable expectation that that subgrantee can meet the guidelines of the federal rules.
 subject to uniform guidance. Uniform guidance tells us many things like this and talks about some of the rules that we need to make and make sure that they're done as far as auditing purposes.
 So as far as the non-for-profits, we've really got three programs. Hi, Paul. Could you just clarify when you're saying sub-grantees, you also mean sub-recipients? Okay. When I say sub-grantee, that's exactly the same. I'm sorry, Teresa. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure I was with you. A sub-grantee and a sub-recipient is the same thing. Actually, what are synonymous? It just happens that I use sub-grantee. I'm a little more used to that.
 But again, one of the things we have to do and we're required as the grantee is to ensure ourselves that that sub-grantee can meet the conditions that it takes to make the grant eligible and pass the audit. So we talked about the non-for-profits. There are actually three programs.
 We had two shown up there as a beneficiary, and of course we got subgrantees. So we have a small, larger, and a subgrantee. We looked at the infrastructure program. Infrastructures are limited on the ARPA funding. They have to be directly related to ARPA funding, or they can be water and sewer or water quality. Broadband, which is kind of restricted here in the state of Arkansas.
 The other ones have got to be viewed and very directly be tied to COVID-related purposes, and that's a little difficult. What we also talked about was workforce development, which is one of the programs we want to look at. We thought this would be a good program. The mayor brought this forward. We've got a couple of those programs for you to consider as we move forward.
 we also talked in april about the 10 million dollar revenue reimbursement which is eligible by the federal government and i need to clarify that a little bit federal government will take 10 million dollars worth of funding and consider that that's a revenue loss across the board you don't have to prove it you don't have to calculate it etc you can take that
 reimburse the city for a revenue loss and we've had documented revenue losses even though the even though sales tax etc was going fine we had others significant revenue losses take that reimburse that to the city once that's done it becomes more flexible so the program that I talked to you about and I might not have made it clear was we would take ten million dollars and
 i would choose something in the general fund a lump of expenditures in the general fund the best would be public safety because that's easy to document large numbers
 reimburse us for that portion for $10 million, then on council's consideration, transfer that over to the capital project for accounting purposes and look at capital projects up to $10 million. And we have a large number of capital projects, especially in water and sewer.
 Now, you might say, okay, if we can fund stuff directly with ARPA funding for water and sewer and water quality, why don't we just do that?
 What we have to do is we have to have quarterly reports on the progress. We have a lot of reporting responsibilities. We always have a risk there somewhere. And so it would be much better and more beneficial to the city and the citizens of the city going forward if we did a revenue reimbursement, then went into it and looked at capital projects from there. So that's kind of what I was recommending you
 you did approve my request but i want to clarify exactly exactly what that was one thing i do want to say one of the reasons that uh that we looked at that the mayor and the admin and the administration staff looked at water and sewer let's look back at how we can really address some of the problems of the residents of this city we just had a discussion about water and sewer rate studies
 We've got some projects in here that are pretty large that weren't in that rate study that are going to have to be funded. Now, citizens are going to fund that going forward. That's going to impact the lower income levels of our citizens the most.
 Propose that we look at those water and sewer Projects because in the long run that's going to help Those citizens that's going to help reduce their living costs. We can't go without water and sewer services and the people who will be most affected by the rate impact are a lower income and that's kind of the position that that the mayor and staff looked at and wanted to present to you and
 We also looked at workforce development. We've got some workforce development programs that Stephen is going to talk to you about. One's run by the library for training. This new facility is beautiful. We're very proud of it. We're all proud of that new facility at the library. And one of the good things about it is that it's really a training venue.
 And what we think we can do is take that and parlay it over to some good training programs for citizens to go forward and help restructure their lives, get them a way to make a, make an affordable living here in the city. And that would be a way of really addressing some of the lower income people and some of the people that don't have the opportunity for training any other way.
 So those are some of the programs that we looked at. That's a broad brush and kind of a review. But one of the things I want you to take away is remember when we're talking about the ARPA funding, it's a federal program. We've got to go through the same rules of all the other federal programs. It's just not money we can pass out to people. We have to have a purpose. We have to have a procedure. And we have to document it and our substantial documentation. Now with that.
 That's kind of what I wanted to do to set the stage and I'll take any questions if you have any. Hi Paul, I've got several questions. Sure. So in terms of water and sewer projects, you know, if those needs are so high on the list, why were some of those projects not on the CIP list?
 why running down the south the cip list is limited you know we had to try to look at that you talk for the rate study well no i'm asking in general because do you have a ceiling on the amount that you put in cip or okay you do so you have a self-imposed limit okay also let's look at cip the cip basically has got to be funded by revenue for water and service that's a standalone system
 So we try, we don't take, unless we have emergency situations, we don't take monies out of other places and put it to water and sewer. That should be stand-alone, that should be a stand-alone system. Some of these projects also came up after the program, after the CIP and the RATE study were started. So some of these are fairly recent programs. So is there a way to indicate on the information that we have which studies those are?
 so that we would know which ones are new that came up that were never envisioned on the CIP list. We can get that to you. That would be really helpful. Sure. Steven, would you make a note of that? Yes, Tim could do that for you. As a matter of fact, I asked him for some of that information. I just don't have it with me right now, but we'll be happy to bring them for you.
 So I've got more questions, sorry, I've got a list. So in terms of the rate study, would any of these items that are already included in the rate study be changed? Are they on here? In other words, would you use funding from ARPA
 to reduce the amount of estimated revenue that was needed in the rate study? We could, but I understand that there's also substantial projects. Number one, we've got a big $4 million project in here that was not in the rate study. So most of these items were not in the rate study or the CIP. Remember, the rate study started back in 2019, and that's when it was put together. So it was put together in 2019.
 almost two and a half years ago. So some of these weren't in there. And remember we've had some leakage. We've had some some things of that nature that have come up since that time. So actually that's not going to relieve what we're looking at right now for the rate study. What it is going to do is it's going to affect future rate studies.
 Because if we don't do them now, we're going to have to do them later or we're going to have to make modifications. Sure. Okay. Next question. Thank you. So you just talked about the library and we've got this beautiful library now. But I understand that there was also some programming that went into workforce development or training that was within the library.
 work as planned. And then also I'm wondering how this training that the library would conduct if it was funded interacts with the bond money that was set aside for workforce development. How do those things interact? Okay, the bond money you're talking about is the bond for the construction of the library.
 So there was no funding in there for training or programming or anything like that? I don't believe there was specific training for program in the construction of the library. Now they did get operational funding, within that operational funding they can look at doing some of this. So they've got facilities to do this. But this is a direct expansion of that. So although those were programs they had intended and expected to come forward with programs like culinary programs, I'm sure you've seen things of that nature,
 They did have that, but this would enhance that and further target some people also for
 Skills to get jobs so that would it would expand it there is some of that program And that would all be coordinated with other ongoing workforce development Projects that are that are being done by startup junkie or the chamber or some of the other groups in town I'm just looking to see how if it's funded how these things would be coordinated and not Duplicated we would we we would coordinate that through. I mean one of the people who was was on this project was
 was our economic development officer. So that would be coordinated internally through us and more or less looked at, could be adjusted, things of that nature. Okay. So there was money for it, this is an expansion of it, and we could coordinate it. Okay, thank you. Mark, you had a question. Well, I guess I was going to go back to the enterprise fund and how it has to be managed as far as capital projects,
 if i remember we were talking about using this funding for capital projects and this rate studies right yeah part of it so we would transfer this to to a specific fund within water sewer solid waste but it would be in the enterprise fund not the city operation yeah we could do that we could do that we could pay it directly out of the out of the cip separately we could do it either way but it would but it would be used on water and sewer at your discretion it would be earmarked
 out of the general fund if we transfer this award? Yeah, what I would suggest, we would take that money, we'd move it there, and then we come back to the council and we could look at projects. We've got some suggested ones and they're pretty large actually. Well, when I looked at that, that was what I was thinking because, as you know, in an enterprise fund, we've got to come up with the money somewhere, and it is a rate issue whenever I look at it.
 and all of us that have been on water sewer committee know the projects that we're faced with you know the east side plant is not new i don't know if you knew that it's very old and the wayside plant has already got some aging and you've seen some failures of some major components of our wastewater management system so
 I just wanted to be sure, and I'm not on the water sewer committee anymore, but I just wanted to be sure that if this came in and it went to the general fund, that it can be earmarked for specific projects.
 sense of protecting the rates from increasing as much. Now that's how you see it? That's exactly how I see it. I see it's coming, we're only going to the general fund as a conduit, okay, because of the way it's structured. We need to select a
 Some specific expenditures were reimbursing the largest expenditures rehab or public safety So I could say we're we're reimbursing for some public safety expenditures that goes into the general fund from there I would propose then in a second maneuver a transfer from the general fund either to the CIP which is a sales tax capital fund and
 Or we could transfer directly into water and sewer, but going into the CIP, the sales tax capital fund, which we could use on water and sewer if we wished, if the council wished. And then the council would earmark it for the projects. That would be the proposal of the mayor and staff. So if you would have control, it would not be lost if that's possible.
 I think that's the general question. That is it. We'd get it there and we'd earmark it. I just wanted to be sure with the structure of the capital fund of the city and the enterprise fund and the capital fund of the water sewer that I wanted to be sure part of this money did go to that, earmarked for it,
 with an impact to protect rate increases. So we were on the same line there. I think we are. You're just verifying, and you're correct. Okay, thank you. Sure. So, Paul, I just want to clarify this because I'm a little confused here. So what Mark was just talking about, some of these projects, that would not impact our current rate study, or are you talking about future rates? It will not impact the current...
 Study the projects that we're looking at that we would suggest you earmark for came up after that Not a couple we looked at a couple one was water and sewer a sure option the other one you could look out There's one for parks on at the Walker Park. Those are a couple of them I think we could look at but no they were not in the rate study. They will not directly impact this rate study I'm sorry. Maybe I was not clear on that. So let me clarify that. Okay, so
 Let me, if I could, maybe we could just start at the very beginning and just give me what's our agenda for our three hours. What are our blocks of time going to be? What would we like to cover? That would be so helpful to me to know our roadmap for the day. Thank you. Absolutely. I'm just introducing this. I want to make, there's a lot of clarification. There were questions about that revenue reimbursement. So I want to make sure everybody was clear on that.
 before we went forward because that's a major piece. If so, that takes us off of the rest of the discussion. Primary discussion is going to be what were our requests for nonprofits. We're going to get into that next. That's what we're going to start talking about. We're going to talk about the process, what we did, what we got, what the requests were, and a little about what we think, and then talk about moving forward. Okay? So next I'm going to introduce
 Stephen Dobson. Stephen is actually our internal auditor. He has done a fantastic job doing double duty, helping with this ARPA funding and audit functions also. And he's going to talk a little about what our process was, how we proceeded forward to the not-for-profits, what the requests were, some of the total,
 and then more or less some of the projects that we would we would suggest carefully looking at i'm not going to make decisions today i want specific projects to do but we're going to point and kind of set the strategy for you each of the ones that are sub-recipients or sub-grantees
 Each of them have to meet criteria going forward, so we would have to have a separate contract for each and every one of them. So we'll be talking about these later, but we want to get this off and let you know where there was. We had some discussion when we started, and some of the council members said they wanted to see all of the applications. So that's why we're coming forward with this. Stephen, would you like to take over? Yeah, thank you, Paul. Thank you.
 So as you can see, this is the second slide in the handouts that we provided to you today. And this is just kind of a breakdown of what we received and what we spent so far. So just as a general recap, as Paul was mentioning, we received a little over $17.9 million for the total ARPA award. We received that final payment in June of 2022.
 So, and as Paul was mentioning during the last significant council meeting where we discussed upper programs, we talked about the $10 million revenue loss. And at that time, that was what the city chose to do.
 So as you can see in this slide here, the $10 million is separated out into and assigned as general governmental expenses. And as Paul was mentioning, that's in a nutshell what those funds would be used for. Leaving the $7.9 million for basic ARPA projects. And those are projects that fall under the heading of the four primary eligible use categories under ARPA.
 And as a reminder, those are premium pay infrastructure, which is water and sewer and broadband specifically to support the COVID-19 public health and economic response and to replace lost public sector revenue. So in other words, that 7.9 million would cover the subrecipient portal projects that we've already discussed, as well as the two direct economic assistance programs that we set up per your request.
 So expenses so far are approximately $2 million under the General Governmental Expenses category leaving roughly $7.97 million remaining in that area and approximately $300,000 in the Basic ARPA Projects category leaving around $7.636 million to be allocated out for the subrecipient projects and the direct assistance projects that I mentioned.
 As Paul was mentioning, the city created three programs under the American Rescue Plan Act, specifically created to address nonprofit organizations that serve Fayetteville residents. As we already discussed, we have the subrecipient portal process plus the over 5,000 and under 5,000 direct assistance programs. In addition to those programs, we also have proposals from the Fayetteville Public Library, which we discussed a minute ago, as well as the Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority.
 Now both of those organizations have a different type of working relationship with the city, so those weren't items that we would have come through the portal process. For instance, the Fayetteville Public Library is actually a component unit of the City of Fayetteville, so it wouldn't be appropriate to have them submit the same type of application. So that's why when you look at those applications, they're different than the rest of the ones
 The city also sought proposals from departments on infrastructure and other ARPA-related projects to benefit the residents of Fayetteville. We reached out to all of our departments to see if there were projects that directors felt would benefit the residents of Fayetteville and rose to the level where we would want to propose them for ARPA funding. As you can see from the slide, let me just bring this up here.
 We received quite a number of applications, totaling approximately $48 million in the end. That we ended up going through each one as a small group team that we put together to review each project and make sure that we were giving each one adequate care and consideration in determining whether or not it actually met our regulations
 whether or not it was providing appropriate benefit to the residents of Fayetteville, etc. And I can kind of go into a little bit about what we did as far as the evaluation and ranking process. I believe you're familiar with the evaluation form. We sent this out in the packet to Council, one of the recent ones in the last couple of weeks.
 So as the ARPA programs went live, as I mentioned, the internal ARPA team was formed from different departments to assist in developing criteria to review these applications. All ARPA team members were asked to study the U.S. Department of Treasury interim final rules, the final rules, the accompanying overview and FAQ documents, as well as keeping up on the frequent Treasury regulation changes regarding ARPA.
 The team reviewed each application and required supporting documentation that was provided. Evaluation factors include the analysis of whether the proposed project meets ARPA rules, review of the project budgets and timelines, and assessment of the community impact, along with other key criteria.
 The method used to score these applications was modeled after the current process used for CDBG projects here at the City. And that's something I mentioned during our March meeting. We wanted to make sure that we had a really strong process in place. And one of the strongest ones, we're familiar with ranking and scoring applications under the CDBG program. We've been doing that for over 20 years here. So basically what we did was we took that same process
 We changed some of the scoring criteria. We consulted with other cities, took a look at what they were doing. We took a look at the Treasury rules to determine what we felt was very important and what needed to be considered for all applications before we actually sat down with each application and started looking at them. So we evaluated each one the same exact way. The individual team evaluation forms were aggregated and averaged to arrive at a final ranked list.
 As requested during the last ARPA workshop meeting that we had in March, all of these projects were posted to the City website for review by Council. Staff also reviewed and ranked City, ARPA, and City infrastructure projects, the ones that we had developed internally,
 following a similar process we took into consideration criteria such as reading the impact of these projects to the residents of Fayetteville the timeline of the project and whether or not we felt it could be accomplished during the timeline of the ARPA program there's a period of availability of those federal funds
 As Paul mentioned during our last meeting, we need to obligate all those funds by December 31st of 2024 and spend them all by December 31st of 2026. So that was a key criteria that we looked at as well.
 We also took a look at whether the department proposing the project had the administrative capacity to handle the data collection and reporting. And as Paul mentioned, there's significant data collection and reporting of basically all projects under ARPA.
 and I'm not sure if you're aware of this, but Treasury does from time to time change the rules and regulations on what we need to do as far as the reporting goes. So it's critical that we have a strong reporting mechanism in place and that we really keep our eye on the ball on what we need to do there. In scoring the projects...
 In scoring the projects, the ARPA team arrived at the following list of suggested infrastructure and ARPA projects. Highlights of these suggestions include city proposed projects to address the repair of a key water line, as Paul had mentioned before, provide improvements to Walker Park, one of the most popular parks in the city, address upgrades to the water and sewer SCADA system,
 create a child care voucher program, and expand Head Start education facilities. And those last two were pointed out to us and brought forth to the city through various committees as something that really should be focused on if possible by the city. Suggested projects also include funding for 11 nonprofit agencies to provide a wide range of social, economic, and environmental benefits to the residents of Fayetteville.
 Also included in the suggested funding plan is a project with the Fayetteville Public Library to implement a significant workforce training program to provide job skill training for impacted industries and That's one comment I wanted to make to follow up on the comments Paul made earlier is really this is focusing on impacted industries including food services construction and information technology and that's one of the things that the ARPA regulations are
 kind of want you as a recipient to do is to really specify who you're gonna be impacting and assisting with these projects. And so that's another key facet of what the library proposal does.
 and finally the suggested projects on this list that you see before you um include assistance to 13 non-profits that experienced negative economic impacts from the pandemic and those would be the over and under five thousand dollar economic assistance uh programs that we we had set up up for your request and really that's uh kind of a brief overview of what arpa is
 what we've done so far, how we've evaluated these, what we've come up with internally, and what we're suggesting to you, to council, to consider here. I think at that point I'd open it up to your questions and I'll open the floor to you. And to let you all know, staff are here if you have questions for specific departments.
 So I'm looking at the evaluation form and it's obviously for the entire project.
 what y'all are suggesting doesn't match their ask. Does the ranking kind of change based on the individual sections they're asking for? So if they ask say 400,000 and you're like, this 200 meets all the criteria, but this last 200 doesn't, is that how y'all decided some of those breakpoints?
 in the grants that did match their ask. Can you specifically point out one more where it doesn't? In my review of this, we're proposing full funding for those projects that were selected. If there's one that I'm missing here, and if you're specifically referring to the library, they actually submitted a request for three separate proposals for council to consider.
 And city staff is recommending the $1.2 million proposal. And also just please note that some applicants said we cannot, Steven would you comment about the question on the application form where the applicant needed to indicate whether they could have a partial funded or not? Yes.
 In our subrecipient portal applications, now this was not the case in the over and under 5,000 direct assistants, but I'm specifically talking about the 34 subrecipient portal applications that we received. We asked a question of the respondents in there whether or not they would accept less than the requested funding that they're asking for.
 Now there was a wide range of answers there. Many indicated that they would in fact accept less, but their proposal would be significantly altered based upon the amount that the city was providing to them. Other respondents indicated that no, they would not be accepting, they would not be open to accepting less. The project that they had was
 Such that they just couldn't do it. It was an all-or-nothing type of thing So that's something that we did take into consideration as far as our ranking was concerned in reviewing and proposing these suggested projects however, it turns out that for the sub recipient portal applications the 11 that we're proposing here were actually proposing for full funding and
 Now we do understand that for the over and under 5,000 direct assistance applications, they're submitting, they're demonstrated a qualifying economic loss under those applications, and then they're submitting actual direct operating expenses, in other words, rent, utility payments, things of that nature, payroll and salary. So in that case,
 This would not be a case where providing less than the full amount of requested funding would be say a detriment to them. That's not the same type of operation. They're not providing something, a project on the go forward basis to serve the residents. It's merely a reimbursement of the economic loss that they've sustained due to COVID-19. So I guess when you're considering these suggested proposals, that would be an area where you could consider perhaps less
 But some of these projects, for instance, the WCRC floodplain conservation, that's a proposal to purchase land for floodplain conservation. That's really not one where, say, a significant reduction would be maybe appropriate in that regard. It would kind of be an all or nothing type of proposal. Thank you. So I hope I answered your question, if there's any follow-ups on that.
 You did. Thank you. Sloan, one thing I'll add quickly
 in the section that we're talking about, the non-for-profit subrecipient, subgrant, or subgrantee. In that area, all of those, we would have to negotiate an agreement with them and bring them forward with the council. So if there was a part of that request that we weren't comfortable with at the end of bringing it forward to the council, wanted us to change, we could do that at that point of time. Each of those would have to come forward separately for an agreement.
 and just to kind of follow up on that a little bit too this was something i discussed in our last um i guess key council workshop meeting that we had back in march there's the sub-recipient agreement that we'll need to you know
 negotiate with these these sub recipient agencies but there's also the risk assessment process that we'll need to go through. And so what we're proposing here today is a suggestion, but that that type of work can't be entered into until we kind of narrow down the focus of which projects are going to be, you know, pursued by the city here.
 And so really what we have here is a list of suggested projects, but we haven't gotten into the subrecipient contracts as Paul mentioned. We have not gotten into the risk assessment. That's the next step and the step after in this process. And you know, just to be perfectly open and clear, I have in my work experience encountered instances where
 where the respondent wouldn't agree to the subrecipient contract. And unfortunately that was a deal breaker under the specific instance that I'm thinking of. You know, like we discussed earlier, we're under some significant federal rules and regulations here that we must follow.
 And so really, we create those subrecipient agreements to meet the uniform grant guidance requirements. We try not to be overly restrictive in any way, but there are certain things in there that we're not able to maneuver on. So I just wanted to be upfront as far as how that goes. I have a clarification question.
 maybe I'm maybe I'm confused on all of this so I went to the actual grant application for the st. James Missionary Baptist Church and on the application that says five hundred and ten thousand and then down here it says a hundred and fifty thousand five hundred and ten so I'm just wondering if you all caught that mistake or inconsistency yeah no no mistake or inconsistency what happened was um we
 Unfortunately, we had a number of respondents who applied through the portal quite late in the process. And as you might recall, we set up a time frame where we can easily, you know, go back to the applicant and work and negotiate with them on their application and indicate whether or not we're missing or we have problems with the application. They actually took the subrecipient portal agreement and instead of applying through the portal, they actually emailed it.
 to the city we did receive a few that way so what we had to do was reach out to st james and try to determine what part of that application as you may have seen in reading it it was actually an ask for a sub-recipient portal agreement plus direct economic benefit assistance so it was kind of a mix thrown into one uh
 one application so we had to get back with them and try to parse out what was what and it was 150,000 that we arrived at was the the actual ask for direct economic assistance Now they didn't make the list of the nonprofit sub recipients that we're suggesting here And that's why you don't see the rest of their their dollar amount under that nonprofit sub recipient portal ranking That was the number that I was asked about I have a question
 I'm looking at the Accelerate Foundation, and I know they do workforce development. And I'm also noticing the Fayetteville Public Library, which, and I'm noticing a workforce, a proposal for workforce development with them as well. Can you explain the difference? Yeah, if you'd like to.
 Good morning, Council. And thank you, Councilmember Jones, for your question. I'll do my best to answer it. The Accelerate Foundation's workforce proposal that you have for your consideration is explicitly focused on healthcare. It's a very unique program in and of that it picks, it takes around 100 Fayetteville residents who have to meet certain qualifying criteria. They have to be eligible to receive this service.
 and puts them through training. That training would take place at on NWAC's campus in Springdale. And it's in partnership with our local medical providers and so these folks will go through and have jobs opportunities on the other side at Washington Regional Medical Center. The second in regards to the Fayetteville Public Library, the Fayetteville Public Library's proposal focuses on three impacted industry sectors. Construction, information technology, and the culinary arts.
 The Fayetteville Public Library's foundation is also only for eligible populations. And so this isn't just for everybody. They have to be able to demonstrate an impact from COVID, or be qualifying as it outlines in the Treasury's rule.
 It also, what you see in the Fayetteville Public Library's program is full activation of a job skill training center, whereas the upskill or the accelerate foundation one, this is a component of a much larger program. You see their larger budget inside. So one's explicitly focused on healthcare and that training would take place outside of Fayetteville. The other one is focused on three sectors. Did that answer your question, Councilmember Jones?
 Absolutely. Yes, I am familiar with Accelerate. They do amazing work. I just wasn't familiar with what the library was proposing. So, Devin, thank you so much. You answered my question.
 don't have a question right now I'm still kind of looking at it I just want to acknowledge the the team who has done all this work because it is very helpful how it's been organized and broken out and so it's a lot of information I appreciate everybody just coming together to get it to where it is and that you're so prepared to answer these questions and the this
 image here has been really helpful as well. So I think for the public and for myself to wrap our heads around it it's quite a lot of information. So I just want to say thank you to the team who's been working the double duty and everything. So I appreciate that. Maybe we just need a little bit of time to just kind of, we may not be talking a lot, but if we can just digest, that'd be great. Thank you very much for your comments.
 Are there any requirements that the money support people specifically in Fayetteville? How is that weighted? Is there a requirement? Yes, that was part of our application was to request that information from the applicants.
 how many citizens or how many residents of the city were gonna be assisted versus people outside of the city and in the county. And that wasn't something that we gave, if it's a program that helps the residents of Fayetteville and people outside, that's fine. Obviously that's great. But we did have a key focus that we wanna make sure this money is kind of directed towards residents of Fayetteville. Okay, thank you.
 On the suggested list, obviously not everybody got chose just because we don't have that much money. Are you all going to be reaching out to some of the institutions that didn't get money
 kind of why I mean obviously we don't want the metrics sent out but if somebody had an asset didn't meet the needs are they going to be told
 from y'all. Now I don't want that like literally read out here because that would be pretty awkward. But I would like it that they actually know like did you know maybe why they didn't get chose. Because I know up here we're going to get those those questions probably in the next couple hours.
 And that's, you know, once again, what we're providing here today are suggestions based on the analysis and the work that we did. So I think, you know, it's obviously kind of a difficult question to answer. Obviously, anytime you're dealing with the allocation of scarce resources, it's a, you know, it's definitely a tough issue. I think it would be, if it would be maybe looking at it the other way, it would maybe be...
 a better way of seeing it is that the applications that we're suggesting here were such that you know of such a higher quality of a high quality that it's kind of difficult to Maybe I guess consider others when you have these ones that we felt were such strong applications I probably would search for maybe some more thorough wording on that when we reach out, but I think I
 likely will reach out and indicate, you know, obviously whether or not the applicant was a successful applicant or not based upon, you know, the direction that we get from youth council. But, you know, it's kind of difficult to specify. Part of this is, you know, going off of our professional judgment in our work experience, our experience with these organizations,
 our knowledge of the ARPA rules and regulations, our evaluation of whether or not, you know, they can maybe perform the proposal that they're requesting adequately. So it's kind of difficult to summarize all that. And here's why you didn't get picked and they did type of situation. And I apologize, not trying to be evasive, but yeah.
 kind of a kind of a difficult one to answer as you say can i can i intercede a little bit on that sloan then for the council's benefit we got a lot of good proposals everybody's sincere everybody wants to help but we had a look at some and we have we're in a position where we have to make a suggestion of what we think is the best i mean there's 41 of these i think there is applications so
 It's not necessarily that they were disqualified rather than there was a proposal that more fit the direction of ARPA and we had more of a confidence in their ability to handle these reporting requirements. A lot of these subrecipient applications, I don't think they really realize.
 the reporting requirements that would be on them. So I don't think it was a thing that we said, hey, these necessarily, we rejected them. It's a thing that we looked at the criteria number one. We wanted to see that there was substantial funding rather than piecemeal everything, and then you don't get your result, that we fund something that's going to be most effective. So it's not a thing about we,
 this client has said this is a bad one, it's an indication that we, there was one better and there's a limited supply of money. So I don't think we had really discussed the system of reaching out. What we thought when they would call up, we'll talk to them and we'll explain what the situation was to them. I'm sure some will. Since there's a scoring
 Is there a way that we could look at a scoring matrix for the reviewed organizations? You've got them, don't you? The scoring matrix for the reviewed organizations? We've got a summary spreadsheet of our aggregated scores. The evaluation form is the evaluation of managers, right? That was... Yeah, that's a good one.
 Yeah, I mean we could provide that like a final summary score if that's what you're asking about. Well, we are going to get a lot of calls by people who didn't get funded. And I agree totally. The programs that we fund have to have impact. They have to have something specifically to support the conditions associated with the ARPA funds.
 and we and i looking at the applications i think that there has been a very fair evaluation from what i can tell but we're going to get specific questions as as people should question it if they if they feel uh somehow you know slighted i guess i don't know how else to put it but this would help
 If we had a score or at least an outline of the evaluation, because it's pretty direct, meet city and American Act rules, right? It goes all the way through their budget and timeline, meet city council needs, community impact, past performance. So these are certainly valid. It's a valid matrix, best I can tell.
 So, if there's a matrix on the organization with a final score, then maybe that would help us out. This is not easy. When you have $7 million to distribute for requests of $48 million, that's a tough thing to think about. And of course, we're thinking about it.
 I think that that's the main thing right there is to say, you know, we had, there's a lot of, a lot of requests that are beautiful that need funding from someone, but it doesn't fit into what's available in the seven million dollars because seven million doesn't fund 48 million. So anyway, the bottom line is that the matrix scores, if we could maybe get something on that. Sure. I, I also concur on that as the difficulty
 anticipating what I'm going to be asked and I feel very confident that the matrix and the scoring process is sound. I think that's very very sound process you've gone through there. I know you put you know the city and staff have put a lot of time into this. Now when I read over the applications I know from my perspective based on what I believed
 of the different types of applications we had. You know, I had questions on some of the applications, whether they were appropriately filled out or valid or, you know, but that was just kind of my interpretation. I didn't really have as much information as you guys had. So anything we can have that will help us navigate
 what I see to be a very sound process, but some people are not getting what they want or anything that they ask for. And if anything, any tools you can give us to help us navigate that with the community and with applicants would be greatly appreciated. I really hope that we're not planning on approving these today. I mean, this is the first time that we've seen them. Okay, I just wanted to- No, we're not planning on approving today.
 put that out there right you can change the list you can do whatever you want to do we're just giving you just a place where you can start excellent i just wanted to make sure that because we were seemed like we were kind of walking into that direction but i certainly have to digest this a lot more
 And I'm wondering if we can discuss maybe a way to try and tackle this. And one thing I thought about is now that we have all of this information and we have the scoring evaluation sheet is that each council member, if we have time, goes through and does their own scoring evaluation. And then we kind of put all that together at some point. It just there's a there's a lot of really, really great.
 proposals here and this is going to be extremely difficult and complex. But I am really open to any ideas, any suggestions. This was just something I was wondering how we could structure that. Teresa, I'm glad you brought that up because that's kind of what I was thinking as well. One of the documents that sticks out in my mind
 was one of Devon's documents that had sectors and the different sectors and how they were hit and how they were affected. I think we saw that fairly early on. I imagine that maybe needs to be changed or updated or something because it was, yeah. So for me that that'll be helpful just on the data side to show, I guess I want to somewhat, doesn't have to be exact, but
 reflect, balance the data of the hardest hit sectors with who's benefiting. Obviously the requirements are going to need to probably affect that because maybe like you said broadband in Arkansas
 There's not a lot of wiggle room for us there. But maybe percentages, I guess what I'm thinking of when I look at your document, Devon, it's like okay, well, I know that what I remember from the earlier document, Creative Economy was really hit
 really hard. So if we have at least some good percentage and creative economy, that's kind of what I'm looking for not necessarily to match perfect but General directions now what is really helpful Paul and Steven are these under the project things that are underneath each of the categories. So I'm asking myself What are our sidewalk projects? I?
 you know, what are our water quality projects? And so I'm kind of going back through to see if we reflected the, how we reflected those within this group. So maybe that's a question I have right now. I'm on sidewalks, cause that is a huge thing I hear about every day, all day. And if that's something that we can work on, can you point out the sidewalk projects on the ones that were recommended, anybody?
 I do think Sonya, I don't know how it applies to the ARPA funding, but we do have a list of sidewalk projects graded by importance and you know that's I think under the transportation
 Okay, so that's right. So that's where I'm getting confused right now. So I don't know how that jibes with... You're absolutely right. I'm confusing two things. Right now we're only looking at this one top thing. Yeah, right? I think. We're not even really... At this meeting...
 Now, in our general thoughts of ARPA funds, we're thinking about all of these things, but for today, we're only actually only dealing with the nonprofits. Is that correct? But we need to be thinking about all of these?
 My point in bringing staff here was that if you had specific questions about any of those, then they would be here to answer. But y'all's choice about what you'd like to focus on. Sure, sure. So I guess that's kind of, I'm trying to think very top, back to the top level of how do we use all of the funds. Are we using all of the funds in the most,
 data-based decisions. And then obviously we've already determined how much nonprofits can have and how much the general fund. That's kind of where I'm thinking.
 I think you bring up a really good point. I guess that was kind of the same situation I was having with water and sewer. When you've got items on the list, on your other list for like sidewalks, and if you add more money to the sidewalks, how does that work? How would the city utilize that? Would they just move further down the sidewalk list?
 So if you could provide some thinking on that, some additional information on that, that would be really helpful, if that makes sense. Well, let me try to answer a little of that. First off, when we're looking at the $10 million revenue reimbursement, second slide Steven went through, some of that has already been spent. So what's available really to capital projects is $7,950,000.
 $70,000. That would be what was left if we proposed transferring into Duke Capital. From there, there aren't restrictions. You're going to look at a lot of things. What we're suggesting is we primarily look at water and sewer because of the economic benefit on our people who are hit with COVID. You don't have to do that.
 We're also suggesting you look at parks and recreation. You might want to consider park activity. That's $3,570,000. You don't have to do that. Once we get that $7.9 million, we don't have those restrictions. And that's the whole point. It comes back to the citizens for things that we didn't do that we could do, but it doesn't have to be restricted.
 like it does over in ARPA. Remember the city, when we did the budget and we pulled back, part of what we had to pull back was looking at the capital and we didn't have as much money for the capital. So you can examine these things when we talk about what you want to do with the capital. That can be examined. Now when you talk about what specific sidewalk problems or projects, et cetera, if you want to go there, that's all done by the Transportation Committee.
 So that's out of the realm of this. But that's how it worked. Once we do that and do the maneuver, we can talk about which projects you want to do in a capital project program. You don't have to do water and sewer. We take that out of there. We don't have to do Walker Park. Those are two big ones that we thought you might want to look at. There are a host of other things you could do.
 We don't may not even have a list on Because the restrictions are off now the other thing we talked about what will you want to do this morning? Why we did this? You remember the council asked to see all the proposals. Okay, we put the proposals out there. There's 40 some proposals We've got them listed on the website. I'm sure you've all looked at some of them. That's an overwhelming task and
 We do this for a living. It's an overwhelming task for us. So I can imagine what an overwhelming task for you. We're here today to talk a little about this answer if you have specific questions. We're not here to make the decisions on exactly what projects to do. We're trying to outline where we think we ought to go,
 We're looking for suggestions, and that's basically what we're doing. We're having a general discussion on where we would want to go and how we want to proceed as far as the decision making is going. You might want to go different ways. We're going to have to have other discussions, I'm sure.
 You might want to break it down and have a subcommittee or something. I mean, there are many, many options, but what we want to do is give you a feel for what we're looking at, what we're considering, and what we think would be beneficial. Yeah, thank you, Paul. I appreciate that. And I'm going to get myself more zoned into the nonprofit-only realm for now.
 And then come back to the other 8 million that's left. So that's what, oh, but I don't want to forget about that because that is a consideration for the whole thing. So, okay, I'm gonna come back to the nonprofits. So I think when I think about that, I think one of the biggest things I think about is, those beneficiaries of which when I look on this list, how do we know the difference between the beneficiary?
 and the, you know, when they're... Okay. The beneficiaries are, that's under the list. You correct me if I'm wrong, Stephen. That's under the list, over 5,000 assistance requests. Now, we listed all of those because all of those are eligible. They're easy to do. That doesn't mean we have to do them. That's your choice. But those are the direct assistance. They're proposing a reimbursement for revenue losses.
 When you get up to the nonprofit subrecipient portal, which is subrecipient or subgrantee, whichever language you prefer, those are ones that are going to take more handling. Those are the ones that are talking about funding over a period of time to accomplish a direct purpose.
 One of the things we need to talk about too is once you select those, if you select those, we talked about hiring an extra grant person. We're going to have to have somebody being able to do that. We can't do that with extending staff and we're not going to be able to handle more than probably 10.
 And that's why we limited to that. Because we're going to have to have ongoing guidance. We're going to have to have ongoing reporting. We're going to have to get from them. We're going to make sure there's compliance. We're going to have to have somebody go out in the field and look at them. So they're much more complicated. Now, the reason that we put the direct assistance, the revenue reimbursement, we put all of those that we felt we had the documentation for simply because
 Those are ones that are qualified and go to. We don't have to do that. But those were easy ones and those were ones that we can give some direct assistance to.
 Just to clarify one thing on that, we still are waiting, we've reached out to a number of these organizations to provide additional supporting documentation. We were pretty clear in the application on what we needed, but we are still waiting for some of the supporting documentation to come in. In some cases, basically what that means is the dollar amount they're asking for and what you see here, we just don't have full support for it yet, so we're waiting on them to provide additional information.
 So basically, if you chose to approve these items, we would only actually be paying out what we have the direct supporting documentation to support. We're only allowed to do that under the opera regulations. As I mentioned, they have to approve a direct economic loss, and they have to have operating expenses to support that.
 So once again, we'd only be actually paying out what they could provide support for to us. So just wanted to clarify that. So I have a question related to that. So you mentioned that you had not done a risk assessment on any of these. So it's not safe to assume that in the over 5,000 assistant requests that they have
 Matt, they provided all the paperwork? No need for a risk assessment on these. Anytime you're doing a direct economic assistance payment, that's under a different type of payment for ARPA and Uniform Grant Guidance. You don't need to perform a risk assessment. The risk assessment is specifically related to a subrecipient arrangement where you're having a project to be provided prospectively going forward for the residents of Fayetteville. Now, see if I can help.
 with the ongoing sub grantee or sub recipient they're saying we are going to accomplish this over time we were going to meet matrix we were going to over time we're going to train so many people over time we're going to do street bank stream bank projects
 That's an ongoing and we're funding it over time. So this is a project that they're completing. When we look to the revenue reimbursement, the assistant request, they're simply talking about another avenue within ARPA that is saying we lost money for a legitimate project to do an ARPA-eligible project.
 operation and we lost money due to opera and here's what we lost this is how it's calculated this is how it's reporting now Stephen saying we're having some trouble matching some of these up and some we aren't but that's just saying we lost that money and we have an operation that's eligible under ARPA so we don't have that ongoing assessment I'm sorry that may be a little long-winded but I hope that helps oh that was very helpful thank you
 I have a couple questions for staff under the other projects. Could you differentiate between proposals A, B, and C for the Fayetteville Public Library workforce training and then kind of explain how we ended up with proposal B? And then the second one I'm going to ask about the Washington County Ambulance Authority.
 Absolutely, thank you Councilmember Hertzberg. The proposal, the three different proposals, two of them fund the programs for multiple years. And so it actually runs it out for three years. And another difference to touch on in this, Councilmember Church, something you referenced earlier is bond funds can't touch personnel to run these centers, these funds can. So that's another difference in these proposals. Proposal B, the main one that I landed on with this,
 is because we look at the funding allocations left with y'all, we know you have hard decisions to make. And 33% of the funds going to one project, likely not that feasible. That was why we chose with this.
 What proposal B does is it seeds the program, it gets the job skill training equipment here to get that rolling, and it gets staff rolling to staff the center to grab this expanded capacity. A dozen other things. There's scholarships in there for the teaching kitchen. If you've read David Johnson's letter in the beginning of the proposal, he said something that really stuck with me. Their vision is
 Job skill training should be as easy as checking out a book. And so what this proposal is, there's not charging anybody for this training access here, or these scholarships or the curriculum they're buying. And so that's the main difference, Councilmember. It's just one runs it for three years, one runs it for the one we're recommending, gets the capital expenditures out of the way, gets the equipment here, seeds that program. We're obviously going to keep working with them to keep that rolling in the future should this project get
 selected by you, but that's the main difference, just time durations. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Second question is for Chief Hardin. Yes. Would you be willing to come up and explain to us kind of the justification for the request for the ambulance authority? Sure, I'm happy to.
 Good morning everyone. So Central EMS, they have been struggling. COVID-19 really hit them hard and it's not unique to them. It's, uh, Ambulance providers all across the nation are experiencing this. I don't know if you're aware or not, but Northwest Medical just sent a letter this past week to Benton County telling them they're no longer going to provide it. So they're going to have to figure something out.
 uh you can't hear me why don't you start over did you hear that
 We're good. Okay. So, Northwest is no longer going to be able to provide ambulance service for Benton County and Central EMS isn't quite to that extent, but they're not far from it. They lost a million and a half dollars due to revenue, just additional expenses in, you know, personnel that were sick,
 The PPE went up like, I don't know, three or four hundred percent. You know, so everything has just really took it, it's been a hard one, very hard on them. That 1.5 million is about, well, it's over 10% of their annual budget.
 So, what they had to do in the meantime to get through was they stopped funding their ambulances. They didn't have money to fund their ambulances. So, for the past couple years, they haven't replaced any ambulances. So, the request in front of you is just that they're asking for additional ambulances. They're also asking for structures to help relieve injuries and hopefully increase retention, which is yet another thing that they're struggling with.
 And then lastly, they were asking for premium pay for their people. So y'all remember approving it for our firefighters and police officers, which we appreciate very much. And the same has happened for all fire, police, EMS workers in the region, except for central EMS, that they didn't have the money. So that's the other item that they were requesting.
 and I'd be happy to explain any part of it and talk as long as you want me to about it but they are really in dire need. Thank you. Usually someone on the council serves on the EMS board, is that correct? Holly does and I serve on the executive board. Okay. We made the decision last week Yes. for this because I tell you if we don't
 I'll be honest with you, we don't bail out the ambulance service. They're going to cease to be an ambulance service.
 And we don't want to Uber to the hospital. No, no Ubers to the hospital, that's for sure. Yeah, I was just asking because I didn't know you were on there and I was going to get your input or whoever's input that was the person on there. And because we have in my time on there, I was always so impressed with our response time to get to, you know, someone in need and I know they run a really tight budget.
 And they also serve a lot of, it's not just Fayetteville they serve, they serve other cities. And that response time always impressed me so much. And we want to make sure that we keep that at a good level, especially as our city grows, because we just can't run the risk of not having those things. Thank you.
 I think it's natural to ask if other communities are also in Washington County participating in this. Most ambulance services I know that get into any financial difficulty, it's through customers who have no insurance and can't pay. And it's their inability to collect on their billing. So I'm just curious about other communities and what program there is to have them on maybe a prorated basis participate.
 So all of the communities, it's actually all of the communities, which is every city in Washington County, with the exception of Springdale, who provides their own. So every one of those cities pay a portion of it. The breakdown is in the which you can see on the city Web site.
 They have each portion broke down proportionally, like our portion is $757,000. Elkins, for instance, is paying, I should have put off my glasses, I think that says $25,000. So, each city is paying a portion and so, yes, everybody is pitching in to try to. Contingent to their population. So, per head count. So, that's the only thing that's happening.
 I'm just wondering about how the ARPA funds are being distributed with the county. Is there any discussion with the county about maybe supporting some of these services? Do we know? So the county put in the most. Theirs is 1.1 million towards this.
 So this is 1.1 million in addition to their annual fee or? So the total amount of the request is 2.2 million dollars. Our portion is 757 thousand dollars. Okay, thank you. And yes, this is an addition. Because we're the largest city and we've got more people and it's all just going up. And we're going to have some annual expenses.
 That's the way it is. We met on Wednesday, I believe it was, you know, Wednesday morning and Steve provided a, their current chief provided a stat and I don't remember the exact amount, but I think he said it was $19,000 a month that they were spending on fuel prior to now and it's now like $50,000 a month. So, I mean, their costs have just went through the roof. Thank you all. Thank you, Chief.
 Do you have any comments on that? You serve on that board. Yes, I think this is a really important project. I'm very concerned if we do not get this funding that we will be able to sustain the ambulance authority. Maintaining that program is very important for the public safety of our community. So I'm very much in support of this and I would urge every one of you to be as well. I have a question concerning
 FHA I believe it's FHA D is that with that's with the Housing Authority correct yes it is that's correct okay so what will they be utilized for down right that's a revenue loss okay so that's lost revenue to the
 to the Housing Authority. They also submitted sub-grantee agreement that we are not recommending, but the revenue loss was provable. They did have a loss, so they don't have to identify exactly what it's used for. I'm sure it would be used for housing, but that's the best answer I can give you if that helps. OK, I was just asking.
 When I look over the list, did we have the Northwest Arkansas Equality Center? Did any nonprofit whose mission is to help us in diversity, did any of them apply and did they meet criteria? And again, I'm just asking. I don't believe so. We'll have to take a look on that. Okay. Okay.
 And as far as affordable housing, besides FHAD, did we have any applicants from those organizations, I guess, Seven Heels or Salvation Army? We did have proposals from Salvation Army and Serve NWA. Okay. Thank you. All right.
 i i know it takes up staff time but i'm kind of wondering if we have questions uh on these um who we should ask the reason i'm asking this list is pretty close to what i would have came up myself so i i think y'all did a good job um but some of them that might not be there
 I'm gonna ask a lot of questions about kind of like why, and I think out of respect to some of those organizations, it would be nice to ask those kind of in private and not in a public setting, just because it may sound like I'm attacking that organizations. And all the organizations that are applied are great. But if I'm gonna kind of come to the council and say, hey, let's add this and take off somebody else,
 I would recommend Steven as the point of contact and then he can appoint you directly, depending on your question, if there's another staff member who knows more about that particular application. Okay, awesome. I'm here all the time, I'd be happy to talk to you. Okay, yeah, we'll probably have a couple meetings. So, thank you. See each other again. So, I know when, oh, I'm sorry, Mike, go ahead. Okay, so here's my take.
 I think Sonia's right, an awful lot of work went into this, so thank you. I didn't really read through all of the city's capital improvement projects. I was kind of going to wait to save my time and see what staff recommended and what rose to the top of the list. But regrettably, I actually read through all the other applications, which was painful. And so I commend you for doing that.
 And I looked at them in terms of some are dealing with food insecurity, some are dealing with housing issues, some are dealing with water quality and kind of environmental, some are dealing with counseling and legal aid to folks that need help navigating the existing care systems. So I kind of categorized them. And then that last piece was simply
 calculating the cost per person that they say that they're going to benefit. And so I have nothing but glowing recommendations to you. My only hesitation is when I look at the cost per people benefited on a few of these, it's really the only critique I can provide at all. I looked at strongly advocating for the city to take the 10 million in lost revenue,
 primarily because we're audited. I trust the organization to benefit the most people in the city of Fayetteville with how those funds are invested and utilized. And so I was strongly supportive of us taking that. Then I looked at how do we take the remainder of the money that's not part of that $10 million and how do we benefit the most people in the city of Fayetteville? And so it really, when I look at...
 Again, just the cost per person in the community that the program touches, that would be the only comment that I would even make at all, just saying that I know if we were to fund a few programs a little bit less, we could probably reach a few more folks.
 You don't need me to provide you those calculations, but it's the last thing if I was to advocate for any changes, it would literally be to say, gee, instead of 10,000 per person benefited, you know, I've got a program that's, you know, $20 per person, why don't we fund that?
 But you've done a remarkable job and you must all need vision care now in the employee benefits package, having read through this. Thank you. So to follow up on that, thank you, Mike, is that it would be helpful if we had another column in the spreadsheet that said if the organization needs all of the money or if they would take a partial. That would be very, very helpful, at least for me.
 Columns, that's what I was going to ask for as well. Because I think what Mike pointed out was also my concern of wondering the, I can sort of gauge probably what category each of the nonprofits is working on, but maybe just one
 housing or food insecurity, one more column will be helpful. And then as a visual person, I want to kind of see it on a pie chart. I'm like, okay, here's a 7 million, we're doing 20% for food insecurity, 30%. Just to see where that breakdown happened. And then if the breakdown sort of matches the data, then I'm going to feel better to
 reply to those questions when people say why wasn't my project funded then for me personally I would like to say the data said that these were the hardest hit sectors and so I'm trying to Balance that with the information that was provided One more column
 Okay, I'm going to make a comment. We talked before long ago back in April, I believe it was, that we're going to need at least one additional person to look at this to do some of the grants. Now, we have to remember that Steven, Devin, and Yolanda, and they've done a fantastic job and allocated a lot of time to this, and
 A few of the other offices have worked on it a bit, but those are our primary people. They've got other tasks to do. So not at this council meeting, but at the next council meeting, I'm going to bring a request for a grants person to help on this. And that'll be based on that we won't go any more than about 10 subgrantees. If that changes, we're going to need more help than that. So I want everybody to understand that.
 I thought we had already voted and recommended in that. We talked and there was a recommendation, but we didn't specifically check the position and evaluate the position on the cost. We talked about general ranges, so I'm going to come back with a position, specific position and a specific cost. Paul, how long do you think once we have this
 this specific position and the cost, how long do you think it will take to get that position filled? To be filled, we've actually talked to some people, so if the people are still interested, we hope to have somebody on board within probably 30 days. Okay, thank you. If we can do it faster, we'll be happy to. But we should be able to get somebody in, and again, we'll get indoctrination, we'll be able to help them a bit, but we're going to have to, we'll have a lot of stuff to do, okay?
 I have a quick question. If there is any extra money on any of these categories, how are we going to allocate that excess funding? How does that work? Well, right now we've asked the requests. OK. We're going to have to take this additional position out. Now, after we're allocating money, we'll just keep having an excess. And we'll identify an appropriate use pursuant to the ARPA funding.
 Trust me, we won't have anything left by the time you decide infrastructure. There's plenty out there. But we'll just fund up to the point we can and that will be your decision. I mean, you'll have to appropriate these things and we'll have to make a decision on them. Thank you.
 I want to repeat what I thought I heard about requests for more information and that was from Theresa to have a column that identified whether the applicant wanted could accept partial or not and from Sonya to categorize by some level of sector or service area so that we could have a pie chart also that reflects thank you yeah thank you.
 And then hopefully we can get those kind of overall numbers. And then hopefully the organizations that just aren't going to be able to meet the criteria, you can reach out to them.
 organizations ask for money and then when staff says no legally we can't do that they still come to us then it kind of causes a stink when it's not necessary so hopefully we can really let those organizations know that if they're asking for money that like almost legally we can't do that like there's there's no reason to ask us to bring it forward and then kind of embarrass everybody when we're like legally we can't even do this so I'm sure that's a problem y'all know of.
 If we get the score sheet that basically is on here, the first thing is Meet City and American Rescue Plan Act final rules. So when you, if we can get this, it will be identified. Okay. Right. And it's not like we have to start over and do something. If we get one for every organization, then we will know. I think this matrix is going to answer a lot of questions about the decisions that have been made.
 And this seems very fair to me, so I'm anxious to see the matrix if it's at all possible. Maybe another column, possibly? I think what Mark's asking for is to see the individual score sheets. Individual score sheets, yeah. Could there be a final score column? On the application at the bottom it says we'll accept partial funding.
 And if they will, then we will know. It's on this matrix course sheet too. And if they won't, then we will know. Is that what you're asking? Yeah, that's fine. Well, when we were talking about the kind of updating this spreadsheet, we were talking about adding a couple columns. And I was wondering if there might be even a column with the final score of the organization, possibly. Yeah, it's there. We'll do it. Yeah.
 And so once again, the score sheets were used on the nonprofit subrecipient portal applications, as well as the suggested city infrastructure and city ARPA projects. They were not used for the over 5,000 or under 5,000 assistance requests, just to make sure that everyone's clear on that. Do we have a current list of the suggested ARPA projects, the subrecipients who still have outstanding paperwork?
 As far as the ones, if we're talking about the subrecipient portal, we know the portal application time period is closed. We do have a few applicants that fail to provide some of the requested documentation, but it's not, that wouldn't be something that's still open if that's what you're asking for. Is there any organization on the suggested project list that still has outstanding paperwork?
 So are you talking, I'm sorry, just to make sure I'm clear, are you talking about the subrecipient portal ones or are you talking about the over 5,000 assistance requests? The over 5,000 assistance? Yeah, we still have a few that we're, we've requested documentation and we're just waiting for follow-ups. A lot of these, as you can see on here, are smaller organizations. So it does take some time when we say, hey, we'd like to take a look at this. Can you provide it? Sometimes it takes them a while to get it to us. And we knew that going in. I mean, a lot of these are...
 like I said, organizations that maybe aren't as familiar with federal funds as others might be. Do we have a deadline for that or do we need one?
 As far as the deadline goes, I mean that's come and gone. April 30th was the deadline. However, at this point we're just trying to make sure that we have all of our ducks in a row. In other words, we can't give this money out without having adequate supporting documentation. That would be something that would be flagged in an audit. So in order to make sure that these applications are complete still, even at this time, we're reaching out to people.
 okay thank you i believe when we talked about the person that's coming in for a position to manage this that part of that was to work with the organization so that they can be sure that they have the supporting material so i think we did cover that in our previous and i hope that that would be the case and this is more about distribution now rather than approval and it just won't be distributed if they don't get it together
 But with our professional staff, hopefully they can get it together. Well, Mark, I'd like to say that our staff's been working well. We've been working very hard. If we remember, correct me if I'm wrong, I believe the deadline for this was in April, was it not? It was. So it was the end of April. We're still reaching out to them, talking to them about documentation. So the deadline's been long gone. Our people have been working with them, been talking to them. Yolanda, Steven, and Devin have been
 have been discussing with them this will give them an opportunity for a little more discussion moving forward making sure compliance is there but but i think we've covered that part as much as we could mark right just how many city staff
 were able to participate in the ratings of the applications. A dozen every department, six people. It wasn't, it was five people. Now we needed to make sure that the people we assigned to this were responsible for quite a bit of reading and keeping up on the ARPA regulations. So we felt that a team of five was sufficient to make sure that we had different departments involved in this and that
 that we could get perspectives from you know a lot of different different people and make sure that we rated these as fairly as possible go ahead oh you go ahead um what um from today uh what is what will be the most helpful for you all as we go forward like what do you want from us the most i mean obviously we're gonna want to
 Approve or disprove or whatever, but what what will be the most helpful from City Council as we? Wrap up when we get to that point Okay. Well first off you talked about wanting some forms with additional things you wanted to look at them So what's most helpful is we're going to take we're going to distribute what we want the best ability to you review it and then get back to us if you have any questions or or
 organizations that we don't have on this list that you think we want to look at or you think that some of our we've been too harsh somewhere or questions in general I think we'll need to cover that before we then come forward and start talking about specific programs even do you want to end anything that's that's how I foresee it
 I think that's right. And so we can turn around that information that you've requested immediately or Monday. We would, you know, just be able to produce that data. I don't think what you're asking for is anything that we can't go ahead and process. Then how long you need to sit with that information, we'll, I don't know how long you will need,
 then we'll soon as you say you're you're ready to come back to discuss then we will do so and answer your questions in the meantime yes and that actually gets to what I'm wanting to say next so the group so so it sounds like we may need this if we needed to set an internal deadline for ourselves to
 get back to staff and that way we can keep the ball rolling for these individuals that need this funding fast? Well, I think we need to identify a process also deadlines and process. How are we going to go and do this in a systematic and consistent way if that's possible. So, I mean it would be to me. I feel like a
 A week would be fast, but then it would be, we could squeeze it in, I don't know, two weeks. What are y'all, how much time do you think, you've already read everything and your eyes hurt? Well, I was thinking maybe two weeks, if we could come back, if that's enough time for us, because I do know some of these organizations, they really need the funding ASAP, but I think
 I'm wondering how we're gonna score these individually. So, I mean, I'll just tell you my process. I have gone through on many of these and used the same evaluation criteria as the city. So I've probably come up with a different list of nonprofits, but I use the same criteria. So I don't know if we wanna do that and then maybe it gets summarized into an average among the eight of us.
 I'm just again throwing out some ideas here but very open to some other suggestions. I'm open to that. It's already established. It's already been vetted. And I don't know that we want to have two different ways of scoring from, we don't want to reinvent anything. The staff's already done a lot of enormous amount of work. So I'm good to stick with a similar scoring matrix. I kind of agree with that because
 You know, staff has spent months on this and you're talking about us spending two weeks doing what they did in months and going back over everything. And I've already read over all the applications and kind of did my own scoring too and I came up with a list that was pretty similar to what staff did without even knowing that I was doing that. So I would suggest that we try to keep it as simple as possible.
 And I think we can do that and keep it simplified and yet do a thorough job of it because we only have two weeks is what you suggested. If we need longer, I think one week is too short for sure, but if we need longer, I would be open to that. But I don't know how much time everybody else has had to spend on this. Well, we got our first, I'm not sure.
 when we got our first email with applications, but we've had emails and stuff all along. So we, I think the first one was maybe May or late April or somewhere in there. So I've looked over this stuff as it has come to me and I know some of the other council members have too. And you know, of course we have other things going on and you know, have to kind of circle back around to look at these again.
 I think two weeks would be a fair amount of time to sit back down and go over them again. My list was pretty close to this. Like I said, hopefully instead of restarting over, if there's one or two projects that you like over, then we talk about those one or two projects. And like I said, if I'm going to bring forward to council at some point, hey, I want to change
 one or two of these I'm gonna do a lot of vetting myself before I do that that's why I mentioned who cannot meet with so hopefully the changes are you know one or two organizations and not a whole new list because like I said my list actually matches pretty close with this and I would want a lot of evidence before I change one of these and not just kind of start over yeah
 I think you're onto something. I think if we were to constrain ourselves to say, instead of rating and ranking, just to say we're all allowed to question one or two MACs, projects that are proposed for funding, and to propose one or two MACs that aren't currently proposed,
 then staff would have the benefit of saying, golly, you know what, six people identified the questions about the same one. Let's do some looking at that. Or, you know, five people are saying, hey, this project wasn't funded. Let's look at it. Then they're not having to look at eight people's rankings. It's just going to make them crazy. So if we were willing, I think that that might be the most efficient way, given the time,
 that people have and really it's probably going to boil down to that and honest with you I think we have great deference and respect for the work that staff has already done and this would simply be an invitation for them to re-examine
 a very small handful. And if there's no concurrence amongst any of us, then they know, you know what, there isn't really a consensus to really even rethink what they're proposing. But that way, if there is a consensus, it's a minimal amount of additional work for them. And I think, I'd hate for CS assigned work to ourselves that we're not going to have the time and capacity to complete. So that would just be my suggestion for the mental health for staff.
 I agree with that totally. We're not working as a committee, so we're not going to have universal ideas of how many points to give what. And if I really like something and put tens on all of them or twenties, then the averaging is not, it's really not an average. It's just an idea. But I think it has to be specific to the project, and I think it has to be specific to what...
 what is the criteria that you personally see needs to be looked at closer and then bring it that way does that make sense at all you know it does it could be skewed uh in a certain way it just seemed to me that that would provide i guess some level of transparency about how the group actually scored projects um so that's that's all i was thinking
 This is certainly your decision, but I think some of the things you're saying is right. Let's really consider that some of the things we have coming up. I know we'll all be excited to know that
 We're going to be bringing forward levy discussions. We're going to be into the budget. We're starting that already. So remember, we've got a lot of stuff on our plate going forward. We've still got the water and sewer study that's going to come up later in this year. So I don't think you'll have an unlimited amount of time doing this if you take too long.
 i i have one question for stephen um you know you haven't conducted the risk assessments on the sub-recipients um how much time does a risk assessment take is that a considerable investment on your part because that would also help me to have more information to make decisions
 And I'm assuming, and this is a big assumption, is that the 11 that you identified in here, you would think they are relatively low risk. It's difficult to determine that without actually performing the risk assessment. And certainly that wouldn't be something you could document that would stand up to an audit assessment.
 The risk assessment is actually a piece of the documentation you need to provide when you are audited to show that you took into consideration and evaluated why you're actually giving these people money. The money that you had federal funds to spend on your behalf. I would say that it's going to take at a minimum probably three hours per applicant and that's
 That's a minimum. So basically what happens is we need to get together with the CFO of these organizations, their audit manager, and then ask a series of questions, ask follow-up questions, and then hopefully as a team with not just myself but at least one other person from the city to document the fact that we evaluated that.
 And then we'll need to get back with them if we have any follow-up questions. We'll need to take a look at their audit, the audits that they have, follow up on any sort of recommendations or problems that were in the audit. We need to make sure we give due consideration to that and document the fact that we did that.
 So it is quite extensive. It's not just something that you can do yourself. Like I said, this is kind of an agreement with the organization. You really need them to buy in and want to participate in this. In other words, you have to have the CFO make time, the accounting manager, all those people. Thank you for that explanation. That's really helpful. I did not know it was so extensive. Thank you.
 It's my understanding that everyone has to give us an audit. Is that right?
 No, that's not correct. That was what we had initially asked for because we felt that was the safest thing to ask. That protects the city as much as possible. However, per those conversations with council in March, it was determined that some of the smaller organizations may not have a current audit. And so we took additional steps with those organizations to basically make sure that they provided adequate financial statements and could support the fact that they are.
 you know available to handle these funds now what that would mean is basically an automatic maximum risk assessment which would require further follow-up from city staff in other words we need to to do additional reporting we need to do site visits quite frequently for those organizations
 And again, the professional person that we're hiring can be responsible for the follow-ups, right? Is that how we're looking at it? The professional person is going to be working on it. Steve's going to have to help with that. If they'll need some guidance, Steve and I and whoever's necessary will help guide them. Yes, they'll be working on that at the inception. One of the things that goes faster if you've got an organization that's had
 audits and grants before. So if they've had grants at demonstration that they've been able to carry it out, or it's an organization and they've had grant problems and they've had grant failures or non-compliance issues, that kicks them out of the box real quick. But some of them may take a substantial amount of time. That person will certainly help and will also have to assist in it.
 I have another question that's very different than what we've just discussed. Under item 11, nonprofit subrecipient portals, you have Watershed Conservation Resource Center with the floodplain conservation. I believe they want to purchase land to improve water quality. Is that not also...
 applicable under city infrastructure or the city ARPA request? Could that go in another category? Or is that the only category that they would be allowed to be in?
 In my professional opinion, this is the only category they'd be allowed in. This is strictly ARPA funding and that's one of the things that's allowed under ARPA as long as you follow the tenets of the clean water and drinking water standards acts. It should be an allowable expense and it's one of the things that we actually did some work on the front end to try to check this project out to make sure it was applicable. So I hope that answers your question.
 Okay, but could it also also be applicable to city infrastructure? In my in my estimation and Paul could weigh in on this this wouldn't be classified as a general governmental expense So I don't think you could use the 10 million revenue laws on this W CRC would maintain the ownership as a joint agreement. I
 Right. Okay, so ownership is the issue. Okay. All right. Thank you. It's one of the issues. I mean that's not one of the things that we evaluated it based on. So, I mean if that was the road we were going to take, we'd really need to take a look at this further. It may be crazy and my own preferences maybe don't match up with staff's recommendations quite as closely as some others.
 But I think that I ought to be constrained to only one or two suggested changes, to be perfectly honest with you. Would there be any reason why today we couldn't submit, here's one or two that I question funding for, and here's one or two that I'd like us to think about the potential of funding,
 because I should be constrained to some really small amount. I'm one person's opinion, one person reading the application, and that
 My belief is that work will expand to fill the time allotted and if we have an hour and 11 minutes left, if we said take 11 minutes quietly to yourself and look through these and write down on a slip of paper the two to rethink and the two to consider adding, we turn those into staff.
 blindly and if there is no concurrence and consensus on our part then there really isn't sufficient reason for them to really spend much time and as I mentioned gosh if five people mention the same thing well that might be worth going back and having some discussions to consider repurposing just under the human nature belief that if we come back a week from now that we would be doing the exact same thing to be perfectly honest with you I'm just not sure how
 time people are going to have to be able to allot to rethinking what's being proposed to us. Well, I personally need more information, so I don't want to be constrained right now. I'd like to have some more information that the staff can provide before I pull out my two or three or five. Yeah. I agree with that. That was what my note was.
 We've gotten additional information just today that I need to consider, and I have questions already on the applications that I've reviewed that I probably need to call staff about. I don't want to do it today. I feel like it's rushing to judgment, so sorry. You've already studied these quite a deal. I have two, but I started from the top down to see if what was allocated in this, you
 proposal was agreeable and then I just reviewed the other ones not quite so vigorously. So give me a few days. Yeah, this is one of the few times I feel like we've actually ran to the end of the meeting without running to the end of time.
 So, I mean, I think a lot of the questions that we're going to have moving forward are we're going to need to ask staff. And like I said, you know, the ones that I would consider taking out or consider adding, I would really like to ask those questions later.
 in a way that doesn't sound like I'm publicly attacking that organization. So I don't really want to do that here. Because all the applicants, they're good applicants. And so when we start talking about adding or subtracting one, I kind of really want to have my questions answered before I make a shift.
 I think I do have one big general question. Let's see here. On numbers one and two, the city projects, child care voucher program, and then the Head Start projects. So that's 600,000 funding.
 City project is that I guess what I'm asking is that six hundred thousand coming out of what we allocated for nonprofits can you help me understand the number there no that's a separate deal so what I guess what I'm seeing on this page the top part is infrastructure the bottom part is the ARPA right that's correct and then this would be out of the ARPA funding category that are both funding general category and then
 When you say ARPA funding, to me that's everything. Okay, I apologize for that. That's good. If you want to go back to the second slide, that's the actual numbers. Yep, that's what I'm looking at. So at the very top there you see the category amount, the $10 million, that's your infrastructure, and the $7.9 is the
 Basic ARPA projects were the things that qualify under those four specific criteria of the ARPA program So that's seven point nine million dollars is is where this would be coming out of. Okay Okay, and then because I guess what I'm trying to make sure is that we had allocated some for nonprofits And then we had some that was like city. So to me, I'm kind of on my mind I'm I just want to make sure one is not fault taking away funding from the other. Is that correct? I guess we
 at least myself i didn't really think of it that think of it that way um these are all projects that serve you know the residents of fayetteville so whether or not it comes from a non-profit or rolls out of the city you know that's actually what the city does is to serve the citizens absolutely and i completely agree with you on that we'll just it might be a question that might come up to us so because that could be another one or two organizations potentially
 Okay, so then basically one through... Can I ask, add one quick follow up to that? So this is one of the things that came through two different committees, the request for child care vouchers and expanded Head Start. And this is not something that we really saw in any of the portal projects that were submitted. So this is one that we knew there was a lot of need for in the community, and that's why we threw it on the list.
 I guess that is not flexible to go into the other category if we wanted, or into the infrastructure because that's not infrastructure. Let me try to define that a bit. The top part that says infrastructure, that's a suggestion to use it as infrastructure. We transfer it in and then we use it as a governmental purpose.
 The difference in the ARPA funding, okay, we can't just on our own, the city couldn't take city money and allocate a half a million dollars for child care vouchers. We don't have the authority to do that as a city in the state of Arkansas. The ARPA fund and using it under the ARPA grant program allows us to do that, so that's
 All of those are something that's eligible under ARPA, and that gives us the authority to do it. Even though it might be a city-run program, we're running it through ARPA just like it was a HUD program. The infrastructure, what we've described as infrastructure, once we do that, it can be used on any governmental purpose, anything that the city could any otherwise do. So that's the differentiation, if that helps. Yes, it does. Okay. Okay.
 to read about those two since it's City Project. Will it be with the applications? Okay, awesome. And so one of the reasons that it's broken out separately on this page is
 The city ARPA projects, those were ranked separately. Those were not under the same ranking criteria as the nonprofit subrecipient portal. In other words, I didn't need to take into evaluation the results of the audit of the city. I didn't need to consider all the things that you would need to for the portal projects. Okay, awesome. Thank you.
 i want to follow up on sonia's question though um these community resource city projects child care voucher program those cannot be moved in even though it's arpa money but they cannot be moved into the city infrastructure category is that correct that is correct once once we're moving into revenue reimbursement okay
 I've labeled it infrastructure. It wouldn't have to be. It's really revenue reimbursement for the city. Once it moves in there, we can use that on something that the city is allowed to do statutorily. Okay? Again, we couldn't set up a program, right? Now, forget ARPA. We couldn't set up a program and say, we're going to give vouchers. We can't do that. We don't have the legal authorities.
 So it can't be moved like that. It has to stay under ARPA because it's now under that authority of the grant program and federal guidelines, if that helps. So when we had that vote a couple of months ago to decouple those funds, then we actually kind of put ourselves in a box there in a way.
 We decided to do that. We decided to use ungovernmental. That decision was made. If you want to call it a box, I guess. So we just didn't have the flexibility, we lost the flexibility by that vote on how we apportioned those funds out. No, that's not, well... Is that incorrect, Paul? I'll disagree a little bit with that. Okay. Not to be argumentative, but...
 We've allowed flexibility to use that for other things apart from ARPA. We can use that on a whole bunch of things. We're not restricted by strictly what ARPA says. So did we restrict it? Well, yeah, if it stays at ARPA, it's restricted. And if it's revenue reimbursement, it's restricted. So either way, they're just different restrictions. That's as best that I could explain or the way I view it anyway. Thank you.
 the person who we would hire, that's gonna come out of the infrastructure
 Can you remind me on that? Where does the money to hire the person? The individual hiring we intend to take out of our, but we could take it out of the, I guess we could take it out of general fund if they prefer. Is that something that we'll need to? We could do that. We could take it out of instead of, we could take the money allocated for that of probably about $90,000 or so with full benefits and everything.
 And we could take it out of what we would allocate to infrastructure and just allocate it to the general fund. If we do that, I could use that on other purposes if I needed to. But we could do it either way. We could allocate it directly to there, or we could take it out of what I have labeled infrastructure or revenue reimbursement, whichever way we prefer.
 Actually, I would probably prefer that we take it out of what the revenue reimbursement is. That gives us more flexibility in case I need to get the person to work on a different project going forward.
 If we ever get a little spare time, I can certainly use people on other projects and I don't have to be absolutely only ARPA. So I'll probably go in that direction. Okay, great. And that's what you said you'll bring in the next meeting to ask for that funding? Yeah, that's governmental purposes. It's a governmental purpose to run a grant. Okay, thank you. Just like Yolanda does. So it's similar to that situation.
 i think since we're having a pregnant pause that uh we uh probably in our mind know what we're up to at least in our own mind right and i don't i don't think there's much more we can do today but we do need to set a time or a deadline for the review and submission of what we want to reconsider and i would suggest that be
 maybe next Wednesday or Thursday I'm good with that I don't know if we can actually make motions Well we just have to agree with it shrug our shoulders at it sounds good So clarify Mark exactly what you think needs to be done or by in ten days or next Wednesday That if we have something that needs to be reconsidered that we
 I would like it to go into staff also by Wednesday just so it can be organized and we're not here maybe doing the same thing differently. Like you see it differently, I see it differently, but it's the same thing and the staff can help organize that I hope. So are you suggesting August 17th? Is that the date? Not this Wednesday but next Wednesday? Is that what you're suggesting?
 That would be 10 days? Yeah, that's what I'm suggesting. Yeah, I think that sounds doable. And I think that's generous, quite honestly. So just to be clear, you're saying that you would send that to all the city council members or it would go to staff? I mean, I'm just trying to get clear about what you're...
 You know we have to be careful about what we're sending to each other. Well, yes. But I meant like the two. Right, and if we send it to the staff, then it can be blamed on them. We can handle that. No, I think it just goes to the staff, and then they can, because all of us might have something that's all the same, but it won't look like we have collaborated outside of a public meeting.
 Yeah, I'm good with it going to staff and then maybe a summary sent out. Kind of this is about what we're seeing. This is especially important to have in a public meeting because it does impact so many organizations and so much money.
 So that's just how I was thinking about it. So I think that we've agreed that it would go to staff. And that sounds really good too, from Sloan's suggestion in the summary, then we would be able to report out, we received the following comments, not by name or anything, you know,
 comments and questions and here is the summary of the information we received from City Council and then we'll have answers back to you all individually to satisfy your questions thank you Susan
 One comment going into this meeting that we kind of faced before we adjourned the last city council meeting was the public input opportunity. What do you foresee as that process?
 I had imagined that once you all have had your initial pass at the information, then at least with the subrecipient applications at your discretion, if you would like to hear from them about
 their plan, you could. You need not do that necessarily ahead of your determination of the final, but as Paul mentioned, each one will bring a contract back. And so it would seem to me that when the contract comes back, the recipient would say, and here's exactly what I've agreed to do. Paul? That's each of the contracts, and remember those that are subrecipients are subcontractees.
 As far as the Revenue Reimbursement Group, we could do that as a single package because that's reimbursing. So if there's something you want to look at or we don't have the document, but that we could do as a single purpose because they're not going to come in and tell you they have a plan.
 The other ones, they'll have to have some plan because we're going to have to have a sub grantee agreement. They'll have explanations to discuss it with you at that point in time. Let's talk about the public input session for a minute because we're going to have to have some time restrictions or we're going to have 34 people come in and speak an hour on their organization and then 134 that are affiliated with associations that will come
 I do think we have to think about that. Because these are organizations that we're passionate about. Yes. Oh well. Do you think we could do a five minute presentation for each subrecipient and then maybe two minutes for every public comment outside of the subrecipient? Well that would give us an idea, a better idea, and then we could bring back if we needed more information on that.
 Five minutes is not long, but it... No, five minutes isn't long. But 34 people. Or the 134 that are coming after us. Oh, I guess you would look at it that way, too. You know, but one of the things I'm thinking about is that I'm also anticipating that some of the people that are going to want to come in and talk to us are probably the smaller organizations that have the less...
 staff to handle stuff and and I don't know how we do this. I want to be fair to everyone and and You know compassionate because like I just said these are charities Organizations not charities necessarily but organizations that we feel strongly about and care about as well so well, I just don't want it to be a free-for-all with people that have a great deal of emotional attachment so something to speak up portal to me and
 possibly modified. Possibly. I guess let me try to make sure I understand about, Paul's pointed out two special distinctions with the group that is requesting based on revenue loss. So they, all their applications, you can read about them on the web. Anybody can read about them on the web.
 since it's passed, they don't really have a proposal moving forward. We can simply, you know, if you agree that this amount of money should be presented to them. So they don't really need to present unless you want to hear them, but they don't have... That could be an entire, we'd have to re-appropriate it. So I would want a single resolution with whichever group, you want them all included or a few, that would be a single. Right.
 Because there's nothing to present. There's not a plan.
 other ones, the sub-grantee ones though, they have to sign an agreement so that agreement, that contract has got to come through the council. Right, and so since you all agreed what you think, you might be pretty close to staff's recommendation. We're going to spend the next 10 days looking at your suggestions for what to look at again. And then you'll have enough information to make a final recommendation. It would be those 10, 11, 12 things.
 applicants who would then go through the contract process and come present when it's time for y'all to vote on the contract. Well I certainly agree with that. But they wouldn't all be at once. I mean we wouldn't be able to process these at once. They'd be coming to a council to
 through the agenda session to the council just like a standard contract would be and I don't perceive we've had all ten of them at one time or bring them all you know so they would be spaced out it will take time mark I didn't think about it that way because I'm looking at a fixed budget that this is all together for this but I I see what you're saying and that's certainly yeah that's a I didn't see it that way thanks
 So, if it's my understanding, by the 17th, we will have an outline of what we think needs to be reviewed and reconsidered. And then at that point, we can figure out who comes to present what.
 And if they don't get invited to come and present, we're going to hear from them through email campaigns and get a lot of information, I think. Okay, so just to clarify, I thought I heard you on the 17th that we have to get all of our questions to staff. Then there's going to be a summary that's going to come out from staff. How long do you think staff needs to create that summary, Susan? Okay.
 It will depend on how many questions you all have, but we are pretty well positioned to turn things around fairly quickly because we want to
 do it while it's all very present in our memories and that's where we are right now. So maybe by the next Monday? Oh, I would think so. Wouldn't you, Stephen, depending on the number of questions? I would think so, depending on the, obviously, the number and nature of questions, but we'd turn this around as quickly as we could. Okay, because that's the 22nd. I'm sorry, I'm just trying to lock everything in by date.
 So sure, if you all got us all of your questions, we, on Wednesday the 17th, I believe we could commit to summarizing that information back to you all by Monday the 22nd. Okay. And then there'll be some point at which you need to concur with that final list of subrecipients, right? So I hear input from us and y'all, but I
 But I know the residents, that's I think the piece that we're trying to make happen. I don't want presentations from the applications. I can read their application. But that's why I mentioned maybe the speak up or something of that nature that then either can be just given to us raw if it's not too much or may has to be summarized.
 we at least can see what they're saying. Okay. Sure. So when you all, when we've gone through that cycle and you all say of the subrecipients, these are the ones that we want you to work to bring contracts forward, then we can put all of those on the speaker. I think the residents are going to want it before them because they're going to say that, well, we've already decided who is going to be it, so why does my input matter at that point?
 Well, then that begs the question whether you're asking that the residents have review of all the subrecipient applications even if they didn't produce enough material to qualify? Well, right now, residents haven't had any input. Well, no, all the material is on the website. So they can... Yes, but how other than to email us randomly would...there is no...
 portal. There's no place that instead of just random council members that they think would listen. Okay, so you would foresee just a general, so this would not be specific to what do you think about all these, it would be please highlight your concerns or
 That should have been done two months ago. So that one's already already passed. But yeah, so if if we as council members are saying that we're only going to consider these changes, the residents never really had a part of that process.
 suggest which ones that we should change other than they have to individually contact us and see either a they feel that we're not listening or be That's a really cumbersome way for a lot of the residents to speak to us One at a time randomly and some some nonprofits are better kind of stacking that phone banking system than others And and and I want it to be a little easier for people to to
 So I mean I feel like a speak up open over the next couple days or something of that nature or whatever it's called so that they can and then we can go see those and if we see a lot of them in one area then maybe that would influence which ones we're talking about adding or subtracting but right now there has been no input from residents. Okay.
 I'm trying to imagine what that Speak Up page would look like. So it would direct people to where they can read about all the applications. It would have the staff's recommendations from today. It would have the process that you all have agreed to for providing additional questions and answers.
 We could say, so by the 17th, this is to the public, so by the 17th, council members will have provided to us any questions and answers about specific, do you have specific questions and answers? Is that the kind of thing you're?
 Yeah, I mean, it could just literally have, A, these are the organizations I'd like to see if they weren't at it, or these are the organizations that I don't actually think can meet the objectives that they want to. I mean, it literally...
 explain the things you mentioned, and then it's like two questions. Which organizations that were not in the suggestion would you like to see and why? And then you can kind of try to limit that. I don't want 500 words from everybody that wants to fill that out, but you know, and then which ones would you like to, you know, I guess take out, if any. I think that makes sense now that I hear what you're suggesting.
 It takes me a couple of times to get it out. And so just to follow up with that, so there would be a portal potential input, but then I just wanted to let the public know that from what I was hearing before that, that
 The beneficiary request would still come for council, so that could be an opportunity for public input on that part still before we finalize. That's one, but it is the final list, so it's not really over the whole list of nonprofits, which is what
 So I was saying and that's what I'm saying as well. But you would have the input there and also potentially the 10 contracts of the subrecipients. And so those that would be another time for each person to come to speak for, against. Right, correct. But I do feel like we do need an opportunity for them to have access, which is what it sounds like we're building this tool.
 to have access to everything we did. So it's also an input to what we have as well. The whole list, look at everything. This is all the information we've received.
 We'd love to hear your feedback as well. And I almost wonder too, because since we're scoring it in that way, they could see the matrix. I mean, I don't necessarily think they need to score stuff at all, but as one of those documents, basically this packet that we received today, they see that. Right. Okay. Yeah.
 the material from today on that Speak Up website. And just to clarify, it's all the groups on here, right? It's the over 5,000 assistants, it's the other projects, it's the subrecipients, the cities, ARPA, and the city infrastructure, right? Just clarifying. Right, we'll put this entire thing in sort of subsections and in a readable chunk if that's what you're asking. But yeah, everything will be there.
 We just have a lot of categories with all these different rules. But we definitely need the public's input. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Great idea, Sloan. Yeah, it is. I can't guarantee that they'll provide their input through this vehicle rather than email you. I'm not trying to stop all the emails. That's fine. Just...
 Some people are scared to make phone calls and want to make sure that they can tell us. And a lot of it, I mean some of it they'll tell us to do stuff that we really can't. That doesn't mean we're not listening to them when we're like, hey, we're not going to do the thing that you, well, like we legally can't. But at least we can hear from them. Anything else? I might understand.
 In the end, we're gonna make one friend to 99 enemies. I mean, there's just simply not enough funding to go around. And so what we're describing is not a four or five hour,
 verbal session, come stand at the podium and speak to us. We're saying we want to provide an opportunity but constrain it through this online source of being able to comment, hey, I would like to lend my support for something that doesn't appear that's receiving support or I want to question your support for a project that's on the list.
 And that's the avenue for input that we wanna provide the community. And am I understanding that correctly? Well, I believe when we actually vote on it, they'll have that opportunity to come five minutes at a time, a hundred of them. And hopefully if we can get some of those answers, you know, answers beforehand, that might be smaller because it will already hopefully be part of the conversation we've been having. Yeah, I mean, that sounds pretty painful to me.
 Legally, I think we have to have that mark whether we want to or not. Well, I mean for appropriating money, we will already have a document coming to us for us to actually vote on that we would be talking about undoing.
 I would just assume we do a session like this and allow people to come on a Saturday versus spend five hours just to have people verbally advocate when they have had an opportunity in submitting their application. And if you provide this other opportunity, I think it's a much more rational approach, exactly the way you described it.
 But live on a council meeting on the floor when we're going to be making decisions to say, well, hold off. I want to horse trade on something that's going to be pretty awkward and frustrating for everyone, I believe. So I really like that.
 if we're going to have people verbally advocate they've already submitted a written application this kind of forum would be preferable to when we're actually going to be voting at at night so i love your idea of use a tool to submit your feedback what i thought i heard was this tool is to help provide the residents opportunity to speak to you within this 10-day
 to advocate for or against. And then that tool's life is over. You all have the information from the residents, from the staff.
 then you all will be ready to make a recommendation based on a consensus from the list that I think you all started out by saying it looks like we're probably going to have relatively few exceptions here. And so if that's still the assumption, then there might not be a considerable amount of dialogue because what we want to do is bring you.
 the final list that you all ultimately by consensus have said and then you'll have to vote on that final list right and then you'll have to amend on that final list and that would be the night of the 10 or 11 or 12 sub-recipients i mean that's that would be the time they would need you know because it'll be a public meeting with a vote and then when each contract is ready as paul said it would take
 And we'll have to string those along at city council meetings because we won't have 10 or 11 contracts all at once. That will be difficult. So there'll be two bites at the apple. One, when you approve the entire list of subrecipients. Now that's the part we're talking about, right, Theresa? That's what I wanted to be clear about. Isn't it also the over 5,000 assistants, all of that? Isn't that? I mean, I'm just seeing we're going to have a lot of input.
 Well, what I anticipated is we'll come forward with that as a single document to reimburse those for revenue losses for those together. That would be a single document. Now, if somebody wants to come and speak to each individual one, I mean, that's going to have to happen at a council meeting.
 I see it that way too, and it would still give us the opportunity to amend the document before it was approved, so we're not closing anyone out, but it certainly gives a guideline that is going to be pretty firm in a way. This is your bail-awake, this is your decision to make, but they have the opportunity at that council meeting.
 they have the opportunity before that time, they're seeing this, they're seeing what the list is, they can contact you and give you input and they will. If you have another one, you're just adding another venue for comment and then you're going to hear the same venue at the council meeting. So, I think you want to consider that they have the opportunity but
 do they necessarily need multiple opportunities i mean that's certainly your decision to make i'm i'm kind of looking at the calendar again so um so we've got the summary will be back from the city if it's not too extensive from us on the 22nd
 So we can, I guess we'll create a, I don't know, are you going to create the final list from the summary or are we going to kind of go over this again to create the final summary list? I'm just asking about the process.
 What are we thinking? I see you shaking your head, Sonya. You're saying that when are we going to review the public input, as we're saying, from this tool to then inform us to bring the final list. Is that what you're asking? Right. When are we going to create the final summary list so that the public knows exactly what the final list is? Right. Because we want to include the input that we will hear also from the public.
 public in the recommendation because now we have to weigh what we put in, what we sent in, what we see from each other and what we got from the Speak Up tool. That's what you're saying? Exactly. So I'm wondering if we can set a date for that. So that would give us, Susan, how long do you think it will take to get the Speak Up set up?
 I'm looking at Lisa because it would be her team, but if we're talking about reproducing the material we've already produced and asking those two or three basic questions easily by Tuesday with existing material. Okay, and adding those two questions. So you all would get us all the questions. We get you the summary on the 22nd.
 The speak-up goes up by this Tuesday. So that would be the 9th? Yeah. Okay. And, you know, we should give people a couple of weeks, right, to be able to provide us information, right? So maybe the speak-up tool would close on the 23rd, on August 23rd? Does that sound reasonable, two weeks? Yes.
 So we would have the summary information, the information back from staff that is, and then the Speak Up tool information by the 24th. Probably give you a day, right, to be able to...
 summarize that or do you maybe you need more time than a day to summarize the speak up information or will it be visible for us to see? It'd be visible for you to see and it's a push of a button for a summary yeah. Okay. It'll be like a spreadsheet. It produces a product a PDF or a document. Okay so that means we could have it by the by the 24th is when we could see it.
 And then how long do we need or what's the process that we would take to create our final, our final list? This is a real process challenge. Like maybe another, I don't, let's see that, what day of, was it the 24th, the day of the week? That's a Wednesday. You think like a following Wednesday? Is a week too fast to consider the public's input with our own decisions?
 So that would be the 31st. I think a week's reasonable. Okay, sounds good. We're having a meeting on the 31st to have a consensus of what we're considering? I don't know. That's what I'm, we'll have a week to digest everything that we've seen, right? And then do we send that back to Susan individually or do we have a public meeting?
 I'm good with having another meeting like this. Once we send all that information to the team, hopefully they can make kind of a new recommendation if there's some consistency of changes needed. Then we can have a meeting like this where we can make those changes. Some of us are ready, some of us aren't.
 But I don't think it would need to be a public input session. That's why we're doing the speak up. That's why people can reach out to us over the next two, three weeks. And then hopefully we're down to just a couple changes and you know this organization or this or or if we find out from what we hear from the council, it's all over the place, then we'll know that That may not be as easy.
 But I don't think we need an extra kind of having people march in here and talk to us for two or five minutes, whether they're from the organization or public. They'll get to do that when we actually vote on it. But I do believe we'll need to meet as a body again to kind of flush out those organizations.
 I would think you could be doing, I think you'd be able to do that in about two hours. I don't think we need a four-hour discussion, and I think if you want to do that, you set it up. You want to do it on Saturday, or we can do it on an evening night, that's up to you. But you want to do it on Saturday, I guess you'll be looking at a September time period. Definitely not September 3rd.
 Yeah, that's right. You don't want to do it there. So either you want to do it at night or you want to do it at weekend and pick whichever you want. So I want to come back to how do we get to that final summary sheet? How is that going to be pulled together? I don't think we've agreed upon that, or I don't understand it yet. Well, what I understand,
 So we're going to submit back to you a summary of everything that you said to us. Fingers crossed, it will be very close. And then we can, in that summary that we send back to you, we can demonstrate you all had consensus on these. I mean consensus is consensus. We've submitted a thing unless you all want to take something off or add something new.
 and you may, but there'll be a body of the work where you've already, based on your observations, you've already said inherently, there's consensus on these, let's work on these. And that's what we would bring back to you, and that's what you would need to then formally vote on what to do with those items that were outside of your consensus. How's that? No, I think, I think,
 I don't know if I'm saying the same thing as you, but I thought the meeting we were talking about, that's when the consensus would fit. That's when we would, whether we had a consensus. We wouldn't make a consensus, say, on a decision that that's the one we're going to do, but we'd have a consensus on what the group we're going to work with would be. That could be done at whatever meeting we're talking about here. I thought that's what we would talk about. So you get the list back.
 You get the information to us, get something back, we'd say this is what we're going to talk about. We have the meeting. We'll say is there a consensus or do we want an adjustment or whatever of what we want to look at? And then we go from there. Is that summarizing what you said? So I would think that meeting we're talking about right now is when you're going to finalize it, when you're going to finalize who we're going to work with. Teresa, do you think you have a timeline
 because i i've put it all over the place of what we're doing when do you if you had a timeline i'd love for you to share it just so here's what i have this is why i'm still in the gray a little bit but i appreciate what paul and susan had said that on august 9th they're actually going to have the um the tool set up for the speak up and that's going to run from august 9th to august 23rd
 Now, we as city council members need to get all of our requests and questions to staff by August 17th. Then staff is going to create a summary of our questions or concerns that we have about certain projects and send it back to us on August 22nd.
 Now, where I was still trying to figure out where we go from there, because by August 22nd, we will have the summary from all of our concerns at the city council. We'll have that back. We'll have the speak-up tool information back by the 23rd or the 24th. And so we will have about a week, us, have about a week to kind of look at all of that.
 And that's the part that I got to where I was kind of fumbling around because, you know, depending on the speak-up information, what other council members' concerns are, you know, I may reevaluate my list a lot. There may be a lot of things that I didn't really think about. So that's where we get to that final list based on all the inputs and hopefully a lot of consensus. Absolutely. Hopefully a lot of consensus there. So that's where I'm struggling.
 So the way I envision that is after the 24th, the five committee members get together and see if they need to change their recommendations. Hopefully it's not much, and then we can have a meeting like this. And then I see that being a sub-two-hour meeting after all.
 Because we've had time to look at it. We're ready to talk and and kind of you know trade this for that and Get there And then that then would be ready to go to a council of public meeting where we would actually vote on it So really the now we're to the point of Paul I think it's right about a two-hour meeting Do you want it on a Saturday or an afternoon after work a Saturday would be better well I would
 There's a lot of football games in September. Oh, you're right. You're so good. Sorry. If we did it, we could maybe do it on a Sunday. But the whole month of September is packed with Razorback home football games, except maybe the last weekend, and I don't think we want to wait that long. We could pick, say, a Thursday right after work instead of trying to do a weekend if we're only talking a couple of hours. Right.
 I'm good with that. I could do that. That would be fine with me. Okay, so we'll identify a Thursday after August 31st, because you will have had the speak up data since the 24th to the 31st. And if you're looking at your calendar, Teresa, what Thursday are you looking at? I'm not having mine in front of me. The 8th. I heard 8 a lot. That sounds good. That works. That looks like a good day.
 Alrighty then, and that's a Thursday. Okay. Oh, well, I'm sorry. Could we do it the Thursday after? That date actually has been set aside as a possible, possible, trying to work out opening of the Fay Jones Woods.
 So that was just something that we had angled out there earlier, and we're talking about it just in the last few days. We haven't set it, but that was a competing date. So how, but, you know, it's y'all's choice. Could we do Wednesday the 7th? Would that work for everybody? Wednesday the 7th sounds like. I will be out of town then. Will you be Zoomable? Zoom in. Well, that's the day I'm coming back. Will you be Zoomable? Oh, I think so.
 matters what time it is because i may be traveling let me let's not worry about that right now because i i have a flexible okay you know i'm retired now yeah this flexibility is okay so we're going to aim for the 7th of september wednesday and things may change but well that'll be our initial aim for a two-hour meeting for you all to finalize that list do we want to make that 5 30 or you don't want to finalize the time yet
 I hope we finalize it before we walk out. Okay. 530 works. Sounds great. Sounds good. Great. Wow. We got it? Y'all did it. I think we did. Thank you, staff, for working on this. Yeah, really, the staff that worked, that y'all have put into this is so wonderful.
 And you know staff appreciates hearing that. I can't say enough about the team and Paul and Stephen's leadership and how They plowed through this. Thank you all.
 and apologies for so many questions it just it's very complicated so thanks for putting it into non-accountant terms for me well if i'm not clear i hope you ask because i it's difficult sometimes i assume everybody understands so so please ask because i do this every day i know you have plenty to do beside this okay now
 Mr. Whittaker has one final question. I mean, I know they're 30 years old, look what the project has done to them. But my comment is if we're not deciding on 7.5 million dollars and we're just deciding some subset of that then we're not really deciding anything at all. And so I just want to make sure we're not just
 dancing with our sister and saying, well, we're going to deal with 12 projects, but we're hoping to actually finalize an appropriation for $7.6 million. Agreed? Aren't you talking about all the projects? Well, I think those are a fair game too, right? Well, the infrastructure you can do later. I mean, there's no use...
 I would think you'd be best taking care of the ARPA portion. You can do the infrastructure later. I'll come forward with a transfer. We'll transfer that over, get it in the capital program, and you can do that later. You don't want to bite off all of this. That's great. Thank you for clarifying that. Okay, super. Yeah, I think leaky pipes will still be there, but these nonprofits need... Yeah, but if...
 If you're going to have to check with Kip, if your point is you're going to make a definitive decision, you may have to have a special council meeting. This might have to be billed with a special council meeting. Well, I think didn't we say we would build consensus and then the vote would be at the next city council meeting? I think that was our assumption. Yeah. Okay, so we're really not, it's a consensus building
 and then it'll be in front of city council where it can be amendable. Yes, okay. Anything else? Okay, let's go ahead and go home today.