I'd like to call to order the August 6, 2024 City Council meeting. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones. Here. Moore. Here. Bedecker. Here. Turner. Here. Bunch. Here. Kirk. Here. Erksberg. Here. Stafford. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, good evening everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Beckert. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of June, so it's half a year.
 When we look at the general fund, property taxes are just about flat to what we expected. Sales taxes, we talked about last week, are down 5%. Franchise fees are down roughly 9% at this point in time, and beverage taxes are also down. They're down about 9% compared to budget. Building permits is strong and getting stronger as we go along. It's up 22% compared to budget at this point in time.
 State turnover is down about 7% right now. The reimbursement for charges and services, that's down about 2%. Interest.
 is up and is almost double than what I had anticipated as interest earnings are staying pretty strong at this point in time. Court fees and fines are up. All in all, our revenues are down compared to budget of 4.4% at this point in time for the general fund. And again, this first half of the year. Streets, the street half cent sales tax,
 Turnback and MFT turn back are down about 3% compared to budget at this point in time. Remember, that's been very strong over the last couple of years, but it's leveling off this year. Parking total revenue, we're down about 6% compared to what the budget, but we're up a little bit compared to last year. And that has been picking up lately.
 HMR taxes were down about 2% compared to what had been budgeted, but were flat compared to last year. Remember, we had been down several months compared to last year, so that's coming back a bit at this point in time.
 Water and sewer were up about 1% the anticipated revenue at this point in time. So we're roughly flat. We're up a percent a bit. Recycling and trash collection, it's down about 1% at this point in time. And most of that is driven by the recycling.
 the recycling sales the uh the amounts being paid for recycled articles are much less especially cardboard to what we had anticipated going in the airport is doing better flights are still down but they're coming up and fuels
 Sales taxes are roughly flat to where they were last year. Remember, we've been down most of the year substantially in the first quarter, but that's kind of leveling out at this point in time. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Paul? Anything? Okay, thank you, Paul. All right, the next order of business is the consent. Number one, approval of the July 16, 2020 First City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve the 2025 employee benefits package. Number three, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with Spectrum Living Solutions Incorporated, DBA SLS community through December 31st, 2024 for the property located at 2190 South Razorback with an automatic extension for four years through December 31st, 2028. 2028.
 Number four, a resolution to approve change order number 13 to the contract with Nelson, Byrd, and Walsh LLC in the amount of $65,571 to provide architectural consulting services for the Upper Ramble and to approve a budget adjustment. This 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project. Number five, a resolution to convey 14 square feet of right-of-way to the Arkansas-
 State Highway Commission for the I-49 Highway 62 Interchange Improvements Project. Number six, a resolution to authorize the purchase of trash carts and related products and services in the amount of $37,476.33.
 pursuant to a source will co-operative purchasing contract. Number seven, a resolution to approve the installation of a historical marker in honor of Nelson or on the federal square. Number eight, a resolution to authorize an application to the Arkansas Department of Parks, Heritage and Tourism for an outdoor recreation matching grant to fund improvements to Walker and Bryce Davis Community Parks.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $41,622 to fund a temporary short-term rental enforcement position. Number 10, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2023 International CV515 utility body.
 from Rush Truck Centers in the amount of $107,897.22 pursuant to a source well-coopted purchasing contract and to approve budget adjustment. Number 11, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2024 Ford Ranger from Superior Automotive Group in the amount of $41,643.24 pursuant to Ordinance 6491 and to approve budget adjustment.
 number 12 a resolution to approve amendment number two to the contract with garver llc in the amount of 74 875 for design of the school college avenue corridor improvements and to approve a budget adjustment this is a 2022 street improvement bond project number 13
 A resolution to authorize contract with TriStar Contractors LLC in the amount of $5,825,361.25 for the Sunbridge and College Drainage Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $550,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Drainage Improvement Bond Project.
 number 14 a resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with benchmark construction company of northwest arkansas incorporated in the amount of 246 287.88 the north street corridor improvements project phase one and to approve budget adjustment this is 2022 street improvement bond project number 15
 A resolution to approve the contract with Benchmark Construction Company of Northwest Arkansas Incorporated in the amount of $9,214,669.54 for the College Avenue Improvements Project to approve the project in the amount of $921,467 and to approve the budget adjustment. This is a 2022 Street Improvement Bond Project.
 Number 16, a resolution to adopt the 2024 Washington County Arkansas Hazard Mitigation Plan update for the City of Federal Arkansas.
 Number 17, a resolution to approve updates to the Federal Fire Department administrative policies. And number 18, a resolution to approve and adopt the Federal Fire Department Community Risk Assessment Standards of Cover for 2024. I will entertain a motion to accept and send agendas read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept and send agendas read. Caravans, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Thank you all. Let's go on to unfinished business. Number one, a resolution to approve and adopt the urban forestry management plan. I understand, John, you wish to table this. Yes, sir. That's correct. Good evening, council. We're asking to be tabled until October 1st.
 be happy to answer any questions any questions for john uh bob no i just motioned the table until october 1st as requested okay say all right we have a motion second table the uh urban forest management plan until october the first care which please call the room who was the second jones yes
 Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now let's go to number two. An ordinance to amend 166.02, development review process and 167.04, tree preservation and protection
 of the unified development code modified development requirements associated with tree preservation requirements this was left on the first reading i will entertain a motion to go to the second week so moved second the motion second to go to the second week care which police call the law jones yes moore yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to amend section 166.02 development review process and 167.04 tree preservation and protection of the unified development code to modify development requirements associated with tree preservation requirements. Okay Jonathan do you have anything
 Thank you, Mary. I do. I did want to take the opportunity to run through a brief summary of what's being proposed. It has become apparent that there may be some confusion about what's being proposed or the extent of what's being proposed. And also go a little bit more into the impacts and what precipitated staff considering these proposals. And with that in mind, apologies. Just one moment here. It's not a strong start for the night. Sorry. Give me a moment.
 There we are. Thank you for bearing with me. In a nutshell, what's being proposed is a modification to the applicability of our tree preservation requirements. This touches on two sections of Fayetteville's Unified Development Code 166.02, which is where most of our processes live, and 167, Chapter 167, which is where our tree preservation ordinance lives.
 Specifically, what's being proposed is to amend the Unified Development Code to require any tree preservation requirements for projects that add 1,201 to 6,000 square feet of imperviousness to a site.
 As it is today, there are no tree preservation requirements for this class of project. You can develop in Fayetteville, add anywhere in that range from 1,200 to 6,000 square feet and not be subject to those minimum tree preservation percentages that you hear me cite at rezoning meetings and the like.
 But what does that really mean ultimately? I think there's a misconception that it means you, as council members, can not go in your backyard tomorrow and cut down a tree. You absolutely can do that. This is not preventing property owners from being able to take care of their tree canopy, to trim it, to remove it.
 What it does mean is if you have development plans or have a development application that you intend to submit to the City of Fayetteville, you would be subject to what's called an abbreviated tree preservation plan if you're proposing to add more than 1,200 square feet of imperviousness to your property.
 It's important to note that an abbreviated tree preservation plan is exactly what it sounds like. It's meant to be a more shorthand version of the larger, more complicated tree preservation plans that we require of larger scale projects. You can see kind of the spectrum of what is often required with these. On the left-hand side, you can see what a resident submitted and was ultimately approved. This is on graph paper, and we worked with our forestry staff to work out how to build
 a full single family house using this as an abbreviated tree preservation plan. And again, it can run the full spectrum to what you see on the right hand side, which is close to a survey level drawing that was created as a part of a architect's packet of drawings that was submitted with a project. So it's not intended to be an overly burdensome route. It's meant to be a
 more entry level or more approachable permit submittal. This is something that's required today with all projects that are being done within our hillside hilltop overlay district. So it's not a completely foreign notion to our development code.
 What would this impact or what does this impact? That was a question we've heard of the scope of what, how this may or whether the number of projects that this may ultimately impact. Forestry staff looked back at the last six months of projects, regardless of what you feel about where we are in the market, high or low. We did identify what appear to be 27 projects that would have been affected by this change if it was applied six months ago.
 Of those, the vast majority are single family homes. Of those, 18 are more than 2,000 square foot homes. So not necessarily very small homes. I think that's a commentary that I've heard that this is gonna specifically impact the smallest size dwellings. Additionally, there were a mix of other accessory structures and duplexes. So you see pool houses, garages, and then ADU as well in that mix.
 This gets to a question of why did staff even start looking at this? What precipitated the proposal? At the last meeting, I noted that we, staff, spearheaded a set of sweeping changes in 2021, and a piece of this was going back and looking at outcomes and whether the outcomes were what we anticipated when we encouraged or recommended council make those ordinance adoptions.
 In some cases they did, but unfortunately in many cases they did not. This is a series of example photographs of some sites in town that we've identified where with regards to tree preservation in particular, the outcomes were not what was anticipated and often left our residents feeling very dissatisfied. I'm sure you all have heard about some of them. This one's immediately north of campus.
 This is a little bit northeast of the main student campus or the University of Arkansas campus. This piece of property is a little bit further northwest of Garland and North Street or Weddington, where a single family house was removed and several were built in this place.
 And finally, this is along Huntsville Road. These are instances where we did achieve the desired outcome of additional housing, and sometimes it was that missing middle housing that we do want to prioritize. But it gets to the question of the more nuance of our number one long-range planning aspiration, which is what is appropriate infill. And that was one of the main objectives of that 21 ordinance change was to get at what makes infill appropriate and how to encourage it.
 And the number of projects we've seen that have completely deforested a site were a cause of concern for staff.
 This has also led to a question of an assertion that infill development may be somehow targeted by this ordinance. I mean, it's certainly true that infill development by its very nature is smaller scale in scope. But there is a question too of what the inverse of infill development, what do greenfield development projects have to perform as a part of their projects?
 Those that are on the larger end of the spectrum, adding more than 10,000 square feet of imperviousness to their property, they are required to go through our full scope of tree preservation standards, including that they...
 prepared by a professional, including a very thorough site analysis. This is meant to be more of a visual than to actually expect you all to read it. What you all see on the left-hand side are the delineated tree preservation plan requirements for projects like plats and large scale developments, juxtaposed with the right-hand side, which are the requirements required with an abbreviated tree preservation plan. So just measured by the number of elements, there certainly is a distinct difference.
 Similarly, if you recall, at least the detail of the plans that I shared with the abbreviated tree preservation plans previously, this is one that's been submitted with a large scale development. It includes a very specific site analysis. That table you see on the left-hand side identifies every single tree on the entire property, its condition, its size, whether they're being removed, what's being proposed to remain, and how that meets with our tree preservation, the canopy requirements for the underlying zoning district.
 Similarly, there have been some assertions that a lot of greenfield development is creating subdivisions with no trees. The fact is a lot of subdivisions that are built are done in pastures that have no trees to begin with. Projects like this are subject to our full tree preservation ordinance. And so in this instance, it was zoned neighborhood conservation. So it would have to meet the requirement for a tree preservation plan and meet that percent minimum canopy. If it can't be met, tree plantings have to be done.
 Similarly, this is on the large scale side of the spectrum rather than a planted subdivision, although this is just a few several hundred feet east of the previous one, which is the Park Meadows project on the morning side. This is an apartment complex being built just east of there.
 So ultimately what staff is is recommending is a proposal to to balance where we are today with this project class Which is to have no requirements With having a moderated amount of requirements and the abbreviated tree preservation plan is the tool that we found is the most reasonable increment to do that and
 Accordingly, we are recommending approval of the request that's before council. The Planning Commission forwarded it to council recommending in favor. Those that voted in favor did feel that the escrow language that was included affords flexibility without guaranteeing escrows around.
 There were, of course, was a conversation that you've heard from the public and from me and from others that there is a concern that this could be overly burdensome on certain types of development, specifically on the infill areas of our city where a long range plans have sought prioritization.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions you have. We have one of our foresters here in person today, and I believe the other one is online in case we get the technical details that I'm not able to help with. And Mayor, staff is the applicant on this item, of course, so we represent both, and I'm happy to take questions. Thank you. Mayor Redekopal Okay. What questions we got?
 thank you um and thank you jonathan for this presentation and uh i was able to meet with jonathan and john scott melissa evans this morning and we had a great discussion i have a lot of those concerns about our smaller developments especially in our info areas i had some ideas for
 um amendments uh we went through the ideas i had for one reason or another it's like well you know this is a bad idea because of this and this one doesn't work because of that and so tried to you know figure out okay what would work and what would be um get us to our goal of protecting our our trees but still not put a burden on um
 For me, it's the smaller projects, those ADUs, those additions. And so I still have people. One of the things that surprised me about this proposal is I've been here for, I think, about nine months now. We've had some code changes before. I've never heard a peep out of anyone regarding those pretty much.
 And on this one, all of a sudden, it's like, I know we all got some emails from a few people. I got some texts and phone calls from some folks. And I'm like, what is it about this one that people are having hesitancy about? And so I've been reaching out to people. And after my conversation this morning, I would like us to leave this on the second reading.
 just one so i can follow up on those conversations let them know what my conversation with the city was why this might not be the the scary monster that they think and then also i would like to it seemed to be a proposal i bought for for an amendment that may be palatable uh to staff and still gets where we need to be i think if it went through it would only affect the
 from John's numbers would only have affected three of those 28 projects. And that is an exclusion. And this is still, I haven't worked this out yet for because I just had that meeting this morning, but maybe an exclusion for ADUs, garages, small additions. And so I'd like to, if we could leave this on the second reading,
 uh i'd like to have time to finish up my conversation making sure everyone's concerns are answered and to uh craft this amendment in a way in a thoughtful way that's well written and run it by staff first to make sure they're on board with it and then bring it back to y'all hopefully by next agenda session
 Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Bob, I just wanted to clarify and, or Jonathan, please correct me, an ADU, our limit on ADU size is 1,200 square feet, right? So that this would not affect an ADU. Is that accurate? That's correct. That was the Planning Commission's intent in setting that limit. I think
 i think council member stafford's concerns i've heard him express at a previous meeting is any ancillary uh concrete or sidewalks or porch or patio that may go along with that 1200 may push it beyond it into that next category thank you thank you that was my concern is when you add that sidewalk to the adu or the front landing or the back porch then that pushes you over and that was that was my concern there any other questions okay let's take some public comment then
 uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that we'd like to address the sins chamber on this come on
 hi good evening uh thank you mayor jordan and city council my name is carlo ruttani i'm a resident of fayetteville my address is 581 rock cliff road and i'm resident within ward 3. i'm also the board chair of the urban forestry advisory board which helps to ensure that we
 are able to do development in a smart manner to maintain profitability but also do it in a way that respects the environment and will be able to provide aesthetic benefits as well as financial benefits for future generations excuse me so i moved to fayville about 15 months ago from charlotte north carolina i've had a driver's license in six different states lived a lot of places uh northwest arkansas is the only place i've ever moved back to
 My wife and I had a unique opportunity because we were both able to work remote 15 months ago and we got to choose anywhere in the country we wanted to live. We chose Fayetteville. So we relocated our family out here. One of the things that really originally attracted me to it was not just the beauty and
 the fantasticness, I guess if you will, about living like in a hilltop university town. Just like the astounding beauty, the culture, the nightlife. It's like living in a city but you have all the, you know, benefits of a small town.
 Also, you know, whenever I look at the city logo, like, dead front and center, what I see is an oak tree leaf, right? And that really is one of the goals of the advisory board is to ensure that we are doing development in a smart manner that is respectful of the environment and not just pushing burdens downstream where, you know, at the end of the day, if...
 a developer causes a large stormwater impact, we the citizenry are gonna end up having to pay for some sort of tax consequence down the line to resolve and mitigate those specific stormwater issues. So really what we're trying to do is
 come up with some sort of plan that we all want to talk about that is able to provide this kind of mutual benefit of maintaining profitability for developers as well as you know respecting the environment and doing things the right way for the right reasons so the urban forestry advisory board supports this code amendment and thank you all for your time thank you who else
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm Brian Teague. I live on East Spring Street. First, I'd like to just mention the project classification change that the City Council will hear at the August 20th meeting. And, you know, what that change will do is it's going to raise the size of our infill projects because we're no longer able to count the existing impervious credit that exists.
 um so so essentially you know most of our all of our projects will be classified as as greenfield projects um it's it's definitely no matter how you spin it an infill disincentive on a more positive note though what it will provide is is more regulation more review from city staff and hopefully that will address and alleviate the concerns and complaints that really brought these these changes forward
 What's on the table this evening are the tree preservation changes and what that's doing It's it's it's lowering the threshold where tree preservation is applicable to apply to smaller projects while at the same time We're making we're classifying them as larger And so that's really where where it's kind of a double whammy for or smaller Missing middle and fill type projects. I would encourage you to Maybe step into this and make a
 make the mitigation option by explicitly by right in the code language for for infill projects and
 You know, we try, we want to preserve trees, but on an infill lot, if it's 40 or 50 feet wide and I'm trying to build a building, I've got property line trees, I may have a tree on the neighbor's property that's overhanging canopy onto my property. The reality is that a lot of times it's just not possible to build a building and preserve trees. Right.
 And that goes to the definition of preservation in Fayetteville. It's all or nothing. It's not flexible.
 If I encroach into tree canopy at all, then I can't count that tree as preserved. I built two five plexes in 2020. We kept six trees that are considerably large trees that are still to this day. They're healthy. They're alive. We couldn't count them as preserved because they were too close to the buildings.
 So I appreciate the mitigation option. We've got hundreds of miles of streets in Fayetteville that are in dire need of shade and street trees. That would encourage people to walk. Mitigation, escrow can address those situations. So I would just ask that you baby step, change the code language for 6,000 square feet or smaller to allow mitigation to be by right. Tom, I'd like to give him a...
 do you need any more time brian are you good okay anybody else anybody on zoom no one on zoom has their hand raised mayor okay then i will bring this back to the council what is the conversation the council like to have or what is the action the council like to take
 Mark, I've got a question for staff. Jonathan, would the ordinance allow staff the option of approving mitigation for an infill project or is it precluded? I'm sorry, did you say approving or approving? Would staff have the ability to approve and offer a mitigation of a tree as an option or is it completely precluded? Absolutely.
 under the proposed ordinance. I'm not entirely sure I understand the question. I think maybe describing the tree preservation review process, how that looks may answer the question. Or if you want to rephrase it. No, no, no, I'm probably just wording it poorly. The last speaker had said, gee, we're precluded from being able to mitigate trees. And so if they're already speaking with staff, would staff have the authority to approve
 a normal mitigation as you would for a larger project yes yes they would and I think that was
 We were endeavoring to get that across with the addition of a one line of code, which you may have found in there that says that a project submitted under this classification, 1,200 to 6,000 square feet are eligible for escrow. The fact is that in tree preservation, all projects could ultimately be eligible for escrow as you work through the prioritization, on-site preservation, on-site mitigation, and through that down to escrow.
 But what was intended to be emphasized by that was that is something that the Forester more will more readily considered because of the nature of these smaller sites and smaller projects that escrow may be a more likely outcome. Does that answer your question? Council Councilmember Whitaker, Melissa Evans is online and raised her hand. Maybe that she wants to comment. Melissa.
 Yes, thank you so much, Susan. I appreciate it. I just wanted to add that we were thinking preservation would be the first approach, as it always is with tree preservation. And if they could not meet preservation on their site, they could go straight to escrow. But we just wanted them to consider preservation first. So we're not even saying they have to mitigate on site. They can go straight to escrow in this project category, if that helps.
 that answers my question thank you anybody else so help help me is that uh specifically worded in there correctly or people misconstruing what what the wording means because i think developers are kind of talking like they want that as a right
 just want to clarify that it is certainly not written as a right today the way the language reads is developments proposed as building permits under level 2 which is that threshold size as outlined in 166.02 e2 are eligible for contribution to the tree escrow account as an option doesn't say that staff shall accept it it means it is it was intended to be highlighted that again in acknowledgement of these smaller tighter sites that is more likely outcome than on larger properties
 I know we're not on the item that's going to come up at the next meeting, but since it was brought up by the speaker, one of the things that was spoken to is, I guess, with another ordinance change that's proposed to come forward, that these projects would be classified differently as well, so this might have different impact. Can you talk to that a little bit? Certainly. And that may be rational enough if the council would prefer to leave this item on the second reading so you can hear those two together.
 We brought forward that, if you recall, we brought forward a package of proposed ordinance changes to our planning commission. They wanted to decouple them and consider them one by one. And that's why you all have seen them in pieces as they've come along. It's been as the planning commission reached a certain comfort level with them. But I recognize that you all have not had the benefit of thinking about them all as one like they did.
 So to answer your question more directly, Councilmember Moore, the next piece of the proposal that's coming forward is meant to address what I would describe as an unintended consequence of COVID.
 very large scope projects, being able to go straight through the building permit process, rather than getting a greater level of review from staff, singly by dint of the fact that their property is completely impervious today, whether it's an existing parking lot, a gravel lot, whatever it may be. So what's proposed with that is
 to change the language of how imperviousness is determined from the amount of new imperviousness a project is proposing to create. So if you have a whole parking lot, you can be creating zero in effect.
 to the amount of imperviousness that is being disturbed or made. So if you're disturbing 10,000 square feet of imperviousness or creating it as a part of that, at that point you're being advanced into a higher category of projects. So a large-scale development if you go over 10,000 square feet, for example.
 Thank you, Jonathan. That was helpful. I do have a follow-up question. So it sounds like, and I appreciate, thank you for doing the work to bring forward that it would be 26 projects that would be impacted. One of the things that sounds like it was clarified that there is still the option to have consideration for the mitigation so that they have the ability
 and talking with the foresters to be able to go like to escrow if we're in those, you know, infill lots especially that are very funkily shaped I could see and trying to fit a building. And so I appreciate that being explained. The only other thing I think that's come up in conversation with folks in the community is around like timeline and about the workload on staff. And so obviously projects trying to, you know, move forward, you know, time,
 you know, can be an issue. And so while you showed us kind of what that looks like for the number of projects, can you talk us through what does that add as far as potential length of time for developments like this that are gonna be impacted going forward based on kind of what the workload looks like for the foresters today? Certainly, and Mr. Scott did the majority of that research. If he wants to expand on what I'm saying or correct anything I've said.
 The crux of it is the foresters are looking at most of these projects already today to confirm that they are within their correct project classification. So they already have their hands on these projects. And so oftentimes when it comes to these tree, these abbreviated tree preservation plans, that's just a one one step further into that plan set, which doesn't represent a workload concern from from the foresters, as I've heard it today. But again, this has got I'm seeing him nod his head and not stand up. So I said, yeah.
 Thank you for that information. Thank you for all those explanations. It gives me some ideas on how to craft something that might even be a little more gentler than what I originally thought that maybe would be a little bit more
 we craft something that just allows the ADUs or add-ons or garages to do, because it seems like the possibility of doing mitigation seems kind of subjective the way it is now is that,
 I'm sure some people could characterize it that way. As with a lot of review where there is discretion and staff's approval, you could say there's some subjectivity. There's certainly a very tight framework and ordinance that dictates how Forrester reviews a project in terms of prioritization.
 i've got i've got some thoughts on maybe how to just do something where where maybe 80 use barrages add-ons have more of a direct route if they need it to to have a right to uh go to escrow um but i would again if if my colleagues don't object i'd like to leave this on the second reading is there any other discussion great
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to compliment Jonathan for creating a much more expansive and understandable presentation about what, you know, just an example of what this abbreviated tree preservation plan look like. I think hopefully people have taken note of that and that explanation is pretty thorough. So I...
 you know council member stafford i'm okay with holding it for two weeks but i i can tell you right now i'm very much a strong proponent of what's been proposed by staff thanks and i would agree in expressing appreciation for staff but i think we grant one another the courtesy of holding things all the time and bob i i have no issue with us holding this over thank you jonathan well i think we'll just leave it on the second reading
 Well, let's move along. All right, number three. An ordinance to rezone the property described in the zoning petition RZN 2024-26 for approximately 1.87 acres located west of 2910 North Old Wire Road in Ward 3 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre.
 this was left on the first reading I went retain a motion to go to the second motion that we move to the second reading second motion second to go to second please call the roll Jones yes more yes we did her yes Arna yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes
 and yours rezone the property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-26 for approximately 1.87 acres located west of 2910 north old wire road in ward 3 from nc neighborhood conservation to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre john
 thank you mayor since agenda session i don't have any new updates or changes to this request i did attach a topography exhibit to the agenda if the council has any questions about that please let me know otherwise i believe blake jorgensen is online as the applicant for this item mayor thank you okay would the applicant like to speak for the council you have 10 minutes do you want blake to go first he's trying to connect
 Blake, you're not on yet, so Robert Rhodes is here to start. Oh, here's Blake. I'm sorry. Blake first. No, go ahead. Robert Rhodes has been able to help us assist in this matter, and I'd like to let him have his time to speak. So if there's questions for me, I'm happy to answer them, but Robert, do your thing, and I appreciate you and the council's time tonight. Thank you very much.
 10 minutes, Robert. Robert Rhodes Thank you, Blake. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill, and I am representing the new builders, not the original ones that came before you to ask for the original rezoning.
 I remember hearing some of your comments in the last city council meeting about how could these people come back so soon, wanting changes. Well, it's a new group of folks. I am not going to do a presentation this evening because I'm going to ask you all to leave this on the second reading.
 Reason being for that is that there's a few things that have just been retained within the last week, and there's a few things that we would like to do before your next meeting. One of them, and most importantly, is to meet with the neighbors. And we're going to try to set that up within the next few days.
 And I know I've talked to some of the neighbors here that I think will probably get up and speak. I know that John Brittnam, who is the owner of this development now, he and his people have met with some of the neighbors about a particular issue. But we want to have more of an inclusive meeting
 and invite whichever whatever neighbors want to come and just see we hear them out
 Further, the other reason to leave this on the second reading is that we plan on submitting a bill of assurance with this as well that we think might help. And with that, in between myself and Blake, we can answer any questions, but I would hope that you'd leave it on the second reading. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council or the staff or the app? Okay. Okay.
 All right, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Just give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan. My name is Robert Crouch. I live at 2816 North Raintree Drive, adjacent to the development that's going in. First, I want to say thank you to Ms. Bunch, Ms. Caberna, for your voice, support of the integrity of the communities and the neighborhoods surrounding developments that are going in on our side. Ms. Bunch, I remember when we were talking about NC, you spoke...
 To the idea that in considering rezoning is it one lot one house and is that what is? Typically seen in the neighborhood and that's what happened in terms of MC and mr. Berna you had mentioned that in terms of when they were proposing the development or changing to the zoning they had talked about really it's a math and geometry issue and and Can't see getting past 55 units. I
 And I remember you speaking that I really couldn't see myself supporting anything much bigger than that One of the things that I found in terms of reading the information that went on today is that the RSF 18 opens the door for townhouses and for Essentially duplexes to family units so that becomes substantially different than one lot one house and would desperate well distinct distinctively change
 The um and be out of line with what is surrounding in terms of the community and and in terms of the neighborhoods. The um and it's also going to significantly increase the number. Um, there's a lot of suspicion at this point. Um, I expressed specific concern that if you invite you do and see you're inviting clear cutting. I think those were my words.
 Mr. Jorgensen essentially confirmed that in that article back in early, late spring in the Democrat Gazette when he said if the council wanted to save the trees, they should have zoned it something different than NC.
 Our concerns weren't so much, my concern with those trees was that it managed the runoff. That was a huge marsh and filtered the water. Now there's no filter and we're having some significant issues. At some point it runs the risk of damaging the infrastructure there at the bottom of old wire and crossover, that tunnel. And if it doesn't get under control.
 infill is important, I agree with that, but the 2040 plan according to what I saw de-emphasized that area mainly because you, I assume, because you have multiple places that you can see development coming, both along Old Wire and Crossover, and I would encourage you to not make decisions in a vacuum of only this lot at this moment in time, but consider the accumulative
 of the decisions that have already been made and put into place, the traffic that's going to be accumulating off of near Butterfield and this development and plus future development. I think it would be a better use of our resources to consider how this is going to be... I'd like to allow 30 seconds for him to finish comments. Thank you. You're not welcome. Alright. Anyone else?
 Hey, good evening. Rob Keys, 2792 North Raintree Drive. I spoke last time. I won't take up my full three minutes this time. All the concerns I had last time I think are still valid. A couple of points I would like to make. I think last time we were here, Mr. Jorgensen or somebody representing him indicated that they were having some problems with a property owner on the other side. I guess that would be the east side. So I don't know if that's been solved or if that's still ongoing.
 Also, I you know, we have a new buyer. I mean, I you know, I don't know what to say about that I mean if there's a problem with the system, you know, then fix the system I mean, I don't think I feel like at this point the developers done the bare minimum and I don't think that should be rewarded So anyway, I just appreciate your time and consideration. All right. Thank you. Anybody else? Who do you have on zoom? No one on zoom has their hand raised me. I
 Okay, I'm bringing back to the council. Okay. Yeah, Scott. Thank you, Mayor. I know we held the second item, but out of respect for the parties, I think that the request for holding it on the second reading is appropriate. And one of the reasons I think that is, my recollection is when we did this first rezoning meeting,
 It was pretty contentious. And we set this as an example of how developers and neighbors sit down and talk and try to work things out. And so I would like to, number one, acknowledge that it's in an ugly state right now. You know, it is not pretty.
 I think the finished product will, I think the developer has no choice but to do it right for him to sell his product. So I would like to honor their request since he's a new actual, a new owner of the development and the attorney has been just freshly retained. I'd like to give them an opportunity to meet the neighbors, see if they can come
 and address some of their issues. And I'd be more than welcome, more than happy to sit in on the meetings if that in fact happens. So that's what I would request. Okay. Don't have any issue with holding it?
 Okay, we will leave that one there. Now, let me just say something here. If you want to give folks extra time, Bob, don't give them 30 seconds. By the time they adjust that clock, it's gone. And they're trying to adjust. Give them a minute, two minutes, whatever you want to do, but give them more time than 30 seconds. All right. Okay. Let's go on to number four.
 An ordinance to rezone the property described in the zoning petition RZN 2024-28 for approximately 3.7 acres located east of Harmon Field on South Duncan Avenue in Ward 2 from RMF 40, residents and multifamily 40 units per acre to MSC Main Street Center subject to a bill of assurance. That was left...
 Also, on the first reading, I will entertain a motion to fill the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to fill the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes.
 we did her yes verna yes bunch yes turk yes earthsburg yes stafford yes in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition rcn 2024-28 for property 3.7 acres located east of harman field on south duncan avenue in ward 2
 from RMF 40, residential multifamily, 40 units per acre, to MSC, Main Street Center, subject to a bill of assurance. Okay. Jonathan?
 Thank you, Mayor. I do have a brief presentation on this item. First, I wanted to touch on the topography. For those who didn't have the opportunity to visit the tour, consider the exhibit in the final agenda that went out. This property has some somewhat varying topography, depending where you are exactly on the site. On the northernmost extents of it, it does slope to
 slope of about 10 to 12%. It's the middle of the property where the slope is the most significant going down to Harmon Field, where it ranges from anywhere from 15 to about 20% before beginning to smooth out right before you reach Fayetteville Public School property on the southern end, where it's down to about a 10% slope again.
 Another item that was requested or brought up at the last city council meeting was a broader question of student housing, given there's been quite a bit of transparency about that as the intended end goal of redevelopment of this property. And so in an effort to satisfy that inquiry, I was able to get some numbers, including a little bit of additional information tonight that I was able to validate some data on since the agenda went out.
 In a nutshell, there's five points I want to hit on for that. This last fall, there were 32,140 students enrolled at the U of A campus. That is an 86% increase from 2024. So about 20 years, it's gone up by about 86%. Of those, 24,000, which is an estimate, do live off campus. Excuse the typo there.
 And the biggest piece of that is because there's only about 6,200 beds on campus. The university has added housing in the intervening years. I know that there's a narrative that the university hasn't done anything, it's been standing still this whole time. I do feel like that's a little bit of a misstatement. They have added a few thousand beds in the intervening years, but it's certainly not been enough to keep up with the growth in the university.
 Additionally, what I did not include in the memo that I'm including here after being able to verify it from at least two sources is that there are about 9,500 to 9,900 off-campus beds that are marketed or purpose-built for students. That's a number that's a lot harder to identify, which clearly shows that there is a significant gap between that 24,000 and taking...
 the most liberal number, the 9,900, that is being met by a shadow market, for lack of a better word. It could be people renting out their accessory dwelling units. It could be a parent from out of town buying a house for their kid to live in while they're here. So there's a fairly sizable, to the tune of several thousand bed gap between the on-campus housing availability, off-campus student-built, purpose-built bed market, and where we are today in enrollment.
 which gets us to the last and final point, which is in reviewing the number of projects that are in some stage of development review, whether that's having been recently rezoned all the way up to getting grading and construction permits in recent months.
 There are about 4,700 estimated beds proposed on and off campus. So if you had the chance to see the memo, you did see that the university has acknowledged this housing gap. They are proposing, I believe it's about 1,200 beds on campus.
 However, the fact is that most of these projects take about two years to get off the ground. So a lot of these projects that are starting this fall will not be ready until fall 2027. So hopefully that helps inform your consideration moving forward. Again, I know there have been a lot of narratives about student housing that you all hear frequently. These are verifiable numbers that we're able to identify to consider that.
 Lastly, I wanted to touch on was the tour itself. We visited all the properties. You can see our somewhat circuitous route going from north to south.
 There were a number of items we discussed. One was tree canopy, which I think the council received some public comments about. The applicant indicated that their priority of this project is likely going to be canopy along the western property line where there are some mature trees, which also helps serve as screening between the Fayetteville High School campus and this project.
 There are also questions about street modifications. If you went on the tour yesterday or the one a month or two ago for the property to the east of it, you'll recall that Duncan is a fairly unimproved street. There's only back of curb sidewalk on the east side of the street.
 Staff's response to that is opportunities when both sides of a street redevelop present the most flexibility for being able to think coherently about a street design. This property, like the other one, if it were to be redeveloped as proposed, will include sidewalks, curb, possibly new stormwater facilities and either green space for trees or tree wells. Another question was about property access.
 As the applicant shared on the tour, the way they intend to do it now is the northern two parcels, which a butt treadwell will be accessed by the dead end treadwell right away there or what's right away today. The southern one may be dictated more by fire code requirements, depending on what the fire department may require. If they can't adequately serve the property on Duncan, they may require two points of access to get to Duncan.
 the back side of the property as well. The fact is at this point the design of the project is not far enough along because we're still discussing rezoning and land use.
 Finally, there was a little bit of discussion on building height and our city's home protection requirements. I mentioned that briefly two weeks ago, or excuse me, three weeks ago, and also with the rezoning to the east. These are standards that our city adopted for an association with two downtown zoning districts, Main Street Center and Downtown General. If you'll recall, this request is to rezone to Main Street Center.
 For developments in the Main Street Center Zone District that are abutting a single family dwelling, being used as a single family dwelling, they're subject to an immediate 15 foot setback if they're proposing to build above 24 feet.
 So you can see the diagram there on the lower right hand side with the single family dwelling on the left hand side. And to go above that 24 foot building height, you have to immediately step back 15 feet and then additional 15 feet to get above 36 feet and begin to realize the true height potential of the Main Street Center zoning district.
 And that was, sorry, that was particularly a point of conversation because of 91 South Duncan, which is that little sliver of property that exists between this request, the two portions of this request that are not currently included in it.
 With all that said, as a reminder, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council by a vote of 6-2. Those in favor felt that this property represented significant redevelopment potential, both today under the multifamily zoning district and under the potential Main Street Center, and also felt at ease with the proposed bill of assurance.
 Those who are opposed and otherwise had concerns about the loss of the existing housing on the property that are asserted to be affordable now and that the potential for seven stories was too much in this area.
 And as a final reminder, that bill of assurance specifically proposes prohibiting three uses that are currently allowed in Main Street Center. One is use unit 17, transportation, trades and services, which includes things like gas stations, mechanic shops. Use unit 34, which is liquor stores and use unit 45, which is small scale production, includes most prominently things like microbreweries.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And Mayor Chris Baraboe is here as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening, everyone. Appreciate the staff report and your time again. And I enjoyed the sidewalk yesterday. For those who could attend, I'm Chris Baraboe from Otis Studio. And thank you, Jonathan, for queuing up. We did take some time over the past three weeks to further develop
 some of the ideas for the site, just in some massing vignettes, as I call them, that Jonathan has up on screen now. This really gave us the opportunity to hear concerns and further investigate the site and ultimately kind of come up with an idea of where we would go with this, and we have been transparent
 Overall, that this will be a purpose-built student housing project and really coming forward today with obviously this is a land use request, a rezoning change. We really believe this to be the right spot near campus. The site's less than 600 feet from the University of Arkansas.
 I think we just recently received word that we're on the fourth year in a row, the largest student body of enrollment coming to the university. This is not lost, I don't think, on anybody in this room, on this council. Obviously in an area that's already predominantly multifamily and surrounded by rental units. So we think that this land use, certainly along with the future land use map and the 2040 city plan goals is certainly in line with where our request lies here.
 and so quickly to go through these vignettes. So this first image is looking
 Sorry, looking northeast from the southwest. Obviously, we're adjacent to Harmon Field here. And it's actually our intention, even though we're asking for Main Street Center, which is a seven-story zoning height allowance, we're actually looking at stepping the project from the south end to the north end. You would start at about four stories and then step up to the seven as you get to the north next to the Cardinal.
 And so we're also looking at tree preservation, as was mentioned by Mr. Kurth, along the western edge, there's a significant amount of trees there. And our buffer is anywhere from 10 to 30 feet off that western edge as it sort of weaves in and out relative to the trees that we need to look at saving as part of that process. Of course, we have to get our arborists involved and go through the process with the urban forester and the entire staff as we actually get into design, but that is the intention.
 Then the next image looking from the northwest towards the southeast again you see the cardinal atmosphere in the front previously approved project. In the middle there and then our project that for this land use that's that's proposed here.
 And then we talked a lot yesterday on the sidewalk and I kind of mentioned before, there's a real unique opportunity I think here at this intersection, which is kind of a strange one in this part of town, to create more of a piazza, a pedestrian, bike friendly and car friendly intersection that could really slow people down and create a really nice urban placemaking space.
 And part of our proposal here would be to include some smaller scale neighborhood commercial retail type space that you see on the right hand side of this image. Our other proposal, other previous project is on the left hand side. So these two together, I think there's a real opportunity to not only get the street corridor, what it should be for all of the pedestrians moving through this area, but also create amenity within the neighborhood that would be really beneficial.
 um with that happy to take any questions or okay what questions do we have for the applicant or staff okay i just i'd just like to thank the applicant and staff for taking us on the tour the other day and bringing us all around the site it was very helpful to be able to see it and get a feel for it and kind of get a better sense of what we're looking at so i appreciate that absolutely
 Okay, anything else? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the council chamber? Good evening. My name is Walt Beasley, 669 North Cliffside Drive.
 I'm here representing the tenants of Harman Place Apartments at 65 South Duncan. I was the representative of the previous owner of Prior Properties. I was their property manager taking care of the tenants. The new ownership has brought me on to continue helping these tenants, as I know them, I'm their first board of contact. Helped them through this change.
 help them find new housing, and just make this transition an easy process as possible for them. I own personally 67 properties in town, so a lot of these tents are going to have first option on moving to a similar level of apartment housing within the payable city limits. Both parties are, it's a matter of conscience for them to take care of our citizens,
 and that's why i'm hanging on and staying on and helping our tenants and our citizens find new places to live with the company all right thank you who else would like to address us what do you have on zoom i have catherine cook okay hi i'm catherine cook i live at 98 south duncan um i hope y'all are able to view the photos i emailed this morning of the neighborhood throughout the
 I believe there are plenty of places outside of tearing down a neighborhood or near campus and on campus that are more appropriate for student housing in these larger complexes. And I also think this is a perfect example of an area that will be deforested to some degree that has majority pervious area in the runoff now, forcing it down into the field.
 along with just the loss of an actual Fayetteville true neighborhood I hope you vote no on this thank you thank you Miguel Salcedo go ahead Miguel you don't need to unmute Miguel we'll come back to you in a minute you might be having some technical difficulty next week up here's Miguel try again
 Okay, we'll go next to Billy Cook, and then we'll see if Miguel can connect after that. Billy? Hi, yes, can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. My name is Billy Cook. I live at 1151 East Shepherd Lane, and I'm a tenant organizer, and I have worked with several of the residents in this block.
 of Hill & Duncan for about a couple months now as we've been looking at these series of rezoning that have been going on in the neighborhood. I knocked doors in the neighborhood that is directly across the street from this one and in this one in question tonight, and I saw the same thing there as I did at the previous one across the street. Many of the people that lived in the properties in question for this rezoning were not aware of this and felt as though they might not have additional options.
 if they are displaced to go to. Quite honestly, also, we should probably not have many of our residents at the mercy of applicants or current property owners to help them find appropriate housing in the event of displacement. And we should probably, as a city, work on appropriate policies to help residents that are facing displacement. Because now an entire neighborhood is now facing the eradication
 And many of the tenants will be forced to leave. I hope you vote no on this But you know given that this project has been something of an inevitability for some time now I hope that better policy will come from this and that the city, you know is able to take you know strong Appropriate steps and helping tenants that are facing displacement and ensuring that they're you know aptly notified. Thank you. Thank you Next is Taylor McKinney. Okay Go ahead
 Hello, my name is Taylor McKinney. I'm at 339 Amethyst Court in Fayetteville, 72701. I just want to echo Catherine and Billy and urge you all to vote no on this. I don't have much more to add than what's already been said, but just please, please vote no. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? No one else has raised their hand. Okay. Bring it back to the council then.
 All right, this is an ordinance. It's on the Second reading so what discussion would you all like to have or what action would you all like to take? Oh, thanks, Teresa
 I had a question for staff just based on the public comment. There was a comment mentioned that notification hadn't gone to the folks that are actually in the rentals that are there on the proposed rezone. Can we confirm? I know that we did an ordinance change to have the applicant, if they are not the rezone
 They don't live at the property that they had to create notification to their residents. And so I just wanted to confirm that they had been notified. That's correct. I have the certificate of mailing in front of me and the list of those who received it to, with the caveat that I want to give that yes, that ordinance change was made, but there are many instances where we don't know who the tenant is if it's not the property owner. So the way the ordinance reads, if the property owner is different,
 the tenant or if they have an out-of-state address the property gets an address so it may if you Sarah Moore rents are on a piece of property you may not get a letter it may just say tenant something to that effect so people may not have gotten personalized letters no but there is a requirement that they send letters to residences where the property owner is listed elsewhere thank you for clarifying that and then just to confirm then you're saying that it did occur that we do have receipt or we did have
 something that came back that verified that those did go out? Correct. Yes, we get three items typically back up when public notification is performed. One is a certificate of signposting. They take a picture that the sign is where it's supposed to be and sign effectively an affidavit saying they put it in the right place.
 as you all know sometimes those get knocked over in those instances your staff goes out tries to get them back up or we contact the applicant to put them back up the second is a certificate of mailing saying that you mailed the people on the third item which is the list of those property owners or tenants and that you did it by a certain date which has to meet the 15-day lead time for planning commission meetings thank you
 Thank you, Mayor. I do want to say thank you for the tour yesterday. That was really, really helpful. And all the time that we spent out there, that was excellent.
 but you know council member stafford you actually sparked an idea in my head so i went back and i looked at all those land records for all those houses and um the ones that we looked at from i couldn't get 107 but starting at 77 south duncan going all the way to 103 all of those houses were built between 1932 36 and 1926.
 So they're old technically, they're more than 50 years old, so theoretically they could be eligible for submission on the National Register of Historic Places.
 Some of them were in somewhat disrepair, but many of them were actually taken pretty good care of. And so I have concerns about that. The affordable housing, I have concerns about that very steep hillside. I have concerns about that.
 and how we deal with runoff, even though I know there are plans to protect some of those trees back there, but that is still an incredibly steep hillside. So I wanted to just state my concerns about those right now and something for us to really consider. I appreciate you providing the rendition of what you think it might look like,
 It, to me, it's, you know, it looks dormitory. Now maybe up close renditions would provide a little bit more appeal, but it looks very much like a dorm. And sure, we're going for college students, but that changes the aesthetic character and the nature of Fayetteville by massing what's such a large area.
 which is going to be, I mean, it's already full of big apartments right there. And then we've passed that one a couple of months ago. So this whole area is going to be full of concrete. We're going to start looking like Dallas. So those are my concerns. I know we're on the second reading right now. So I'll hold any other conversation for later. Yeah, I just have a question because it seems to come up that
 maybe maybe people didn't see those notifications got sent to tenant it sounds like but um when we went out and did the tour i remember seeing on the south side one of our red signs and i think i remember seeing one on the north side but do those not have to go in front of every every lot or or how does that work they do not have to go in front of every property or every parcel we
 code requires one sign and beyond that is at staff's discretion and when they're broken up among multiple properties like that and we always make sure that there's at least one per set of properties so that there is visible or if it's on a corner have one facing both directions because i think that could be confusing if you see the sign at the end of the street and you're like well that doesn't apply to me and i just go into my house and go about my business and i
 didn't get the mail maybe a roommate did and threw it out because it said tenet or something maybe that felt like you know i don't know how it comes but i could see how we'd have a situation where people see a red sign at the end of the street and pay no mind to it even though they may be in a house affected by by that rezoning and for that i i was kind of rate about on this but i would like
 uh to get those you know if those people could get notified and and give them the time i wouldn't mind leaving in this on the second reading i'd like to thank uh also the harmon place folks for giving those people the time and helping them out in the relocation i think that's that's a positive sign and i really appreciate that it's we need more people doing that especially in these big developments you know helping
 helping find options for our people to stay in town is extremely important um that's it thank you thank you mr mayor i want to um start by thanking council member moore for the aerobic workout that we got when she saw the snake um it was eye-opening i really appreciated the tour so thank you to to chris as well um i think my concern is twofold there were some
 really landmark significant trees worthy of preservation and I know that we were pending or waiting for the urban forester to have a chance to work with the engineer And I hope that that proceeds Reasonably quickly the other one is on the previous rezoning there was some additional steps taken regarding potential displacement and
 of residents which I really appreciated and they kind of raised the bar and I know that we have just recently received material resembling that same thing and so I'm not sure if this is contemplated or if this is something that's actually underway and so additional information about
 What guarantee the tenants have that these steps are actually in place would probably be meaningful to us as council members Thank you
 In regards to the notification, I would make the assumption considering the property manager has been talking with all the tenants about their options, I would say that very likely all of them have been notified in either in writing or verbally what's going on. So I'm pretty comfortable with that part of it.
 i applaud what the developers doing with the tenants uh i agree i'd like to to have something that's a little more uh you know uh concrete on what we're gonna do for that but i
 and i know it doesn't require us to approve every project but it does uh we're kind of in the same situation we were with the one across the street and the fact that um they have the right to to build they're asking for some uh consideration um so i i i think we've got to look at it what the best project is there i think i do think is there jonathan help me is there a way we could um
 specifically address the not just a work on plan but a specific requirement on the tree preservation that's getting into a development requirement I think mr. Williams would advise that that's not an appropriate conversation at this point in the project okay that's that's my comments for now Oh Thank You mayor I agree with Scott I think that the notification process is
 pretty accurate. I don't think that we can necessarily guarantee that everybody's going to open their mail. But I would be happy to hold this on the second reading if there's other concerns that we want to look at. I personally am ready to vote on this tonight. I appreciate the conversation with the neighbors and the, you know, the efforts that have been gone to to help with
 securing them other housing. I also appreciate the four-story staggering from four stories to seven. I think that's appropriate and I think that we need more housing for the University so I'm gonna be in favor of this proposal.
 yeah i would just want to clarify i think that the the it's i'm guessing because i don't know but it seems like the notification problem wasn't with the people at harman apartments i feel like they probably you're working with them and they got notified i think it's it's all those individual houses down the street uh towards the south that maybe somehow either like i said didn't get their mail or threw it away or saw that one sign and paid no mind to it but
 Again, like I was ready to vote, but in light of that, I wouldn't mind leaving it where it is. And it seems like other people have questions as well. Sure. I have a point of information, probably for our city attorney. I'm reviewing this and I'd gotten a new information about, you know, we've talked about displacement, possible displacement funds, and we have been thankful that the previous
 developer at the property across the road had worked with residents to come up with you know some accommodations for those folks as they're looking for housing and so there there has been and I think we all have this I don't know if everybody's been able to look at it
 But it looks like there are some arrangements that are being done kind of in that more contractual with the folks as a leasee. But I didn't know if there was added value or if there might be the possibility that this could be considered to be included either in the bill of assurance or an agreement in the bill.
 tied to the rezone that these things would happen for those residents and so I don't know if that would be you know appropriate or if there would be an avenue for that but you know I appreciate what's happening you know with talking with the residents and what's kind of this ongoing you know goodwill that's occurring but you know as we are talking you know about the potential as we look at these developments that you know do end up having displacement of residents you know what is
 you know, a process going forward that is maybe unifies kind of the approach whenever we're looking at this and really ensures that it's kind of enshrined whenever that redevelopment is happening. And so you might be advising one way or the other on that. And so I just was hoping you could give us some guidance on that.
 Well, I've had my light on for a while because I need to caution the City Council. They have provided a bill of assurance. The bill of assurance does things about zoning, so they can't have some zoning there, transportation goods and services and stuff.
 However, all the rest of the information that has been provided tonight, including the drawings of what could go up there, including their efforts that they're hopefully going to make with the tenants, you cannot rely on any of that. That's not part of a bill of assurance. If they decide not to do it after their property is rezoned, there's nothing the city can do.
 So, everything that you hear here from them, we'll let them talk, which I did, and show pictures, but none of those are things that the city council should rely upon because they are not really being offered to you. They're being described what they might do, and so I just need to keep that in your mind that...
 whether it's how the buildings will look or what they're going to do with their current tenants those are nice statements but they are totally unenforceable by the city anything else so you all want to leave this one yes I have a quick question for Jonathan Jonathan please remind me sorry
 What remind me again about the maximum that can be built on the property or I mean I know it's kind of hard to say with But as the existing something are you describing the number? Just far as like entitlement. Just give me a number. Yeah Let me recall how that front of me a moment ago it is about 3.7 acres so multiplying that by 40 and
 They have an entitlement to about 148 units today. I believe there's 42 existing units on the parcels across all of them. So 142 units? There's 42 units today. The entitlement would allow up to 148. The main street center zoning district has some form-based elements so it doesn't describe or prescribe a density. It's controlled by the height of the building generally and other
 orbiting requirements like detention, tree preservation and parking. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Mayor. In regards to the property owner and their interaction with the tenants, if we were to
 there's nothing that would preclude them from doing a lease modification with the tenants to address some of the current concerns that we have we can't put anything in the bill of assurance but they could do something with the tenants correct so that might be a step to uh put salve on everything so maybe a little bit
 Teresa. Jonathan, can you remind us again of the tree preservation requirement under RMF 40 and then under Main Street Center? Certainly. Under RMF 40, it is a 20% requirement. Under Main Street Center, it's a 10% requirement. So significantly less. Okay. Thank you. So are we going to leave it here? I'm just going to leave it right here. Okay.
 All right, moving along to new business. All right, an ordinance to amend 51.001 water shortages to clarify the power to issue prohibitions and moratoriums for certain types of water usage to prevent water shortages from impairing public health and welfare and to pass emergency clause KIPP.
 Okay, whereas climate change is causing increased flooding issues for the city of Fayetteville, but also causing more intense potential droughts and water shortages for our citizens. And whereas population growth needing water supply has occurred faster than predicted in waterplain districts in the southeastern Fayetteville to Elkins and in Goshen and the county area east of Fayetteville along Highway 45.
 And whereas proposed solutions to this water supply issue need to be rapidly advanced, but will regardless take substantial time as well as significant resources to enlarge certain water mains and pumps and to bring new water towers or storage online. And whereas section 51.001 water shortages.
 needs to be amended to include increased powers to the mayor and his designee if a portion of the water district needs protective actions limiting irrigation and other measures to try to ensure the city can maintain 25 pounds per square inch for its customers throughout our water distribution system. Now, therefore, be ordained by the city council to see a favorable Arkansas section one.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, I hereby amend Section 51001, Water Shortages, by repealing Subsection G and enact a new Subsection G as follows, quote, Subsection G, in order to prevent a likely potential unhealthy loss of water pressure below 25 pounds per square inch in our water system, the Mayor or designee may not only take all measures listed in Subsection C of this Code Section,
 but may also issue a moratorium of up to six months for the water endangered areas. Number one, to limit, regulate, or prohibit the provision of new water service to customers within the water endangered area which have not already secured valid enforceable development or building permits approval from the City of Fayetteville.
 Number two, to prohibit installation of yard or irrigation hydrants or meters and to regulate or prohibit the use of any existing yard or irrigation hydrants or meters
 And three, to limit customers' volume and usage of water through existing water meters by time of day and hours of allowed use during a day and by days of the week or month when usage is allowed. Number four, to limit the total amount of water used daily, weekly, or monthly by any customer beyond the city limits and determine a water service for a period of 24 hours to any customer exceeding the allowed volume and usage for the first time.
 Number five, to respond to subsequent failures of the customer to limit its usage to the amount allowed by the City to preserve all other customer needs for water, the City authorizes the denial of water services for two days for a first repeated violation, three days for the next violation, and so on during the moratorium period.
 Number six, to lock out or remove the water meter when a city has reasonable grounds to believe that a water customer meter has been tampered with or turned back on without city authority.
 Number seven, the customer may seek a due process hearing conducted by the chief of staff by filing with the city clerk's office a written and signed request for such hearings within one week of the suspension of water service with all reasons why such water meters should not be locked out or removed and water service should be restored. Number eight, notice of a new authorized moratorium may be, must, shall be published in the
 in the Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette as soon as possible. Number nine, the moratorium may be extended by a City Council resolution prior to its expiration date when determined necessary by the City Council to protect the citizens' peace, health, and safety.
 And Section 2 is an emergency clause. The City is currently facing a possible water shortage, delivery ability in our water district east of Fayetteville toward Upgoshan and from eastern Fayetteville near Stonebridge to and including Elkins that could result in water pressure falling below 25 pounds per square inch which could endanger those residents peace, health and safety and welfare without prompt and necessary water conservation measures and other actions.
 Therefore the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby declares an emergency exists requiring this ordinance be Effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay Tim Thank You Mayor and council So the rapid population growth is as Kidd described has caused water shortages on the southeastern side of the city out to keep our customers supplied with potable water and to keep an attempt to keep to maintain 25 psi and
 This ordinance, this amendment, would give the mayor the authority to prohibit irrigation, to limit it to certain days of the week for certain addresses, and it also, if needed, will give the mayor the authority to prohibit the installation of new water services in the endangered area.
 Now, this is a policy in the past that we've been doing, but no teeth in any kind of enforcement action. So this ordinance supplies the enforcement action to actually monitor to see if these areas are complying. If not, then we would go for a notification and then eventually shut the water off. I'll be happy to answer any questions on this. Okay, what questions do we have? All right, let's go.
 Scott. Thank you, Mayor. Tim, I'm going to support this just because I feel like we've really got no choice because we can't put our present customers at risk of low water pressure. But I've got a lot of pushback from folks on the east side of town. And the consistent question or concern is how did we get into this situation? And
 They see all the construction around town with the millions of dollars we're spending on the bike trails, but our infrastructure for our water is lagging behind.
 So before anybody runs and says on social media that Berna said that he's against bike trails, that's not true. But the consistent message is how are we spending so many millions of dollars on bike trails, but we are lagging behind on our infrastructure for water. They don't understand that and I'm struggling a little bit to be able to articulate to them
 why that is. So could you help us with that or you or Paul or how that works? I can start on that and Paul may want to finish, but our water as well as our sewer services and our infrastructure all goes through a master plan procedure. Our last water master plan was in
 It gave three phases. It gave 2017 to 2022, 2022 to 2027, and 2027 to 2037. So basically, the 2017 to 2022, those projects are nearly all completed or in process.
 As far as water lines going out towards Yelkins, there was a stage of it that was described in Phase 2, 2022-2027, 4,900 feet of 18-inch water line going down Huntsville Road towards Tallgrass Avenue. That is due to the widening of Highway 16, that is 4,200 feet that's currently being
 But the next phase with the water master plan was in phase three, and that was another 4,900 feet from Tallgrass out to about 2,500 feet east of Mollywagon Road. And then the master plan described after that that in the future, plans would be to connect that 18-inch line, connect it to the 12-inch line that goes up Van Hoose to the Elkins Water Tank.
 So what's happened here is the unprecedented growth has sped up the timeline massively. And so we've got to spend the resources, we've got to plan it and solve the problem, but it just can't be done immediately. It's going to take some planning. The oversight, I guess, would be the fact that our unprecedented growth outpaced our master plan.
 Paul, do you want to? Sure, let me add a few things to that. It might take a few seconds to help the citizens understand. It's a fair question. Remember, your funding plans are put together and projects are developed based on not only the need, but also the time scheduled when that need will occur. That's why the city develops the five-year capital plan.
 Funding for the capital plan comes from many sources. Special revenue funds, which may be restricted to certain purposes. Also comes from the sales tax capital fund, which we budget on a five-year plan. And that is funded by 40% of the sales tax received.
 Also, we issue bonds for large projects, as you are well aware. The enterprise funds, which water and sewer, recycling, trash collection, and airport traditionally come from rates paid by the users at that point in time.
 So, if we talk about water and sewer projects here in this particular one, they're normally funded by user fees. So the timing is important.
 we fund them for the period of time on which it's needed. If we fund it too early, then we're charging excessive rates to those customers and causing a burden on those before we need them. That's why I asked him to discuss the 2017 master plan, not only identified what the needs were, but the timetable for when that need would occur.
 So, we identified that and when we looked at the plans and they were developed based on these estimated needs and date, we would schedule rate increases or a funding method for that particular time.
 Now, after 2017 into 2018 and 2020, the population growth was much greater than we had anticipated. When we saw that census, I think we were all surprised at what our growth was.
 So it accelerated the timetable for those particular programs. Also, a factor is, don't forget, at the time we got this in 2020, we're right in the middle of COVID also. That caused some complications because, again, we didn't want to increase rates dramatically and overburden citizens at that time. Also, when it became apparent that we needed these programs,
 projects earlier than had been anticipated they take time as Tim was talking about the west side for one thing we have built two water tanks and increase the capacity of a pumping station out there again that takes time to develop to develop those particular projects and they have been working on that so
 the actual water demand has been much greater. We've seen this as Beaver Water has expanded their pumping station out and we're tying in with the $85 million bond issue to pump more water in the city. So I think the bottom line on this is, these projects were accelerated much faster than we had anticipated when we did respond to them and took time to make the response.
 Also, it's not only growth in Fayetteville, remember, we also have to have the growth of all of the surrounding cities. And those complicate that. We don't have a lot of control over that. Tim doesn't have a lot of control over new development in the city of Fayetteville either. We need to meet those particular needs. So I think the bottom line here is we had anticipated those projects at a different
 They were accelerated. We tried to make that accelerated timetable. But in the meantime, the demand has increased such that it took that amount of time. Now specifically, as Scott talked about, some of them said, what about these other infrastructure problems that you're building? And parks, not only parks, excuse me, but the trails were specifically mentioned. Remember that was put together back,
 Roughly six point nine million dollars will put in a bond issue approved by the by the citizens back in 2019 We didn't realize in 2019 these projects were going to be accelerated at that point in time So that had already been committed again. That's by voter. We can't do anything about that and
 Also, it's funded a lot by grants which we have leveraged, and we have a participatory contribution to those grants that we have to fund and meet to leverage those expansions on the trails. So I think, again, the bottom line is one, how we must budget because some of our funds are restricted, and also the accelerated time
 table based on the additional demand for water that caused this particular problem. And I hope that that does help. Scott, I hope it helps the citizens understanding. I know that water restrictions do in fact
 You know, they're they're hard to deal with but most of them we're talking about here again our irrigation and the irrigation Especially when we say irrigation we think agricultural irrigation don't forget most of the irrigation we're talking about here is watering your lawn and
 swimming pools putting water in swimming pools whatever but that's the best explanation I think Tim and I can have at this point in time is the acceleration of the man which is far more than we had anticipated so with that either camera I'll take any question yes I have a question about
 We don't have a whole lot to say about what goes in in other cities. So I know all this development and all the growth is not just in Fayetteville, but I remember talking with the mayor of Elkins and he was so excited they were going to build like 200 or 300 new houses out there. And I didn't think anything about the water issue at the time.
 It seems to me a lot of the houses that are built in these other communities are not, Fayetteville is focusing more on higher density
 which is more cost effective as far as utilities and stuff like that and maintenance of utilities in the future. But in the outlying areas, they're still building single family homes. They're not building apartments and elephants. They're building single family homes. And how do we in the future look at as we maintain lines and stuff like that, how do we gauge that?
 We have a little bit different building model going on in our community than some of the other outlying communities. Certainly, we will maintain the transmission lines going to these other cities. The only leverage that we have in our agreements with these cities is we will limit a city to a maximum gallons per day.
 And when they exceed that gallons per day, then our option is to, we have a capability of actually throttling down the water volume that goes to these cities. We haven't seen that be the case up until now. It looks like it's coming to show its face now. But that's our leverage is when we agree to a contract, we put in there, you're going to get this much water and that's it.
 And Tim, I think you told me that at this point Elkins has come pretty close to what the limit is that we are absolutely legally required to supply them per day. Is that right? That is correct. Now, we don't want to cut off anybody. This was brought up because we're trying to be cautious. And if we do run into a drought situation in August or September...
 Traditionally, we've had a drought kind of in August because I stopped mowing then. But this year, my deck grass is still green because we've had a good water year. So we might not have to do anything in any of these enforcement measures, but we need to have them available so that we can assure that people that need just regular water for drinking and washing, that they will have that and it won't all be sucked up by somebody's irrigation system.
 So that's why we have brought this forward is to give the mayor and Tim the right and the power to protect all of our Water customers even though we hope that won't have to be done this year. Thank you for that so So basically our the way it works is we get the water to the edge of the city and then from then on It's based on like other cities, uh, goshen Elkins, whatever it's part of their agreement
 And they know and it's their problem at that point. Well, actually, each city is a little bit different. If you talk about, let's talk about Elkins and West Fork. They're wholesale customers. We supply water to the edge of town to a meter. And then we charge them for that meter. They're responsible for their own water lines. Goshen, the city of Fayetteville owns Goshen's water system. So we do all the repairs and the maintenance on that system. Greenland, we supply.
 do the repairs on that system and basically like that. So it's a little bit of a mixture of both, but what you're describing, we take it to the edge of town, we don't have control over what the infrastructure's like. Okay, okay, thank you for that clarification. I appreciate it. Sure.
 Water is life. I think that water and access to clean drinking water is going to be a huge issue that we're going to see. It happens in other countries. And so I am curious in this conversation. It sounds like the capacity issue that we have mostly is around maybe housing development. But I also do see, you know, a lot.
 disproportionate use of our water for different uses outside of just drinking. And so I'm curious about how we look at conservation or what our efforts are to mitigate over time both short-term and kind of long-term strategies that we're thinking about because this is kind of like an emergency last-ditch
 you know approach if we get into this situation but we really all of our households i hope are having a conservation mindset i know mine is i have a 12 growth that really keeps me accountable um to that because you know they're concerned about the planet and the climate that they're inheriting and so i'm curious if you can talk to me about how we are the city are doing that with our residents but too how do we work with our partners in that as well
 Well, one of the things that we did when we issued these conservations is we do encourage everybody to conserve water, not just the ones in areas that are affected. But basically, the city's, what the city wants to do is try to prevent as many leaks as possible so all the water that we are sending out there is being used in the proper way.
 The other issue, of course, as Paul described, the irrigation is what's taking up the demand in the dry summertime. That's not allowing the customers that are on the far reaches of our system to get the adequate pressure because it's all getting grabbed before it gets out there. And that is the issue right there is not being able to provide potable water, safe drinking water to those outlying areas.
 is why we need some enforcement to take a look at these irrigation meters. Most of our irrigation meters, not all, most of them are smart meters where we can watch the activity of that meter from the office. And so we don't have to patrol in the middle of the night like we used to have to do. We can look and we can see if the folks are abiding by the recommendations, if they're watering when they're supposed to and not watering when they're not supposed to.
 I have one follow-up question. Are we considering, you know, I'm a household that
 I don't worry about a green lawn. I don't do irrigation because I, again, I value water so much so. So my vegetables I water and my trees as we get into drought, I might water those. And so I'm just curious if we have entertained or looked at any potential regulations to try to think about cutting back on, especially I think about more wasteful where irrigation is used just for say a green lawn.
 What we have in the ordinance under water surges is a drought program. And it really addresses it actually when things get more dire than they are right now. And that would restrict any outdoor water usage, anywhere from irrigation to washing your car or any of that. But as far as thinking beyond that, as far as the big picture for
 the entire area. I would say that we don't have a plan in place for that. Mayor, we should keep in mind we are living, fortunately, in a water-rich area. Beaverwater Lake and the district have tremendous back supplies, reserves. We use very little of beaver water for domestic water uses when you compare to how much evaporates and then uses for power and stuff like that.
 There is a lot of reserve in Beaver Lake, and so we're in good shape, especially once we have built our new four-foot-wide pipe to bring more of it in. This is a localized problem.
 Not a problem for the city. Everybody in the city that's not in this water endangered area, which is most of Fayetteville, has no problem. Use water as you want to. Don't waste it. But if you want to water your trees or your garden or whatever, that's absolutely fine. That's no problem. That's not going to be covered by this.
 So, this is not an emergency except for two areas in the city and hopefully that is not going to be as bad an emergency as it could be because we have been getting some rain. So, I don't want you to think that we're about ready to start requiring conservation of water throughout the city because that would make no sense because we have plenty of water for normal usage. Please. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to point out to maybe respond to Councilmember Moore's question. You know, the new Climate Action Plan actually includes water and it talks about conservation efforts and the potential to actually hire an employee to go out and do water conservation education.
 i know i've asked um some of our other partners if they uh incorporate that right now um such as beaver water watershed alliance and some of the cooperative extension and and they don't but they are considering that in the future and i we are just not used to having to conserve water here because we are such a water rich area as kit pointed out but um in the future this is
 climate change this is what's to come so um i i will be encouraging or trying to encourage the sustainability staff to come up with some creative ideas for all of us to reduce our water consumption paula yeah you walked up there you wanted to say something i didn't i did want to add uh and theresa and you were there from beginning to end when we talked about the right study
 did look at ways of attempt of reducing water consumption and we talked about that with Black & Beach was our consultants at that point in time one of the things we did do was we used to give up to a certain number of gallons at a single charge and we've changed that to you pay exactly for the charger the
 the charge that you have. Okay? So that was considered by the Water and Sewer Committee and extensively discussed. One last question for Tim, just so we clarify for the public. The
 folks that are out 45 highway, we're in the midst of putting another pump station out on Gully Road and some infrastructure changes out in Goshen that should be completed by
 uh fall of 25 is that right okay so that zone would then fall off the trouble trouble area right for the for the highway 45 right and then 16 we don't have a real clear time line for when that's going to be corrected completely we don't have a timeline for the upgrade of the to the 18-inch water line but in the meantime we are looking at what i would call a
 permanently temporary pumping station. The problem out there is about 50, 56 residents that's above the Elkins tank on Van Hoose. And they're the ones that are suffering the most in this whole thing right now. So we're looking at doing some valve changes and a pumping station, which still takes time, even though it'd be a small station to try to keep them in water. Thank you.
 Anything? Yes. I just had a follow-up from, I know we had extensive back and forth, and so I'm kind of going back into my brain vault. When we were looking at the new contracts with the cities and we were looking at the new water rates, and so I just didn't know, when I knew there was a study done
 and considerations for what that would settle out to. But I didn't know if we were looking at the capacity or like kind of that, I would think the usage goes into that, but with you saying that Elkins is looking at hitting
 their top amount daily. I'm just curious how that was looked at as part of that study into their rates, because I think about this expedited timeline for that infrastructure improvement that's gonna be borne by all of the residents amongst all these structures of the financing that goes into it, and just wondering if that was taken into account whenever they got their latest contract.
 Well, when we did their latest contract, the daily usage was calculated. And as Paul said, we don't have a lot of control beyond that meter that goes into Elkins. So when they are hitting their threshold for daily water usage, it's going to be up to their administration
 to put some policies in place to get that water down, which was clearly possible. It's a possible thing, it just takes a little bit of enforcement action.
 Okay. Mike. Thank you. One just quick comment, and that would be to request that staff remind us, should we consider infill scores, the ability to absorb additional development in these impacted areas, to please remind us that we are in the impacted area so that we can take that into appropriate consideration until this gets resolved. Thank you. Anything else?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Yes. Hello. My name is Rebecca LaTourette. I live at 15761 Round Mountain Road. So I'm in...
 the goshen planning district i have a fayetteville address and i find it very interesting that the water problem is on the east side of fayetteville and i'd like to just mention what i've observed over the past five years in my neighborhood so i i've lived out there for more than 20 years and it is now becoming the wealthiest
 city in Arkansas, Goshen, and I see swimming pool after swimming pool after swimming pool being put in out in the country where we used to go swim in the river or swim in the creek. I see irrigated lawns. I see giant houses. I don't think
 And I'm not really sure how the fee structure would be for, you know, how the water fees are done for the City of Fayetteville. I don't think it's fair for people like me, who have a $14 a month water bill, thank you, to subsidize a much richer lifestyle that I can't afford.
 and I think that should be considered. I understand that people want to have their swimming pools and they want to have their lawns all green and everything, but it's very interesting that the water problem is on the east side of Seattle for now. I'm sure it will be addressed, but I would encourage all of you
 to look to the big picture, look to the future, and know that you increase the water supply, you make it better for now, that doesn't stop the ever increasing demand for a very nice lifestyle that's subsidized by everybody, and that's not fair. Thank you. Thank you. Who else wants to address this? Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. On the far other side of town,
 And I couldn't agree more with what we just heard about the community at large subsidizing infrastructure for a region, but a region with a certain characteristic. If we look at the development patterns across East Fayetteville out into the county in Goshen, quite a bit different from what we build in town and how we plan most of our infrastructure.
 Councilmember Berna asked the staff how did we get here and I think it's pretty pretty easy answer how we got here We got here by letting one region build in the least dense least sustainable manner possible and it's also the most expensive to supply them with the things that we have when we are closer to the source here in town and so I agree with the
 previous speaker that there's something a little bit off with that. So I hope that you'll support this and I hope that we will prioritize policy across the board through the whole of the city operations to to encourage
 development that is sustainable in the long run and to discourage development that over the decades we come to a moment like now where maybe we regret some of our decisions because it's expensive to deal with consequences. When water is pouring across the ground in downtown Fayetteville, we call that a leak. When it's pouring across the ground out in East Fayetteville, we call that irrigation.
 still the same water and still going the same place and still cost us the same amount thanks thank you who else would like to address us okay you have anybody on zoom i do mayor i have alex rainey okay go ahead hey good evening can y'all hear me yes you could speak a little louder oh can you hear me better now yes
 Hey, Mayor, Council Members, Alex Rainey, 4360 East Balboa and Ward 1. My comments today are, you know, on par with what's been talked so far. I work in supply chain, and I'd be the first one to tell you that one thing is certain when it comes to forecasts, and that's that they're always wrong. But I did take a look at the 2017 master plan that Tim mentioned earlier,
 there was a set of assumptions around population growth um and through 2022 where we have actual population data a quick google search told me that we were within one percent again through 2022 of the population forecast actuals to forecast which would be it would win an award in terms of supply chain forecasting beyond that there were assumptions around
 you know, the different growth areas, including how would the southeast area of Fayetteville break out as far as the demand for million gallons per day? I think it would be really powerful for the city to illustrate what were the assumptions in that 2017 plan? Millions of gallons per day, how does that differ today? Can we plot that on a chart?
 For example, in 2022, the region of the southeast said you would need 0.41 million gallons of water per day on average in 2022. What were the actuals? How does that compare to the expected 0.62 million gallons of waters per day projected in 2027? We're talking about Elkins and that we have a certain limit that we're legally required to provide. How does that compare to what we planned in 2017? Is it more? Is it less?
 Is it on par? And I'll simplify here and kind of restate what I heard earlier, that we need to wait for the revenue from new development to provide the infrastructure for new development. And fundamentally, I think we all know that can't happen, right? You need the infrastructure before you get the new development
 So my ask is simply for the council and city staff to improve the communication on what was the forecast for water usage? What are the actuals? And I think if you can communicate that clearly, it will help me and others who have concerns understand really where are we coming from or have we simply failed to execute?
 the necessary infrastructure to support the growth as planned. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? No one else, Mayor. Okay. All right. I'll bring back the council. Mayor, I'd make a motion to suspend the rule to go to the second reading. Second. Motion and second to go to the second reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Arnaud? Yes. Arnaud?
 yes Eric yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes an orange amend section 51 double zero one water shortages to clarify the power to issue prohibitions and moratoriums of certain types of water usage to prevent water shortages from imperiling public health and welfare and to pass an emergency clause all right make a motion spend rules go third final reading second okay
 we have a motion and second to go to the third and final okay care which please call the role jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to amend section 51001 water shortages to clarify the power to issue prohibitions and moratoriums of certain types of water usage to prevent water shortages from imperiling public health and welfare and to pass an emergency clause. Any final comments council? No good.
 uh here with the police call the road jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you and to make this effective immediately in case we actually hit it going to a drought this month i would ask a motion to pass the emergency clause make a motion pass the emergency club second
 motion second pass the emergency well here which please call the road yes yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes all right thank you all all right let's go to number two an ordinance to approve vacation 24-12 probably located east of 1202
 East Sain Street in Ward 3 to vacate a .94 acre portion of street right-of-way. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby vacates the portion of street right away as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo in section two a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as a given age to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk section three this vacation approval is subject to following conditions number one
 Any damage to or relocation existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense and number two Any conflicting water or sewer lines must be relocated and accepted by the city of Fayetteville Okay, John
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to north northeast Fayetteville into Ward three. To get more specific, it takes us to the piece of land that is currently undeveloped immediately east of the University of Arkansas's satellite campus in North Fayetteville along the north and south sides of the recent extension of Sane Street across Mud Creek.
 While you can't see the exact extension on the aerial imagery here, you can see the hatched line which indicates the floodway associated with the Mud Creek area.
 The request before council is to vacate a portion of public right-of-way totaling .94 acres that has never been developed. And as you can see, this was part of a plot many, many years ago. It was never actually built out. And accordingly, staff has found that it no longer serves any public purpose, especially with the extension of Sainte Street and that city project recently.
 Accordingly, we are recommending in favor of the request. While plotted in 1989, again, it's never been developed. The project underway there has been titled since 2022. The council has seen it numerous times since then as they've cleaned up many of the encumbering easements and right-of-way that remain on the property that have been identified, unfortunately, piece by piece.
 With all the necessary sign-offs received from the franchise utilities, the request is considered complete. Planning Commission concurred with staff's recommendation of approval and forwarded it to City Council unanimously with the conditions that Mr. Williams outlined. To date, we've not received any public comment.
 Uh, with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And mayor, I believe Cody Sexton is available as the applicant on this item. Okay. With that, I'd like to speak for the council. Uh, yes. Hello council. This is Cody Sexton with balloon associates, uh, 5102 South Pinnacle Hills Parkway and Rogers. Um, as Jonathan explained, this is really mostly administrative. We're just, um,
 tying up some of the last loose ends that had been discovered in the trails of the creek development. And this was something that was from 1989 that was just never developed out and is obsolete and approved. Development is underway currently. And I'm here if you have any other questions. Do we have any questions from the council or the applicant or staff? Am I good?
 All right, let's take some public comment. And everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber on this particular topic?
 who do you have on zoom no one on zoom has their hand raised all right i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what action would the council like to take i'd move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second i have a motion second to go to the second reading care which please call the road jones yes more yes we occur yes bernard yes yes sir
 Yes. Erdsmann? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to approve VAC 2412 for a property located east of 1202 East Sain Street in Ward 3 to vacate a .94 acre portion of a street right-of-way.
 i would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second second the motion second to go to the third and final reading here which please call the road jones yes moore yes whittaker yes vernon yes lunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes stafford
 Yes. In order to approve, I'm sorry, ordinance to approve VAC 24-12 for property located east of 1202 East Sainz Street and Ward 3 to vacate a 9.94 acre portion of street right of way. Any final comments from the council?
 here would you please call the rob jones yes moore yes wedeker yes vernon yes bunch yes third yes herdsburg yes stafford yes okay thank you all let's go number three
 An ordinance to rezone the property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 2024-31 for approximately 1.73 acres located at 2400 North Crossover Road and Ward 3. From RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services Center. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1.
 that the city council or the city of fable arkansas hereby changes the zone classification the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b most attached to the planning department's agenda memo from r.a residential agricultural to nsg neighborhood services general in section two that the city council of the city of favor arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay johnson
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to East Fayetteville, still in Ward 3. More specifically, we're moving to the northeast corner of the intersection of Township and Crossover Road, or Highway 265 if you prefer. The property in question includes about one and three-quarter acres and is developed with one single-family home that was built around 1990.
 The request is to rezone the property from its current RA residential agricultural zoning designation to NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 In evaluating the request, staff of course considered the surrounding existing uses, which are generally single family in nature when you consider the broader area. However, as you move immediately to the west, there's a religious institution and further south at Mission Boulevard, there's a significant number of varied non-residential uses.
 Accordingly, staff finds this request to be compatible with surrounding land uses, particularly with such a prominent intersection. This represents an opportunity for a small increment of non-residential use on one side, since the Neighborhood Services Zoning District allows non-residential uses up to about 8,000 square foot in building footprint.
 and also allows a small amount of additional housing diversity, allowing single, two, three, and four family dwellings, all while being packaged in a zoning district that is intended to respond to the surrounding area with heights like three stories that are consistent with some of the neighborhood services, limited zoning district to the north and the RSF-4 zoning district that you see in wider amounts in yellow on the map surrounding it.
 uh when looking at it from a adopted land use plan standpoint staff finds this request also be compatible with the future land use map designation of a residential neighborhood area the name certainly gives up the ghost that it's intended to be residential in nature however that designation also
 It makes note that in areas of high traffic or on prominent corners, it may be appropriate to incorporate non-residential uses, which again, the neighborhood services general zoning district does, albeit at a small increment
 Additionally, with some of the infill elements that can be found on the property, prompt fire response time from Mealy to the north, access to water, sewer, the grocery store to the south, Vandergriff and McNair to the east, park and trail, staff finds that this is consistent with our long-range planning goals. From a tree preservation standpoint, this request would reduce it from RA, which has the highest tree preservation standard in the city of 25% to 20%.
 Additionally, there was some consideration from staff about the potential and existence of nonconformance on the site. Today the property does not meet the existing RA zoning district's requirements. Conversely, if it was rezoned to NSG, it would conflict with a different piece of zoning code. The house is not within the build to zone, that area that buildings are required to be in when near the street.
 with the intention, likely intention of redeveloping the property. Staff is not concerned and we find that that would be appropriate change to occur on the site. Lastly, we have received some public comment on the request. There have been some concerns, many of which are or which center largely around the opposition with the potential for increased traffic and also an assertion that this is not currently a walkable area to which staff asserts that that
 that is largely a result of this being a purely residential area, having the potential to have these non-residential uses is where it begins to be, have that potential to be more walkable.
 With that in mind, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously. They found that the land use as proposed was compatible and agreed generally with the planning staff's findings. And I'm available for any questions that the council has. And Mayor Mark Taylor is the applicant on this item. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay. Thank you.
 i guess he's here mayor but i think well where did he go it's up to you mr taylor uh oh yes i thought i recognized you i thought well i guess he's not going to speak my name my name is mark taylor i live 1366 east holts manor both my parents have passed away this we built that house in 1979
 They're passed, my brother and I are both in established homes. Me, here, him and Conway and Consell. So, just trying to get our zoning appropriate to the property. Any questions for me? Steve Winick Yeah, any questions for the app and our staff? Everybody good? All right. All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the council? Chairman? No? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Well, this is an ordinance. What action would the council like to take? Mayor, I just wanted to say one thing real quick. This property is directly owned.
 uh or i live directly northeast of this property in that subdivision and i posted on our neighborhood facebook page to see if there would be any conversation about this um and just so council knows that i had showed that i had 64 people look at it i only had one question and i had one neighbor that was opposed to it other than that it was a non-issue to seem to be both
 well was you or was it Sarah okay I was just gonna move to suspend the roles and go to the second reading
 I would like to ask you, Jonathan, did you say you didn't have any public comment or I didn't hear we did. I believe there's one piece of written comment received by staff before the meeting and one at the meeting itself. There were concerns expressed about the potential to if this property was developed, it could increase traffic and that there were already or that there was a lack of walkability in the area today. Yeah. And Scott, you said you hadn't really you're just one.
 I had one neighbor that voiced concern about traffic. See, I can just pull it up here real quick and tell you exactly what their concerns were. Increased traffic for neighborhood and school zone. There's a school around the corner. We have ample neighborhood services, commercial area, both south and north of the intersection, both open lots and empty existing space and request to keep area residential since it's surrounded by homes and a church.
 And would neighborhood services still allow residential somebody just wanted to keep it as that it does. Yes Okay, motion still good. Yes We got a second second. All right. We got a Motion second to go to the second three. Here we go. Yes
 more yes we differ yes Arna yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes in order to rezone the property described and regionally petition RZN 2024-31 for approximately 1.73 acres located at 2400 North Crossover Road in Ward 3 from RA residential agricultural to NSG neighborhood services general
 move that we suspend the rules and go to the third final reading second motion second go third and finally here which please call the wrong jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes stafford yes
 in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-31 for approximately 1.73 acres located at 2400 north crossover road in ward 3 from ra residential agricultural to msg neighborhood services general mayor may i ask one question of jonathan considering that property the southern part of that property goes to township
 and there's not a lot of frontage on township is it safe to say that most traffic would be egress and ingress would be pushed out on the crossover
 No, I don't think it would be safe to say that. The property has about an equal amount of frontage on both township and crossover, and our access management standards dictate as a baseline that if you have access to two streets, you need to prioritize the lower traffic, lower classification one, which in this case would be township. If the property owner wanted to access crossover, they would need to go to the planning commission and receive a variance for that. Generally, it's a safe...
 from a property rights perspective that they may have some sort of legal right to access crossover, but that certainly is subject to more scrutiny by staff and the planning commission.
 The reason I ask that is traveling that road on a daily basis, that intersection, because of traffic coming out of the north end of Vandergrift and McNair, the kids, people dropping off their kids for school and coming out that back way, that light stays backed up quite a bit. So that's a, that could be a challenge getting people out of there on the township if that's the way we're going.
 send them and then that's exactly the kind of site specific condition specific hardship that the Planning Commission has Supported variances to our access management standards for thank you Mayor yes, sure neighborhood services general Does that? Allow auto centric uses or that prohibit autos it does not allow them. I
 so no drive-throughs no that's correct no drive-throughs no gas stations and and councilman roberta this is your neighborhood i i know you haven't heard much but you have a you think this is a proper i really have no issues with it other than the fact that that that access on township is troubling to me because i know how much traffic is put on township from a school uh and uh
 Obviously, that's a development issue, but that would be my only concern. Thank you. Thank you. Everybody good? All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederkerk? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay. Are we going to continue on, or do you all want to break?
 Want a short break? All right. We'll take about 10 minutes or so. Okay, well, let's go ahead and move along then. All right, number four.
 an ordinance to rezone the property describing rezoning petition rzn 2024-32 for approximately 0.32 acres located at 439 south church avenue and ward 1 from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This request brings us back closer to the center of Fayetteville, a little way south of where we are sitting now.
 right now uh immediately south of uh if there were to be an intersection there nelson hackett and church uh if you're familiar with that area you know that church avenue and fourth street do not connect up to nelson hackett there's quite a bit of difference in grade change there the the property in question however though includes about a a third of an acre immediately west of the intersection of church avenue and fifth street
 It is currently developed with a single family home that the county records indicate was developed in about 1940. The request is to rezone the property from its existing neighborhood conservation zoning district to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 Staff finds the request to be compatible from a land use standpoint. There's a wide variety of residential housing types in this area, which constitutes the northern end of the Walker Park neighborhood area. Additionally, there's a fair variety of different zoning designations and entitlements in the area that may result in housing types that are very compatible with the RIEU zoning district's allowance for single, two, three, and four family dwellings.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff finds this request to be consistent. While it is a residential neighborhood area, despite being so close to downtown, the residential neighborhood area designation can constitute a wide variety of different things. And on properties that have so many infill elements that you can see here, staff finds that RIU is a very appropriate inclusion.
 to the neighborhood in a way to potentially allow additional housing that's complimentary of the very tight street grid and the nearby amenities. Additionally, this is on the northeastern most edge or a 71B plan, which council will be considering here in terms of an area rezoning here in the next few months. The 71B plan called out this portion as the South school area specifically.
 Also, it is part of the overlaps with several plans in the year, including downtown and the Walker Park plan, although it got its existing zoning destination from the downtown plan.
 Additionally, it is in close proximity to at least two tier centers on our growth concept map, which indicate areas that we anticipate being highly walkable and have a lot more activity compared to maybe some of the more peripheral areas of the city. We have two tier one centers that we've identified in that growth concept map. One of those is downtown and it's within about a third of a mile of the downtown square immediately nearby us right now.
 Other issues, as always, we like to advise when tree preservation standards change. As most of our single family zoning districts are, the neighborhood conservation zoning district has a 20% tree canopy requirement. RAU with its increased allowances and entitlements would decrease that by 15, or to 15%, excuse me,
 Otherwise, we have received one piece of public comment to date, and that was an inquiry with no statement of support or opposition, just a curiosity about what was being proposed on the property.
 With those findings and background in mind, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously. They found, similar to staff, that the request is consistent with our future land use plans and compatible with surrounding land uses. And I am available for questions, should the Council have them. And Mayor, I believe Zach Hickson is the applicant for this item. The applicant would like to speak for the Council. You have 10 minutes. Thank you.
 i'm zach hickson with sitewise civil engineering representing the property owner i don't have anything to add but i'm here answering questions you have okay what questions do we have for the applicant or staff anything okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak we have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any councilman stay on topic please give us your name and address
 Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the council? Yes. Hi. Rebecca LaTourette again. 1-5-7-6-1 Brown Mountain Road, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I own property in this area, and I actually am not opposed to this, but I just have a question about the zoning and the parking that is
 required within this type of zoning. Is it okay to ask a question about that, about the parking requirement? Do you have anything on that, John? Mayor, it sounds like she has a question about parking requirements. Yes, she has a question about parking requirements with this zoning.
 Sure, I can describe broadly. Parking in Fayetteville is not determined by zoning district, it's determined by land use. And in Fayetteville, we do have parking minimums for residential, but we do not for non-residential. So this zoning district, residential or intermediate urban, does allow only residential uses of single, two, three, and four family dwellings.
 For single family dwellings and duplexes, you're required to provide two parking spaces per unit. Once you get up to townhomes or multifamily, you have to require one space per bedroom. Okay. So they would be required to provide off street parking. Is that correct?
 That is. I do appreciate the specificity of the question. There is an allowance if on-street parking is allowed in that area. You can count spaces in front of your property as spaces towards what's required of you.
 I had a specific reason for that question. As you all know, there is a large development going in just north of there that will have significantly less parking per resident, and I anticipate a parking problem in the area generated by the large redevelopment.
 I own rental property in that area. I manage my mother's rental property in that area. And I would like to say that as much as I would love to see all my tenants utilize the wonderful walkability of that area, I have one tenant who does that. One, all the rest of them hop in their cars and drive three blocks to Walmart. They drive their cars to work.
 they drive their cars to school and so i applaud the idea of infill and walkability but i think we need to look at reality and what people are actually doing so i'm not objecting to this rezoning i'm i'm similarly pointing out that there are a lot of things going on in this area right now that are significantly going to impact talking
 thank you uh-huh now we're rebooting our timer we've got a little problem so we're going to have to do this well no actually we're back right uh we've rebooted and we should be able to have the timer on now okey-doke all right who else like your dresses okay yes that ends that uh who do you have by zoom no one on zoom has their hand raised okay i'll bring back the counselor
 So far I haven't heard anything. This is in World 1, but I haven't heard anything. But Jonathan, I am curious as to what development was being referred to.
 you're just to the north of there i think if i'm not mistaken that's in reference to a development of about half a block north um i've heard mixed history on what the buildings used to be it used to be where there were what appeared to be old barracks buildings uh just south east of south and nelson hackett that were demolished about six months three years ago yeah and there's a proposal on that property to develop it with multi-family
 okay so block and forth and they haven't needed to go through rezoning right they're just developing it that's correct it goes to the planning commission this coming monday okay okay i just wanted to get a grasp of what the reference was thank you well and maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion in second to go to the second please call yes
 yes yes yes yes yes yes Stafford yes in order to rezone the property described in a regional petition RZN 2024-32 for approximately a third of an acre located at 439 South Church Avenue and Ward 1 from NC neighborhood conservation to Riu residential intermediate urban
 Maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Ferner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to rezone the property described in the rezone petition RZN 2024-32 for approximately a third of an acre located at 439 South Church Avenue and Ward 1 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban
 Any final comments from the council here? Would you please call the roll down? Yes, or yes, we did her yes Yes, yes, sir. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Stafford. Yes Okay, number five an ordinance to resolve the property inscribing resounding petition RZ n 20 24 dash 33 for approximately two point
 acres located at 1919 South Ashwood Avenue in Ward 1 from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre. Kip? It is ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1
 that the city council the city of favorable arkansas hereby changes the zone classification property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre and section two that the city council of the city of favor arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of favor to reflect the zoning change provided in section one johnson
 Thank you, Mayor. This request shifts us to South Fayetteville into Ward 1. It includes about just shy of two and a half acres immediately west of Razorback Road and Sligo Street. As you go west along Sligo and hit Ashwood, it includes the property immediately west of there, which is currently developed with a single family home and outbuilding in a largely pasture area.
 The request is to rezone the property from its current RI-12 residential intermediate, excuse me, is to rezone it from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RI-12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre.
 Staff does find the request to be compatible. We find that the allowances in the RI-12 zoning district can be complimentary of the mix of both attached and single family housing that you can find to the south and east of this property. Additionally, we find it serves a logical transition to the much more dense and intense multifamily dwellings that you see immediately to the north of 18th Street.
 However, while serving that transitional role, it also can be complementary of existing zoning districts in the area by having that limitation of three stories and RI-12, which mirrors the three-story limitation that's also found in the RSF-4 zoning district.
 Similarly, from a future land use standpoint, staff finds this request to be consistent with our adopted city plan, 2040 comprehensive plan and the future land use map that's found within that. It designates this property as a residential neighborhood area.
 As you've heard me say several times tonight, that designation includes a broad spectrum of potentially appropriate residential uses, depending on context, location, and particularly elements that can be positively contributing to infill, of which this property has no shortage of. It's in close proximity to two transit lines. It can get to the University of Arkansas campus with some ease. It's near a trail system.
 And because of that, again, staff finds this to be a consistent request with our long range plans. This includes our long range older plans of which this property is within the Fayette Junction neighborhood.
 What you can see here was the portion of that plan that focused on what was called the Red Arrow subdivision, which for those of you who visited this area between that agenda session now or went on the tour, Red Arrow is the name of the subdivision immediately to the south and west of this.
 What the Fayette Junction plan envisioned was not necessarily that this area would be preserved as open space, that it would ultimately be developed with housing that could serve the wider area and benefit from the existing transportation corridors that are nearby.
 As far as other issues go, this does take our rezoning to RI-12 would reduce the tree preservation requirement from its existing 25% to 20%. Those who went on the tour or again drove by, you probably did note that it is a largely clear piece of property. It doesn't mean that it's without a tree canopy or devoid of it. This one in particular on Ashwood did have what appeared to be some significant trees that would certainly be subject to consideration from our foresters.
 Also, we have received some public comments on this request. Excuse me, we didn't receive anything before the Planning Commission. However, at the meeting itself, there was a statement of opposition to the request with concerns about what the potential additional density would represent that could occur under the R12 zoning district and that they didn't feel that it was compatible with what they perceived to be a largely single family area.
 Also, if you didn't have a chance to consider the topography exhibit that was requested at agenda session and put into the final agenda, there are two rezonings, both the same name. I put a big old arrow there to hopefully indicate which one we're talking about right now.
 It does show that the property does have some slope to it, ranging from about five and a half percent to about just shy of 7% as the property slopes to the northward towards the town branch, of which you can see it's floodplain north of Ashwood and 18th Street.
 At the tier we discussed several items. I already alluded to the tree canopy, which we perceived, and also the building height, what the lack of difference between the IRR 12 and RSF 4 zoning districts, both allow three stories. There's also a question on this particular piece of property about street improvements. There appeared to be like a,
 I'm not sure how to describe it, but basically a field stone stormwater ditch along its frontage. It's likely that in your development there would be reviewed for upgrading that. Perhaps improving it with a sidewalk and green space. A sidewalk?
 Right. Similarly, there are questions about access. And for those who were able to consider their maps in advance of the meeting saw that this request and the subsequent one have one intervening property in between them and what it would look like if there was to be a public street grid and staff's expectation would be to provide some sort of street step out so that they can be ultimately connected in the long term, similar to what you see in the Fayette Junction plan.
 All said, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously. There was one recusal from a commissioner who's associated with, I believe, potentially the development of the property. The primary commentator was that this would represent a good transitional zoning district and also that RI-12, with its allowance for single, two, three, and four-family dwellings, offers some housing diversity that could be beneficial to the area.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And Mayor Will Kellstrom is here as the applicant for the item. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you.
 GOOD EVENING. MY NAME IS WILL KELSTROM HERE ON THE HALF OF THE APPLICANT. AS JONATHAN ALLUDED TO IN HIS PRESENTATION, THIS IS REALLY TWO REQUESTS. WE COULDN'T SUBMIT THEM AS THE SAME REZONING BECAUSE THE PROPERTIES ARE NOT CONTIGUOUS. THEREFORE, THEY'RE COMING THROUGH AS TWO REZONING REQUESTS. BUT A LOT OF THE FACTS THAT ARE RELEVANT TO THIS ONE ARE GOING TO BE RELEVANT TO THE NEXT ONE AS WELL BECAUSE THEY'RE SO CLOSE.
 SO, AS JONATHAN SAID, WE ARE ASKING FOR RI-12. RI-12 ALLOWS FOR ONE OR SINGLE FAMILY, TWO FAMILY AND THREE AND FOUR FAMILY. IT DOES NOT ALLOW FOR MULTIFAMILY AND IT IS RESTRICTED TO 12 UNITS PER ACRE MAX.
 Some of the nearby zonings are an R.I.U., which is adjacent to this property, which is a more recent zoning. There is some RMF 24 that is left over from some perhaps older zonings. I'm not quite sure when they're done, but it was a while ago, as well as there's some RSF 4 to the south. To the north, closer to the baseball stadium, there is RMF 24, C2, PZD, and Urban Thoroughfare. So there's a good mix of zones in the nearby area.
 As far as what the development nearby looks like to the north, it's a mix of cottages and apartments and commercial developments, also very close to the baseball stadium. On 18th, there are a few duplexes in some of those RMF 24 zones that I pointed out a moment ago. And I believe one low intensity commercial building, a train store, I think.
 And on Ashwood, it is mostly single family, but there are actually four triplexes towards the south of it. So there's already a decent mix of housing types and uses present. I think this would be a good transition from some of the higher density zonings to the north, mainly the apartment complexes and cottages, which are close to the baseball stadium. It'd be a good transition as it goes south and moves into the more single family neighborhood.
 As Jonathan also alluded to, this development would probably result in some improved streets and sidewalks.
 We took a tour of the property yesterday and some of the city council members who were there pointed out three significant trees. I did contact the engineer to see if they were far enough along in the design to see if they could be saved. Essentially, no engineering has been done at all, so really we'd be speculating on whether we could or not. But nonetheless, I did make them aware that there are some nice, big, beautiful trees on that property and that you guys would really like to see them saved. Jeff Rea
 So with that, this is coming with unanimous approval from the Planning Commission and a recommendation of approval from staff. Thank you. Okay, do we have any, what about that sidebar? Let's talk about that sidebar. What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant? Teresa.
 thank you mayor um you know thank you for that tour yesterday that was really really helpful um and you could really see sort of the gaps and and the sidewalks and how narrow the streets were i'm wondering if rsf8 was ever considered um you know you've got this really well established rsf4 neighborhood to the south and and over to the west to the east and was that ever discussed um if you can
 for enlighten us on that Jonathan it was not the request initially came in as rmf24 and after staff visited with the applicant and advised that that wasn't a request we were able to support I think after the discussion and consideration of the broader area r12 is was what staff came to thinking is the most appropriate or recommending is the most appropriate and the applicant concurred thank you
 I'd also like to thank Jonathan and Will for taking us on that tour. It was very informative. I thought I had received an email in opposition, but I searched and searched and cannot find. But it sounded very similar to what, and if it did exist, it might have been the same person. It sounded very similar.
 uh to the the one jonathan brought up um i i think it's a pretty good fit i don't think it's too dense i after our career i drove around many blocks around the neighborhood to get kind of a feel for it and um there is that neighborhood to the south that is rsf4 but i i don't think it's i i think that this will fit in and i don't think there'll be a big conflict with that um yeah so i think i'll support this okay
 I'm pleased to report no snakes were found on this particular tour. And I feel like the RI-12 is kind of right in the middle between the RMF24 and the RSF4, so I'm also comfortable with that degree of density.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, you piqued my curiosity with Councilmember Turk's question in regard to kind of what had been looked at. I'm curious, as I look at that map, and I do see a bit of diversity of different zones that are kind of getting close in proximity to that area, what was the driver of not recommending for the higher density with the
 Because I see like some of this is RMF 24 and very nearby with some of the, you know, the grows of trees, you know, when we walked it. That's right there as well.
 Yeah, I think the going the opposite direction from RSF8, whether why staff perhaps didn't recommend more intensity or density there. I think that was in two parts. I think the first was certainly felt that it was appropriate to have some acknowledgement of the Fayette Junction plan and the community input that went into that, regardless of how much time had passed. It seems like that has been a very important part.
 a very consistently observed, at least element of that plan. We've not seen a lot of zoning change in this area to go back towards the multifamily zoning that was in wide swaths there.
 Similarly, if you look at the other next increment up would generally be RIE, residential, intermediate, urban. And that gets more into staff's experiences with the outcomes of RIE when it's being proposed on larger pieces of property. When we have seen that applied on larger acreages, it has...
 not created the urban developments that the zoning district is intended to have. I think we've seen a lot of insular residential developments of just smaller scale, and not the interconnected developments, not the kind of infill that it was intended to create. I hope that answers your question.
 Yes, that was helpful. I think I'm in agreement with Councilmember Whitaker that this is a great compromise on that area, and so I'm definitely very supportive of it and look forward to hearing what the comments are from the community on it. Well, Jonathan, can you pull up the map one more time? Which map, Councilmember Stoddard? The yellow one. It was a zoning map. That one worked. So if you...
 you can see them in this picture at the top of the picture you'll see that's some some multi-family at the corner there and then if you were to scroll i don't know if you can scroll on this one but if you were to scroll to the south uh off of ashwood on the east side of ashwood
 I think there's some multifamily down there as well that I went by. That's correct. So this is a screenshot, Ariel, in the presentation, but you're correct. There are townhouse style construction on the east side of Razorback. Yeah, and then once we go block over to Razorback, then we obviously have lots of multifamily there as well. So I think it doesn't necessarily conflict with the neighborhood. I think it would fit and integrate well.
 and uh i'd like to go ahead and make a motion that we move to the second reading sorry the most in the second to go to the uh we didn't take public comments yet i'm just as anxious as you are everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber
 are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber tonight have anybody on zoom yes sir okay we have a motion and second to go to the second reading is that correct okay we need a second to go to the second second scott did it okay somebody did yeah we have a motion to go to second please call jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiener? Yes. Farna? Yes.
 yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RCN 2024-33 for approximately 2.4 acres located at 1919 South Ashwood Avenue in Ward 1 from RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre I'd like to motion that we move to the third and final reading second
 motion second third and finally please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes
 and your orders to rezone the property described in a rezoning petition rzn 2024-33 for approximately 2.4 acres located at 1919 south ashwood avenue in ward 1 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre okay any final comments from council the only thing i want to say i have entertained a few of the neighbors on sunday
 i didn't know it'll be okay i mean it's in my backyard so it's uh they were they were okay but i think the r12 is a really good compromise i'm sort of like theresa i wouldn't mind seeing an r8 but well i certainly didn't want to see an r24 going in back there just fit there but
 thank you all anyway oh can i make one yeah
 i'm really going to kind of stick to my guns here i'm not going to support this i think it's too dense especially for those narrow roads and the lack of sidewalks and so while i recognize riu-12 is sort of a compromise i think that rsf-8 is a much more gentle transition from that established neighborhood to the south so just putting it on the record thank you thank you teresa all right
 care please call the road jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes no hertzberg yes stafford yes all right let's go to number six in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition rzn 204
 that's 34 for approximately 9.10 acres located at 1731 1815 and 1837 west 18th street ward 1 from rsf 4 residence single family 4 units per acre to ri 12 residential intermediate 12 units break yeah
 to be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, most attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family 4 units per acre to RI-12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre.
 in section two that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville reflect the zoning change provided in section one charlotte
 Thank you, Mayor. This request keeps us in the same part of the city. We're going a little ways, about 100 feet to the west specifically, around the corner up on 18th Street to a property about two to three times the size. It's about 9.10 acres of land on the south side of 18th Street.
 and it's currently developed, or currently constitutes several parcels, three specifically, they're all developed with a variety of outbuildings and single family dwellings, some of which appear to be occupied, some of which do not appear to be occupied.
 Similar to the last item, the request is to rezone it from RSF4, residential single family four units per acre, to RI12, residential intermediate 12 units per acre. While this request and the last one do share many similarities, I think the most prominent one, other than the size of the property, can be seen on the screen here, which is the portions of the site.
 And the northwest and northeast corners are encumbered by a floodplain associated with the town branch, which runs east to west immediately to the north of the site on 18th Street.
 Staff's findings from a land use compatibility standpoint were very similar to the last item. Differences aside, we find that requested R-I-12 zoning district to be a reasonable transition from the largely single family neighborhood immediately to the south to the much more relatively more dense multifamily areas to the north beyond 18th Street and the Town Branch Trail.
 From a consistency standpoint, again, that is another area where our findings were fairly similar. If anything, this property's immediate access to 18th Street, which is a much wider road with much greater potential, albeit lacking sidewalks today, represents less of a concern for the size of the property and the potential number of dwellings that could be built on it.
 Again, referring to the Fayette Junction Plan, you can see this specific piece of property delineated here with the anticipated connections. Again, there is one intervening property between this one and the last one that the council considered. So whether something like this were to come to fruition or not, can't be assured as that intervening property hasn't indicated any interest yet in what they want to do with their land.
 Again, the rezoning does impact our tree preservation standards going from RSF4, the highest 25% canopy requirement would take it to 20% under RI12. And then again, I think the most prominent consideration on this request compared to the last one is that there are those portions of property in the northwest and east corner that are designated as flood plains.
 staff, given the amount of area or the limited amount of area within that floodplain and our existing floodplain development standards and our streamside protection standards that are in place, staff feels that those can be developed or develop a round in a sensitive manner that takes into consideration any stream bank erosion or a particulate matter runoff. With that, we have received, or there was a somewhat more public comments on this item when it was heard at the same planning commission as the last one.
 I believe three members of the public spoke on this one, two opposed. Again, the concerns were largely around the potential conflict with the character of the single family neighborhood to the south. The RI-12 zoning district does allow single two, three, and four family dwellings, not just single family. Conversely, there was one member of the public who spoke in favor of this request, noting the need for additional housing and housing diversity, which the RI-12 zoning district allows.
 If you didn't get a chance to consider it with the last item, this is the topography exhibit for this request, fairly similar slopes. They're all coming off of an area of much, a much steeper area immediately to the south of the Red Arrow neighborhood. But on this property, it begins to be when the slopes smooth out as it approaches the town branch and its associated floodplain.
 On the tier, we discussed many of the same items on the previous one. The consistent theme here is that the big difference is floodplain on this site. Again, the building height issue is that whether this property's development, how it relates to the properties to the south. They both allow three stories, RSF4 and RI12.
 Street improvements here are a slightly different conversation because of 18 streets exceptionally wide character today. It represents perhaps more opportunities for having sidewalks, on-street parking, and green space for trees than otherwise might be found.
 Otherwise, on the tier, we didn't go as deep into the property or have as much visibility in the property, but it was pretty clear that most of the tree canopy was along 18th Street and along the perimeter found on the fence lines. Staff is recommending in favor of this request. The Planning Commission, similar to the last item, forwarded it unanimously with one recusal, making very similar comments to what you heard before, that they felt this was a transitional zoning district and the housing diversity offered would be beneficial to the city and
 And I can take any questions the council has. And Mayor Will Kellstrom is the applicant on this item as well. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? My comments for this one are the same as the last one, so I'll bury all of this one. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, could you put up the Fayette Junction map again? I just want to point out something that...
 maybe we might have missed so on the map right there in in the box to the lower right it said the recommendation if i understand it correctly was eight units per acre correct that's correct there was a recommendation of eight units breaker and also for attached residential that you can see on the map adjacent to 18th street okay thank you what else do we have any
 Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us? It's in the chamber. You got it on Zoom. No one, Mayor. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have and what action would the council like to take?
 I'd like, I motion that we move to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Care to please call the roll?
 Jones yes more yes beaker yes Yes, Kurt yes Hertzberg yes Stafford. Yes in orange to rezone the property described in reason only petition RZN 2024 dash 34 for approximately nine point one acres located at 1731 1815 and 1837 West 18th Street in Ward 1 and
 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre make a motion spend rules bill third binary second have a motion second to go third and final rating here's what he's called sorry jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-34 for approximately 9.1 acres located at 1731 1815 and 1837 west 18th street in ward 1 from rsf4 residential single family 4 units breaker to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units break any final comments
 well the only thing i want to say again i visited with several of my neighbors in the neighborhood they would have preferred r8 to a r24 when we were first talking about it was okay with a r12 but i do want to point out theresa brings up a really good point those streets are tremendously narrow we don't have no sidewalks down there now i'm not complaining that's where i chose to live and i've lived there since 1977.
 So we really need, and we've been talking about infrastructure, and I don't say anything because, well, I live down there. The sidewalks needs to be along that road. Most of us are now, when we went in there, we were in our 20s. Well, that has long since passed, and we need sidewalks along there. And I just want everybody to keep that in mind.
 these older neighborhoods. Now that particular house was Wanda Arnold's mother's house and she lived there and I'm not going to get into a lot of stories on the Arnold family but she lived there for the first 10 years. My kids were just toddlers when she was there and she was like a grandmother to them and you know I hated to see that. Then she passed away and Wanda passed away and
 then the house went in this way and it was kind of sad in a way but i know things go on but i just want the council and y'all are real good about this you think about people and i appreciate it and some of those folks that live down there are senior citizens a lot of and they moved in there when they was young and they've not complained and they don't
 but and i'm not complaining because i know progress is progress and i know we need the housing but just you know i've having experienced it i understand a lot better what people go through so always keep that in mind and i i appreciate your thoughtfulness council i do all right enough of that cara please call them jones yes more yes
 peter yes arna yes yes no hertzberg yes stafford yes all right thank you all all right well let's go on to number seven
 An ordinance to rezone the property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 2024-35 for approximately 0.22 acres located at 1831 and 1835 West Mitchell Street in Ward 1. From RSF8, residential single family, eight units per acre to RMF24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, ARC, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, ARC hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map and the legal description both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 8 to RMF 24 .
 In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. John? Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us to, I think it would be described as near West Fayetteville. We're located in Ward 1, just about a block north of MLK, on the south side of Mitchell Street between Seng to the west and Lewis to the east.
 The request includes two parcels. Each is developed with a single family home and combined they total just over a fifth of an acre, 0.22 acres. The properties receive their current RSF8 residential single family, eight unit per acre designation in 2015. So about nine years ago when it was rezoned from RMF24 to RSF8. The request before council tonight is to rezone it from RSF8 residential single family, eight units per acre
 back to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. As you can see in the map, showing zoning designations here, it's pretty clear that there is a very standard zoning designation in this area. A lot of the existing development in the area reflects that zoning. While there is a fair amount of single and two family dwellings, there are also
 a wide variety of townhome and multifamily dwellings as well. With that in mind, staff can't help but find that this is a compatible request. The allowances under RMF24 as proposed mirror those of the vast preponderance of the surrounding area.
 From a land use plan in standpoint, staff's findings are similar. This is a city neighborhood area with several attributes that contribute to appropriate infill. We find that that can result in an appropriate amount of additional development if the property were to redevelop under the RMF 24 zoning district and its allowance for single two, three, four and multifamily housing.
 When considering the request, staff has not identified any issues. We've not heard any public comments on the item. With those findings in mind, staff is recommending approval, and the Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously, and I'm available to stand for questions. And Mayor, I believe Larry McCready is the applicant for this item. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the Council?
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. My name is Larry McCready. I'm with R&P Law Firm. I represent the applicant. Appreciate Mr. Curran's thorough presentation he gave. I don't think I have anything productive that I can add to it. I'd simply respectfully request your support for the rezone request. And, of course, I'm available to answer any questions if you have them. Thank you for your time. Okay. Is there any questions from the council for the applicant or staff? No.
 Oh Jonathan just a question for curiosity's sake. Do you know why it was downgraded or down zoned to RSF-8?
 I don't have a clear answer no that was planning staff's first reaction seeing a property rezone so recently was to delve into the request behind it my understanding is it had something to do with what the previous property owner or or I forget if it's the current property or not had plans for the property that just never came to fruition that's that's all I have to offer I'm sorry I don't have more that's okay thank you so much anything else okay well let's take some public comment
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this this in the chamber who do you have on zooms no one has their hand raised mayor i would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second
 of motion second to go to the second week everybody please call the road yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes stafford yes and orange to rezone the property described and reasonably petition rcn 2024-35 for approximately 0.22 acres
 Located at 1831 and 1835 West Mitchell Street in Ward 1 from RSF 88, residential single family, 8 units per acre to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 I would move to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. I move to second and go to the third and final reading. Care to please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 and in order to rezone the property described rezoning petition rzn 2024-35 for approximately 0.22 acres located at 1831 and 1835 west mitchell street in ward 1 from rsf 8 residential single family 8 units per acre to rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre any final comments
 uh care which please call the road jones yes more yes winter yes vernon yes yes turd yes herdsburg yes stafford yes okay let's go to number eight an ordinance to resolve the property describing his own petition rzn 2024-29 for approximately 13.65 acres
 located at 3179 North O'Wire Road in Ward 3, from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF8, Residential Single Family 8 Units per 8 Kip. Be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification properly shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, most attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RSF-8, Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. John? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 This rezoning request takes us to East Fayetteville, almost the easternmost extents of the City of Fayetteville in Ward 3. In fact, you can see on the aerial image here the yellow and black dashed lines immediately to the upper left and lower right, or excuse me, upper right and lower right of the subject property that indicate where the extents of the city limits are today.
 The property in question totals about 13.65 acres. It's a little ways immediately east of the intersection of Glory and Crossover, which you'd be forgiven for not being intimately familiar with where Glory is. Perhaps a better orientation is that we're about half a mile northeast of the intersection of Old Wire Road and Crossover Road before Old Wire takes a series of 90 degree turns before being immediately on the southern portion of this property in question.
 It's currently developed with a single family home and the agricultural building as well, and includes two parcels. The request before the council tonight is an appeal from the city count, or excuse me, from the Planning Commission's denial of the request at their June 24th meeting to rezone the property from its existing RA residential agricultural zoning designation to RSF 8 residential single-family 8 units per acre in, excuse me,
 Sorry, let me share screen again here. There we are, thanks for the patience.
 The areas you can see in the faded green or the pale green color are zoned currently RA Residential Agricultural, which includes the subject property as the request indicates. Immediately to the northwest, you can see an area zoned RI12, Residential Intermediate 12 Units Per Acre, which received its designation in association with what was called the Spring House Village Project, which was an age-restricted community.
 That included the residential element that is immediately adjacent to this property, a more institutional medical support element immediately to the north, and a commercial piece out towards Crossover Road where I believe a local real estate group is currently located at their office.
 In evaluating the land use compatibility OsterQuest, staff found many considerations. It is certainly indisputable that large portions of this area are very much agricultural in nature. There are several pieces of property in this area that are actively being used in agricultural purposes, whether it's livestock or otherwise.
 Conversely, it is in very close proximity to a major state highway, Crossover Road. It immediately abuts Glory Drive, which is a street improved to our minimum standards, including sidewalk, street width, including what's less visible, also water and sewer lines built to our minimum streets, our minimum utility specifications.
 That is less so the case for Old Wire Road, which is more reflective of what you might describe as a country road. It's a two lane road, no curb, no gutter, no sidewalk, no green space beyond some largely non-existent shoulders.
 On the balance of considerations of compatibility, staff ultimately came down on its proximity to Crossover and its access to Glory Drive and found that the request is compatible from a land use standpoint in that regard.
 From a long range planning standpoint, staff's findings were similarly mixed. Our future land use map does suggest or indicates that this is a residential neighborhood area. You've heard me say it many times tonight, however, that a residential neighborhood area can mean a lot of things depending on the context and location.
 given we are towards again, the Eastern extents of the city of Fayetteville, and there are relatively few elements that would generally be considered contributing to infill. Staff was only able to feel supportive of this because of the lower density in our estimation that's being proposed, rather than some of the other designations that you've heard proposed tonight, whether it's a higher RSF designation or one of our RI, residential intermediate proposals.
 Additionally, when considering our growth concept map, there is a node proposed on it immediately about a quarter of a mile to the west of it along crossover road and tend to, as it develops out, create a more active portion of the city of Fayetteville.
 There are many issues with this, some of which I've alluded to, but I'll run through them all in a bit more detail here. First and foremost, as I always like to share, the tree preservation standard is reducing with this request if it were to be approved from 25% to 20%. If you saw in the aerial image, this is largely pasture, however. There is canopy, but it's not predominant on the site as it is in other areas.
 Moving into traffic hazards and considerations, there are not a zero amount of accidents in the area. In fact, depending where you're looking, you can identify a significant number of them. The box that you see in red is the subject parcel or the subject parcels. And while it can be hard to see the street lines, this is relatively where Old Wire Road is running east to west in front of it.
 where you see the three here indicates three accidents that have occurred between 2019 and 2023 on that northward turn, one of which was a fatal injury.
 compared with the other side of going the other direction, there are two accidents identified heading before the Old Wire Road begins to go south where it meets up with Skillern. And there are approximately 20 accidents identified between where Old Wire meets Skillern and going into Crossover Road.
 I believe there was some public comment that was asserting that the traffic data that staff considered was inappropriate or underrepresented. So we made sure to pull this from the state, which aggregates this from all entities, whether it's the Fayetteville Police Department, the Sheriff's Department. So this represents the most current data set we have running from 2019 to 2023.
 Moving to the master street plan. It was brought up at the agenda session and you may have noticed in your packets, there's a blue dash line indicated across this property. That is a indication that staff anticipates and feels there's a connectivity priority to ensure that there is a path to
 between Glory Drive and Old Wire Road. I think this certainly acknowledges and recognizes that there are connectivity issues in this area. A large amount of public comment we've heard has been very much about the congestion in this area and the lack of options when moving east to west in the city.
 between Township to the south and Old Wire, immediate to the southwest of this property, and Joyce. There's only three major connections east to west between large portions of unincorporated Washington County and the city of Fayetteville. And this represents a priority connection that staff finds will be accommodating to improving connectivity if this property were to be developed.
 Also, with the agenda session commentary in mind, our engineering division was able to make a preliminary analysis of what development of this property would look like in terms of whether a traffic signal would be merited where you see the green dot on the image here. From what we understand from the developer, yes.
 They are intending or proposing about 40 to 50 lots with this development, where the RSF-8 zoning district would allow an entitlement closer to 100.
 With that lower proposal in mind, this project would probably fall just short of warranting a traffic signal through RDoT. That does not account for any additional traffic that could come as pass-through traffic if a connection was made and residents throughout this portion of the city, what remains east of it, and the county could use to pass through there.
 So that is to say a preliminary analysis suggests that there's a near warrant for a traffic signal, but just purely accounting for the development that could occur or is proposed to occur on this property, it may not be enough for a traffic signal today.
 And also I wanted to touch on additional infrastructure questions. I already talked about Old Wire Road. This photo is fairly indicative of the character of the street, other than the fact that there are several 90 degree turns on the road. This is a straightaway that you see here looking along the southern end of the property. So there would be an expectation as this property is developed at a bare minimum, they'd be required to improve their street advantage.
 Also, there's been comments about water connectivity issues and loss of water service. In discussing with our utility department since agenda session, they confirmed that this development would be expected to connect to Glory Drive where there's an eight-inch water line. While they may connect to the four-inch water line on Old Wire, they didn't want to give any false conceptions that this would solve water issues in the area, but they do feel
 an installation of new valves along that forge line on old wire may address the number of people impacted if there is another break in the future.
 All that said, there has been a significant amount of public comment. I think the council has benefited from having a large amount of that directed directly to you through the clerk's office. I don't know that there's much more I can add to it. I think the largest concerns that staff has heard have been about traffic congestion and traffic danger, especially highlighting Old Wire Road where it intersects with Skillern through these 90-degree turns and at the intersection of Crossover.
 There's also been concerns expressed about interactions of future residents of this property with agricultural life on adjoining properties. And there's also been concerns about the, how the character of development on this property, whether it's the density, the size of the lots may conflict with the much larger lot pattern you see in this portion of the city and unincorporated Washington County further to the east.
 On the balance of considerations, staff ultimately recommended approval. As I noted at the top of the presentation, the Planning Commission denied the proposal by a vote of five to one. The lone supporting vote highlighted the future connectivity that the Master Street Plan represented here and contested what has been proposed.
 contested the label of high density that had been applied to RSF8. Those five who voted against the request expressed their agreement with much of the public opposition. Okay, okay, we're gonna have to give you some more time. I'd like to give him five more minutes. 15 seconds. Yes. Well, that's very generous. Yes, carry on Jonathan.
 Thank you. That the property had a relatively low infill store and again, significant concerns about the infrastructure in the area. And with that, I'm happy to take questions. Mayor, the applicant on the item is Will Kjellstrom and we were advised leading up to the meeting today that they do intend on offering a bill of assurance to limit the development potential of the property to that approximately 40 lots that I described, but I'll have to defer to him to offer that. Thank you.
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. My name is Will Keltram here on behalf of the applicant. I have a few remarks prepared for you guys, but before I do that, the owner of the property, Nina Luther, who is not present at the Planning Commission and did not get a chance to speak, has some remarks that she's prepared for you guys and she wants to address you guys.
 Hello, my name is Nina Luther. My husband and I, Tom, own 3179 North Old Wire Road. We've had a wonderful 34 years living there, and we really do love living in Fayetteville. In those 34 years, we've had developers, neighbors, and people driving up to our home asking if we were interested in selling our land.
 It was always an easy no until last fall. The property next to us, Seal Retirement Community, was almost completing their independent living phase. We felt like we were living in a neighborhood of duplexes. We clearly saw our neighbors, the cars driving by, and the street sign that said Glory Road and Blessing Circle.
 The neighborhood has changed and it does continue to change. The Knox property also abuts the retirement community and on the other end of the Knox property they're building a middle school. There's a landscape company with a number of buildings on our east border that we clearly see from our home. Two houses down is an Airbnb and a small subdivision is at the corner of Skillern and Old Wire Road.
 the neighborhood has changed. The Steepenmorgans are our neighbors to the east, and Ryan Steepenmorgan told us of his concerns and his neighbors' concerns about a road through their property. From what I have been told, that road will only be built when the Steepenmorgans sell their property. Tom is 81 years old. I am in my mid-70s. We're at a time in our life
 where we need more security and less responsibility. Mr. Richardson, our developer, has given us an option for both. Mr. Richardson is a quality developer and respected in the building and banking communities. Tom and I know this because we did our own research. We feel confident he will build quality homes that will be well landscaped.
 Tom and I really care about our land. We really do. And we believe the footprint we leave will be in keeping with our neighborhood and also the highest and best use of our land. So Tom and I are looking forward to living in Fayetteville, whatever the amount of years we have. And we look forward to doing that with less responsibility and more security.
 I thank you for you. I thank you for listening and I thank you for your time. Thank you Jonathan, how are we doing on time? seven minutes, okay so
 THIS WAS SUBMITTED AS RSF 8 INITIALLY. I SENT TO KIT AND TO JONATHAN LAST NIGHT A BILL OF ASSURANCE THAT JONATHAN JUST ALLUDED TO, WHICH RESTRICTS THIS DEVELOPMENT TO NO MORE THAN 43 UNITS TOTAL. THAT IS ABOUT 3.15 UNITS PER ACRE OR CALL IT THREE UNITS AN ACRE.
 The reason that RSF4 was selected is that this property is long and narrow, and it's very difficult to develop it under RSF4 zoning code and actually get four units an acre. So the intent all along has been to develop a three-unit-per-acre development, and this bill of assurances is the way that we can show you guys that this is what we've been planning all along.
 So from watching the Planning Commission video and reading some of the public comments, I think that perhaps it was not clear to the Planning Commission or to the public that what our intent was was to only build 43 units.
 So again, I want to make clear this development is a three unit maker development. This is in fact, this is a lot lower or not a lot lower, but it's lower than a lot of developments along crossover, which are all at about four units an acre and is certainly lower than the retirement home zoning, which is all right. So at the planning commission meeting.
 There was a lot of public feedback and then a lot of it centered around eight units an acre. Again, that is not the intent behind this development. We intend to restrict ourselves to about three units an acre. There was also a lot of feedback about water and sewer capacity. The engineer for the project, Caroline Gardner, is here and she has some statements on what we could possibly do to address that sewer capacity, address the utility capacity issues.
 Hi, Caroline Gardner with Kraft Intel. We've had a few conversations with the city regarding capacity issues. We're told that water is fine being next to that 36 inch transmission line, a long crossover. So we intend on connecting to the assisted living facility and then looping it through and connecting to the old wire.
 Sanitary sewer does have capacity issues. However, there is a solution for it. We have discussed that it entails
 1600 linear feet of 8 inch pipe to be upgraded to 15 inch pipe. Another engineering firm has submitted plans for this upgrade. The city has approved it. It's unsure if it's at the health department, but it has to go to the health department for approval. So we're going to continue our discussions with the
 with the city on as to what upgrades are needed and make sure there's adequate capacity for this development future development and existing um i don't know if i take questions now but i'm happy to answer any questions i need to um so thank you for your time so in any event with respect to the water and sewer capacity issues if we are not able to adequately address those and
 fix them to the standards of the Fayetteville Development Code, then we can't build the project. So there is a way to fix the water and sewer capacity issues. But overall, I want to stress that the point all along has been to develop this as three units an acre. And RSF 8 was selected only for the lot with minimums
 These lots are going to be narrow lots that are going to be also very deep, but they're also going to end up being about a quarter acre apiece, and some of them are higher than that. So this is really, in its essence, is a low-density neighborhood. The zoning code requested is kind of misleading on that, but what we're going for is a low-density suburban neighborhood. Thank you, guys. Thank you. Okay, is there any questions for the
 applicant or the staff. Thank you, Mayor. Actually, I do have a question for you, Will, or for the engineer. You mentioned that there was a solution to the sewer problem.
 being capped off that you've reached capacity. And you mentioned the upgrade from an eight inch to a 15 inch pipe. Do you anticipate asking the city for cough share if this is approved? I know that an engineering firm that has done the plans for the upgrade, their study had a statement regarding that.
 and that's what we're having a follow-up conversation with city staff and the utility department in regards to an option for cost sharing and what that entails because the other engineering firm has stated it so that's just still in question do you is it okay if i ask what the estimated amount is for that
 Based on the study that was done, they quoted a quarter of a million for the upgrade. And I should say the upgrade runs through the Paradise Valley Golf Course. That's where that 1,600 linear feet would need to be upgraded. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you. I actually have a question for Will. Will, you said you're offering a bill of assurance.
 It's not really to me or to Jonathan. It's to the city council. Do you have that bill of assurance with you? Yes, we do. We have the executed original with us tonight. Could you give that to the city clerk then? And in order to accept this bill of assurance, we'll have to amend the ordinance to say it's subject to the bill of assurance. So do we need to do that before we have any other further comment? No, I don't.
 It's however you want to do it. You can either do it now or you can do it after public comment. I guess I have a question, and I don't know if it's for Will or for Jonathan, but is there, probably for you, Jonathan, is there a way with RSF4 to, like through a variance or something, to allow them the narrower...
 uh lot widths i think i can answer that they'd have to go to the board of adjustment with that uh and the board of adjustment would probably not be able to find the undue hardship that they didn't create themselves so that probably the answer that is no they would not be able to do that okay so this is kind of a and will could you come up because i think i do jonathan can you pull up the the one of the maps again i don't know if it matters which one somewhere we can see the roads
 so well the it's the the narrowest the the narrowness of this lot that is kind of putting you into the situation to achieve three units an acre or four years later you you need to ask for aid right well so we're kind of getting into the specifics of the development but effectively you can't really get more than one street up through that property yeah i can kind of tell just by the width of the surrounding streets that you can't really get more than one street up through that
 Yeah, you can only really fit one street there. And it just necessitates narrow deep lots. So in order for us to get kind of a conventional lower density outside the city type of
 type density we actually had to ask for a higher zoning so that's that's what we're hoping to kind of curtail with the bill of assurance okay thank you and so i i know we're going to have public comment and i would just ask some of the commenters that would they have a problem with an effect of three units an acre when you come up and because it looks like that's what we're actually looking at we're not necessarily looking at a true eight units an acre so if you uh
 i would like to hear you know the thoughts on that as we get those those comments um thank you will yeah sir sorry will i i wanted to you you might want to come back up um
 So this is news to me to hear about the possibility of like or needing to address the sewer and so I appreciate that Councilmember Turek was talking about the cost share. You know some of our city goals are about you know not looking at you know sprawling out to different areas and so with that decrease of three acres per unit you know we're looking at having to potentially subsidize those 43 units at you know $3,000 a household and so
 I'm having a lot of heartburn on that when that's at the edge of town. It's stretching our capabilities of doing infrastructure over time. And so I want to give you a moment to either talk to that or come back up later at some point during public comment. But I'm going to really be struggling to be supportive hearing that information tonight. So the.
 i'm not an engineer but to what i understand if we cannot if we cannot adequately upgrade the sewer provide utilities to properly serve our development under the code then we can't build it and there's a possibility there's a cost share involved i don't think anyone is far enough along to determine that i think there might be a meeting scheduled with the city tomorrow that maybe might figure out some of those things but the developer will be required to pay their proportionate share of that cost
 did you have something else no i don't really have anything to add thank you mayor uh jonathan uh obviously there's been a lot of uh i've received a lot of pushback on this project and and one of the significant issues is the infrastructure the roads with the project itself
 irregardless of anything around it how much frontage is will be there that they will be responsible for improving the infrastructure with sidewalks and road it's very minimal right it'd be about 450 feet along old wire in addition to anything internal as they're building public streets out and at any point will if this were to pass would they have to look at that and determine
 deficiencies of the road and add that would the city have the availability of saying hey to do this you're going to have to upgrade the road period or we're not going to approve this yeah yes is the short answer the longer answer is that is often a discussion where you take a basket of potential improvements that the city needs in association with a project and have to weigh that against the proportional impact of a project
 projects of certain sizes can only bear certain costs. And I think that's definitely a consideration for the council in particular, as you're engaging this discussion right now about some of that basket of costs could potentially include an offsite sewer upgrade when improvements like that are needed and may
 to eliminate the opportunity for a different improvement that the city sees being needed, whether that's additional asphalt somewhere on old wire to improve safety or whatever that may be. Without having plans, it's hard to ascertain what that would be. Okay. My concern on this project is that to the east of this project, there's a sharp 90 degree turn
 to the west of this project there's another sharp 90 degree turn and then it connects to uh old wire and skillard and you have a tremendous amount of traffic coming from the developments out there so i think this has a tremendous challenge in the way of of roads and infrastructure and i've gotten a tremendous amount of pushback on it okay thank you mayor for me this is a difficult um
 I see this as a huge expense to the city and with all of the sewer improvements and the road improvements possibly widening the road and then adding a traffic light maybe to alleviate some of the traffic concerns there. I just I don't see this as an asset to the city. I see this as a liability net unnecessary expense. Jonathan, so.
 all that crap they're going to have to make that glory road connection right there like fire is going to require that right they're not going to all that traffic is not going to be pushed to a wire is that correct that's correct we have connectivity block length requirements that would also require connecting to adjacent public streets like glory now the will they will
 sorry i'm having a little trouble my words uh will it also have to initially go east through that landscape lot to where that part won't need to be completed until another time right that i think the uh to it was either someone on the applicant's team noted that would occur generally when that property that okay but they would have they would have access to crossover because they would need that that would be a requirement that's correct gloria's public right-of-way okay thank you
 I did. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I changed my mind and I changed it back. Thank you. And we're using the term cost share. I just want to make sure that this is not within a portion of the city that would be categorized as infill and
 have the availability of traditional cost share. The kind of cost share I believe we're talking about is if the city was looking and needing to upgrade infrastructure, this project would simply bear its portion of an upgrade we were gonna be doing in essence anyway because of need outside of this development. Am I describing that accurately or even close?
 Sorry, Council Member Wiedecker, I'm not sure if that was for me or not, but yes, that is. I was half looking at you and Chief of Staff Norton over there. That is correct, and also some additional context may be helpful. The portion of sanitary sewer within Paradise Valley Golf Course is a known capacity issue in this part of Fayetteville. This is not the first development that's contemplating having to work within its constraints. There have been several developments in this area.
 And as we see more and more developments in this area, that's a larger portion that can bear those costs and don't have to necessarily be borne by the city or by an individual project. Thank you.
 One other point since Councilmember Stafford brought up Glory, I know myself and I believe I don't want to speak for Councilmember Bunch, but I'm sure she's gotten some of the same complaints from residents that are in that assisted living area and duplex area.
 of traffic concerns now and wanting a traffic light because they're coming out of there, they're elderly drivers, they're coming out of there and the traffic coming down crossover, it's a racetrack and I've gotten several emails requesting it it's just not, you're not able to do it with the traffic that's there now.
 Yeah, that was one thing I brought up at our agenda session because, you know, I've gotten calls and emails about, and it is from the same people probably Scott's heard from, and I had to tell them, well, you know, right now, the volume is not there to support, or my feeling is it's not there to support a traffic signal. It would have to have more development behind it and connect to a greater number of homes.
 i you know whenever comments for after we have our public comment okay everybody done all right let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address
 Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first?
 let's not be shy no i know i got your emails hello mayor and hello council i appreciate your time this evening i'm susan highall representing 3133 old wire road and 3139 old wire road we are adjacent to the property that is being discussed
 One thing I'd like to bring forward on the Glory Drive part of this whole equation is that the requirement in that build was on-street parking. So there was on-street parking on Glory and the residents currently, the seniors that live there, have to cross that street in the on-site parking to get to their mailboxes every day. The amount of traffic that we're already seeing on old wire.
 The way this is positioned currently is going to create
 basically an old wire bypass cut through, whatever you want to call it, the people that are frustrated at getting on 265 at old wire are going to cut through this neighborhood and try to go down Glory, which I think there needs to be additional look at this street that is going to be offloading the traffic value out there. I think it needs to be put out of the senior center. We don't need that kind of traffic running through the middle of the senior center.
 put to the north, run along property lines, maybe something a little more easy to digest than running it through some neighborhoods where we've got people walking like that. Another point I would like to make is if you're building on the city limit, it's not infill.
 As the appeal letter stated, it's sprawl. And this is going to be the beginning of development out there. We're not opposed to it, but we are opposed to this style and the way this is being presented. It's not Congress with the rest of the neighborhood that's there.
 And then my last point is since our June 24th meeting I would like to say at that point I reported that the neighbor across the street from this development had their water line break and mine had broken 18 months ago. And so now I'll update you that another neighbor across the street has broken and mine has broken yesterday.
 So maybe the water issue could be alleviated with all the water that just poured out. It was a massive break. So infrastructure-wise, we definitely need help on Old Wire. Thank you. Appreciate your time. All right. Who would like to address us? Glenn Garrison, representing 2868 North Rom Orchard Road. I want to thank the mayor and council members for the time and the forum.
 I think in threes. So I'll first address the infrastructure and first I'll support a good segue from Mrs. Howell where the water outages we started reporting having some frustration. I've been 15 years prior in Brookbury off of Skillern. So I'm 18 years now in the neighborhood.
 But as of even just last couple months, June 11th, water outage, four or five hours breakage. June 28th, water breakage, outage, four or five, six hours. August 5th, extended hours of down pressure due to the emergency repairs on old wire that probably was just being referred to.
 Electricity outages right behind our neighborhood, between us and the adjacent street behind us, a brand new. So we're out on June 16th without electricity, July 7th without electricity. So a new line had to be repaired. And so you talk about infrastructure challenges.
 and even the recent, it's the irony of the recent, you know, conservation of water and what I would refer us to a moratorium. And I'm not familiar with all the valves and what goes with what, but I could tell you, there's a lot of pressure on our infrastructure out there and pretty frustratingly so.
 Second big area is the roads, sidewalks, and traffic everyone addressed already, but really major pain point for us. If you think about from north of Mission, take Oakland-Zion, Skillern, Bridgewater, Old Wire, there's not one sidewalk on any of those major areas. Not one.
 And that hits me home as of eight years ago, and that car accident left my wife in a wheelchair. And so you think about trying to navigate and enjoy the community. I have, like you said, Mr. Mayor, like I chose to live there, but pretty frustrating. And as far as the safety concerns of,
 housing project coming in with that density. So council member Stafford, you asked us to address RS4. I would not be supportive of that at all. It's still 43 homes. It's taxing on the infrastructure and the safety around those 90 degree turns is a tremendous risk. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Ryan Steven Morgan. I represent 3233 North Old Wire Road. Thank you for your time. I wanted to hit on urban sprawl. So I read the appeal letter
 The developer said, we believe it doesn't qualify as urban sprawl. I'm kind of more in the stance of let's talk about facts because later on rather than feelings. But factually, they stated later, and I quote, this rezoning will promote more efficient use of urban space by allowing dense development. That's a quote.
 direct contradiction of exactly what they said they don't feel that it is. It is urban sprawl coming out into the countryside of Fayetteville. Going from, I believe it was B1, the water issue that we were talking about earlier, if there's a possibility that we overlooked that and then we approved all these developments to happen to
 then now come back to say, we're having all these water issues because we have too much development going on. Is it possible that we may have overreacted
 or need to do further research on the fact that if we approve this, are we approving further development that's going to put further strain on our infrastructure? Mr. Stafford, to address you directly with the RSF8 versus RSF4 with some variances, no that doesn't alleviate urban sprawl because there still is 43 houses going up. MR. Grant, you have a few remarks to make. I appreciate that. MR. Oh, yes, sir. Okay. So to address the RSF8.
 There's still going to be 40 some odd houses. All the points that you made about safety, roads, everything still exists with the same amount of houses. So it really doesn't matter whether it's eight or four. And then the other thing that was addressed in the appeal letter or not addressing the appeal letter really was livestock. The local livestock in the area was not discussed at all.
 noise, the presence of people, and just lights in general, it adds stress to the local livestock. That wasn't addressed. I believe what the appeal letter did say was, we understand the concern.
 That would be like me throwing my socks into a hamper and my wife says, I'm concerned, could you, I'm really irritated that you couldn't put the socks in the hamper. And I said, my plan of action is to tell you I'm concerned. There is no plan of action for livestock. If you bring in 42 houses, there's nothing that can be alleviated from that stress to the livestock. And with that, I'll pass the rest of my time. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello, my name is Abby Stephen Morgan. Our address is 3233 North Old Wire. One thing that I would like to point out is the growing opposition to this development. Here I have an additional 58 signatures, new signatures that were not in the planning commission and also not sent. I ask them over to the city clerk.
 Those were just received today. We just got those today. So there's a reason why people who want to be out in that area, they want, they don't necessarily want the high density space. They want more open space. Let's see, I know we've already talked about the water issues, which yes, our water went out yesterday as well.
 the old wire issues where it is a country lane road, it's not with those sharp curves and deep ditches. Another thing that I noticed is in the land use compatibility, Exhibit A, just that picture of the property, really
 the retirement community only makes up like say a quarter of the entire border. The rest of it is residential agriculture. So to say it's compatible is kind of a stretch in my mind. That area is surrounded by farms. You know, we do have a farm, we do have livestock, we do have, you know, everything, all the equipment that goes along with it. And there is some danger to people who have never been around that
 Whenever they are around livestock, they might not know how to handle that all the time. When you put that many people in a small area, that's just creating a risk for all parties involved. Another thing we would like to talk about is the Glory Road as a thoroughfare.
 That's not really seen as a true thoroughfare for going from the east to the west side of town. I think that's about it. The only opinion that I had was the true intent of the owners of the property.
 I was told that they were fighting for other areas not to be developed. They even, whenever our family bought our farm, they came to us saying, are y'all planning on developing? And we said, no, we would rather just keep it a farm. And so to say that, you know, to say that they... Can I give her one more minute?
 Mayor, can I give everyone one minute? Sure. Sure. I was just saying, I know things have changed, but to just all of a sudden, you know, want to develop this much...
 I just wonder if it's being strongly encouraged by the developer or if it's truly the intent of the owners. Because the owners came to us and sat with us on our front porch and talked about how they would love to have their land stay the way it is. And I guess they now have changed their mind. I'm not entirely sure. But anyway, that's just my opinion. Thank you all for your time. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Mr. Mayor, City Council, my name is Jeff Dange. I reside at 3284 North Rom Orchard Road, Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I think it's pretty clear now that this proposed use is incompatible with the surrounding current land uses.
 that the infrastructure is insufficient, overloaded. So I'd like for you to consider this request in conjunction with what's about to happen to this area when the new Woodland Junior High is developed approximately 4,000 feet to North from this property and how that's, you know, if it's overloaded now, it's overwhelmed when that happens, all right? And so if you look at that and you consider the precedent that you set
 whether it's eight units per acre or four, you're still overloading that area. It's incompatible with the current use. And if you consider 43 units versus potential 109, all right, 43 is better than 109. But if you look at an area bounded on the, I guess on the south by Skillern, on the north by Joyce, close to where the junior high will be,
 and then east all the way over towards Ridgewater Estates, if you add 43 units, you're probably doubling the housing units in that whole area. That's a pretty sparsely populated area. So I think it's still incompatible, still overloads things. I think the only reason we're here today with this request is because this area is misdesignated on the future land use map.
 as a residential neighborhood when it's really in real life, a rural residential area, which would be totally incompatible even on paper with what's actually there. All right, you've heard about the senior living facility, which Old Glory or East Glory Drive passes directly through. You're gonna have the residents of this development passing out that way. You're gonna have other people in the area
 quickly discover that they can pass through there too. That's going to be a whole lot better than standing in line at you know the other intersections at Skillern or Joy Street. And so you're going to get a huge traffic increase through there. And Mr. Mayor with that I think I will just ask you to defer to the decision of your planning commission. A couple of those guys
 thought it was not right for development at all at this point one even referred to it as urban sprawl to the max thank you thank you good evening mayor and members of the city council my name is colleen gaston i live at 3270 north rum orchard road less than a mile from the proposed development and i submitted comments before the
 written comments to the Planning Commission, spoke before the Planning Commission, submitted at the end of the day so you may not have had a chance to see it, an email, and this is just a printout of my comments that were sent by email. I know you guys have a lot in your packets every day and every meeting I don't know how you possibly can get through everything, but I'm giving you that in case you want to take a quick look at it, but I'm
 I think that what's in my letter has been pretty well covered here today, so I'm not going to repeat it. I'm going to just take the opportunity to bring up a couple of things that haven't been mentioned. Well, the first is to address the issue of is the bill of assurance acceptable? My answer is no. The property will still be rezoned as RSF-A.
 that will allow by right 109 dwelling units. That will show up on any zoning map, any subsequent things that come before the city council and the planning commission, that property will be listed as RSF8, whether it is built out to that capacity or not. So I would object to rezoning to RSF8 with a bill of assurance.
 I you know this is was we were not aware or I was not aware of this possibility before tonight so I don't know exactly what could be done with the property under an RSF for zoning but I think it is possible to do something that would provide housing and
 some sort of economic return, just maybe not as much as these developers would like to see. So the thing that I also turned in and now I'm going to run out of time is the wastewater treatment plant report from Jacobs for the month of June. And I'm bringing this up now not because it applies solely to this property,
 but it's an issue that I think the Council should have on its radar. And also use it to be strategic when you're considering development such as this one, and I think in particular this one, it adds to a reason to deny this proposed rezoning.
 You're bumping up against the design capacity annual average flow for the Westside plant. And this development is in the Illinois River watershed if it was where it will flow by gravity to the Westside plant, even though it's on the east side of town. So right now your current average is running about 8.8. May I give her another minute?
 Thank you. There is a potential capacity issue. There is still capacity in the system, but as you heard about the water supply issues, years of planning need to be done in advance. The ball needs to get rolling. So is this a
 big deal right now, no, and I don't want to try to make it out to be, but I live here. I moved here when we were confronted with treatment, wastewater treatment plant capacity issues because we only had one wastewater treatment plant. I don't want to see the city get into that situation again. I don't want there to be
 breaks put on have to be breaks put on growth so I encourage you to devote the give the city staff the time and the resources to look at this issue there's also besides the flow capacity issue there's a NPDES permit issue which again I won't take your time but if anybody wants to ask me about it that permit has been expired for 15 years and there are some potential issues out there thank you
 Hello again, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith from the 801 Dove Drive. I live on the opposite side of town from this, so I don't have to worry about whether I like it or I don't like it. I think you know as a housing advocate who thinks that we have an affordability crisis, we need more housing, the only way we get that, the price is down, is to build more. Here's an opportunity for more.
 However, I also think that we've got to make sure that when we're building housing it is done in a sustainable way. That's why I got up and said what I said earlier about low density Goshen and our water struggles. So far tonight you've talked about water capacity, sewer capacity, traffic, and lots of other things that make this complex and complicated and difficult.
 Beyond do we like it or not? You've got to think strategically about this and I'm glad somebody brought up the new school site because I believe y'all have already approved the zoning for that and Where you build a new junior high school you are going to get immense development pressure You're not sure if that's true or not Go look at the satellite maps for literally any school the Springdale Bentonville or Rogers have built in the last 20 years. So
 There will be neighborhoods explode around this and how they are developed is what you're going to get to decide starting right about now. If it were me, I would say no to the bill of assurance because I would much rather have eight houses an acre out there than three. It was a lot more attractive at a.
 more houses on less land than it is when you start to cut that back and I start to look at that and go, is it worth it? Especially when we're talking about cost sharing other utility capacities. Now, if those cost shares are to build capacity for existing customers and improve the quality of service in areas where we are currently having troubles, that's one thing. If it is to extend speculative capacity further east,
 so that somebody can build a little cheaper later that's another please please think strategically on this one and ones that are going to come after it thanks thank you who else would like to address hello council my name is terry payton and i live my wife and i live at 3845 east bridgewater lane which is east bridgewater but it's at the western end as it where it gets close to old wire
 i we've lived out there for 35 years and the roads that are there now are exactly the same as they were when we moved in 35 years ago and as mentioned i think mr dan joe mentioned there are no sidewalks out there and i'm just reminiscing in my mind i used to be able to walk my dogs on the road up and down bridgewater when bridgewater estates didn't exist and uh
 You can't do that now, and I'm fine with that. Progress is going to occur. We've got a lot of homes around us now
 not at an RS density that anything like we're talking about. And three deer have been hitting in front of my house in the last year. I put a sign out there, a deer crossing sign, one of the yellow ones, and someone stole it within about a month. But I just, I like, I'm concerned about the compatibility issues. As mentioned, Woodland School, when Woodland builds its junior high there, that's gonna funnel some traffic back down Old Wire.
 things back up from the savannah edition brickberry and everything comes down skill arm and eventually on all of our so with the current infrastructure like it is i just don't see that this is compatible and feasible with the way it is if you try to go anywhere at 7 30 in the morning when schools are in session it really backs up and i i don't like the idea of you asked a question about rf8 versus rs4
 I guess being selfish, I want as few, I want it as low a number as possible because I don't want the traffic to back up any more than it already does. But I just wanted to add my little two cents there. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, I'm Patty Steven Morgan. And I live at 3733 North Old Wire Road.
 uh i own property directly east of this property and uh one to the uh south of it and i can't add a whole lot more than has already been said and so i'm not going to take up a lot of time but i just wanted to voice that i am opposed to this and to speak to the um rsf
 four versus RSF8 or the assurance. Four doesn't matter to me, you know, as any more than eight does. Eight matters, four matters. Right now it's a half. So that's about, and that's already a half per acre is way more dense than what's out there now on average. So that's just, I'll give you back two minutes. Thank you.
 Hello Mr. Mayor, my name is Mike Howard. I live on at 3284 Skillern Road, otherwise known as the Racetrack.
 I've lived there now for 24 years and I've contacted the sheriff and Fayetteville police numerous times regarding the backups and the high rates of speed on Skillern Road. In the last 12 years, there have been 14 accidents in front of my house. Eight of them were addressed by the sheriff and Fayetteville police and four required ambulance services.
 I used to walk on Skillern Road, I can't do that anymore. But today I walked on Skillern and knocked down about 66 doors, 27 people answered, you guys have the petitions that they signed. 25 agreed to sign the petition. One said that no, they wouldn't.
 And one said they wanted to contact the Planning Commission for more information. So they obviously didn't know about this meeting tonight. I don't know if they were going to show up or not. Just from my standpoint, the traffic backs up there in the mornings. I think everybody knows that it can back up almost three quarters of a mile from 265 past the old skilling house.
 It is affecting ambulance services and other emergency services. I've seen ambulances caught in that traffic jam out there. So adding another 35 or 45 houses, which come into Skillern Road off of Old Wire, I think it's just not going to work with the current infrastructure that we have out there. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Yeah.
 My name is Cooper Lee. I'm the guy that owns the property where the landscape company is. And I don't know if there's a way to put that graph back on the screen. I don't know of the property showing the roads that are going to be put on the property. Mayor, are you wanting me to dialogue with the resident? I don't know if there's a way to do that. Mayor, are you asking me to dialogue with the resident? Yeah, sure. I don't know if there's a way to put that back on the screen, but...
 My thoughts are, what I want to address is the traffic that's there. I've been out there over 30 years and I'm landlocked. I had an easement road for almost 30 years that went south of my property into Hilliard Y Road. Today- There you go. There's your map. Thank you. Today, my road that goes from my property now due east.
 And I'm the blue line, if you can see at the top, that will go to Bridgewater. In fact, my road in and out now is an intersection of Bridgewater and Owyre Road. The traffic at that intersection compared to pulling out where we used to is tremendously more traffic. Bridgewater, because people coming from Goshen, they hit Oakland-Zion, they come down Bridgewater.
 and then they turn right on O wire going north. So I know there's been talk about the new school and what's going to happen there with more traffic. It's going to happen. But my point is the way, and I've been told, well, the city won't force you, won't force Bridgewater. But if I look at that drawing right there where Bridgewater or what you call Glory Road going across the property we're talking about, it goes right through the middle of my property.
 in the future if the city were ever to come in and say, we've got to do Bridgewater. I just want to go on the record to say something about I would like to have some input of where Glory, that blue road, goes through that property. Because right now, if you do it, if you pass this and if you do it, then I'm going to be kind of stuck. And of course, you've got to go through the Seaman Morgan property. Hang on just a minute. I need the time. Okay.
 Everybody gets three minutes. I'm done. But I just want to say that. Okay. That I'm referring to going, the way that is drawn is going right through the middle of my property. So I'm definitely opposed to that. Sure. So thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else?
 Eric Isle, 3133 Old Wire Road. Good afternoon, good evening. I'll make it real quick, just a quick story. It's kind of funny and very apropos. A few weeks ago, I went to the great Gully Park series, concert series, rode my bike there trying to get part of that biking community, which was great. Had a flat tire with my son, unfortunately had to walk home
 and rode the trail all the way to Crossover Road, and then had to figure out how to get back to 3133 Old Wire Road, cross the bridge, there are no bike lanes, upskilling, there are no sidewalks, no nothing. We got onto Old Wire, cars come from both directions. What do you do? You gotta jump in the ditch.
 And I'm thinking you're going to have 40 houses, 100 houses, all with school-age kids, all wanting to get out, ride their bikes. And there's just nothing there. So, you know, yeah, it's infrastructure, but somehow we need to be proactive with that. Hopefully we start doing a lot of development. I appreciate you all staying late. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Who do you have on Zoom? On Zoom, I have Luke Knox. Okay, go ahead.
 Hello, can you hear me? Yeah. All right. My name is Luke Knox, and I represent 3015 East Joyce Boulevard. And most of my concerns regard personal liability and also due to the horse practice that's on that property that's directly north of the proposed development.
 And so, yes, we raise horses and because a lot of the development happening on the north side of the property, we've sequestered a lot of our practices to the southern part of the property. And it's interesting.
 It's a delicate balance because, you know, against all our best efforts, horses do silly things along with cattle. They get out and then you get them back in. And it's been within this community, everybody has more or less understood that and helped us. And then we help them in similar capacities.
 So my thing is that having all of these new developments coming in is wonderful. It's a consequence of growth, and it's going to be inevitable. But there's really no plan for how to integrate that new population into the very agricultural area that this is.
 So, that's one of my main concerns. And then again, there are so many hazards, as Mr. Cooper was saying,
 He owns a landscaping company. He has a lot of heavy machinery. We all have heavy machinery. Sometimes there's accidents. Sometimes there's fires. And I'm massively concerned with the fact that the fire department, Fire Station 5, is the only one servicing that area. And really the only avenue it has to get out there is Old Wider Road.
 And so if we just cram a bunch more people in there, it's there's there's potential that, you know, say like a grass fire or a shop fire happens and nobody can get out there because there's no there's no shoulder, so to speak, for any passage. You know, I mean, I don't know if fire trucks nowadays can go through a ditch, but it's that that causes a lot of concern for me.
 And just, you know, like a year ago also, regarding the infrastructure, we had a pretty massive water break that cut off water to a lot of people. And it was, you know, it took a lot of time and man hours to fix. And putting further strain on it would, you know, make that a more frequent occurrence. So I believe that's all I got. Thank you very much. Have a good night. Thank you. Cindy Amram. Okay. Go ahead. Cindy, you'll need to unmute.
 Okay. Am I unmuted? Yes. Oh, okay. I'm at 3015 East George Boulevard, and I am the horse breeder, which means I have mares with babies by their side, especially in that pasture, which immediately abuts this proposed subdivision. Now, there's nothing that people like to do more than to pet the pretty horses. This is not a good idea.
 So, that is concerning for me, and I've been doing this for 37 years. The other thing is, as was alluded to, that I have photos of the main water line to Fayetteville runs through that pasture where the school's going to build. And by the way, my north property line abuts that, so I'm getting it from both sides.
 But anyway, I have pictures of when that water leak happened a year ago. My driveway was covered with water. The other thing is about the roadways, which nobody's mentioned Joyce, but heaven help us if they build a school and don't do something with Joyce. Because I've got photos at 730 in the morning of traffic back to a quarter of a mile. Now, you ask the people.
 that on Valerie Drive, how they like people driving through their lovely neighborhood to try and head north on Crossville. Well, the folks in the SEAL assisted living place are going to be experiencing the same thing. And I don't think they're aware of how much traffic is going to go through there.
 I don't think they planned on that when they bought their units in that assisted living area. So, and the other thing is, it's been mentioned by this, I wouldn't let my kids ride their bikes on any of these roads. It's terrifying. And...
 There are no parks available. Yes, their moms can drive them or their dads can drive them to them, but they cannot walk to them unless they cross Highway 265, which is another risk not worth taking. So there's just, it's, yes, development is necessary. I understand it.
 but you got to come out the the folks the planning commission came out and did excellent research on the roadways and the lack of sidewalks and just the area that is surrounding this potential subdivision and they they voted no it was not appropriate
 So I appreciate your time and your concern. And I'm all for Fayetteville, but this is not the right move at this time. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Bob, did you have something? Oh, no. Oh, okay. And there are no more comments. Okay. All right. I'll bring it back to the council.
 well um first of all i'd like to thank everybody that came out tonight it does make a difference you all been here for over four and a half hours now so i i think that makes you honorary council members um but uh but seriously it does make a difference i i came in with a very different understanding of this even looking at it and looking at the satellite photos and and kind of looking at where the access might be and i had
 questions and doubts but i i was still leaning a certain way on it and it does make a difference and it is important and i think another thing that's important is that you know when i when i grew up you know there was a lot of agriculture here in in town in the middle of them and it seems like a lot of y'all are are still
 heavily involved in actual agriculture. You're not just, you're not the Green Acres folks from New York that are just living in the big house in the country. You're operating your farms. You got your livestock. You got your horses and your farms. And to me, that's a treasure and it's one of the things that makes us unique. And I'm really glad you all came out and kind of, I got to see that.
 and kind of understand this better and understand the concerns better. And so I want to let you know that. And thank you for addressing my question, because I was trying to get at like, well, this looks like really hard to support less. And I want to get at is that OK? And you still brought up your concerns that it's no, that's not OK. And I heard that and I appreciate that. Yeah.
 i don't myself i don't see us moving forward on this tonight i think that would be really difficult we have so much in front of us uh to consider around this uh and if it did move forward tonight i i like i said what i've heard tonight kind of shifted my view of the whole thing but uh if i were to move forward i would have to have a site visit you know really take a closer
 Okay. Hi. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I do want to, this is democracy. We appreciate people coming out, taking your time. It's valuable. It matters. I will make one correction for Mr. Kurth. He said we had the privilege or benefit of your emails and
 And I would just correct and say they were overwhelming. So please don't email anymore. I gave up trying to respond in the last 48 hours. It is overwhelming. Your point is well made. So I'll try to be very brief, courtesy for my fellow council members, and that is the developer has to do a pro forma. Can they cover their costs to be able to develop this and recoup,
 sufficient income from each dwelling that they build and the city is no different it doesn't benefit us as a community if the developer has to spend two million on infrastructure but we have to spend ten million on the same infrastructure if we're not able to get sufficient return for an adequate number of new homes to be built and so
 It's regrettable timing-wise, sequence-wise, that the roads, that the water, and the sewer are not there in place right now, which would enable me to support this. But it doesn't benefit me to have to spend two years' worth of road improvement money in this one subdivision neighborhood. It doesn't benefit us to have to spend a couple million dollars that are not currently budgeted for water or for sewer.
 incremental growth I get and I completely understand, but it's gonna take some serious infrastructure work in this east part of town to make it viable is my concern. And we have demands all over Fayetteville. So I'm not sure this is the most logical place to make those kinds of wholesale serious investments until we're really ready. Thank you. Yes.
 So I'm trying to think of this as the big picture of what all is going to be going in in this area and what will be happening in this area in the future.
 Now, it was brought up that there's a school going in, and what happens when a school goes in is you really get more development, or people want to live near the school. That's not uncommon. And then I look at the number of properties around there. They're fairly large, larger properties that may be farms now, but...
 But things change, you know, family dynamics change, people's health changes, and maybe they don't end up wanting a farm five years down the road. So these are all things I'm considering about future development. Now, there's going to be improvements going in at some point in time on Joyce Boulevard. It's not just going to stay the way it is.
 So, there's a lot to be said for this area even though, you know, for development because it's right on the edge of a lot of things. But the two things that really give me pause on this are the traffic, the road, the existing road that's there on old wire. And these are two things that I can really consider for a rezoning request.
 I feel I can because they're nuts and bolts sorts of things. The existing condition of old wire is inadequate to allow a whole lot more houses on it, I think. It needs improvements. It needs sidewalks. You've got two really sharp curves at either end of this coming up to this property.
 And then the connection, there will be a connection on Glory Drive. And that maybe is not the best connection either because we don't yet have a light there. And...
 Even with these houses, we still have to work. If we did want to put a light in, we have to work with the State Highway Department to put a light in, which is a thrill in itself, sometimes doing that. It is, isn't it? It's always a challenge working with them. So those are things that give me pause. The real thing that concerns me is the sewer connection.
 I don't like the idea of the city having to invest in something that, you know, ought to be pretty much paying for itself is what I'm thinking for the number of houses that are going. So these are two reasons, real big reasons, even though I think this is an area that is going to be developed at some point in time. And it's because of the school going in, because of its close proximity to, you know,
 crossover road and all the amenities and services that are around there it's not that far from you know even not that far from i-49 so at some point in time there's going to be development going here i just don't think now is the right time and this maybe is not the right property thank you
 Thank you, Mayor. I also, too, want to thank all of the residents and the applicant for the conversation tonight at this late hour. I have a few questions. One of them, with the signatures just being turned in, this area of town is very close to the county line as well. And so I just wanted to get clarification if all of the signatures were collected were a City of Fayetteville residence or I didn't know how far you went.
 in your collection you guys were very energetic so i wasn't quite sure if someone could clarify if those are all city of Fayetteville residents that um properties that you went to
 So it's a mixture. We went to just the area around us as well as like the Savannah neighborhood, Brookbury, some on Skillern, but some on Bridgewater Estate, some here at the retirement center. So it's a mixture. Okay. Thank you for clarifying. Yeah, but just mainly that area of town. Okay. And as Ryan said, all taxpayers.
 hear you we pay taxes on all the things I'm with you city county state federal yeah we pay in one way um I wanted to get clarification from staff in regard to
 And bear with me, I'm kind of going all over with how this conversation has kind of evolved tonight. So I've written a bunch of questions down as we've continued to kind of dive into this. My initial response to this might be meandering somewhere else. I was not aware that this was an area, I think that you made mention that maybe needed an upgrade or was...
 planned for an upgrade of the sewer capacity because it was kind of a known thing. And so I guess I'm trying to understand too, is this project just going to potentially
 that on our list and there's additional area there in Fayetteville that we knew that we were going to be needed to be supported or is that going to cause you know things to sprawl up for further I didn't know what kind of clarification you or anyone else made from staff the play power might have I think I heard several questions there I'll try to please let me know if I miss any of them
 Yes, it is a known issue. To confirm that is what I said. I think it originally came up about two years ago when the property north of Signature Bank, where Meiji and those other businesses are located, was proposed for redevelopment. At that time, it was identified that there was a pinch point in our sanitary sewer system, roughly in the area of the Paradise Valley golf course.
 It's not been resolved. I don't know. I don't have an answer on whether It's on a current project list for utility department or not I know that there have been conversations about that entire network, especially with the school district Impact that a lot. I would have seen the last sanitary
 route that was proposed from that property would actually bypass that issue. They have the benefit of gravity on that property that the previous property does not.
 As far as whether it would push development into the county, I can't say for sure or not. The county's development standards are very different than the city's. We only apply some of our standards in the county. We do not extend sanitary sewer to the county without you all's express permission. Most houses in the county are on septic, which presents its own problems, of course, which I'm sure anyone in the room can tell you the issues that poses now and in the future for all of us. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. And so the just additional clarifying on that one, sorry, is on no being a known problem, though, with what was on tap for the sewer improvements that were going to happen. Do we know what that investment was going to look like, like dollar ballpark or?
 timeline of when we were looking at doing that improvement? I do believe there was a dollar amount that was identified as part of identifying that issue with the particular development. I don't know what that is. I didn't come prepared with that.
 with my understanding that that development is on hold i think that was a primary driver for the upgrade or the the capacity upgrade to be made so i don't think they're i'm not familiar with the dollar amount that was vetted but i also don't know if it's on any current project list right now okay thank you um
 When we had the conversation about a reason for the school, a lot of the reason behind why I said no was my concern about this being at the very edge of town. So I know that we're probably going to have some additional conversations going forward about how this area develops. People want to be around the school.
 i struggle with you know the same thing that council member bunch was stating about the timing um it's kind of you know chicken and egg and you know trying to get all the things right but it really sounds like you know already folks are ready to develop out there and so i mean we definitely have our work cut out for us um to figure out with all the need that is popping up you know all around town so um i think tonight and
 Fortunately, I hate to tie this homeowner up and all of that being behind there, but I don't think I can be supportive with everything that we do know tonight with the infrastructure. Ms. Hall?
 I know we've held a couple items tonight. I don't think this one is appropriate to hold. You know, we've had overwhelming public comment in opposition. We've had no public comment in support, and there's several instances of incompatibility. So I would like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. I'll go ahead and second that. Sorry, Scott. I wanted to go last. Move it along. Go ahead, Scott.
 Okay. I was just going to say, you know, the Luthers, they seem like nice people and they want to sell their property. I get that. But we have to look at this as, you know, the pros and cons of the actual piece of property and how it affects everybody is the big picture. I will not be able to support this appeal because of...
 the infrastructure there's just too many questions too many issues that have to be addressed before you have in my opinion a viable piece of property that we can can work with the the glory tied into glory is a big concern of mine because you have elderly folks there that are living in those
 duplexes that are walking across the street with walkers or whatever with going to their mailbox or going to the lodge for dinner I think that's that's a not a good option the the hard turns and it's just the infrastructure is not there sewers not there so unfortunately I wish I could because they seem like good folks but I just can't support this appeal tonight okay Teresa
 Thank you, Mayor. I guess maybe this is directed a little bit at Jonathan because I was surprised about the sewer pinch point issue concerning this development, and yet staff still supported this development. And then I went back to make sure that I hadn't missed it.
 On here it says sanitary sewer is available in the subject area. It doesn't really say that there's a concern about a pinch point of sanitary sewer. So I would hope that either this is an oversight or in the future we can provide a little bit more information about some of these limitations in certain areas. And if I've missed it in another area, please correct me.
 No, you're correct. Typically, the staff report identifies whether that specific property has access to water and sewer, can immediately connect to it. Going a little bit further, both this project has indicated that they can address that issue similar to the previous project that we evaluated for the North Lawn Cross River. They felt like they could address the issue. What we typically evaluate are those immediately adjacent units.
 utility issues and connections, but that's certainly something we can work to incorporate more often if it would help the council. That would be helpful, especially since the city would be on the hook, I'm sure, for part of this. So having that incorporated would be very helpful.
 So, like some of my other colleagues, I'm not going to be able to support this appeal because of the infrastructure issues that have been discussed tonight. And I really do appreciate you all staying so late. You've been really vocal and polite, but also determined about your perspective. And that's all been very, very helpful. Thank you. Okay. We've got a motion and a second. Okay.
 Let me just ask this one thing. Oh, I've got it on my mind. Care which please call. Don't say. We're both. We're just going. Yes. Yes. More. Yes. We occur. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 yes sir yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes in order to rezone the property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 2024-29 for approximately 13.65 acres located at 3179 North O wire Road in Ward 3 from our a residential agriculture RSF 8 residential single-family 8 units per acre no we're on second reading right there
 Okay. Bob? Thank you. Yeah, it looks like we're moving forward with this this evening, and as such, I'll have to join my colleagues in opposition to the appeal. I kind of have to eat my words and do a 180 from my position earlier before I came to the meeting tonight. I thought I had this figured out, but again, thank you all for coming. Thanks for bringing up the infrastructure issues, which are significant.
 I think we'll be done here soon. We'll be done here soon. Mayor, I would make a motion to suspend the rule and go to third and final reading. Second. Motion to second. Go to third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Farna? Yes.
 yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes in order to rezone the property described in a reasonably petition RCN 2024-29 for approximately thirteen point six five acres located at thirty one seventy nine north O wire road in Ward three from our a residential agricultural to RSF a residential single-family eight units per acre all right is there any final comments from the council
 I just want to make sure a no vote would be you are denying the appeal. That's all right, Kent. That's all right. I'll be sure to. Thank you. That was my question. That's what I thought. And I also wanted to say thank you guys because you've been great troopers. You've sat through this and I've received a lot of emails and I did my very best to try to respond. But you guys sent a lot of emails.
 Very very concerned and very engaged. So thank you so very much and the hours grown really late You sat through this entire process. So if I vote no, then that means that again, I just want to get this right It's not rezoned. Okay, a vote yes would rezone. Okay Okay Any final comments from the council? Well, I would say
 uh filing day is tomorrow at noon if you really enjoyed this you could get right into the fray i second that but you probably got a better idea of that anyway all right jared would you please go over jones no or no no no no no no
 No. No. No. All right. That concludes our business. No announcements? Well, we're adjourned.