I'm going to call the City Council meeting of August 18, 2015 to order. Senator, are you ready? Yes, I'm ready. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Here. LaTour. Present. Long. Here. Ray. Here. Marsh. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Pledge of Allegiance to the United States of America.
 to the Republic for the indivisible, we give you justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda. Number one, the approval of the August 4th, 2015 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 15-37 to authorize a contract with Donaldson Construction Company, LLC, in the amount of $151,510.
 For asphalt micro surfacing of city streets that it costs $2.78 per square yard and to approve a project intended to send the amount of $15,151. Number three, a resolution to approve lease agreements for four parking spaces located in Federal Municipal Parking Lot, one at 160 West Mountain Street,
 for one year with the option to renew for four additional one-year terms at a monthly cost of $50 per parking space. Number four, resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with Lee Earthworks LLC in the amount of $15,362 to correct the slope of existing accessible parking spaces at the Federal Senior Activity and Wellness Center.
 Number five a resolution to express the City Council support for the relocation startup and expansion of companies in the e-commerce and retail technologies industry in the city of Edmeline to support the application of Overdrive brands for a state of Arkansas investment in sitting incentive tax credit
 Number six resolution to award bid number 15 dash 45 and authorize a contract with highlight airfield services LLC in the amount of 88,492 dollars and 50 cents for the painting portion of the airfield pavement parking rehabilitation project to improve the project contingency in the amount of 4425 dollars.
 Number seven, a resolution authorized the mayor to sign a letter of intent to accept special needs assistance program grants to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. And number eight, a resolution to approve a grant agreement with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program in the amount of $13,150.00.
 for travel and training for the hiring of a qualified consultant to research and catalog historic structures and for repair and reconstruction of fencing at oak cemetery and to approve a budget adjustment i will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read i move we accept the consent agenda second of motion second to accept consent agenda son which please call the roll petty yes janet yes shopmar yes the terror no
 Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. It passes. Okay. On unfinished business...
 Number one, in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 15-5044 for approximately 16.02 acres located at 4065 East Huntsville Road from R-PZD 08-3071, Residential Planned Zoning District, Ridgedale Plaza to RSF 7, Residential Single Family 7 Units per Acre, NS Neighborhood Services, and CS Community Services.
 This was tabled to this meeting and do you have anything well immediately previous to this meeting? Attorney for the applicant did supply a signed bill of assurance that I've received I think Jeremy has seen a copy of it also I can say from a legal perspective it did follow our form and it's been properly signed and I think you all have been I think the old men have seen a copy of that It's not There are some
 terms like reasonable in there, but from a legal point of view, it is enforceable. Chairman, you got any comments on it or? No, as you all know, this, nothing new besides the bill of assurance, but as you all know, this is a rezoning request in East Fayetteville, southeast portion of Fayetteville, about 16 acres at the southeast corner of Highway 16 East and River Meadows Drive. We've heard application presentations about this particular item on several occasions.
 The current property is zoned for a planned zoning district that expired. The proposal is to rezone the property much the same way as it was zoned under the planned zoning district. The proposal is to rezone the front two acres to community services, which is a mixed-use zoning district. The middle two acres to neighborhood services, also a mixed-use zoning district but much less intense. And then the south 12 acres to RSF 7, residential single family, seven units per acre.
 With the bill of assurance, there are several items just to be aware of. Firstly, the 12 acre site would be,
 changed from RSF7 to neighborhood conservation, and then limiting that number of lots to 57 total lots on that particular piece of property. So these would all need to be amendments to your current zoning, should you choose to accept the bill of assurance. Secondly, the developer would not permit a gas station on any of the tracks within the property.
 Third, the petitioner will pay a reasonable proportionate share of any future traffic signal on Huntsville Road in front of the property. Number four, pending the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department approval, the petitioner will pay a reasonable amount to restripe a third turning lane to serve as the main Huntsville Road entrance for its development shown in the exhibit.
 Number five, in its development depicted in the exhibit, the developer promises there will be three points of ingress and egress plus the stub out to the east. I do need to qualify that. Access points to the highway department must obtain highway department approval. And so if for some reason the highway and transportation department did not allow one of those access points, then that's something that would be beyond the developer or city's control at that point.
 And then lastly, the developer will pay a reasonable fair share of work to alleviate offsite drainage issue that the city and developer promised to fix in the 2008 planned zoning district concerning this property. Those are essentially the items of the bill of assurance that have been submitted to you formally tonight for your consideration.
 Mayor, I'd like to make one more comment on this. The Exhibit B, which can be for the showing of the different zoning districts, should be for only that, not for the lot configuration shown. That's not being approved by the city council. That's a development decision. You know, he has all the lots shown on that, and this is not an approval decision.
 that it is just simply would be an approval that it would be those three different zones including the new one which would be neighborhood conservation as opposed to the RSS 7 and to do that you don't do they have to build assurance you do that at the City Council level so I would suggest that that amendment if you like that zoning would be made by the City Council before further discussion
 What questions does council have on this? John. Jeremy, how do you feel about the bill of assurance? Do you think this will satisfy the neighborhood and their concerns? I defer.
 defer to the neighborhood on that particular question. Honestly, I don't live in this neighborhood. But from staff perspective, several of these items, honestly, are development related items that we would review as part of a development regardless. The applicant simply stating for the record that they will participate to whatever a reasonable level is is something ultimately our planning commission determines
 based on the impact of the development itself. So the turn lane, the provision of a traffic signal or an assessment for a portion of a traffic signal, the drainage, those are all things we review through the development process. The change from the zoning perspective are really two. One, no gas stations will be permitted. Those are obviously high traffic,
 in and out, lots of turnover and traffic. So that certainly alleviates some concern, I think, with traffic at the corner of the property, which is really, the front two acres is the only zoning the community services would be the only place that could have been allowed in any case. And then secondly,
 change to neighborhood conservation. Essentially what this does from RSF7 to neighborhood conservation, it allows for a higher density in neighborhood conservation, but then they've limited themselves with the maximum number of 57 lots, or 4.7 units per acre. So essentially it gives them more flexibility within the design, but doesn't increase the lot count at all. It would still limit to 57 lots, and we're comfortable with that number as we were comfortable with the RSF7 number.
 So the bill of insurance isn't a bill of goods. It does have some teeth in it. They are actually making statements that we could enforce against them. Correct. A bill of assurance runs with the property, so even if the property is sold, it's enforceable on the next property owner. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay, would the developer like to? Aye. Okay. All right, now we're going to take some public comment. Now, here's the rules of public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone.
 need to have your name and address keep your remarks to me to the chair stay on the topic and don't engage member of the city council or any member of the public be courteous one another so okay so who would like to be first good evening my name is pat hodgkins i live at 1128 south saint andrew circle fayetteville we've spoke here before and uh there's a couple of points that uh well we have a question i know it's kind of difficult at this time this
 uh what did you call this thing is ordinance or it's an ordinance they're changing it from rf7 to conservation but it allows more density but he's limiting it to lots are these lots limited to individual you know family residents or can they be
 Multiple duplexes or fourplexes? It would still be limited to single-family residences, one of those per lot. All right. That alleviates one of our concerns. I guess we sent a letter and we covered a lot of things about the traffic, but the main thing we're concerned about as neighbors in that area, that we see this stub out or this road connecting Plaza to Stonebridge onto River Meadows.
 That's our main exit for our side of Stonebridge. There's two entrances and exits. There's Stonebridge and then there's River Meadows. A lot of people use River Meadows. And it's a tough place to get in and out. It's right at the end of the new bridge. People are coming down that road from Elkins and also from Fayetteville going both ways. And now they've opened up the new bridge. It's really nice, but it's still only two lanes. But they used to run around 40, 45. Now they're doing 60, 65, 70 miles an hour. It's very hard to get out.
 We just need some leadership. We need someone to take a look at that and say, what can be done to help that situation? I think adding an entrance from the plaza with 57 houses and dumping them into Stonebridge onto River Meadows, which is already difficult, is going to make it worse. So we think he should have his own exit and entrance, not come into our neighborhood. Because we're worried about not only traffic, but during the building, we're going to have a lot of
 We're going to have concrete trucks, gravel trucks, contractors. It's just going to make a mess and it's going to be very difficult for us to get in and out and very dangerous. I think it's fair for us to say, why come into our neighborhood with all this? Those are our main points and thanks for answering my question. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on this?
 Good evening. My name is Glenda Patterson. I live at 1106 St. Andrews Circle in Fayetteville. I'm a member of the Stonebridge Pedals community, and I again ask that you not change the zoning for our neighborhood. Traffic is the major issue. When you look at everything that's going on, there is increased traffic over time. I've lived there for 10 years now, and there is more traffic
 traffic locally and coming out of the mountain. An example, this is new, I usually leave around 6.20 a.m.
 to get to work and I usually am able to just come out because there are only a few cars passing. The past two days that's not been possible. I've had to leave five minutes early, it's just five minutes, but that five minutes means that I don't sit there for another ten as there's a stream of cars coming out the hill. And they are going at a faster speed now that the bridge is wider, that area is wider.
 And it's going to make things difficult for school buses, because there are kids in the neighborhood in all these residential areas. There are lots of kids and there are school buses coming and going.
 so the traffic will only get worse i'd like to echo my neighbor's comments on the entrance and the exit of his little development one will develop uh well one egg that is directly on the highway 16. and that is going to it is definitely going to add to the traffic the other exit of his total of three one exit
 from the residential side onto River Meadows. And the other exit is through Pinnacle Avenue or Pinnacle Street, which is in the eastern side of the subdivision. And it empties into Pinnacle, which then empties into East Point. So there's only one direct exit onto Highway 16. The other two exits...
 The other two exits are into the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision. So when those 50-plus cars are going to work Monday through Friday and the buses are trying to get in, they're all going to try to get in on River Meadows.
 not Roberts Road. And all those people are going to try to exit into the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision to get out. And you have people in Stonebridge Meadows trying to get out. And then you have the people coming down from the mountain on Highway 16 just zipping by and not pausing to let anyone out. So it will be a boondoggle. It will be a bottleneck. And if he's also planning
 his construction, there's only one way in to where he is, and that's river meadows. So it will lead to a bone doddle, and it will be bad, and the residents in the area will have to just suck it up and do what we can. And if the weather's bad, then we're just lost. So I renew my request not to change the zoning based on the...
 traffic boondoggle that is likely to happen. This is a residential area. I know that there's a push to have community services in the area, but I thought the concept of community services was it would be
 located in the commercial corridor. If you look at the map of the area, it is totally residential. All the pedal developments around Stonebridge Pedals are residential. So this community services are not a link to a commercial corridor because it's just not there. It's all residential. So I ask again to not reason to own our area. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Hello, sir. Council, my name is Jay Ray, and I live at 2050 South Cherry Hill Drive. And my question is, 16 estate highways that I, or that don't own it. That's the state highway. So that solid white line means that you can't go over in that right lane, is that correct? Can that be changed to a striped line so cars can pass on the right? The reason I'm saying this is that the two lanes go to the bridge. The right lane is a solid white line all the way.
 Now I can only get into my neighborhood with my motorhome through Roberts because I can't get in Stonebridge and I can't get in River Meadows because the statue in the morning, the statue that says, welcome to River Meadows. So I had to take Roberts. And when I'm on that road, nobody else can get on that road. They have to back up and go somewhere else to let me through my motorhome because you can't get two vehicles on Roberts at the same time.
 I was coming home last weekend. I was in the correct lane. I had three cars on the right of me going to that solid line, and this took off. And one car that turned into River Meadows almost got hit because that's a solid white line all the way to Robert. And there's only one lane. And people are already using that right lane as a regular lane to get past you and pass on the right. Somebody's going to get hurt really bad there, and I hate to see it be a school bus. And that's all I'm saying about the traffic. And...
 So, Mr. Traffick. Thank you. Who else would like to address the sound next? Good afternoon. My name's Dick Hovey, and I live at 1262 South River Meadows Drive. And I come forward to object to the zoning change because it appears to me to be in conflict with the city's plan to discourage urban spread. As you go out east on Highway 16, after you leave...
 the intersection at Crossover and the strip mall there. There are two or three businesses, there's a body shop, there's a flea market, and gradually, businesses taper off down to the barbecue place and by the time you get to the bridge, that's pretty much the end of commercial development. And from there on out, we're talking about low density housing all the way on up till you get to Elkins. This plan,
 introduces a new batch of relatively high density dwellings plus a number of commercial establishments well beyond the bounds that exists today and I raised the question to the council is that a process that we want to start at this point to develop further eastward expansion of high density housing and additional commercial development
 which not only are a traffic issue, but become a property values issue, become an issue with all the things that go along with high density housing, and the additional traffic, the additional flow of people in and out of a new commercial establishment, pretty much setting a new frontier to the east of Fayetteville, which may not be an advantage. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back. Oh, Mr. Rhodes, I think that the developer would like to make some statements. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and council members. May I ask that the amendment that Mr. Williams mentioned, that someone make a motion and that be voted on, to allow us to have the vote here based on the change in the
 the zoning for the 12 acres from 7 to a neighborhood conservative for conservation. Mr. Mayor, I'll send a move. I'll second it. Motion and second to... This would be amending the ordinance that's before you to remove residential or RSF 7, residential single-family, 7 units per acre and replace that with neighborhood conservation. All right. Write it down. Okay. What discussion do we have on this, Council? Okay.
 Okay, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Loutere? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Yes.
 The ordinance is now amended to that. Thank you, Your Honor. You all heard me last week talk about what the developer's position was as well as the letter that I had written you. So I will not do that again. But I will address the comments that were brought up by the four people that spoke from the neighborhood of Stonebridge. In regard to the first neighbor.
 It is true there will be a stub out that will go into River Meadows Road.
 It will be 300 feet of River Meadows Road. Therefore, it's only going to affect two houses, except for the fact it will put a little bit more traffic on that particular intersection. However, people can still ingress and egress during this whole process, whether it's after or whether it's during the construction, through the Roberts Road. Okay.
 Also, I would say that the new highway and bridge that someone mentioned, I do believe that it helps the traffic situation. It makes it better. Of course, I think there's always going to be traffic anywhere in Fayetteville that has any kind of population, any kind of density during the morning hours and the evening hours.
 resident from Stonebridge said I think pretty much the same thing as the first one and But also talked about the construction in that regard. I would say that There will be three areas of ingress and egress that will be open and available Not just after the project is complete, but the entire time when the residential construction is being carried out. I
 In regard to what the fourth gentleman indicated, that he believed this encouraged urban sprawl, and if you'll refer to my letter as well as to your packets,
 I believe the memo from the city planning department indicated that this was in compliance with the city plan 2030, and that the planning department has supported this rezoning. The planning commission has supported it and specifically indicated in that memo that this discourages sprawl, not encourages sprawl.
 and I would take any questions that you might have for me or our project engineer. What question do I have for Mr. Reynolds? Okay. Yes, Deb. So the neighbor said that one of the ways of getting out of this area will be through the subdivision, through Pinnacle. Is that right? I'm looking at the picture here, and Pinnacle comes out the back, so—
 Is that your understanding of where the ingress and egress will be? I'm going to ask Mr. Jorgenson to address that. City Council, my name is Dave Jorgenson. I'm here to help answer these questions. I think that your question was that we're going to have an access onto River Meadows. Yes, we will have one access point there. We will also have an access.
 a new access directly onto Highway 16. So that will be two accesses. And then we will also connect to an existing street on the south side of the proposed project. Which is Pinnacle, isn't that right? Pinnacle. Yes, uh-huh. And that leads over to Roberts Road.
 And we will also have a stub out on the east side of the project so that one of these days, if something develops, we can have direct access through that property over to Roberts Road. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Any other questions from council? Okay, thank you all. Yes, ma'am. Hang up. We've closed the public comment. Okay, okay. Everybody calm down.
 Now, what I'm going to do, since we have amended the ordinance that we had before us, I will allow public comment again. Ms. Roge, you will have a chance to readdress. All right? Okay. Let's start again. Since we've amended the ordinance, I'll let you speak again. You know the rules. Name and address. One turn. Mike. Cindy Hodgkins, 1128 St. Andrews. I just wanted to clarify the statement that Mr. Jorgensen made. The Pinnacle Hills...
 The street that will complete Pinnacle Hills, you can turn left and go to Roberts Road, or you can turn right and end up on St. Andrews. So it will be the resident's choice. No one can guarantee they're going to go to Roberts Road. They can go either direction because Pinnacle runs into East Point. East Point runs to Roberts Road. It runs to Stonebridge Meadows, which is St. Andrews, and River Meadows. Thank you.
 Jay Ray again from Cherry Hill Drive in Stonebridge. My question was, I should have asked this, I apologize. Since that's a state highway, does anybody have the authority to put a line? State does. We don't. Okay. So we can't do that. So you can only use one lane. Is that correct? I don't know. Because there's only one lane there. That's correct. Unless the state makes that change. Okay. And Roberts Road is not big enough for two vehicles. Okay. That's what we'll say. All right. Thank you. Anybody else?
 So what we're saying is that Roberts Road is not usable for the construction traffic. Y'all want to come up? Mr. Jorgensen, could you answer that for me? Is Roberts Road usable for construction traffic? Oh, yes, it is. Actually, Roberts Road is a higher classification than River Meadows. You'll have to verify that. But I think it's classified higher.
 In other words, it's supposed to take on more traffic than River Meadows. Eventually, I would expect what's going to happen is that Roberts Road will take on more of the traffic just because of the fact that it is classified higher. Of course, we'll have to do a traffic study to accomplish some of these things that we'd like to do, namely have traffic.
 a left-hand turn lane and a right-hand turn lane, and also a traffic light, if there's a possibility that it can be warranted. A traffic study was done back when we did this originally, and it wasn't warranted, but now that's been five years ago or something like that, so there's a good possibility that it could be warranted, especially with some...
 Comments from the residents out there and the fact that this issue has come up, I think it stands a good chance of being warranted. As we mentioned and put in, the bill of assurance would definitely be willing to...
 help monetarily on this right here and install a traffic signal in addition to additional lanes. I was out that way, my daughter lives out in River Meadows, I mean, I'm sorry, Stonebridge Phase 5. I was out there, matter of fact it was yesterday, and I took the bridge and turned right and I got in the, I crossed that lane that was referred to the white stripe or whatever stripe it was,
 to get into the right-hand turn lane to turn, and there's plenty of room. It's just that we need to accomplish being able to get the additional striping done that way. So I remain optimistic that can happen, but we will have to do a traffic study to accomplish that.
 Also, there was some concerns about drainage, and I do have some information on that if any of the council members would like to discuss that. I know that that's not supposed to be discussed at this particular stage. So I would prefer that you actually don't discuss it. Okay, that's all right. I know that was an issue come up before. Thank you. Thank you. May I ask Jeremy some questions? Sure, absolutely. So Jeremy, you all, you do support this.
 We do. You know, just like the original planned zoning district, it is very similar in terms of the character of the development, the nature of the zoning requests. We simply didn't have those type of, all these zoning districts before when the planned zoning district came through. There's certainly a comment, and I agree, there's not a lot of commercial services out along this corridor. We feel like that's probably a bad thing. Small neighborhood,
 oriented, scaled commercial services can reduce trips out on the major highway. There's no inclinations, property's not large enough for something like a grocery store or major convenience goods, but it could offer some opportunities for smaller convenience type goods, an office space perhaps, something of that nature that we'll start to hopefully provide, particularly along a busy highway corridor, some of those uses that we believe are needed in the neighborhood.
 We have the same problem on Mount Comfort Drive, honestly, in West Fayetteville, where there are very few services. Everyone has to drive a great length to find any of those services. Thank you. Chair. Can you remind me what the Planning Commission vote was? It was 6-1. Thank you, Chief. In favor? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Okay. We haven't officially closed public comment, so, well, just somebody that, you know, if
 and spoke i mean on this particular topic we kind of got off kilter here so we've heard from two folks would you all like to have more public comments you can't if you'd like to ask a question that'll be fine once you all are done with public comment i'm going to close it bring back to the council i want you all to understand it okay but since we amended it i'm letting you speak again okay
 All right. Robert, you can redirect after they all get done, all right? All right. Here we go. My name is Pat Hoskins. The comment the engineer made about Robert's road is totally an error. It is a terrible road. It's very narrow. It's very, very hard for two cars to pass. There's lots of washout. There's lots of ... It's not being maintained.
 And construction crews and residents are not going to use that road. They're going to come into our neighborhood and it's going to make our traffic worse. If you don't know, you can go drive it yourself. It's a terrible road. I don't know what this rating, where this comes from, but it must be very, very old because it's not a good road. And we, again, we would like to keep the traffic, the construction crews, trucks, and those things off of River Meadows.
 I would like to echo my neighbors concerns but I would also like to let the council know that getting into River Meadows and Rob Roberts is not a problem. The problem is exiting and that's what this development will do, it will make exiting
 More of a problem than it already is you can always turn into river Pedals and get in I do it every day without a problem no matter how heavy the traffic is I can always get in I can't say that about getting out and that's our concern is the development will make traffic worse It will block our entrance. So we ask you again to reconsider and keep this zoning as it is. Thank you Thank you. Anyone else?
 Okay, mr. Rhodes I'm glad someone spoke up about Roberts Road I'm a cyclist I ride my bicycle through there and I can vouch for the fact that that Strip of road known as Roberts Road is really pretty substandard no curbs and gutters. No shoulders substantial potholes currently and I would like to suggest that
 that that be brought up to its full standards before construction began on the new development. Thank you. I think that's a very good point. Any other public comment? All right, Mr. Rhodes, would you like to address Robert Rhodes? I'm just going to address two things that I've just heard from the last three people that spoke. The traffic that will be on River Meadow Road, again, is 300 feet. I think it'll impact two homes.
 I do understand it will impact the intersection. In regard to the construction traffic, all that construction traffic that wants to can exit and the egress and ingress can be right onto Highway 16 from the site because there is a cut that this development calls for.
 I actually have a question for the city engineer. In fact, when we're sometimes, and maybe Jeremy would want to comment on this too, sometimes when we're looking at development proposals, not at this level of zoning, but development proposals, we can direct where the construction traffic will leave a state highway in order to be able to get to a site. Have we done that in the past?
 Yes, that's part of the review of a development. And if there is damage done by construction traffic to areas around a development, we've sometimes had developers correct that at the end of the project. So absolutely, that's part of the development review. All right. Mayor. All right. I'm going to bring this back to the council. Thank you.
 I think I can answer the question about the confusion on the classification or what Roberts Road is. On our Master Street Plan, which is adopted by the Council, Roberts Road, which runs into Golf Farm Road, which then intersects Dead Horse Mountain Road, is shown as a collector street on our Master Street Plan. A lot of collector streets on our Master Street Plan throughout the city, some of which are not even existing, some of which are substandard, are not built to the collector street standard. This is one of those.
 an existing road that was there likely when the city annexed this property many, many years ago. Because it has a lot of older development around it, completely surrounded on both sides, it has not been improved in a number of years. It would be my expectation for this development, since it actually doesn't even have direct access to Roberts Road, that construction traffic would not access this particular area.
 All right. What are the questions or comments that we have in the council before we vote? OK. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. LaTour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. No. The ordinance passes. OK. All right. Number two on old business.
 An order for zoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 15-5066 for approximately 3.98 acres located at 1338 and 1326 West Cleveland Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to DG downtown general subject to a bill of assurance.
 Okay, I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final read some moot Second the motion is second to go to the third and final read Sandra would you please go the row? Yes
 Mayor, if you care to vote, you can. I'm going to vote yes. Okay, that's six votes, so I will read the title only. An ordinance rezoning that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 15-5066 for approximately four acres located at 1338 and 1326 West Cleveland.
 from RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre, and residential single family four units per acre to downtown general subject to a bill of assurance. Okay, Jeremy? As Mr. Williams mentioned in the title of the ordinance, this is a request to rezone approximately four acres on Cleveland Street, North University.
 to downtown general subject to a bill of assurance. It's been discussed on several occasions. The applicant this week submitted a request to the city clerk who subsequently forwarded it all to you to table this item. They request and table it until September 15th to gain feedback from the ward four meeting on August 31st about potential changes to the rezoning request. And that's all of the new information that I have to report. Okay, any questions for chair Mayeron? Yes. Mayor. Yes.
 Jeremy, how long have you been working on this project? It's been several weeks at least. Several weeks. I think my first meeting was in February. It's been a while. It's been a while. Okay. Okay. I'm going to let the applicant, if he would like to, say something to the council. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. I'm Brian Teague, representing the owner of the property.
 And we have requested to table to the September 15th meeting. The reason that we're doing that is we're working on making some changes to the proposal. We've discussed those with the neighbors last week and with Mr. Pate and the residents.
 So we would like a little bit of extra time to work on kind of formalizing those changes and then presenting them to the Ward 4 meeting on August 31st and then coming back before you on September 15th, those changes. Okay. We have any questions for the applicant?
 Yes. You have a question. Brian, we've had multiple Ward 4 meetings and we are always happy to host people that want to give information at those meetings, but if you did present something at that meeting and the people that were there had consensus on something that you wanted to do, you do realize that that wouldn't be representative of the entire neighborhood, right? Right. I think that's the best we can do.
 I guess I don't quite understand what you're saying. Well, a limited number of people do come to those meetings, so I don't know that it would be a full representation of the neighborhood. I just want to make sure that you would understand that. Okay. Do you recommend us presenting in some other venue?
 Well, I did, you know, we've, like I pointed out, we've just had many of those meetings and countless hours have been spent since, I believe it was January or February at Ward 4 meetings. So again, I'm, we're happy to host that, but I'm just not sure what, we won't have a vote, I guess I would say, of the people there who are in favor or against a project. So I'm just wondering what.
 you would want to gain from that? I guess your goal you have in mind. Well, like I said, we've met with some of the neighbors last week talking about some potential changes to the proposal and the idea would be that those neighbors would hopefully be in favor of those changes that we make to the proposal. So we'd be happy to present those changes at the ward meeting if you guys would have us. Thank you.
 mr t i guess the problem i'm having is we've been talking about this project now since february and the downtown general classification that y'all are seeking even though you're trying to modify it and make it something else it still comes down to that what would be wrong with the idea of starting over with a different classification that the neighbors could live with why don't we have a vote on this proposal and up or down
 and if it gets voted down, then you come back and start a new proposal with some sort of classification that everyone's happy with. I think that's what we're trying to do. We're trying to make some changes where it is a zone that could be—
 A plan that at least proposes single family homes on the west and the north side of the property that's more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. But we feel like that we could get that done and present that to the board meeting and then come back September 15th and discuss that. From my discussions with the neighbors, if the zoning classification is still downtown general,
 It's going to have a very slim chance of gaining their approval. Sure, I understand that too. I'm not sure that would be very productive. Right. We really need to kind of move to the next step with a new classification. I think it would probably be the best way to keep our discussions ongoing. Well. That's my impression. And that's why we requested the table tonight, so we can work on accommodating some of those concerns.
 and presenting them to the board meeting and then bringing them back before the council on September 15th. Brian, I agree with John on this. I think that the city council appeal process from the planning commission isn't truly the forum for us to work out a new zoning classification for the project.
 when I agree that you want to take it to a Ward 4 meeting again and that's a great place to go but this really needs to, in my opinion, go back through the process of the Planning Commission after going through the Planning Staff.
 in a new application process. I don't think that the city council making a decision without planning staff input, planning commission input, just based on a ward four meeting conversation is going to be as comprehensive of an evaluation as we should have here. I just think that a new application process would be better and more appropriate to the situation. Well,
 My conversations with the neighbors last week is that they, that I think that we can discuss another zoning classification without going all the way back to the start and causing the neighbors to have to go to numerous meetings. So I would just request that you give us this time to make these changes. I can talk about it with you guys if you want us at the board meeting.
 We would be happy to be there and then let us come back before the council with with the changes that we proposed Yes, you may
 Well, I'm not going to make a motion now, wait for public comment afterwards. But I would say that, you know, in general, I think I support tabling. Let me tell you why. I understand the frustration that's being voiced. I mean, I do. I think it's been frustrating for everybody involved, whether you're in the audience or you're up here. And what I want to point out is that what it sounds like to me is number one, the applicant is willing to directly
 At least attempt to directly address the concern about downtown general and that's encouraging and we could say okay Do that and start over or do that within the current context and the reason why I am drawn to doing it within the current context is because I Try to be sensitive to the amount of time these kinds of discussions taken We've been very clear this has taken too long if we start this over it will take at least another 60 days to
 come back to us if we table it. And if, this is a big if, if there's a consensus that could be reached, it could be done in a month in September. If not, we're back to square one just like we would be if we vote this down tonight. So I would just encourage us to be cognizant of that. And if the applicant is true, if there were that they are making a good faith effort to directly address the concern, then I say it's worth considering
 one last hurrah. Either way, we're either going to get it done quickly or we're going to be starting over and having the same discussion again, same options. All right. Public comment? Yeah, fix and do that. Thank you, Mr. T. What public comment do we have on this?
 Now remember, everybody gets one turn of the microphone. Well, this is it. Okay. So I am Susan Gardner, and I live at 909 Hall Avenue, and we also own the adjacent six acres to the property in question. And I just wanted to clear up, you know, he's talking about that he's stated that he's spoken to several of the immediate neighbors last week. We were not approached.
 either by email, phone, whatever. We do not have a house on that property that is behind there, but our house does back up to that property and the physical address is on Hall.
 So that's one of the things that I wanted to make clear. And we have met, as you said, this is my eighth city council meeting. I've been to numerous Ward 4 meetings. I've been to a planning meeting. I think there was another one thrown in there that maybe I showed up at the wrong place. But I've been several places with this. And I feel like we have tried very hard to work with the developer. We know the property is going to be developed.
 We just don't feel like the downtown general is appropriate for this. The only other thing that I wanted to say is that some of the discussions that we seem to be having is that it seems they're wanting assurances from the neighborhood community.
 Without us actually seeing anything, they want us to agree, you know, to just some general things. And so that's one of the reasons that we would really like to see it go back through planning if it does, you know, get the downtown general. And from the beginning, I've told him that we felt like the PZD was more appropriate for this property. So that's it. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm Archie Schaefer. My wife and I live at 1404 West Cleveland, and we've been involved in this discussion for a long time, and we continue to try and work with the developers to work something out. We were involved in a discussion last week. I'm assuming we're discussing the downtown general proposal. There's not another motion on the table, right? That's correct. Okay.
 We would encourage you to go ahead this evening and vote the downtown general rezoning down. The planning commission, as everyone knows, voted 9-0 against it. The planning staff has recommended against it. We just think that if we get that off the table and not hanging over
 everyone's head it will increase the trust between the neighborhood and the developers and enable us to really sit down and try and work something out on a new proposal. Right now we've had some conversations about what a new proposal might look like and have been told that they intend to move away from downtown general, but as long as downtown general is still on the table it'll be hard for us to
 work that out. So I hope you'll go ahead and vote to deny their appeal this evening and then we'll figure out the best and quickest way to get something moved forward. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Good evening ladies and gentlemen. Ken Gardner, 909 Hall. I'm co-owner with Susan of the vacant property that adjoins the Jeske property.
 I'm well educated. I've been to medical school and I have not been approached I probably wouldn't meet with them if they approached. Sorry for being that blunt, but I have read the city code I've heard from Archie that the developer has met with him and Beverly and they're talking about a quilt work of neighborhood conservation RMF this RMF that I don't understand how that works and I think that the
 The path that we're on right now is that the developer is desiring to put a certain number of homes in order to make whatever profit or break even. He has to not achieve the tree preservation ordinance goals.
 And the downtown general is the only zoning classification that will allow them to get the number of units that they need. And I'm sorry, I mean we can, maybe you can repeal the tree preservation ordinance. But I'm uncomfortable with them taking the strategy of substituting other zoning classifications for downtown general when it comes forward later in the fall.
 And thus, I think it would probably be in everybody's best interest to vote down downtown general and let them go back to the planning department. They've been told from the day one from the planning department that an RPZD is the appropriate pathway for this large-scale development. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening everybody. Hi, George Hamilton. My wife and I and our two little ones, we live at 1400 West Cleveland.
 Thanks for having us again here this evening. I really wanted to concur and not add too much extra to what my wonderful neighbors have said. I just wanted to address something you said, Mr. Petty, and I think it was very important. When you think about whether it's going to be 30 days or 60 days to pursue this process, whether you have a vote now and it'll take another couple of months or you kind of go forward to the September the 15th.
 We've been at this for about seven months. We've had probably, you know, well, double-digit number of meetings. We've all invested a lot of time and energy into it because we want to get it right. So for me, getting it right means trust between the two parties. Downtown General hanging over it, you know, really does poison that trust. And I'm willing to spend, you know, 60 days as opposed to 30 days to get it right.
 And so for that reason and that primary reason, I concur with what has been said by my esteemed neighbors and say let's have the vote on the downtown general and then let's go on from there and get it right so that we can then get the applicable and the appropriate and hopefully wonderful development in this site. Thank you for your time again. Thank you. My name is Mary Bassett, and I want to thank the council and Mayor Jordan for the opportunity to speak today.
 I own a house at 814 Sunset, and I also have a half acre that actually borders and adjoins the property in question. And when they just spoke about asking the property owners, certainly the adjoining property owners, I was never surprised.
 advised of a meeting or any conversations at all concerning this even though I've been to The ward meetings in the past but recently I have not been asked. I just want to make that clear as well I did meet mr. Jeske about a year ago on the property and he told me he had interest in buying my half acre or
 or because he was going to develop his property. And at the time, I understood it to be cottage-style homes is the way he addressed it, which I thought was fabulous because that's my goal on that half acre is to either build a cottage-style home or something appropriate, perhaps two houses only on that half acre.
 So my only access is through 814 Sunset. It's a very small, it would be more of a tandem lot. So if this is developed, there are two questions I have. First of all, if this is a development, I think most times in the city you have some type of access to get through your property to a major street, and I don't have that, nor I don't think that's been addressed with this project. Number two are the safety issues as far as the traffic issues.
 increased traffic, and we realized as owners that we're going to get a development there, and we are certainly forward to looking for something that would work. It was, as you know, the city planning turned this down unanimously in their last meeting, and the staff, as I remember, turned it down or was not in favor of it.
 cottage style homes. Just to give you an example, there are some real estate and a broker and there are some darling homes. They're called cottages at O'Wire and they price range point from 150 to 180 dollars a square foot. Something like that would be I have lots of clients that would look at that type of housing close to the University.
 that would retire there or come even for ball games as a second home. Multiple, this property is zoned, as you know, RSF4, and the property itself is zoned that, but a small, tiny portion, I think less than a half an acre on the west side, is zoned RSF24. So in the concept, in the scheme of what is in the neighborhood, RSF4 is definitely appropriate, and I don't think that...
 Obviously, what they're asking for is appropriate, PZD planned zone district slash development, certainly more appropriate, and I would ask you to please vote no tonight on this rezoning. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Yes. If I could...
 So from everything I've heard from the developer, they would like to have another Ward 4 meeting. The next meeting is August 31st and I'm okay with having a Ward 4 meeting however this goes but like I've said multiple times, we've had many, many of them and this topic's been up for consideration since January I believe was the date and it has been exhausting. To say the least, I've fielded hundreds of calls and emails about this.
 Matthew, you had made the point about dealing with this in the current context, but I view the current context as an appeal and one that in the last seven months has not been productive. For me to say that I think that's going to change in the next month given the same current context, I don't think I could do that. Right now they're wanting to table again without a concrete plan, so where do they really want to go with this?
 They do want a consensus at the Ward 4 meeting, but not all the neighbors there are going to agree on an issue. A vote at the Ward 4 meeting, I don't think that would be very productive because it wouldn't be representative of the neighborhood. It wouldn't be binding. It truly wouldn't be representative of the neighborhood as a whole. The assurances that are wanted from the city and the neighborhood just do not exist outside of the application process.
 And we want the neighbors to understand the application process too. It's very confusing. If we were to change the zoning during the middle of a planning commission appeal process, not only does the same notifications not go out, but it is very confusing. And I like my constituents to be informed, and I work very hard at doing that. And I would like to continue that.
 So this is an appeal of the Planning Commission decision, and I just don't believe that City Council is the right forum for working out zoning, especially over this long of a period. I mean, could it be worked out in 30 days? I absolutely do not believe so, not at this point. I think that the zoning should be reevaluated through a 100% new process. We can use the Ward 4 meeting as a forum for input by the neighbors.
 If a new plan or application is filed with planning if this is voted up or down But again, this City Council decision should be about a decision of whether or not downtown General zoning is appropriate for the area and I don't feel that downtown general zoning is compatible for many reasons And we have labored over those reasons since January Over and over again. I don't know if
 How much more clear we can be on helping address the concerns about downtown general? I and my constituents tonight ask that the City Council votes to deny the rezoning request and Planning Commission appeal Based on compatibility with the neighborhood and I'll make that a motion for the City Council to vote either way on the ordinance
 I believe that's the way you say it. Well, what we normally do on this, since it requires, we have placed it as an ordinance before you, so it'll just be, will the ordinance pass? Yeah, because we're on the third and final reading. Mr. Mayor? Yes. I suspect we'll have our award for meeting, whether we vote this down or keep it going with a continuance in text part of it.
 nomenclature would say an extension or we'll call it a tabling what's paramount is the parties continue to have dialogue between each other downtown general in my mind poisoned that whole process we have to move beyond that to some classification that will give the neighbors the assurances they need that will give the developer the assurances he needs
 The developer's a businessman, and our business people, there's more than one. They have to have some degree of assurance, of certainty about what they're investing in. So, you know, just to say, well, here's your classification, we'll work out the details later, we have to give them more than that. And I understand the neighbors don't want to change the character of their neighborhood. And that's, I think, what downtown in general at least implies, if not will actually work out in that direction.
 this certainly implies it strongly or certainly leaves that door open for that possibility so i would encourage the council also to vote down the proposal as it stands but also strongly encourage the parties to continue the dialogue something needs to be done with the property i don't think we should keep property just vacant land which could be production productive productive property means greater tax rolls for the city
 It means greater housing opportunities for people all over town. It means profit potential for the owners. It doesn't have to mean necessarily a detriment to the neighborhood. And if we do it right, I agree with Mr. Hamilton's comment, let's spend an extra 30 or 60 days and do it right. Let's not just try to patch something again and again. But I appreciate Alderman Petty's concern about efficiency and let's not beat a dead horse more than we have to.
 I appreciate that. Anyway, that's my piece. Okay. Any other final comments from the council? Okay. Let's vote. Yes. So a no vote is against the appeal. Basically, shall the ordinance pass? Yeah. And then you vote yes or no. Okay. Everybody good? Yes. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty. No. Tenant. No. Schottmeyer. No.
 Right. No. So the ordinance fails as well as the appeal, which fails. Okay. Moving along to new business. Number one, resolution to award RFP number 14-11 and authorize a contract with New World Systems Corporation in the amount of $813,651 to upgrade
 enterprise resource planning system to approve a five-year maintenance agreement in the amount of 840 thousand five hundred dollars and to approve a project contingency in the amount of a hundred forty seven thousand dollars Evening mayor and council if it's okay with you I have five items I'd like to get our companion items that I like to summarize at the beginning and then we'll take each item individually
 okay so uh tonight we have five companion items uh related to kind of a major kind of core infrastructure uh technology upgrades throughout the city there are item c1 which is our inner enterprise resource planning upgrade item c2 is our public safety computer-aided dispatch and records management upgrade
 item c3 is our storage area network purchase item c4 is our server purchases and item c5 is a server software purchases so items c3 c4 and c5 are to support the first two items so i'll go quickly over uh the first item which is item c1
 It's requesting approval to upgrade our core financial systems. Our core financial system, which is New World, was purchased in 1992, and for the most part, it's the same system that was implemented in 1992. We have performed upgrades over the years, but if you were to look at it today, it's very similar to what you would see 15 or 20 years ago. It's in dire need of being replaced. Let's see here.
 This system is the backbone of our financial operations and it currently runs on AS400 platform. Within the enterprise resource plan we have general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, inventory, fixed assets, our utility billing. With this purchase we'll also be approving a new document imaging system.
 I'd like to point out a few staff members that have been very involved in this project. We have Andrea Farine in our purchasing department, Brad Fulmer in our IT department. We have our CFO, Paul Becker, our chief of staff, Don Marr, Jamie Fields in our police
 And we also have two representatives from New World, which is Mark Dvorak and Vesta Brody. One thing that I can't overstate is this group of staff members has really
 worked hard in making sure that we not only had the correct application, the correct modules, but we also really negotiated the best price. Not just the best price of initial purchase, but the best price of long-term maintenance. So we worked hard, New World worked hard with us. New World is the application that we're purchasing tonight. It is our existing current application.
 That application was selected through an RFP process, and we did have Councilmember Mark Kenyon was on that selection committee. Unfortunately, he's not able to be here tonight, but he was able to attend last week's agenda session, and he was supportive of this purchase. So that's just kind of a quick summary of our ERP project, and if you'd like to have any questions, or we can continue on with the rest of them. Well, let's start one at a time here. Okay. Shall we? I don't know if it's resonant. Yes, John. Okay.
 Tell me your name again, please. Keith Macedo. I'm the Information Technology Director. Hi, Keith. Nice to make your acquaintance. We're spending several million dollars here in the four proposals. Any time that much money is being spent, I want to know, just in layman's terms, what will the new system do that the old system didn't do? Will the new system let us email bills instead of pay for postage and paper and all that? Yes. OK. And our current system will not allow us to do that.
 Correct. You hesitated a little bit. Is there an aspect there? You could pretty much do anything with a computer if you want to spend enough money with customization, custom programming, but you get to a point where you spend more
 too much money to make things too complicated where they're difficult to support. I think that our focus with this purchase is to get away from a custom software because we've had to customize this software significantly over the years and go to more of an off-the-shelf type software that we spend most of our time configuring it and making sure it works to its best and most efficiently as possible. You purchased this first software package the year I got married, so I know exactly how many years that is. Twenty-three.
 The company that sold you the original package, are they not offering a newer version or an updated version or is it the same company? It is the same company. We went through, that's a very good question, we went through an RFP process which was very detailed to where we went through and kind of took the vendor or the software company out of the picture and looked to see what does Fable, what are Fable's technology needs related to our core financials. So we developed a request for proposal
 We had a team across the organization to develop not just what the financial team needed but what the departments needed related to financial systems. We developed that RFP. We advertised that RFP and we had three responses. One of the responses was from our current financial provider which is New World Systems.
 We picked the top two from that RFP, went through a very detailed review process. They did on-site demos. We actually went on-site to two different cities to see how they performed. I was able actually to attend those my last two days at my former position. I was able to attend these two on-site demos and see the software actually in action, talk to the cities and how they used it, why they selected those two different software applications.
 But at the end of the day, there was not enough difference between the two applications to warrant changing to a new vendor. We thought that New World had been a good vendor. They had supported us well over the years. We had made the choice not to upgrade due to obviously the cost that you see here tonight. That's why we waited 20, you know, many, many years to upgrade because it is a very expensive application. So we thought that their new product provided the type of features that not only that our staff needed but also the...
 the things that our citizens are demanding our citizens in business as far as self-service e-government those type of features so we were very pleased with our proposal and once we uh kind of selected new world was going to be the the best one we went into heavy negotiations and i'm sure uh mr dvorak will tell you we beat them up for for many months trying to get the best possible uh purchase out of that and then the companion item that we have tonight uh
 There was a purchasing leverage because we use the same software our public safety department uses, so we were able to leverage those two purchases and we think get a better price for both of them. Quantity discount. Correct. You say you were in heavy negotiations. For this first item we're paying $813,000 or so? That's correct. $65,000, $651,000. What was the first price that you were quoted on that project?
 I believe the list price was over $1.2 million when we started. That was the first offer and then you all negotiated it down to this price? That's correct. Paul, you say you believe. Is that pretty certain?
 Yes. Andrew, you want to correct? 1.2 million was the list price originally given to us on the first product. That's correct. Okay. Good. Okay? Good negotiations. We negotiated very, very heavily, especially on the ongoing maintenance. So we got that down to a reasonable price. We worked very, very hard, the group with the vendor. I did want to make a couple of statements.
 because as you said, we want to put in layman terms. We're dealing with two different technological worlds. We're operating on an AS400, which is old technology. This is a web-based system that's going to give us much, much more functionality. Not only is this going to prove us technologically, but this is a system that each and every time we put
 encounter a new issue or a new problem or a new way of going business, we've got to work around this system. It's actually a credit to the accounting people, budget people, people in the operating departments that we've been able to manage with this system this long.
 uh... we need this very very desperately again onward with new technological innovations plus they got off the a s four hundred which is old technology cannot apply form-based and get into the web-based system get with program the rest of the world actually thanks paul key did you give me like the five three three to five features of the new system that particularly caught your fancy that uh...
 Put them in layman's terms so we can understand it. Yeah, I'd be happy to. I think that kind of what the major citizen or business touchpoints would be improved utility billings, we'd be able to email our water bills, reoccurring billing, real-time payments. I'm not sure if you're aware, but right now if you pay your water bill online, there's about a 24-hour delay.
 So this would be real time. So when you made a payment online, it would post to your account immediately. That's a very big thing. We're gonna have some improved interaction with our vendors. It's fairly inefficient right now to deal with the city. So we'd have some online mechanisms. So when vendors wanna deal business with the city, there'll be some websites that they can go to interact with us. Improved business licensing. So that's a very significant feature for our business community.
 Improved hotel motel restaurant tax so they'd be able to pay those online so that would improve The efficiency makes it easier for a small business to pay their tax Their hotel motel tax and then one thing kind of my background. I'm very excited about is some improved financial transparency tools I think the reporting on this is going to be significantly better Easier to use easier for us to really slice and dice and drill down into our data. That's very difficult to use now Okay
 I'm glad you were able to enumerate those $4 million. There ought to be something about it you like. Well, it is a significant expenditure, but I think that I just started on May 18th, and this is a very, very exciting project for myself, my IT staff, finance staff, and the city. I think there's a big risk in projects like this in many organizations because you don't have a ready and willing workforce. I've never seen...
 In my 20-year IT career, this is about as willing a workforce as I've seen as far as needing and wanting an upgrade. This system is significantly outdated, and we have a workforce that's ready for it. I'd like to make a comment or two. You know, when we went through our technology assessment and we look at our citizens and their feedback, our future customers, 13 years old, walking around with multiple devices, interacting with the city on electronic devices,
 and not necessarily coming to a teller window to pay their water bill any longer or a parking ticket or things of that nature. We also have citizens who want to interact with getting online forms and information done, particularly since 65% of our community are renters and relocate with our college community. The ability to do those things efficiently through electronics versus having to be in person not only saves our citizen time, but it saves us time here at the city.
 The reduced duplication of effort allows us to go longer without having to add staff and administrative functions because we can use self-service capabilities that are not available to us today. And that's not only externally with our citizens but internally with our employees in terms of maintaining payroll, updated information, benefits enrollment, retirement account movement, many things that we don't have.
 Not to mention we also get to add online registration aspects that keep people in the age of convenience from having to physically be in front of us to sign up for softball, soccer, et cetera. So we have a lot of capabilities coming forward that we haven't had. And while it is a very significant expenditure and while we invested the amount of time that we have
 flying or driving to cities, I guess we didn't fly there, driving to cities to see the demos, bringing our vendors in to look at all the products in every aspect, community development, permitting, code enforcement. This is a system that touches every aspect of what we do. And in 23 years, to have a system that puts us in an age of technology to do some of these
 expectations that our citizens demand, we're at a point that we either have to custom program it and write this type of software or buy something off the shelf. One of the things I'm also proud of, if I were answering that question, is not only to reduce duplication, but
 Instead of picking a system for our current processes, which in some cases are inefficient because of the technology we have, it gives us the ability to reduce duplication, to have more people inputting information rather than the staff having to necessarily do that, and we're also more available 24-7 versus the day-to-day basis. So this is an infrastructure just like a road or a park.
 And the fact that our last software lasted us 23 years in the age of technology where the average life is 3 to 5 is pretty phenomenal and I think demonstrates what the staff is able to get out of and extend in the life of it. But we're at a point today where if our customers want to interact with us electronically, which is one of the biggest requests that we hear, we have to have the back office tools to be able to do that.
 I'm deliberating in my mind, but it's a good discussion. I'd love to hear all this. Keith, thank you. I just have a real quick question. I was here when we put this in the budget last year, so of course I support it. I've worked with AS400 for over 15 years, and I've also worked with a lot of transition teams switching to new management softwares. Are you confident that the transition period is going to go smoothly? It is a very large project. It's going to encompass a lot of people.
 many, many staff members. I think that one of the reasons we selected New World or one of the factors was it was going to be, they were had in-depth knowledge of our current AS400 platform and they made some assurances to us that
 They've done a lot of these upgrades from AS400 to the .NET platform and we felt that that was a major decision factor in selecting New World. So I think that we're confident that New World has done a lot of these conversions and that they're going to do a good job for us. Just a quick follow up. How long will their assistance contract last for our transition? Well the ERP project is approximately 18 months.
 of the project, which we're going to start off with our time frame because of our public safety project is going to be kicking off almost immediately if you approve that tonight, and then we'll start this project in November. Chair Greg Musil. Thank you. Appreciate that. Chair Greg Musil. Well, I'm in full support of this. We've been talking about some variation of this for years, and I think one of the reasons that it hasn't been done up to now is because it's really difficult and it's time consuming,
 It's good that we've taken the investment of time to do this because I think it will reap benefits for us. I thank Alderman Kenyon even though he's not here because it's really a big deal when you negotiate and when you pick a vendor because you have to live with that vendor as a partner. It's not just somebody that sells you something. You're going to be working with these people for implementation and for maintenance and things like that ongoing. So I commend all of you for that.
 I've worked with, take, I know we're not necessarily talking about this one in general, but the Cisco Unified Computing System, if you look at a data center of a business that you open the door and it looks like spider webs everywhere with ethernet cables, you can replace all that down to almost one box sometimes where there's two or three plug-ins in the back of a unified computing system. It doesn't have to be a Cisco one necessarily.
 But those are huge efficiency gains that you can't really quantify. It's hard for you, I appreciate trying to quantify it, but it's really difficult to say what this will mean for us in efficiency gains down the road, in man hours and in cost and in ease of use for our people out there who,
 I mean, there's freshmen in college that just started school that were well into Clinton's second term when they were born. And this stuff was six years old at that time.
 And it's amazing that you've been able to put that many band-aids on a dying system for this long. So the staff is to be commended before you got here for putting up with it, frankly. But I think it's a huge step forward for us. It's been needed for a long, long time. And I know it's a lot of money and I do share your questioning of it and I questioned it. But when I looked deeper into actually what you're buying,
 I thought it's tough to bite off on this now, but you have to look three, five, six, ten years down the road, and I think from day one we'll see immediate gains. So it is a lot of money, but I think it's something that we've needed for a very long time to take us up to the level of city that I think we all want to be, and technology can bridge a lot of gaps, and this is one of them. So I'm in full agreement with it.
 Yes, John. Tell me about New World, privately or publicly held? I believe it's privately held. Privately held? How many employees? Two. Why don't you come up to the mic and let's not do this back and forth.
 If I'm going to dance with who brung me, I want to know about you. Thank you very much for the opportunity. I'm Mark Dvorak, Vice President with New World Systems. We're an employee-owned, privately held company and have been since day one. We have roughly 450 employees. Day one was what year?
 Sorry? Day one was what year? Day one was September of 1981. You've been around a while. Correct. Are there any other cities in Arkansas using this package that we're investing in? Several other cities in Arkansas that use the package, both on the public safety side and the public administration side. Can you name some of those cities? Sure. On the public safety side, Rogers, Bentonville, and ...
 In the public admin side, Hot Springs, Sebastian County are a couple of ones that come to mind. Okay. So we have over 380 live customers on this application. So we've taken literally hundreds live from the 400 to this application. You're the CEO? I am the Vice President. Vice President. Thank you. Thanks for the info. You're very welcome. Thank you for the opportunity. Appreciate it.
 Yes, Adele. I just think this is a great thing. We always want Fayetteville to be...
 on the cutting edge and I think this is what we need to do for for both of these for both the public safety and administration and yes it's a huge amount of money but I think you all have done your homework and I'm I appreciate it and I value your opinion so I'm looking forward to having the the advantages thank you very much okay this is the first item
 on the resolution. We've got a few more to go. Yeah, I'm fixing to. Any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I'd like to make a motion to pass the resolution. Second. Motion is second to pass the resolution. Any final comments?
 Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay. Number two, resolution authorizing contract with New World Systems Corporation in the amount of $1,184,576 to upgrade the city's public safety software for police, fire, and after-hours citywide maintenance.
 services to approve a five-year maintenance agreement in the amount of $846,675 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $160,000. Mr. Mayor, there was one item left off.
 of the title which is and to approve a budget adjustment I'm ending that sorry no that's not your fault that was left off by inadvertently so we're gonna need to amend the resolution so that we can add the budget adjustment that should have been there the budget adjustment is attached since of six hundred and twenty two thousand dollars so move second discussion
 All right, Shonda, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Loutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, Jamie? Good evening, I'm Jamie Fields. I'm the administrative captain with your Fayetteville Police Department. It's not I represent Fayetteville Police and Fire. Okay.
 Police and Fire have been using New World products since 1997. We're largely very much happy with New World products, but they are dated. While they're being supported, they're no longer being developed. We're one of the few public service agencies still on the AS400 platform with New World. We are in need of an upgrade, and that's what we're asking for is to upgrade our New World products.
 and those include police and fire, computer-aided dispatching, as well as after-hours citywide dispatching, police and fire records, and our police and fire mobile services. And while we've looked at other software companies, no other software company that we have found provides the comprehensive software package that New World does for both police and fire. We have...
 Of course, New World is a stable company, and we've discussed that, but there are several advantages for us to stay with New World and upgrade the products that we have, and some of those include the continued use of the software licenses that we've already purchased, the continued ability for us to share data with other agencies in northwest Arkansas that also have New World products, specifically Rogers and Bentonville Police Departments.
 The ability to cross dispatch in emergencies should we need to do that with those agencies. We expect a seamless conversion of our existing data to the new product and the use of same or similar terms and functions with our current New World products to the new ones will make it more user friendly and easier adjustment for our current employees as well as our new employees coming on board using the Windows platform.
 Also, with the city going with New World Upgrade, it just makes sense for us to do the same. And I'll be glad to answer any questions that you have. Okay. What questions do we have? Yes. I have a question. Thank you first for your service. We appreciate that.
 So how will the transition work for the old records being downloaded into the new system? I know that AS400 and the RS6000 program will download into Microsoft Excel and interface with some other programs, but how will you retain those records? New World will actually help us with the conversion process itself, and we will work out with their team the timetable to do that, and we expect it's going to be a seamless conversion of all of our data in the police department.
 Thank you. Chair Greg Musil. Anybody else? Okay. Any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Good. Okay. Number three.
 A resolution authorizing contracts with Presidio Network Solutions LLC in the amount of $158,355.05 plus applicable taxes pursuant to the TIPS-TAFS cooperative purchasing contract for the purchase of three nimble storage area network arrays for the enterprise resource planning and public safety system software upgrades and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Mayor, as I mentioned earlier, this is a companion item to both the ERP and the public safety upgrade. A couple things to note here is we're not looking at
 a storage specifically for the ERP or specifically for the public safety, we decided to go to a shared approach so we can save some money and share the storage between there and then with the purchase of this, we'll have a shared disaster recovery site. So the ERP will have their own dedicated storage, public safety will have their dedicated storage, we will share a disaster recovery site to save money and improve efficiency.
 And I think that it's important that we're purchasing the same system so we can help support each other and simplify our infrastructure. Okay. Any questions for Keith on this? All right. Any public comment? So now I'll bring it back to the council. Move we pass the resolution. Second. Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Any public comment? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 system service to support the enterprise resource planning and public safety system upgrades and approved budget adjustment. Mayor, this item is to purchase six servers. One thing to note is this is replacing three existing AS400 servers.
 Two of these will be dedicated to the police department, two of them dedicated to our ERP system and then two of them we'll have in a disaster recovery mode where they'll expand and increase both our resiliency of our data and our disaster recovery of these two very critical systems. Okay. What questions do we have for Keith on this? What public comment do we have on this? I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 May we pass the resolution? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay. Number five. A resolution to authorize a contract with SHI Incorporated in the amount of $100,433 plus applicable taxes pursuant to the State of Arkansas procurement contract with the Western States Contracting Alliance.
 alliance contract for the purchase of Microsoft Beam and VMware support software necessary for the enterprise resource planning and public safety system software upgrades.
 Mayor, this item C5 is a purchase of basically all the software so we can use the items that you approved in C3 and C4, which are storage and our servers. This will support both our ERP and public safety related to the actual servers, the database that runs both applications, and our backup software for both kind of data resiliency and disaster recovery. Okay. Do we have any questions for Keith on this? Any public comment on this?
 Now I'll bring it back to the council. Mayor, before you vote on this item, if I could take one moment to have some people actually come up to the podium. Chief Tabor, Captain Fields, Andrea Foran, our CFO, Paul Becker, Devin with our police department, he's not here. Is Kevin Springer in the room? Brad Fulmer. I don't know if I missed anyone.
 But this team has been instrumental in doing the work to review these systems. I think you should be extremely proud of the talent that you have in front of you of the city and those individuals standing in front of you today who have done stellar work not only in selection of the system but the negotiation of the system long term for the city. And I put them up against anyone who's selecting systems today.
 and we have some great corporations here in northwest arkansas so i wanted to personally thank them in front of you i know the mayor uh wanted to thank you as well and we have a rock star in our purchasing department i'll highlight as a part of this process which is andrea foreign who was the team leader of this group taking us through the process and so publicly we want to thank all of you for your work on yes indeed okay we need a motion in a second
 Motion to pass the resolution? Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay, number six. Mayor, can I make one point of clarification? You certainly will. Okay, this is...
 Just making sure we're being as transparent as possible. We've brought to you the entire package for ERP and public safety except one item. We're replacing our fire mobile data terminals. Those are going out to bid right now. I believe the bid is closing next week. In the future council meeting, we'll be bringing those to you. I just wanted to point a clarification when we come up in the future. We also went through that at the agenda session to remind you of that as well.
 Okay, number six, a resolution to authorize a contract for Sweets Construction Incorporated in the amount of $7,307,280 for the construction of Ruppel Road from Persimmon Street to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $730,000. Chris? Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is for the extension of Ruppel Road between Persimmon
 and Highway 62, so south of Owl Creek School. It's one of our very largest projects on our transportation bond program. A very important project for north-south connectivity through the west part of the city.
 It will have a large impact on traffic flow on Weddington Drive. Right now the only way to get to Owl Creek School is along Weddington for many folks, so they'll be able to access the school from the south. Boys and Girls Club will also be easier to access for folks on the south side of town. This project also has an economic impact. There's a lot of
 undeveloped property along the roadway, not to mention the connection between neighborhoods and shopping areas and commercial areas. So just make it for our citizens easier to get to those areas. The project is ready to go to construction. Sweets of Construction says they're ready to go. We did present this to the Transportation Committee on July 28. The committee recommends approval.
 and staff recommends approval as well. It's about an 11-month project, so just about around a year from now. It will take us probably a few weeks to get started, but around a year from now we'll be ready to cut the ribbon and allow the citizens to use this very important project. So we're very excited. I'm very excited. I was young once.
 And also remind the council that this is one of the projects on the original bond issue that the citizens approved. Carved out of the Transportation Committee. Yes, sir. And, Chris, we like the price per square foot of asphalt, or this is a good deal? No.
 Yes, it was a little higher than the engineer's estimate, but it is within the budget, the allocation for this particular project. Yes, we're satisfied with the price.
 Yes. And I appreciate the work that everyone's put into this. I know people in Ward 4, especially west of I-540, I'm sorry, I-49. I'll never get that right. We'll greatly appreciate this. My one concern moving forward is that we haven't finished the design construction from Starry Night on Ripple Road to Mount Comfort.
 And this is going to divert even more traffic into a very dangerous Y intersection that intersects with Ruppel Road and Mount Comfort Road. And I do know that that's in the plans and there were relics found there and it's going through the process of approval right now.
 very much look forward to that section being done as well because that has been my number one priority since being on the council and I do want to see us get that done as well because this is going to feed more traffic into a very, very dangerous intersection where we've seen many, many traffic related accidents and deaths in the last few years. While I'm very excited about this, I am also very concerned about that.
 Well, and we're going to get that, because that was one of my top priorities when I sat in your chair. Thank you. Mayor Mayne also added that the council, every opportunity you have to speak with our federal delegation and the approval of a transportation bill that actually funds the state's dip requirements only help us in that item. So when you have those opportunities, we appreciate your additional comments that we're conveying as an administration. Absolutely, because we're working with them. OK.
 any other questions chris do we have any public comment on this all right bring it back to the council make motion to pass the resolution second we have a motion second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council sondra would you please call the road lieutenant yes shot my little chair yes long yes right yes okay anyway number seven
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 15-5116 submitted by Joseph Tucker for property located at 808 North Highland Avenue to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement. Kip? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of an existing utility easement is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates and abandons the following described portion of an existing utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached in Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of Recorder of the County and recorded in the deed records of the County.
 At this vacation, approval is subject to the following condition of approval that any damage to or relocation of existing utilities or facilities and any associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner developer's expense.
 This property is located at 808 North Highland Avenue. It's northeast of Wilson Park in central Fayetteville and contains a residence built in 1936. There's an existing unused 20-foot utility easement on the south portion of the property between this property and their neighbor. It was retained after a right-of-way was vacated in the 1980s.
 That utility easement has never been utilized for any type of utility, and all utility representatives have been contacted and consent to this vacation request. Planning Commission forwarded this item to you all with a recommendation for approval eight to zero, and staff is also recommending in favor. Okay. What questions do we have for Chairman Alamance? Okay. The applicant, are you the applicant? I am. Thank you, Council and Mayor.
 I don't have anything to add other than... Okay. Do we have any questions? You have questions. You're probably for this. I am for it. Do we have any questions for the afternoon? Am I good? You're good. Any public comment on this?
 Okay, bring it back to the council. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Second. Move motion to second, go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Shopmark. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5116, submitted by Joseph Tucker, for property located at 808 North Highland Avenue, to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement.
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. An order to approve VAC 15-5116 submitted by Joseph Tucker for property located at 808 North Highland Avenue to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement.
 Any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmark. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay, number eight. In order to submit any residential plan zoning district title, RPCD 04-06.00 Ripple Row, containing approximately 41.70 acres to modify the zoning of the duplexes and triplexes on Wordsworth Lane to allow...
 Four unrelated persons to live in each dwelling unit kit be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the change to our PZD 4-6 Rupel row to modify the zoning of the duplexes and triplexes on Woodsworth Lane to allow up to four unrelated persons to live in each dwelling unit is hereby approved in section 2 and
 That the Plough and Zoning District Ordinance and Official Zoning Map of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for RPCD 4-6 Rupert Rowe, as passed and approved by the City Council on June 15, 2004, with Ordinance Number 4580, shall be modified with revisions as described in Section 1 above.
 Chairman. Ruppel Row is a subdivision containing about 42 acres located in south of Weddington Drive and west of Ruppel Row, directly across from the Boys and Girls Club. In 2004, the City Council approved a residential planned zoning district for this project. It was a master planned neighborhood proposed in a traditional neighborhood development pattern. Basically that means with houses fronting the streets, rear access, garages with alleys
 There is approved for 182 single family detached lots, 37 two family lots subdivided into townhomes, and two three family lots.
 Within the past year, the applicant has become aware of the city's codes regulating the use, the number of unrelated persons able to live in one dwelling unit. Because the Ruple Road PZD was approved as a single family plan zoning district, even though there are other uses permitted, there are a maximum of three unrelated persons allowed to live in each dwelling unit based on our definition of family in our unified development code.
 This is very similar to the RSF district, our most predominant residential single-family district within the city. It also allows for duplexes. It also allows for triplexes with the Planning Commission's approval. However, within those duplexes or triplexes, you're only allowed to have single-family, no more than three unrelated persons living within those dwellings. In zoning districts other than single-family, up to four unrelated persons may live in one dwelling unit. So multifamily zoning districts are,
 Our commercial zoning districts that allow for residential uses, our mixed use zoning districts, any of those that the predominant use is not necessarily single family, up to four may be permitted. Thank you.
 The applicant has discussed with staff they thought their property allowed to be up to four unrelated persons because it was all of their property essentially was allowed for two family use duplexes or three family use triplexes. As I stated previously the number of unrelated persons is based on the underlying zoning district not really the dwelling type. In the case of Rupert Road PZD it's classified as a single family zoning district because
 The high predominance of the uses are single family homes within the neighborhood. It was never proposed or adopted by the city council as a multifamily zoning district, which is the purpose for this ordinance.
 The applicant proposes with this application to amend the Rupert Road residential plans of any district. It would essentially reclassify the zoning of the lots 145 through 183, basically those both on both sides of Wordsworth Lane as quote, other than single family zoning, this would allow up to four unrelated persons to live in each dwelling unit. This area of Wordsworth Lane, as I've discussed, is developed with 37 two-family attached units.
 units on either side of the street. They are rear loaded with two car act garages and driveways off of the alley. There's also two three family homes that located within this area. There are no single family detached homes within the area in question. And to staff knowledge, most of these, if not all, have been developed with four bedrooms in each unit as they were developed and constructed.
 There are two letters in favor of the applicant's request in your packets, one from members of the Property Owners Association for this neighborhood and one from a member of the Boys and Girls Club Association across the street.
 Staff did not support this request, in particular because we felt like the Ruppel Road subdivision, as presented to you all in the Planning Commission, was developed with infrastructure, including streets, driveways, alleys, garages, primarily for individual owner occupancy, not necessarily
 fully rental rental occupancy for up to four unrelated persons primarily adults or students in each dwelling a greater density of individuals living together in concentration where adequate infrastructure has not been provided can pose nuisance issues if the neighborhood was not designed to accommodate that density one of the principal issues that the planning staff identified having concerns with over time would be parking for each dwelling
 being insufficient to allow for this on a sustained basis. Each one of these dwellings has a two-car garage. They also have a driveway that accesses that garage. So in essence, there are four parking spaces. However, most individuals don't block in others when they're coming to and from classes or to and from their jobs. So that essentially requires some folks to park either in the grass, on the alley, or on the street in front of the development.
 As you all know planning staff and the city generally is in favor of on street parking and one side of the street on Long Wordsworth Lane does allow for on street parking. However, the number of dwelling units and number of parking spaces required is
 do not comport together. There's a significant number of spaces needed if this development would be required, originally submitted for multifamily type dwelling. Additional negative aspect of this proposal is that we feel allowing up to four unrelated persons in each dwelling would likely push this street and other surrounding homes permanently into the rental market where dwellings are rented by up to four unrelated persons.
 We don't believe this was in line with the intent of the original planned zoning district, which was submitted as a neighborhood friendly, close to schools, close to Boys and Girls
 And and would run potentially counter to the public neighborhood interest in future development in the long term viability of this neighborhood The Planning Commission disagreed with staff. They voted seven to one in favor of the applicants request And so I want to leave you with that the applicant does have a presentation to give a believe he gave also to the Planning Commission For their consideration, okay Rob Kimball, I'm the owner of the properties in question. I
 And before we get started, I just want to let you know, I've been operating with what I'm proposing, I've been operating that way for three years because there is some
 Whether you call it gray, whether I'm right and staff's wrong, or vice versa, there is some area of interpretation within the zoning. What I'm asking for is not any different than what we've been doing for three years. We've not had complaints from the fire marshal. We've not had complaints from police. We've not had complaints from trash or water or anything. I just wanted to make sure that we're all aware of that going forward.
 I know you guys have been here a long time tonight, so I'm going to go through and hit the highlights. One of the important pieces of all this is that if you will look at the request from the original PZD, I'm not the original developer, it's somebody else who's left the area, so we took over all this.
 It says that we are a residential subdivision within a unique RPZD, not a single-family PZD, not a multifamily PZD, but a unique PZD. And so if you'll take this packet and just follow with me, and I will go through this as quickly as I can. On the definition of family as it pertains to zoning, zoning is in RA, neighborhood conservation, and all single-family districts, including single-family planned zoning districts,
 A family is no more than three persons unless all are related. In all other zoning districts where residential uses are permitted, a family is no more than four. So I'm not in that original thing, the original where it's three unrelated or less. I'm in the four unrelated or less. And this is Rob Kimball interpretation, not staff interpretation. So if you look at this, you have to go, okay, well, so what is my zoning? So I'll split...
 Skip a few pages here and if you go to the zoning criteria that's on my plat, the city approved plat, I'm not talking about the kind of buildings that we have out there. I'm talking about the type of uses that are allowed. So you have use units and allowable uses. For example, use unit one is citywide uses by right. Use unit two, citywide uses by conditional use and on down. I think there's 44 or 45 uses within the, within the City of Fayetteville.
 When you get to use unit 9 and use unit 10, these are two-family dwelling, three-family dwelling. What is a use unit? You have to go to chapter 162, which is the next page. There's the 45 units here. The first paragraph, the various use units referred to in the zoning district provisions are here enlisted in numerical order. It's referring you back to the zoning district at that point.
 So you go to Chapter 160, Zoning Districts, and the first time and only time I might mention that you see on this graph residential two- and three-family is an RT-12, which is other than single-family. So that's where I'm at on my zoning. I personally felt like I was good on it. Staff obviously disagreed, and so they suggested that I come before you and try to get an amendment for the PZD. I would also mention that throughout the...
 Throughout the declarations of the covenants, there are several times where it talks about mixed uses. A variety of housing types is a standard element, including single-family, duplexes, townhomes, and apartments. So this was in the original declarations. I can't see this real well. Even internally with the parks and rec, they delineated our units differently. They delineated ours as multifamily, not single-family.
 One of the items that's been brought up is that these were meant for single-family home ownership. Well, that's not actually true because 164 and 165 are lots that we can't sell those individually. Those are triplex lots that you have to lease out. Really, the PZD was meant...
 or at least my interpretation from what I can gather from 11 years ago, was meant for flexibility to be able to either have single family or rental duplex. Even within the declarations it talks about the building types of design for adaptation from one use to the other as the market dictates. Obviously the market didn't dictate just home ownership in the area, so we went a different route.
 and this is this is kind of the one that staff has really kind of hung hung their hat on a little bit and so i want to make sure i address this well with you we actually have 431 parking spaces for our for our area we only have at most 320 tenants and so we have parking at 356 units or 356 parking spaces at the units two would be in the garage and two and sometimes up to three or four on the on the driveway behind the unit
 And then also, in addition to that, there's another 75 parking spaces for on-the-road parking. So when you add all that up, that's 431 spaces. Now, we could add more parking. There's room to do that. But just three weeks ago, the Planning Commission approved a resolution to do away with the minimum standards on commercial parking because Fayetteville's largest land use is...
 parking that's unused. Why add more parking when we don't necessarily need it? We could do that. We could add more, but it's working well right now. If you'll notice, there's a line on the right side. That is where the on-street parking is now. On the west side, that's actually a tow zone. I think it's a city...
 city placard, but there's a sign all up and down those roads that it's a highly enforced tow zone. Also behind the units, there's an enforced tow zone on the grass and on the alleyway. So we don't have parking as an issue there. It takes about one or two people to get towed and then everybody figures it out. Just like I wouldn't park in a handicapped spot or in the mayor spot or whatever. I mean people figure out that you don't park where you're not supposed to park.
 And then lastly, one of the things that was in the original PZD was the on-street parking was actually encouraged. It was encouraged because it would help slow down traffic back to the buffer and so on. And then lastly, I guess second to lastly now, there was a comment about how it would push the rest of the area into parking.
 The rental market. Well, actually, if you'll notice, RT-12 is right next to me. It actually adjoins my property. It's already a rental market. Right across the road is Neighborhood Services. That allows for two-family, three-family mixed use, so it's already a rental market. So to say that, you know, to imply that there may or may not push this area into rental market, there are already some rental units in the area.
 Obviously, we have the support of the POA board, and you probably see my signature on there. I actually just joined the board about four months ago. They asked me to join, so if we were being bad neighbors, if we were a nuisance, they sure wouldn't have asked me to be on the board. If we were being bad neighbors, they wouldn't have supported me in this. Obviously, the Boys and Girls Club, we have a mutual working relationship with them, and they support us. And just to leave you with this, when we went into that neighborhood, it was—
 Somewhat of an embarrassment to the city, to the area. It was blighted. It was going downhill. The average price per square foot house sale was about $75, $76 a foot. Since 2013, 2012, average price per square foot has gone up to about $100 a foot.
 Now, if we were a nuisance in the area, people wouldn't be buying and selling houses in the area. There wouldn't be 40 or 50 more homes built, including or on top of the ones that we've built. So with that, I'll just leave it open to if you have any questions for me. Interesting. What questions we got? Yes, Alan, the Ninja. Well, I do have a question about the parking. Thank you for the correspondence that we've had previously to that. I do appreciate your time.
 You mentioned that you don't have enough parking to, I mean, you don't have enough vehicles there at the residences to take up the number of parking spaces that you're saying. Correct. We have 111 extra parking spaces. Right. But I guess from the perspective of staff, I guess this is a question for staff and you, Jeremy, but what you're saying in the staff report is that
 from looking at this from a rezoning type proposal, we have to look at the number of cars that would be required were it to full capacity. Does that make sense? So when we're looking at single family development, we require, I believe it's two spaces per unit. That's the requirement by code. So these were all provided essentially garage spaces. When you're looking at multifamily development, it's one space per bedroom.
 And none of those, all those have to be able to be accessed, leave without parking in tandem. So that's really one of the concerns here is that half at least of the parking spaces are tandem parked essentially. So when someone has to move if they're blocked in in order to leave or access the garage spaces.
 Okay, so that answers my question on kind of the parking kind of. I've received some mixed feedback and I appreciate it and I know that you've been a great member of the board. You live in Springdale and they've even asked you to be on their POA board and that says a lot about you.
 But I have received a lot of mixed feedback and I'm just trying to sort some of that out. I know we're going to have a Ward 4 meeting at the end of this month and some people wanted to come and actually have an opportunity to speak with you if you'd be interested in being there and if the Council would be willing to hold it just to answer some questions. I don't mind, but, you know, it's a good thing that we're doing this.
 i don't really know that it would help any we're not we're not asking to operate any different than what we have for the last three years and we've not really does that make sense it's just a request i had you know so i'm just passing that along it's the 31st at 6 p.m okay jim what do you have mr kimball i you know thinking about student housing and students living here it's been my experience that not all students drive cars many of them drive scooters
 And that might explain why you have additional parking spaces available. And, you know, if our code is antiquated, just, we just got through talking about a four million dollar project, talking about the antiquation of our technology. Well codes can get out of date also. You know, back when this parking requirement was put in, probably all students drove cars. But that's no longer the case. So I don't see any reason
 Let me back up and say this. My wife and I have nine children. Eleven people live in my house. Now, you know, I've always found this limiting the number of unrelated parties to be somewhat illogical. According to the code, if there were four college students living next door to me, that would be too much coming and going, not sufficient parking, blah blah blah, too much noise.
 but the 11 of us, that's okay. It just seems illogical to me. You know, I would like for Fayetteville to be free, to have people live with who they want to live with, and work out their own private arrangements. And let's encourage people to be good neighbors. Let's get along with each other. If you have students living next door to you and they're too loud, invite them over for breakfast. Invite them over for lunch. Become their friend. Build community. Don't just be a stranger to your neighbors.
 You know, that's what I want to see for Fayetteville. So I'd like to see you get what you're asking for so that people are free to decide for themselves who they want to live with. You know, there are certain compromises when you're living with one other person, and there are more compromises when you're living with two other persons, and probably even more compromises when you're living with three other persons. But that's for them to decide. If they want to take on...
 Those compromises or the lack of privacy to save the money. I think they should be free to do that and let me note suit to one of the Items discussed was this being student housing like it's kind of like it's one of the downtown student housing things the downtown student housing has about 210 220 people living on one acre and
 A regular multi-family MF24 has about 75 per acre. We're like a third less than even RMF24. So I mean, we're way down on the density. In fact, the RT12 that's zoned right next to me has greater density than we do. So we're not causing issues. We wouldn't have full support of our POA if we were. I agree. Yes. I just have a housekeeping question for you to help me formulate my thoughts.
 You showed us some declarations, you called them. Were those included in the original application? Yes. And did I also hear you right that you have documentation from the Parks and Rec Department that refers to this PZD as a multifamily PZD? It refers to the lots that are in question as multifamily. Okay, thanks. That's it for now. And there is some difference in language. Yes, ma'am. Let's see. You said something about the...
 Alley parking? Are some of the, did I understand that there's some parking in the alley? No, they don't actually park in the alley, but all of the homes have rear access to the garage, and so they park in the driveway, but they don't actually park in the alley. They're not allowed. It's a tow zone. Okay, so a rear entry. Okay. But that's, so there is a place for four cars.
 four vehicles there, but they're in tandem. In some situations, we actually, at the time, we were able to put a third or fourth spot in those units, and we could go back and do that still now, but again, I was back to the parking as our biggest land use seems a little redundant when it's working. It's not like we're having trouble now. We've been able to control behavior by enforcing rules. Right, and that's a good thing.
 Thank you. Sounds like if it's working, that's good. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. So one thing I noticed in the staff report, and I appreciate it being pointed out, and I'm still trying to formulate how I'll vote on this one, was that the fire code was an issue on Wordsworth Lane. So was that in the, just real quick, is that in the...
 the planning commission notes or that's in the staff report to the planning or to city council it's actually from andrew garner to the fayetteville planning commission so i actually when i got that letter i met the fire marshal out there and i said tell me what's wrong and he said well this isn't actually the road that andrew told me to come visit it was a different road and so after we discussed that he said i've never had an issue with this road i don't i don't see any reason to do anything different than what you're doing
 Jeremy, do you? I don't have the full background. I think the reference we have in the council's packet, essentially, is if cars are parked on both sides, which is not permitted currently, then that would be a fire lane issue. We did speak with the fire marshal, I believe, after Mr. Kimball spoke with him as well, and I think he was confused about which street we were talking about when we originally discussed the project, and I think essentially he wanted to,
 to stay out of the recommendation from the from the perspective of this application because it really is a zoning matter we're simply making the comment about the parking being an issue and we don't want to become an issue in the future i did want to clarify something very quickly the the
 non-residential parking proposal that will become for you it's been referenced a couple times tonight is for non-residential uses not residential residential parking is probably our number one complaint in the city that we have along with over occupancy it's the times but what we over occupancy meaning too many unrelated persons living in a residence as a university town we simply deal with those two issues it's
 It's inevitable, every university town deals with those two issues. And so we put a lot of resources in trying to enforce those codes. And definitely not in Mr. Kimball's neighborhood solely, but all over throughout the city where single family neighborhoods have codes.
 utilized to sometimes just one or two residences but sometimes entire blocks being taken over for other fraternity or sorority homes satellite homes or for rental market student housing when they're in close proximity to the university we feel like sometimes that can work very well because as you mentioned a structural tour scooters can accommodate their their mobility
 mobility. What we found, however, is that most of the students that have registered scooters also have their own vehicle here, so it's both, it's not either or. And so it's actually a secondary impact. They utilize them for getting to campus and back, but they also have a vehicle parked in their residence as well, and that's what the multifamily developers tell us. They have to provide essentially both now when they're developing their complexes. Chair Greg Musil? Okay. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you, Mr. Campbell.
 What public comment do we have on this? I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sure. First, Jeremy, a question for you. Is there a checkbox or something written or anything in the original application that says single family, EZD?
 Yes. When this was submitted, when this, when this was originally submitted, we actually had an ordinance on the books that there was a residential, a commercial, and industrial planned zoning district, and we classified them based on the predominant use of that planned zoning district. We actually took that out of our code when we adopted amendments to the planned zoning district probably two or three years ago to remove that reference. It would still be in place, however, based upon the plan.
 the predominant use of of the um the development pattern but we more clearly um define what that is with whatever is being developed today as opposed to just assuming everything's one so um as i mentioned the best i think the best corollary that i have to that is our rsf zones allow the exact same units as this planned zoning district
 They allow duplexes, but those duplexes are not allowed to have more than three interrelated persons. Even though it's considered a single family residential zone, it does have other uses as well. To be clear, it was classified as single family PCD by default, not by a designation made by the applicant? That's correct. Okay. I'm a little bit confused by the history of this.
 Well, let me just kind of enumerate what some of the facts are. Number one, we've got documentation from Parks and Rec saying this is multifamily, which in contradiction to what staff is telling us today. Number two, the original declarations, which were part of the application, talk about how uses could change in response to the market. I mean, strikes me as it was originally intended to operate as it has been for the last three years.
 So there are those two things which, you know, to me that's, those are almost smoking guns for me that say it's been interpreted correctly over the last three years, but I want to go through some of the other points at the same time. The staff report talked about how parking could become an issue, but it's been operating the way that, in the same way for the last three years and hasn't been an issue. I'm not sure that concern is grounded in reality.
 I was out there touring a model home. I don't know how many months ago it was, and I think I was the only person that parked on the street. Even the person giving me the tour didn't park on the street. I also have to wonder what is really wrong with tandem parking. I mean, if tandem parking is how tenants have to park and they know it and it's not satisfactory to them, they just don't lease the space. We know that it's been working because it's been working for the past three years, so there's some history that it works. I don't know why we would care. I mean, if it's
 We've got an example of it working. I don't know why we would be against it by default. It seems a little arbitrary. But what it really comes down to for me, and maybe this is, you know, my, I don't, I guess reasonable people can disagree about this, but the reliance on the idea that single family zones can also contain these units, I think there's a fundamental difference that has to be.
 made plain, which is that in this PZD, two-family and three-family dwellings are by right, and in a single-family zone, an RSF zone, they're by conditional use. And I think that's a really important distinction that to me says this is not a single-family zone. And it's certainly been used that way for three years with zero complaints. I mean, it's hard to find any neighborhood in town that has zero complaints about it, and somehow we found one.
 So, yeah, I'm really inclined to support the request. The Planning Commission supported it. There are all these contradictions. You have the evidence from the original application, but moreover, I think you just got the everyday evidence that's out there if you go look at it and you look at the history of the last three years. So, you know, if we vote tonight, I'll be relying on that. Yes, Adele? I like what Mr. Kimbrell said about the
 They are controlling the situation by letting people know where they can park and where they can't park. And, you know, I agree with Matthew that the tandem parking might not be totally ideal, but they're making it work. And I know I have been to the Boys and Girls Club many times, and I've always admired this area. I never saw any cars parked on the grass.
 I appreciate our staff having those concerns. After all, that's the reason we have these rules. So I certainly understand what they're saying. I just think that we as leaders have to realize that sometimes we cannot follow the rules to the T. We have to look at the individual situation.
 For me, I'm looking at the individual situation, that it is a nice area. It's very, very well cared for and very pleasing when I pass by. And to have these strong letters of support from people who are close by makes me feel like that this is something that we should allow to continue because, as Mr. Petty says, to have zero complaints, that's pretty good.
 So I'll be supporting Mr. Kimball's request. All right. We have any last public comment tonight? Yes, thank you. Not much public out there, Mayor. No, we're back again. Yes, Al. I'll just ask again out of respect. I would appreciate the council holding it here for at least two weeks.
 Well, I do take some input at the Ward 4 meeting because there have been some other people that back up to this neighborhood, not necessarily on that row, that have had some concerns. And I'd like to let them voice their concerns before we vote. I'm torn on this issue myself. So I'd just like to formulate my vote based on my constituents' input.
 Mayor, could I ask Alderman Long something? Sure. Can you share what those concerns are? Well, I've just received several, and some of them were in relation to what Jeremy's concerns were about, not Jeremy's concerns, but the staff's concerns of the area being more rental-friendly.
 Quite frankly, I think it's a very nice area. I've had friends that live there and I've spent a great deal of time in the neighborhood. I think it's a wonderful neighborhood. There are some concerns that I'd just like to let be voiced at least before we vote. Chair Greg Musil. Hang on, Mr. Campbell. Let me see what they've got to say here. Yes, John. Well, I'm all for public input, Alan.
 This is a public meeting. If they feel that strongly about it, I'd like them to be here to voice their concerns. I'm not sure why we should delay what's been taking place for the last three years, and why don't we have a vote on it tonight, and let's move on. I just can't believe that they're that passionate about it and didn't show up tonight. If I was passionate about an issue, I'd be here to express my views. So I don't see the value in waiting for another two weeks.
 How about the vote? OK. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. No. Gray. Yes. Mayor, you may vote if you wish this to pass.
 Move, we suspend the third reading. Well, let me read it. I'm sorry. In order to amending a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 4-6 Rupel Row, containing approximately 41.7 acres, to modify the zoning of the duplexes and triplexes on Woodsworth Lane to allow up to four unrelated persons to live in each dwelling unit.
 Now I move to read. Second. Motion to second, go to third and final reading. Sonja, please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmark. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. No. Gray. Yes. Again, Mayor, you may vote if you wish this to pass. I vote yes. Thank you.
 in ordinance amending a residential plan zoning district entitled rpzd 4-6 roof or row containing approximately 41.7 acres to modify the zoning of the duplexes and triplexes on wartsworth lane to allow up to four unrelated persons to live in each dwelling unit i would like to say one thing for you vote
 We will be following the rules if you vote in favor of this. It's not like this we're lending the rules or we're ignoring the rules. This is what must happen in order for the planning department to follow the rules that the city council set forth before. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Mr. Mayor? Yes. Well, first, I'm disappointed that we moved forward without letting some of the constituents' concerns be heard, even though I probably was going to support this. But I...
 I did want to hear them out and it is 8 o'clock at night on a Tuesday and most people don't expect us to move something Through this quickly, especially when it's a situation that's never happened before one thing that struck me is strange when I first opened this and I spoke with the developer a little bit about this is that when the amendment to the definition of family was passed and
 All the elected officials that were on the council and every everyone at this table including the city attorney when kit interpreted the code Explained it as a situation that would be used for new developments only now that may not be what's written in the laws right now But that was what was discussed at the city council meeting and how the code was explained and i've gone back and watched those meetings so that's one reason i'm torn on this because
 It's hard to have elected officials explain a law one way to people that are against an ordinance and then the city council act on it differently. So I just think that that's disappointing, but the votes will fall where they will. If you remember when we were discussing the change to the definition of family, that was for a five-person unrelated person unit.
 and had many different kinds of conditions and controls and requirements like separate buildings and making sure there wasn't going to adversely affect a new neighborhood and therefore that would be a new development. Here they're not asking for five unrelated people, it's just to say that these duplexes and triplexes which have already been there and are operating be deemed to be multifamily for four unrelated persons rather than single family for three.
 So I don't think that that's different or an unusual request or an improper request. And in fact, that was the only thing that planning could suggest that they do in order to become compliant with our code. And that's why planning suggested that. These are just indeed single family homes.
 Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Louture? Yes. Long? No. Gray? Yes. The ordinance passed. Okay. Number nine. An ordinance to amend chapters 150.1 and 163 of the Unified Development Code to modify bed and breakfast definition and use condition.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville receives few complaints regarding bed and breakfast facilities, and whereas it is typical of bed and breakfast facilities to serve as a venue for events, and whereas bed and breakfast facilities and services are reviewed for compatibility with surrounding neighborhoods by the Planning Commission at the time of conditional use permit issuance. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 Section 163.03 of the Unified Development Code is repealed in its entirety and replaced with the following language, Section 163.03 term. A conditional use permit for a bed and breakfast shall remain effective as long as the Planning Commission has not received, through the Planning Department, substantiated neighborhood complaints that would justify amendment or revocation of the conditional use permit.
 Section 2, that section 16303E is repealed and replaced with the following language, meals. Only overnight and event guests of the bed and breakfast facility may be served meals. Section 3, that section 16303F is repealed and replaced with the following language, 16303F, parties slash receptions.
 Parties receptions and other appropriate events may be authorized by the Planning Commission as a part of the conditional use with appropriate limitations of the number of authorized events per month number of attendees days of the week time periods and other appropriate limitations to ensure compatibility with the neighborhood and
 Section 4 that the definition of bed and breakfast facility in chapter 151 definitions is repealed and replaced with the following language bed and breakfast facility a permanently owner occupied private home with a maximum of five guest rooms furnishing temporary lodging and meals to overnight and event guests a
 For over 20 years, the City has had an ordinance in place allowing bed and breakfast within the City. These are defined as permanently owner-occupied private homes with a maximum of five guest rooms furnishing temporary lodge and breakfast to paying customers. These are classified as Use Unit 2, which are conditional use permits approved by the Planning Commission, reviewed by the Planning Commission, in any zoning district within the City.
 We looked at this ordinance recently with some proposals and felt like that we should change some of the parameters. It's not a great deal of change. As Mr. Williams read, essentially we would open up meals to include breakfast, lunch, and dinner instead of just breakfast and make sure those were, it was clear. Also retaining the fact that only guests to the bed and breakfast facility may be served so it doesn't become a restaurant as opposed to a bed and breakfast facility.
 We also have proposed to remove the requirement that there's an annual renewal for the for the each bed and breakfast facility. We simply have not had complaints about that. It's an administrative task that has to be done both by property owner and by staff and so we felt like removing that would be something that that would allow for property owners to utilize their property particularly once they're approved by the Planning Commission more freely.
 Staff's recommending approval of this and Planning Commission also voted 9-0 in favor of these amendments. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Yes, John. I was a little concerned by Mr. Williams' talk about parties and receptions. Do I need to apply for a permit for a Christmas party? Are you operating a bed and breakfast? No. Oh, well then I guess you're okay. Thank you. So I can have 1,000 people come and park all over the street at my Christmas party, right? I thought you already did. I thought you already did.
 We have a lot, probably not a thousand. Thank you. Just want to clarify that. Okay. Any other questions? I have a question. Okay. Jeremy, would this apply to a place like the Pratt place? That's one question I've received, but that's more than five. Correct. It would not apply in that case. Okay. Because I know that came up this last year. Some businesses like that call themselves a bed and breakfast by our definition. It would not qualify. They're free to call themselves that, but it's not a bad thing.
 terms of the zoning code that they wouldn't qualify. They would have to be in a certain zone that allows that type of use, either a commercial zone or in the case of Pratt Place, it's actually a planned zoning district that was approved specifically for that particular use. Anything else? Okay. We have any public comment on this? I see none. I'll bring it back to the council.
 I move we go to the second reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. No. Mayor, you can vote if you choose this to pass. I'm going to vote yes. In order to amend chapters 151 and 163 of the Unified Development Code to modify bed and breakfast definition and use conditions.
 I move to go to the third and final reading. Second. I move to motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Cassandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. No. Gray. Yes. Mayor, again, you may vote if you wish to surpass. I will vote yes again. In Orders to Amend Chapters 151 and 163 of the Unified Development Code and Modified Bed and Breakfast Definition and Use Conditions. Any final comments from the council?
 Chair Greg Musil. Mr. Hunter, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. No. Gray. Yes. It passes. Okay. Thank you all. What announcements do we have? We'll have a ward board meeting August 31st, Monday, 6 p.m. Mayor, first we want to welcome back all of our University of Arkansas students and faculty. I started coming back to town this week.
 We also the city is accepting applications for city committees the deadline to apply for those committees is August the 28th at 5 p.m encourage citizens and Fayetteville to look at those opportunities and to apply as needed and then lastly, I guess the city of Fayetteville Parks and Rec in collaboration with the Bentonville Parks and Recreation and
 is offering a square to square bicycle ride, which is a 30 mile ride from the Bentonville Square to the Fayetteville Town Center Square. It's an event for citizens, a special event being coordinated by the two cities. Riders need to register in advance and can do so at the city's website of those cities. Anything else? Thank you all very much, adjourn.