I would like to call the City Council meeting of August 15, 2017 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice all right good evening everyone um we do not have any presentations tonight so we will go on to the consent agenda number one approval of the august 1st 2017 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing funding from the gulf coast high
 drug trafficking area in the amount of $135,024 for the police department. Number three, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Jet Aircraft LLC and MK Rockwell Investments LLC for the hangar located at 4568 South School Avenue, an office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of $4,200 per month. Number four.
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $29,968, recognizing grant funds received from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics for the rehabilitation of the A&P facility roof at Drakefield. Number five. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $33,939, recognizing grant funds received from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics for the rehabilitation of the wings, physionics,
 corporate hangar roof at Drake Field. Number six, a resolution to approve the 2017 Community Development Block Grant CDBG Action Plan and authorize the Mayor to execute the CDBG agreement for 2017 in the amount of $612,164 when received. Number seven, a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the total amount of $7,147
 Representing donations to the Community Resources Division and Community Development Block Grant Program income received from a housing lien payoff and the sale of CDBG purchased kitchen equipment.
 Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 17-40 and to authorize a one-year contract with WWJD Incorporated, DBA, BBB, septic and portable toilets with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms in the amount not to exceed $10 per 100 gallons for the leachate hauling from the former C&L landfill and to prove budget adjustment. Thank you.
 Number nine resolution authorized the destruction of certain records shown on the attached after-dated pursuant to relevant sections of the Arkansas code related to the maintenance instruction of accounting and other city records.
 And number 10, a resolution to amend resolution number 17-71 by approving a payment of an additional $5,000 to Grant Thornton LLP as reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses. Sarah? I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have none. Thank you, Council. The next order of business, we have a public hearing, which we will open up now. C1, a resolution authorizes the city attorney to seek condemnation and possession of certain lands owned by the links at Federal and Limited Partnership in California.
 James L. and Judith A. Hazen needed for the extension of Rupert Road from West Starry Night View to Mount Comfort Road. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is the Rupert Road project, essentially the intersection with Rupert Road and Mount Comfort Road. We'll create a four-way intersection.
 at that location and eliminate a substandard Y intersection with Rupel and Mount Comfort. This is a federal aid project, and therefore we have some deadlines that we need to hit in order to obligate the funds for construction that we have this year. We've got about almost $2.5 million in federal aid fiscal year 2017 money.
 The memo, just to clarify a little bit, the memo states that we have to have the property acquired by August 31st after further discussion with the Highway Department.
 We don't necessarily have to have it acquired. We do have to have a plan in place, and this council resolution will assist us in being able to certify that we're moving forward with acquiring the property. So the deadline is not quite as hard as what we once thought, but it is a deadline that by the end of the fiscal year, we have to obligate these funds. So that's why we're requesting authorization
 or condemnation for the two properties we haven't acquired. And just to update you on the two properties, the Lindsay Management property, we've been in contact with them. They have offered a proposed land swap. The city owns some property that they would like to acquire.
 We believe that it's a fair trade, and so we're working on that option to bring to the council. That will have to come to the council at a later date, but we are working on that settlement with Lindsay Management. The second property is the Hazen property. We made an updated offer, a pretty significant change in the amount of the offer of about $375,000. The—
 Could I ask you, everybody, to silence your cell phones, please? The Hazen's countered with a $500,000 counteroffer, which we do not believe to be an appropriate counteroffer. Therefore, we are planning to proceed with condemnation for that. The appraised amount...
 We offered a little bit more than the appraised amount due to some other considerations, but the appraised amount that we would propose to deposit with the court is $354,900. So we are requesting approval of this resolution authorizing condemnation for these properties. Okay. What questions? The applicant here.
 there's no there is no applicant chris is kind of the applicant okay okay i don't know if the property owners are here i'd well i wanted to be sure if they were here and want to speak to the council they had a chance to okay all right what questions do we have in the city council i'll just notify as always we will seek to continue to negotiate it looks like we have a pretty good uh potential agreement with lindsay uh however that will have to come and be
 Before the City Council because you are all the owners of the real property Which is going to be suggest to be traded for property. We need for Rupa Road It looks like it's a good situation both the city and for Lindsey on the hazen property We will do everything we can to see if we can arrive at some sort of reasonable accommodation and settle the case and
 Not don't know if that's possible But if it is I will do my best and bring you a potential settlement offer if one can ever be achieved I I'm not sure that can happen in this case, but that's what we always try to do Anyway, so the property owners aren't here so Anything else from the council or I mean, or is there any questions for council on this? Nope
 And Mayor, could you ask for any public comment? Well, I'm fixing to get to that. Is there any public comment on this side? All right. Then we'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? Move we pass the resolution. Mark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mark, you're still on board. Do you have anything else you want to add? Okay. All right. That being the case, Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. March. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Moving along to new business. Number one, a resolution to approve a one-year lease agreement with Skydive, Pebble LLC for office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of $241 per month. Terry, I believe you have this.
 Yes, Mayor, Council. Give you a little further information on this. These rental costs are this low because the first one here we're talking about and the second one is a similar situation, item two. First one is 276 square feet of space. We're renting that at $10.49 per square foot, which is right at the highest average that we do rent. We've kind of got a sliding scale.
 between ten and a half and eleven dollars a square foot for less than one thousand square foot of space one thousand to two thousand we rent for nine hundred dollars a square foot and anything over that would go more closer to seven dollars a square foot if you're two thousand feet above this is a spot that's uh in the terminal directly across from the bathroom we've not had this spot rented i don't remember ever so it's uh
 It's just 276 square feet. It's a small one office, and that's it. It's revenue that we've not ever had before, so we're looking at it like anything is just better to further our ability to continue to pay for all the bills down there and keep the tower operation up. It's being rented by a skydiving group. Essentially, what they're going to do is pack parachutes in the room and...
 And that increases our operations, which help our ability to keep the tower costs down. Okay, questions do we have for Terry on this? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Al, I see you have something. No, any public comment on this? All right, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Motion to pass the resolution. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. So any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number two, a resolution to approve a one-year lease agreement with Skydive Federal LLC for additional office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of $160 per month. Terry. Okay, this is a similar situation other than it's smaller. The price on this, $6.67 a square foot, but the difference on this is this is for a –
 office on the south side of the terminal facing the hangars. It has no public access to the bathrooms, so if you wanted to use it for anything other than to again pack parachutes, you would have to walk around the building, come in the front door to actually access a bathroom. They just want to use it when they're there jumping and to hold people there. It goes out onto the tarmac.
 for people to come out and load up on the plane. This is an area that we've used for nothing but storage space before, so having somebody wanna pay us $6.67 a square foot for it, we're more than happy to use that money to again help offset costs at the airport. Same group is renting both spaces. Okay, what questions do we have? Justin. Terry, roughly how many spaces are rented out there?
 Well, the only thing not rented and we actually haven't rented, we're working with the OLLI group on the Osher Learning. We had a banquet space there that used to be used for a banquet and a caterer used it. It was about 3,000 square foot. We had no one in there. They wanted to use it. We thought it would be a good purpose for citizens to have access to that.
 We rent that for $25 a day when they use it, but they have the understanding that if somebody else comes in and wants it, it would be a $7 a square foot and we would rent that out. They are working with the university to try and get where they can execute a lease with us for that amount and actually rent it year round. We just, they're having funding issues with it. So we're allowing them to use that. But other than that, these two spots, we literally have
 every spot in the building is leased. Well, and I would thank the city staff for continuing to fill them, even though this was a low price technically, I think it helps the overall health of the building.
 to make sure that as many people in there as possible. So if somebody does want to rent a bigger space later that comes open, they're not in a deserted building. There's these people and a lot of other people. So I thank you for doing this. I think this is great. It's maybe 10 or 15 people, however many there have jumped, that maybe don't know where the airport is that see it. It just brings more. They might go to the museum and other things while they're there. Thank you. Okay, Don? Mayor, I just wanted to...
 until alderman tenant who gave us the charge two years ago during the budget discussions to be more aggressive about trying to get some of this unused space and we took your message to heart um to try to make sure as we took over the operations that we were able to do it not at a deficit and to get more of these done so that's why we bring these forward this is not the most desirable uh rent location uh in terms of um
 One, because of its proximity of where it is in town to where people might wanna be in our more congested or urban areas. And so it's not going to get the same type of rent requirement as maybe more class A or B space that are in our higher rent locations, but we are trying to keep it occupied. Thank you very much. Okay, John. Terry, when I'm negotiating a deal, I'll always say, what would you rather have, my counteroffer or nothing?
 And that's exactly what you've accepted. You've accepted something where we're getting nothing before. Good job. I'm always questioning when we're spending money. Let me be first to say congratulations when we're making money. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. All right. Do we have any other questions? A public comment do we have on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Justin? I move to pass a resolution. Della? I second the motion. We have a motion and a second to pass a resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Number three, a resolution authorized the mayor to sign a contract with Meyersher and Rockcastle LTD and the Federal Public Library for professional architectural services for the library expansion renovation projects in the total amount of not to exceed $3,770,857, but the city's portion of the fees not to exceed $2,639,599.90.
 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $377,086. Dave. Mayor, thank you, Council. As you know, about a year ago, the citizens of this city voted to expand their public library. And on July 5th, the library closed on the city hospital property with a clear title.
 We followed that on July 19th with closing on the bond sales, a generation of around $26.9 million. And what we're bringing forward with you today is after a fair and transparent open solicitation process, candidate selection and contract negotiations, the City of Fayetteville and library reached a contractual agreement with Meyer, Shearer and Rockcastle for professional architectural services.
 for the library expansion project and we come for you today asking for your approval to give the mayor the Authorization to sign the contract. Okay questions we have in the council. Okay any public comment on this? No, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah move we passed the resolution Della I second that motion. We have a motion in a second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council? I
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Smart. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Okay, number four, a resolution to approve the 2018 Employee Benefits Package. Chi, I believe you have this. Fix the mic.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Pachia Lee, HR Generalist. Staff is requesting for your approval for the renewal of employee benefits for 2018. Currently, the city's health insurance is with Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield. Arkansas Blue Cross has proposed a 20% premium increase for 2018.
 To help manage costs, staff recommends providing more plan options to employees by adding two new traditional PPO plans and one new high deductible health plan in addition to the traditional PPO plan and high deductible health plan that the city currently has.
 Also, staff recommends to increase the premium tier structure for the medical plans, changing from a two-tier structure of employee only and family to a four-tier structure of employee only, employee spouse, employee children and the family plan. This will help accommodate the different family types that we have here in the workplace and also help manage costs.
 In alignment with moving to a two-tier medical plan, staff also recommends moving from a two-tier medical plan to a four-tier medical plan. Staff also recommends moving from a two-tier to a four-tier on the dental plan in alignment with what's going on with the medical plan. And that would be a renewal with Delta Dental of Arkansas for the dental insurance.
 Now, there are no other changes on benefits that the city currently offers. So staff recommends a renewal with current carriers as it is outlined in your memo. And a new perk that staff recommends for 2018 is a telemedicine health program partnership with Northwest Health Systems. Telemedicine allows employees to have a doctor's visit through the telemedicine.
 video technology, either by tablet, by phone, or a personal computer. And this is at no additional cost to the city. And that is our 2018 benefits renewal packet. I'm open to any questions you may have. Okay, council, what questions do we have? Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. With the addition of the new tiers, is there any proposed change to the split between employee pay and city pay? No, the cost share is still gonna be the same.
 okay that's what it is yeah thank you anybody else okay do we have any public comment on this so then i'll bring it back to the council now make a motion to pass the resolution adela i second that motion okay any final comments from the council thank you for chief for y'all's work on this thank you no problem all right son would you please call the roll
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number five, resolution to add eight additional hours of personal holiday time for all city employees for 2018. Alan, I believe you have this. I do. Thank you, Mayor. I spoke with the Chief of Staff a few weeks back about this. Yes.
 There's a federal holiday currently in the city that we don't observe or our employees don't receive time off for. And I know that assisting with employee retention and recruitment is a large factor in keeping very talented city staff. And I'd like to see that our very many talented city employees continue to stay with the city.
 and just reward them for the hard work that they've done. I think they deserve to receive this additional hours of holiday time. So that's why I brought this forward. Okay, Don, do you have anything you want to add to that?
 Yes, Mayor, I will add that when Alderman Long contacted us about this interest, we did take this to our employee work groups, and they all support, obviously, the additions.
 They did all support the addition of this time. I will say that one of the things that we did identify in our compensation study was that our vacation schedules for time off for employees who are 10 years or less in seniority,
 was less than our competitors and because this is a personal holiday that can be used on any date it functions much like a vacation day. It wouldn't make us more competitive, but it does not carry over year to year so there's no financial accrual for future payout of that. So it's kind of the best of both worlds in terms of this offering. Okay, any questions from the council?
 Matthew, do you have anything else? Yeah, just to be clear, Don, should we take that as a statement of support from the administration? Oh, absolutely. There's no problem. My boss says yes. Yeah. All right. Is there any public comment on this? I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 No. Don, do you have some? Okay. Justin? I'd like to thank Alderman Long for bringing this forward. Yep. And as I interview more and more millennials and younger people, I hear more and more requests, not necessarily for, I mean, everybody is concerned with salary and money, but I hear more and more about time off. But it seems like it's not being used just to, you know,
 to do nothing there's a lot of people that want to volunteer but they they don't have time to volunteer and so this i think these kind of things we'll see more and more people taking additional hours and then using them for the greater good of the community in which they work for the city so i think this is not just adding a day off i think it might add people time to do the things that they really want to do for the city and make us even better so i appreciate it very much bringing this forward wholeheartedly support it okay
 Sarah? I move we approve the resolution. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Thank you, Alan. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Cannon. Yes. Match. Yes. LeChier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Cannon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number six, in order to approve Vacation 17-5868 for property located at 2615 North Charleston Crossing to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Okay.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A, to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3.
 This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any relocation of or damage to utilities or of existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, a seven-and-a-half-foot general utility easement is retained along the west side of the existing Ozarks electric utility line. Okay. Andrew?
 This property is in the Savannah Estates neighborhood, which is east of Crossover and south of Skillern Road. There's a vacant lot adjacent to a property at 2615 North Charleston Crossing.
 We have the property as shown on the exhibits in your plat. There's a utility easement along the rear of this property that they simply want to vacate, and the utility companies have agreed to vacate and get rid of the easement pending council approval. This did go through the planning commission and was forwarded with a recommendation for approval of nine zero. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for Andrew on this? Okay, what public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, go right back to the council. Justin. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to approve VAC 17-5868 for property located at 2615 North Charleston Crossing to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Medela. Second that motion. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC 17 dash 58 68 for property located at 2615 North Charleston Crossing to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. OK. Final comments from the council on this. OK. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number eight, a resolution to authorize the mayor to sign a master agreement with the University of Arkansas regarding the placement of utilities within the public rights of way and utility easements. Who has that? I think we have an ordinance to waive formal bidding requirements is the next one, I think. Oops, sorry.
 I'm on my mistake. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Excuse me. I'll get it right here tonight eventually. Number seven. An ordinance to the way the requirements form a competitive bidding and approved cost share agreement with Dixie Landing LLC for the extension of Water Main along a portion of Freshwater Avenue between East Township Street and Marks Mill Lane and with the city's portion of the cost not to exceed $32,285 and to approve a project contingency amount of $6,457.
 Whereas Dixie Landing LLC has received administrative approval from the city's planning division for a project at the southeast corner of East Township Street and Freshwater Avenue, contingent upon an extension of the existing water main to the development. And whereas Dixie Landing LLC has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing an 8-inch water main along a portion of Freshwater Avenue between East Township Street and Marks Mill Lane, a distance of approximately 540 feet.
 And whereas the construction of the 8-inch water main will better serve future water demands in the area, by upgrading the 4-inch line that would have been required for the project of this size, provide water service to a project which is increasing the population density in this area, improve service and fire protection for residents and businesses in the area, and eliminate a dead-end line by creating a looped system.
 And whereas section 51.112 of the Fayetteville Code provides that, quote, the city shall pay the excess material costs of facilities of a lot size that is larger than required to serve subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the water system, unquote. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Dixie Landing LLC for the extension of an 8-inch water main along a portion of Freshwater Avenue between East Township Street and Marks Mill Lane with an estimated amount to be paid by the city not to exceed $32,285.00
 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $6,457. Okay. Good evening, everybody. Dixie Landing LLC has approached the city for consideration of a cost share on the installation of a 540-foot water main in the area of Township Street and Freshwater Avenue.
 The development's need would be a 4-inch main and the utilities requesting from the council the authority to increase the size from a 4-inch to an 8-inch and to assist the development in paying a portion of the cost of this upsizing. This will alleviate the current water volume deficiency in the area, provide improved service and fire protection for residents and businesses in the area, and allow the development to connect. The city will also benefit from a secondary water loop to help prevent the possibility of residents losing water service in the event of a water leak in the area.
 The City's cost of $32,285 represents a 50.3% of the project, which is the cost of the excess materials and labor costs required to fully install the water line. Added to this amount is a 20% contingency of $6,457 to cover any unexpected cost. Waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be onsite installing the water line for the developer's project.
 This project was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on July 11th, and it was voted 4-0 to forward to the City Council with a recommendation for approval. Okay. Mark, this went through the Water and Sewer Committee. This did go through Water and Sewer Committee, and it's meeting our goal of trying to have loops so we don't have dead-end water. It's also giving us a higher volume and better pressure to meet emergency needs in case of fire, for fire safety.
 This is one of those good partnerships that we have with the developer that's going to benefit everyone in the loop. Okay. Any other questions from the council? Anything? All right. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mark? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Dixie Landing LLC for the extension of a water main along a portion of Freshwater Avenue between Township Street and Marks Mill Lane with the city's portion of the cost not to exceed thirty two thousand two hundred and eighty five dollars and to approve a project contingency in the amount of six thousand four hundred and fifty seven dollars and
 Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Cannon. Yes. Fetch. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray.
 ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Dixie Landing LLC for the extension of a water main along a portion of Freshwater Avenue between East Township Street and Marks Mill Lane with the city's portion of the cost not to exceed thirty two thousand two hundred and eighty five dollars and to approve a project contingency in the amount of six thousand four hundred and fifty seven dollars Okay, any final comments from the council on this? Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 The university is working on a fiber optic line running between the Harmon parking deck and the new arts district on Hill Street south of MLK So as we were talking with the U of A about that They would like to use a portion of the city's right-of-way to do that We have in the past allowed use of the city's right-of-way for a gas line over on the other side of campus through a specific agreement so as we began discussing that
 We came to the conclusion that we could have a master agreement that would establish the parameters where we could approve these type of items administratively, as long as they meet certain requirements, depths of bury, etc. So this agreement establishes the parameters on which the U of A could use city right-of-way within a certain boundary that's identified in the exhibit included with the agreement.
 So that's really kind of the gist of that, and with that I can answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Chris? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Allen? Motion to pass the resolution. Sarah Bunch? Second. We have a motion to pass the resolution. Okay, any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? One second, please.
 The second was Council Member Bosh, correct? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Munch? Yes. Walter? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number nine. Resolute authorize the mayor to offer for public sale approximately .92 acres and improvements located at 833 North Crossover Road for the appraised value of $162,000. Chief. Thank you, Mayor. Counselors, the fire department is seeking authorization to sell the current Fire Prevention Bureau up on Crossover Road.
 We're going to move the fire marshal's office over to Drake Field to the old fire station that's there. We've got a new roof on it, and we can put it to good use, and the money will be better applied there, more cost effective than to do improvements to the current fire marshal's office on Crossover. The property's been appraised at $162,000.
 We have done the public notifications required in the ordinance and need your approval to move forward with putting it out for bid. Okay. I know that Council Member Marsh had mentioned something about a bus stop in that area. Yes, I wanted to make sure that we're reserving enough right-of-way to accommodate future transit needs along that corridor. Has there been any progress on that? We did. We did.
 There is approximately 30 to 35 feet of land behind the sidewalk along and just to the south of the fire marshal's office that would be adequate to pull off for an area and shelter for a bus stop. So we don't see a need to have any additional land reservations for this. As well as after talking with our transit providers in this location, we believe a stop would actually be best on the east side of the street close to the neighborhood so we don't have to cross a five-lane road. But we'll have this in case there's ever development on that side as well.
 Thank you. Okay. All right. Any other questions from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Allen. Motion to pass the resolution. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Votir. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray.
 Okay, number 10. A resolution expressed the City Council's intent to fund a study to evaluate the feasibility of creating a stormwater utility program in the amount not to exceed $200,000 and approve a budget adjustment. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. As you all know, recently, earlier this year, we did have a large rain event. We've identified a very large number of projects at a very large cost.
 without an adequate funding source to take care of those problems. In addition to the drainage issues and flooding issues, we also have regulatory issues with ADEQ and meeting some of those requirements. So there are a lot of reasons
 why the stormwater portion of the city is under pressure to find additional funding. So what is in front of you today is a request to approve a study. It's $200,000. What that study will do.
 is look at the size of the city's system, develop a operations and capital plan, look at various ways of developing the fee. There are various ways that you can look at stormwater fees.
 and make recommendations as to how a stormwater utility could look, what the staffing needs would be, what the equipment needs would be, and what capital needs would be. So again, the request here is to fund this study that could move forward. If approved, our next step would be to procure a consultant through our RFP process, develop the scope of work, and then procure the consultant.
 that we would then begin the process of developing this study for ultimate review and approval by the council. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. John. Better late than never, Mayor. Chris, tell us, we had some of this discussion at agenda session. Other cities that have gone to this utility-based drainage program,
 Can you give us an idea of how much each citizen might see on their water bill? Or give us an idea or a range. Well, I mean we can we can talk about what um, Hot springs i'm aware of what what they charged And it was a small amount of three dollar charge for residents uh five dollar charge for commercial operations I don't believe that they did the level of detail to really determine uh
 You know what the costs are what the size of the system are and and really the The big question one of the first questions that we have to answer is What is the size of our system? What what is it that the city is going to take on as far as the the stormwater? Features that we have within the city and then secondly what's the level of service how what kind of maintenance level are we looking at?
 You know, how much of this capital, how quickly are we going to try to get this capital work done, et cetera. So there are some big questions policy-wise that will need to be answered early on in the study that will then form the basis of, you know, what the amount of, the level of funding is needed each year.
 I understand, just I'm trying to get an idea. Would it be hundreds of dollars in our water bill or tens of dollars or, you know, five, ten, fifteen? Yeah, I mean, it would be, I think, for, well, let me just say, one way that you can look at is comparing a single-family home to, say, a Walmart. And obviously the impervious area and the impact on the stormwater system for a single-family home
 Versus a Walmart is very different. So for a single-family home It could be a few dollars a month for a larger commercial system under that funding scenario It could be approaching $100 a month or in that range. But again, there's a lot of work that needs to be done before we start Settling on any kind of numbers. Okay. The other question I have is on the other end of the equation is
 You mentioned that with the recent rains that we had, we've had several areas of our city affected. How will we prioritize this money? Does the administration have an idea? I think we've tossed some around, which I approve of. We've got a list. Right.
 Right. Good. And what are those priorities? Who gets first crack at the money? Yeah, and so that's something that we're looking at really even outside of this study. We're looking at ways that we can prioritize those projects. And we are looking at really kind of two things. The number of people affected by a particular problem and the severity of that effect. So water in their house.
 is a priority, and if there are five people versus one person at a particular location, then we're looking at those areas that have more properties affected. So, Mayor, I do wanna add a comment to that, though, that I think is very pertinent to this discussion, and that is that we're talking about public impact
 to properties, not private impact to properties. So when we talk about it's what the public infrastructure is doing, our stormwater management, our drainage, someone could have an actual flooding issue on their private property that just like utilities, we're responsible for the mains that run to the property but not for the private lines from the main into their home. So we're talking about impacts in the public,
 infrastructure, I'm going to start with that, and then from that, where that infrastructure fails to either impact large amounts of people or to have water inside properties more than on properties, that prioritization.
 I think, as I said at the agenda session, John, I look at it differently if you've got water coming in your house and water in your backyard. Like my backyard stays wet eight months out of the year, but I don't really think that y'all are going to come over. I fully agree, Mayor. I mean, that's kind of the way I look at it, just kind of common sense pros. And we have a list. He's got our priorities, most of them.
 I just want it out in the public discussion that we're going to make priority people who have water in their homes. I don't have any issue with that whatsoever, John. Good, good, good. I think that's very rational. And to use that example, the point I'm making is that if the mayor has water in his backyard eight months because of the failure of the public system, then it would be addressed. If he has water in his backyard eight months because...
 he's in a low spot that is not draining public water, then he would be responsible for that. Well, let me ask Don this question as far as we're going to get into this public-private discussion. If we approve developments on up the hill and they build driveways with impervious surfaces and it causes a greater runoff, is that a public problem or is that a private problem? It depends. There's not a clear answer on that. You make a good politician. Yeah.
 I'm sorry. That's actually a good point. In fact, I would direct the chief of staff not to answer that question. All right, Mark, I believe. John, do you have anything else? All right, Mark. This has been an issue that has been discussed in the water and sewer committee because we know that we have a unique and
 challenging topography with two different watersheds and we are also trying to add density into areas of town that are challenging because the current infrastructure is failing to meet the needs. So we can do a lot of speculation tonight, but that's what it is, it's speculation. And what this is going to do is going to give us some
 foundation so that we can adequately discuss what we have where we've had failures and what we can see as we grow the city city with density and the capacity that we have for growth of the city in general so
 That's why we need to have this study because there's a lot of speculation. There's a lot of presumption but until we have the numbers in one place and Collected then we're not
 making decisions based on a sound projection of what we need to manage. And this is something that a lot of cities are faced with, and we certainly saw this recently with the rains in April, which was probably our 100-year volume of water that came out quite with high velocity.
 And so time is of essence, and that's why we want to move forward with this. And it has been with a great deal of discussion and a great deal of thought as we move forward. And I think that it's a progressive notion that we're looking at this and evaluating it in a sound methodology so that we're not just speculating and doing infrastructure nilly-willy,
 I mean we can base it on sound engineering philosophy, but this is going to be directly related to the topography and the runoff that we have here that's unique to our city. So I think that's why this is important for us to move forward on. Okay, Matthew. Yes, thank you Mayor. You know I think this is the only way we're going to solve some of our big drainage challenges and it's worth doing for that reason alone.
 but it's worth doing for another reason too, and that's something I wanna make sure that we understand. Right now our drainage regulations, we did a very wise thing, I think. You know, the regulations we have now require new developments with very limited exceptions to,
 implement flood control provisions and minimum water quality provisions within their own sites that no adjacent parcels are affected. And making sure that new impervious surface and the runoff it causes is handled, especially from a flood control perspective, is a standard that we need to maintain. But I think it's also a wise move as we move, as we go forward to recognize that
 you know in most cases in the majority of cases storm water systems whether they're natural systems or built systems um don't work very well at the parcel scale in fact i mean natural systems don't respect partial boundaries at all right they they respect the the hydrog the the hydrography of our reason of our region and so it's it's a really um beneficial thing if we come out of this at the end of it and we're able to offer
 builders, especially people who are building small projects on small lots, the opportunity to contribute into utility funds that can pool their resources and make improvements at the level of the hydrology, not at the level of the parcel boundary. And on small parcels today, the requirements that we have can be very difficult to meet and kill more projects than I think we hear about today.
 At the end of this, I'm very hopeful, I'm very encouraged that we will end up with a system that allows small parcels to contribute to a broader and more systemic solution. Sure. Thank you.
 I think the essence of the matter is that we have identified approximately 15 million dollars in drainage infrastructure needs in this city and we have about 200 to 300 thousand dollars a year to address them so we are not going we do not have the resources right now to address the needs that we have and the recent flooding event showed
 us the potential impacts to life and property that this negligence is having. I think we've all agreed that we want to prioritize any time where we've got water coming into people's homes or businesses and also where we need to access with emergency vehicles. During that last flooding event, we had numerous neighborhoods that were not accessible by emergency vehicles and this is unacceptable. Health, safety and welfare
 part of our responsibilities as community leaders and what this stormwater utility will enable us to do is find a sustainable funding method to address these problems and help
 and help us figure out how to most equitably distribute that economic burden so that we can get these needs met. It also will have the added benefit of enabling us to incentivize some of the things that our citizens have said they wanted, like the low impact development and green infrastructure. And it can help us improve water quality, which it's a
 much easier to prevent water pollution than it is to clean up water pollution. And so this is another great opportunity for that. But hopefully through this study we'll be able to evaluate what other peer cities are doing, how they're handling it, what's working, what's not, and get some great information to guide us going forward. So I'm very hopeful for this, and with that I move that we approve the resolution. Well, let me take a little public comment. Hang on to that, Sarah. Do we have any public comment on this? Yes.
 So you're now bringing it back to the council. Okay, Sarah? Move we approve the resolution. Allen? I'll second. We have a motion to second to approve the resolution. You know, council...
 Keep in mind, and those have been some great points made, but right now we're trying to do a study to see just exactly what we do need to do. We've done this on a transportation study. We've done this on economic development. We've done this on recycling. We have done parking studies, and we got to know where we are to know exactly some of the questions you asked, John, how much we would have to charge. We don't know really until that study comes in. And then it comes back to you all to make the final decision. Okay.
 There's nothing new. This is just something we do because we need to know so we can make an informed decision. All right. Anybody have anything else besides all of that? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Lieutenant. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. And. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Okay. Number 11.
 tax from all Internet online sales thereby creating a fair and free market for all businesses and consumers regardless of location of the business from which the purchase was made and
 This is something that I brought forward. Municipal League asked the mayors across the state to bring this forward. This was something that we supported in the legislature past the Senate. We like passing it in the House by three votes. And one of the reasons that it was brought to my attention several years ago, it's a
 We have a lot of, I think, Chamber of Commerce also talked about the e-commerce kind of stuff that's going on that a lot of folks come into the local stores. They get the prices. They go back on the Internet. They buy it at a reduced rate. They don't pay any taxes on it, which, according to the folks that have contacted me, is those taxes are actually owed. Right.
 So it's not like it's a new tax, it's a tax you're already supposed to be paying. It helps protect our local business and our jobs. And I want one more thing that really caught my eye. If you look at your operations, which in the operations budget of this city, 80% of what we have in operations is salaries. Around 60% of that's fire and police and about 60% of those wages and 60%
 of the funding we have comes from sales taxes for the operation. So you know we're talking about getting everybody a decent living wage for our employees and it's in that operations and the sales tax helps fund that. So it's not a new tax, it's something that everybody owes and it helps our bottom line, it helps provide
 Provide the salaries that our workers receive in the city and protects our businesses protects their jobs So that's why I'm bringing it forward The governor also said that if enough cities pass a resolution that he would call a special sessions that correct Yes, sir So what questions we have in the council John not a question mayor just a comment I
 You know, oftentimes the rationale for supporting an Internet tax is fairness, the doctrine of fairness. My wife and I had a need recently for a lamp to sit on a little end table by the side of a bed. And I said, well, I'll just step on Amazon and order one. And she said, oh, no, I want to feel it. I want to hold it because I only like heavy lamps. See, the Internet is at a disadvantage when you want to feel it.
 I had a client in my office this morning, we were talking about this very issue, and he said he never buys his shirts or clothing on the internet because he wants to try them on. He doesn't want the hassle of having to return it. So, brick and mortar stores do have some advantages over Amazon and other online sellers of goods. I don't want you to think that it's just a lopsided, you know, the internet has all the advantages, mom and pops, or the brick and mortar stores don't have any of the advantages.
 Each side has advantages. I agree with you also that it is a tax that is owed, it's not a new tax. But this tax is very difficult to collect.
 We have to have people reported on their tax returns as a use tax. That's correct. And that's what it is. And they're legally required to do it, but nobody does it. And the state knows it as a practical matter. I say nobody, virtually nobody. I'm sure some people do. I have a couple of clients that insist I report it for them. And, you know, but it's...
 To say it's not a new tax, I think is a little bit misleading. It's not misleading, John. It's not a new tax, but it's a tax that's seldom collected. Let's put it that way. But it's a tax that's owed. We can't agree on it, right? I agree on that. I agree on that. But it's a very difficult one to collect. You know, it takes me back to at one point, Henry Ford developed and mass produced a Model T, an automobile, that put a lot of buggy-wit manufacturers out of business, put a lot of stables out of business.
 It's just a change in technology. When Jim Fisher from Gentry, Arkansas, he and his team developed silicon chips for Texas Instruments, it put a lot of slide rulers manufacturers out of business. That's a change in technology. It may be that our technology is going to change from brick and mortar stores to we buy everything from Amazon or some online source. Millennials like convenience.
 and more the people that want to touch things and feel things before we buy them are my age older people younger people don't care that much they want convenience and I could see where our downtown areas and our shopping malls become obsolete that's a possibility in the next 20 or 30 years or maybe 50 years maybe everything's done online that's a possibility as technology changes
 And I'd like for us to recognize that. Not saying, I think that your argument will carry the day, Mayor. Well, I'm just trying to protect our local businesses. I understand. That's my job. But all of our local businesses need to have websites where they sell to people all over the world. That would behoove them. If that's the way technology is moving, everyone should have a website where they sell.
 to make it convenient for everyone. Well, there you are. Right. You know, so it's just a tit for tat. It's an argument and we can go back, we can banner back and forth, but I just want to present that perspective. Thank you, Mayor. You're very welcome. Don, you have something else you want to add? Yes, Mayor, I do.
 To the point of buying, there are some people who buy in a store because they want to touch it and feel it. There are some people who go to a store and touch it and feel it and take a photo of it and go online and buy it because they can, in essence, get it cheaper. This...
 policy issue is not about getting it cheaper. If it's cheaper because of scales of economy, the price is available because of sales and things of that nature, then that's free market that I think most people would say we should do. What should not be the difference is the tax collection component of that financial decision. That just simply because you have a bricks and mortar footprint in a state
 that you win the cheaper argument simply because of the tax collections. That's what this legislation is about. It's why Congressman Womack introduced it originally in the federal government. It is why it was introduced at the state government from Fayetteville Representative Charlie Collins, who is a Republican elected individual here. This is not a party issue. This is a fairness issue.
 We have had discussions with local businesses telling us that they have the cost of facilities, the cost of labor, and the cost of inventory, and that the only difference is the location of where a tax is going to be paid. Walmart pays and collects sales tax if you buy online today because they have a presence in our state. So does Kohl's, so does Target. We could go through the list. But companies like Overstock, who are competing with them,
 who don't have presences here, are not collecting this tax and winning potentially in prices for those reasons. This is also a jobs bill. When we have companies come to us and tell us that they consider closing their footprint stores, that's job loss in our community, that's disposable income invested in our community. And the other point I would say is that
 These businesses that aren't physically located in our community are using our infrastructure. They're using our roads for the delivery and shipping of this information or products that are coming to our homes. It is owed. We can all argue whether it's paid or not, but it is a tax that is currently owed. And the person paying this is not the company or the cities. It's the consumer. Right.
 and it's whether the consumer wants it done more easily by having the retailer collect it at the time rather than keeping receipts and reporting to DF&A what they bought online for their reporting. So there's also a convenience component to this fairness issue. So I might also add that the state projected $50 to $150 million in potential revenue if a...
 tax was collected on these transactions, which are real dollars. If you back that into a city sales tax component, on the low end it's $7 million, and on the high end it's $21 million of potential revenue for municipalities throughout the state, which then could potentially have discussions of lowering the tax burden, depending on what those revenues come in at, maybe less property taxes. Maybe we are able to fund the things that you want to have as your priorities without new taxes.
 So, you know, from our perspective, it is not new. It is fairness. It's free market competition without tax being the evaluating point. And it's investing and keeping our local businesses and more importantly, keeping our local jobs. That's right. Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Good evening, Mayor. I'm Kyle Smith. I live at 2801 West Dove Drive.
 Sitting here listening to this, I think I've hit a point of personal revelation. I'm a big tech nerd with a computer science degree and my entire adult life I have reveled in online shopping because it's cheaper. As my interests in city business have grown, I realized that you all provide a ton of services to residents and
 Frequently, when new services are brought up, there's question about finding new revenue streams for those. We shouldn't be hunting for new revenue streams until you are exhausting the ones that are already available. It's weird to stand here tonight, having ranted on the internet for years, but it's time that we collect the taxes that are already due to the city.
 It was once necessary to incubate internet businesses because it was difficult to collect those taxes. There's now software readily available to make that easier for online businesses. So, I would support this. I'm glad the city does, and I hope that the state begins enforcing collection of local taxes. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Remember, everybody's got five minutes. I'm sorry. I should have before we start public comment. Good evening, Mayor, City Council. I'm Chung Tan representing the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. We want to stand before you to say that we support this resolution for all the reasons that have been stated by Don and by the mayor and John.
 I agree on your perspective of looking at things too. So it is true that our existing businesses are changing. E-commerce is disrupting the business, and so either you adapt, you innovate, or you can become obsolete. That is true. So Fayetteville businesses are doing that at the same time as well. They have a brick and model, they also offer e-commerce.
 For people who buy, sometimes for us, we touch and feel, but then local retailers may not have the color or the size, then you have to go online. But just as what Don has said, this is not a new tax, this is a tax due. So actually it is a tax liability that if any one of us who file our income tax at the end of the year, we are supposed to report the used tax portion.
 And a lot of times we don't do it because unless you keep the receipts and you figure it all out and you figure out the cost, then only you can report it. Until then, you cannot even report how much you owe to the state of Arkansas. So having this, if this is passed, it's actually helped consumers like me who shop online. You just tell me how much the tax is, I just pay it and I'm done. Right now, there's not an option if you shop online and if those seller is not collecting the tax.
 And it has already been shown that Amazon, amazon.com actually volunteer to collect the taxes. And so some of these taxes are already turned back to some cities, and some cities are already seeing as much as about 40% increase in their sales tax revenue from Amazon.
 So if this is done, if this is passed throughout, then all states, all cities will benefit from it. And this is why we are standing here as the Chamber promoting, supporting this. Our brick and model stores,
 They pay a lot in taxes. They pay the property tax, they have to do the investment, they have to comply with city rules and regulations on renovations, on construction, on maintenance, on parking lot, everything they have to comply. So this is a lot of cost, so we have to even out the playing field.
 And if the consumer like me knows that I'm, you know, either way, whether I buy online or I buy at the store, I will still be charged a sales tax, then what the heck, I go to the store, pick what I want, pay, and take it home immediately. So that would be the motivation, and for that we support. Hope that the city council will vote yes for this resolution. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Mayor, I do want to add one last thing, and that's just that Walmart, the state of Arkansas's largest retailer, did support this legislation at the state in the last legislative session. Okay. Sarah? I move we approve the resolution. Allen? Second. All right. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. All right. I believe that concludes our... Mayor, it looks to me like we might have some special guests out here. We do. I want to mention, I believe you are here tonight with your group. Would you like to introduce? Yeah. Can you come to the podium? Hi, everyone. Hi, everyone.
 I'm Alana Massey from Spring International Language Center. And tonight we have observing and taking in all of our active democracy. We have a group of teachers from Salahuddin University in Kurdistan, Iraq. If you want to stand up. And we also have here on the...
 They're here doing a program for professional development and teacher training. We also have a group of faculty members from universities in Egypt, and they're here on a Fulbright scholarship doing professional faculty development. You'll stand up. I really, really enjoyed watching the whole process, taking it all in. So thank you all very much. They ran into the office about a week ago, and we had a great visit. So welcome, and I hope you enjoy it.
 Enjoy the evening. All right. I think that concludes our business. Is there any announcements? Yes, Mayor, a couple of announcements. Mark your calendars for Thursday night this week. The final concert for our Gully Park concert
 concert is the United States Navy Band, the group that's called the Cruisers. As the U.S. Navy's premier contemporary entertainment ensemble, the Cruisers featured eight of the Navy's most dynamic performers as well. The band is named after a cruiser ship because they have lots of flexibility in their music inventory.
 They're truly worldwide appeal. They traveled throughout the world. They're on a tour currently and stop this week on Thursday, 7 p.m. at Gully Park. So we hope you'll come out for that final concert. And then lastly, the Fayetteville Animal Services joins the nationwide Clear the Shelters Pet Adoption Drive. Saturday, August the 19th, you can adopt pets.
 animals from the shelter at $10 in adoption, so at a reduced fee, as well as Wednesday, we will be participating in the cocktails and dog tails adoption program, which is also a $10 fee on the 16th, tomorrow from 4 to 7 p.m. at the Chancellor Hotel. All right, anybody else? All right, great work, y'all. Thank you, we're adjourned.