I would like to call to order the city council meeting of August 15, 2023. To order, can I have a please call the roll? Moore. Here. Whittaker. Here. Burnham. Here. Bunch. Here. Turf. Here. Erdsberg. Here. Jones. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor, would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. All right. The first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 1st, 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two...
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of a railroad general liability policy to cover current and future railroad crossing improvements at a cost of $54,000 for one year of coverage and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $25,000 to recognize and budget an Accelerate Foundation grant to the City of Federal Shelter Assistance from Extreme Weather Program.
 Number four, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $81,151.09 plus political taxes, freight charges from JWC Environmental for the repair of channel monster grinder used at the Hamstring Sewer Lift Station.
 Number five, a resolution to approve a joint funding agreement with the US Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at the various locations in the city of Federal. In 2023, with the amount paid by the city not to exceed $56,930. Number six, a resolution to approve revised Federal Fire Department policies
 within section 100 general information introduction in section 200 safety health and wellness number seven a resolution to award RFP 23 That's zero nine not the rise
 the purchase of a virtual reality simulator from Inveritus for the amount of $106,149.53 plus any tax and freight charges for the police personnel training. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you all. Now I'd like to make a little bit of a change in the agenda here.
 We have D3, an ordinance transferring administration retirement coverage for eligible members of the Federal Fire Relief and Pension Fund to the Arkansas local police and fire retirement system, LAFI, and authorizing the mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement with LAFI.
 What I would like to do is move this to the number one item. Instead of public hearing, do that first, because I know we have a lot of retirees here tonight, and I don't want them to have to sit as long as I think
 Maybe they may have to so kid what do we need to do that if the council's me there? There needs to be a motion to suspend the rules to readjust the agenda to place that item first Right at the consent which you've already done all right. I'll make the motion to move the item to the top second Okay, we have a motion second to move d3 to where B 1
 as well or just put it in there a seven any comments or anything okay care which please call the roll for yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and mr. mayor you you just read the title of that so I'll read the body of the ordinance all right
 Whereas the Board of Trustees of the Fayetteville Fire and Relief and Pension Fund, the local plan, has elected to have its local plan administered by Lotfi as stated by resolution approved and signed on July 10th of 2023, even though mistakenly dated August 10th of 2023.
 And whereas the Board of Trustees has requested through the resolution that the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas act as its agent henceforth and agree by this ordinance to assign the Fayetteville Fire Relief and Pension Fund to be administered by the Arkansas local police and fire retirement system. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1
 If accepted by Arkansas local police and fire retirement system, LOTP, the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that administration of the Fayetteville Fire Relief and Pension Fund, a local plan, shall be transferred to LOTP under authority of Arkansas Code Annotated 24-10-101 at SEC as amended.
 Such transfer shall mean the administration of the local plan only and not a change in the local plan's benefit program unless a benefit increase is formally approved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas by ordinance. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to enter into an irrevocable administrative services agreement which uses a 15-year amortization schedule
 empowers lot fee to administer the local plan as stated in section 1 hereof in section 3 the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby determines that the provisions of this ordinance prior to this section shall be codified into the Fayetteville code of ordinances as section 33.051 local fire and relief plan consolidated with lot fee as part of article 5 fire department okay Paul
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'll be bringing this forward at this point in time. I'd like to make a couple of comments before we start. If you'd bring up also the slide for me.
 Number one, we've been reporting to you, to the City Council, almost since I've been here, almost 17 years now, of the condition of the fire pension fund. This is the old fire pension fund. This is not the LOPI, which most of our, which our new public safety individuals are a member of. This is an old fund. There are 40 pensioners left at this point in time. We've...
 consistently reported yearly, the merits required yearly, go to annual report, and we've insisted that's been actuarially unsound as found by the PRB and the actuaries as they do their study. This plan would transfer administration to LOPB. It wouldn't incorporate it with LOPB. It wouldn't be the same benefits. It would be the same benefits that that plan is receiving
 here and now under their Board of Trustees. Again, as I said, the Mayor reports to you annually in this year, if I can remind the Council, he said we were looking at this because it was in dire condition at this point in time. Once that plan drops under $2 million, we're required by statute
 to restrict the investments to basically interest bearing investments such as bonds and things of that nature and major mutual funds. The issue is you're not going to make the interest earnings on restricting the bonds that you're going to make if you can look at other parts of the capital market.
 So again, the investments were restricted. Right now the fund is about $1.7 to $1.5 million and payouts exceed the revenues to pay for this. The revenues that are paying for this pension fund are property taxes that were approved many years ago by the citizens of Fayetteville and insurance turn back. And insurance turn back for the prior pensioners
 That is a portion of the property taxes that individuals pay on property insurance. As we look at the actuarial report, we had to have an actuarial report done by Gabriel Roeder, which is the actuary for Lofty that the Board of Trustees.
 authorized us to engage them to do and they paid for it, the old pensioner fund. I thought I'd put together a real quick consolidation so you could look at it. If you look up and you analyze this, you'll see if we consolidate the estimation in 2023, the benefit payments were roughly 1.2 million dollars.
 the contributed income here is indicated to be $949,448. The investment earnings, if we invest with LOPI and they get their earnings, their earnings are estimated to be 7.25%. They'll gain $114,279. So the fund itself would still deteriorate, but would be in a much, much better position.
 If we go down and look at this, we'll see that the position would be deteriorating up till 2029, but at that point in time, you still have $712,936. And then it would...
 also intend to, it would start to continue to accelerate in its position, but at that point in time, you would be breaking even and hitting that point that investments would be outstripping what the...
 what the payments would be at that point in time. The other thing that I wanted to point out with you, even though the estimate by Gabriel Roeder is $949,778, which is a little bit behind or under what the benefit payments to the pensioners would be, we actually collected
 1.1 million dollars that's because we had a second distribution from the premium tax that we talked about we anticipate that that would happen so they did not take that second distribution in in consideration when they finished their actuary report but we could anticipate that we will at least break even on the revenue and expenditures if we in fact consolidate at this point in time
 The positives and negatives. The positives is this would, we would be guaranteeing the pensioner's pension and receipt of that pension into the future. Negative part, we would be giving irrevocable control over the lock people based on this actuarial study. We feel that that is certainly a risk.
 that we're more than willing to take. LockBee earns much more in investment income than we could possibly earn. And I rarely say this, but this fund will be depleted if we don't do something with it. With that, Lionel, I will be happy to either answer questions or before I would do that, though, I would like to introduce David Clark.
 David Clark is the executive director of Lofty. David, if you'd like to make a few comments to the council? Yes. Mr. Clark, you have 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council Members. I won't take ten minutes, so I'll help you on your agenda time. Paul did a phenomenal job summarizing the position of the pension fund where it's at today. You know, the plan is what's called projected insolvent, meaning that if it stays locally administered and with the restrictions by law that the plan has with its investments, it will run out of assets in less than ten years. So it becomes a pay-as-you-go plan at that stage.
 The city has really moved to a very solid position with its revenues between premium tax from the state of Arkansas and then the millage that is collected.
 If you look at 2021, 2022, and then what should happen in 2023, the city will bring in more revenue for the pension fund than what the first year's actuarial cost will be for the employer contributions by I think a little over $200,000. So it's a very enviable position to be in to have a cash positive position with your employer contributions.
 So, this is a great time if the council approves the consolidation. Loppe administers 248 local plans as we stand here today. Two more pension funds are consolidating, so we'll close the year with 250. If Bayville Fire consolidates, there will be 251 local plans that Loppe will administer. That will leave then 31 plans in the state that are still locally administered.
 And at some point, those plans too will consolidate or hand up administration to LAPI. So this is just the natural life cycle of these closed plans. With that, Mayor, that's just a really quick overview. If there's any questions, I'm certainly available. Mayor Weill What questions do we have in the council? Anybody got anything? Sarah? Sarah Hines I have a question that's for Paul. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Mayor Weill You bet. Thank you.
 When I look at the details of what our agreement will be on number four, when it talks about that we're going to have a contribution rate, I think that we're paying monthly. I did hear, you know, we currently with the taxes that are coming in and we have, I think, he said a $200,000 gap.
 what we will be faced with or what we'll be asked to do in the event there was a gap and we were needing to put money into that fund. And I don't know if that's monthly or whenever that schedule is remitted, but what would our options be in the event there was a gap? If you understand this correctly, if something happens to our revenue stream for property taxes you're talking about, well, number one, we would be required to fund this plan
 based on the actuarial study. So an annual actuarial study would be done. If it felt that that was a significant enough decrease that we had to make up the difference, the city would have to make up the difference. Now as far as the, I believe what you're talking about is the potential. There is a potential that we've got information that there could be a rollback.
 there is a rollback that will be required because law would have to do it. Okay, so in fact at that point in time we'd have to make up the taxes, but we can also look at the other end of the coin either way. If there's a rollback, I don't believe it would be that significant to the property taxes here. If it is, it would be much more detrimental for the fund to stay where it is now than if we consolidated it. Does that answer your question?
 It does. I have one follow-up. It's just I'm curious as well because you talked about, and I appreciate that, and about the streams that currently fund it. What happens as far as, you know, that was voted on by taxpayers to fund this pension a certain way. By passing this tonight, are we simply just moving that stream towards, you know, directly, you know, into this agreement? Or what happens with those...
 the way that it's currently coming in to compensate for taking care of these pensioners. Oh, okay. How does that work as far as taking care of the pensioners? We finish out the rest of the year paying them here. Then we make all that transfer down to Lafayette at that point in time. Lafayette would take over the direct payments to the pensioners at that point in time. And we would be in a funding situation that we would fund them, or we'd be in a position to make monthly payments, as you talked about.
 Okay. Anything else? Kit, you want to weigh in on anything or? No, I think Paul and David explained it fairly well. We're in a good position now. Prior to this, it did not look very favorable to do a consolidation or transfer of administration, but at this point in time, I think it's probably a good idea. Good. All right. Let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Yes, please. Thank you, Mayor. My name is Pete Reagan. I live at 243 East 13th Street in Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 I've lived here for the better part of 67 years and I spent 26 years as a Fayetteville firefighter, of which I thoroughly enjoyed every day on the job. I was elected by my fellow firefighters to serve on the Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund Board in 1986, a position I still hold today. I am reporting to you all tonight
 that on July 10, 2023, the Fayetteville Firemen's Pension and Relief Fund Board voted unanimously to consolidate with our statewide fire and police pension fund called LAPI. With your approval for consideration or consolidation tonight, the remaining 39 members of our retirement fund can spend their remaining years knowing their retirement funds are secure.
 Thank you for moving this earlier in the budget. We are in the elderly age bracket now Thank you mayor and thank you council for your consideration Okay, yeah Evening my name is Jeremy Ashley. I'm the fire marshal for the city of Fayetteville chief Hardin would be here today He's at a conference so he asked me to to address you and
 We recognize the sacrifice that all these firefighters and their families have made for the citizens of Fayetteville and there's really not a better way to thank them than to continue supporting them by consolidating their their pension fund with LOPFI. We wholeheartedly support it and hope that you will too. Thanks. Who else likes to address us? Okay I'm gonna bring back to the council.
 now yeah who have on zoom no one has raised their hand okay all right it's resolution what's wishes the county no it's actually an ordinance mayor oh sorry sorry sorry I'm here we suspend the rule and go to the second reading second the most in second go to the second read more yes yes Arna yes
 Fudge? Yes. Hurd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance transferring administration of the retirement coverage for eligible members of the Fayetteville Fire and Relief Pension Fund to the Arkansas Local Police and Fire Retirement System, LOTFE, and authorizing the Mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement with LOTFE.
 maybe suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second the motion second to go third and final reading care which please call the road or yes wedeker yes yes yes yes yes yes yes jones yes
 and nor is transferring administration of retirement coverage for eligible members of the fable fire and relief and pension fund to the arkansas local police and fire retirement system lot p and authorizing the mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement with lot p okay any final comments from the council i have just a couple because we have had this for ever since i've been mayor and for that city council member
 So when it came apparent to me that really I was concerned that this pension plan would last about three more years. And I got to tell you, and I appreciate your comments when we were talking about this, because the way I kind of look at this is that these retired firefighters put their lives on the line and they took care of us when they were young.
 And now that they're retired, I feel like we need to take care of them. So I want to, and just before we vote, I want to thank you all for your service to this city and what you did. And we're going to take care of you. All right, Caravage, please call the roll. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ersberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you all.
 Just this one time. Alright. Alright.
 Well, I hope you all paid for your parking. That's just going to flow right on in.
 Hmm. Just wants to know how you get to there, so. Okay, well. Okay, let's go ahead and, let's go ahead and move to the public hearing. B1, item 2022-319, discussion.
 On recommendation for water and sewer rates effective January the 1st, 2024 has been placed under unfinished business as C1. The public will be allowed to speak after the ordinance has been read.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Again, first I'd like to start out with a presentation from Anna White. Anna White works for Black & Beach. Black & Beach is the organization that we engaged to do a rate study under a cost allocation method.
 I'd like to introduce Anna and Mayor Anna would like to begin if that's okay with everybody. So this is a presentation of a Black Beach and our rate study analyst. Good evening, everybody. Can you hear me okay? A little bit louder, please. Sure. Okay. Is this better? Sure.
 Yes, ma'am. A little bit as loud as you can. That'd be great. Okay. Okay. I will talk louder. I apologize that I can't be there in person tonight. I'm traveling for work, so I just couldn't make it down to Fayetteville tonight. But I do have a few slides that I want to share with you to talk about the study.
 So some of these slides are a recap of what I presented a little over a year ago when I was in Fayetteville doing this presentation and providing the Council with the results of that study. Over the past year we've been working with Paul to make some changes to some of the assumptions
 In the rate model, and we'll walk through those changes towards the end of my presentation. What I wanted to cover with you initially is just the steps that we go through when we do a cost of service study and why that cost of service piece is so important and what that provides us with.
 So an overview of the rate study process, there's three steps. Step one is determining how much revenue you need to recover from your rates. So we're looking at what your operating requirements are, what your capital requirements are, making sure that the utilities are able to meet your financial metrics in terms of
 an appropriate level of funds in the reserve balance, the O&M, the operations and maintenance reserve balance, the operating fund balance, and your capital fund balance. So we understand how much revenue you need to generate and have on hand. And so we then back into that with your customer data to determine, okay, how are we going to recover that revenue from your customers?
 The second step then is the cost of service. So this is where we take all of those costs that we identified in the first step, and we allocate them to the customer classes, and we allocate them to your rate structure components. We're going to talk more about that step.
 The third step then is rate design. Once we know how much revenue we need to get from each customer class, and we know what your rates need to look like in terms of your monthly base charge per meter size and your volume charge, we can then design a rate schedule. Next slide.
 There are two manuals that are used for this type of work. The first one shown on the top there, that's the guidelines for wastewater. That's from the Water Environment Federation. The book on the bottom is from the American Water Works Association that provides the guidelines for water. We followed the methodology in both of these manuals as we did the study. Next slide. So the importance of cost of service.
 Why is this step so important and why do we make it, and why do we specifically indicate that we did a cost of service study versus just a rate study? It's because doing this second step is where we really recognize the difference in the type and level of service that your customers receive. So we recognize that difference between the customer classes
 A retail customer, a residential customer inside the city of Fayetteville receives different service than a wholesale customer located outside of Fayetteville. So that's a difference that I'm referring to, and those two customers pay a different rate because they receive different service.
 The cost of service also provides us with a distribution of the cost to each customer class, and it's recognizing the service demands for each customer class. And then that gives us the results of our cost-based rates that we use when we go into the rate design task. It gives us kind of our starting point of where to begin with designing that rate schedule. Next slide.
 So just for a little context in terms of how we got here. So the revenue requirements has reflected across the board increases for the last 10 years. What that means is that the city has been applying the 3% across the board increase. Every rate in your rate schedule was increased 3% every year.
 for the last eight years for 11 years and so that's why the city reached out to black and beach to see if we could do a cost of service study since it had been so long since one had been conducted it was over 14 years ago that one was conducted so the issue there is that your existing rates when we were brought on to do the study
 were brought on because the rates don't reflect cost of service. They reflected multiple years of across-the-board increases, which didn't necessarily reflect what had been changing within the customer base and the services provided over that time period. If you advance it, I think there's another graphic that will pop up.
 So issue with this passage of time is that customer characteristics have changed. Maybe there's been more growth in inside city customers than outside. Maybe you have a new wholesale customer. Maybe you lost a wholesale customer. That needs to be recognized.
 The cost allocations across the O&M functions change. Assets have changed. There's new assets that have been booked that needs to be recognized in the cost of service. The capital program has changed. And so the existing rates are just not in alignment now with the current cost of service. Next slide. Okay. So one of the key components in cost of service
 is that it reflects a return on investment. So what this is referring to is that there's a difference between customers that are inside the city and outside the city and the service that they receive and what they pay.
 So customers that are inside the city are considered owners of the utility. Customers outside the city are not owners of the utility. Because they are outside of the city, the utility...
 earns an investment, earns a rate of return on those outside city customers in order to reflect the risk associated with providing service to non-owners.
 and i know that probably sounds kind of kind of odd um a lot of it's kind of new to people when i talk about it but this is the the process that is outlined in that american waterworks association's m1 manual in terms of rate design and acknowledging the difference in customers that are owners of the system and not owners
 so the risk that we're talking about is there's an ownership risk the city and the city residents are ultimately responsible for the utility maintaining it meeting regulatory compliance
 There's a financial risk. The city has to invest in assets that are outside of the city to serve those customers outside of the city, but yet those customers, they're not owners. They can decide that they want to purchase water from somebody else and they can leave the system, and then that leaves the city with stranded investment. So the city is taking a risk, putting in assets outside of the city to serve those customers.
 And then there's an opportunity risk. The funds that were committed to serving outside city customers could be used for something else for city customers. So this return on investment, it's an industry accepted method just to recognize that there are risks associated with serving customers outside of the city. Next slide. So the purpose of this is to kind of summarize how we get to what we call return.
 So on the left, these are the costs. When we talk about putting together the revenue requirements or the cash flow to identify whether the costs need to be recovered, on the left, it's very simple. It's operation and maintenance expense. This is for the water utility. It's about $18 million. And then cash financing of capital, which is about $5.8 million. So we take the capital piece.
 that cash financing of capital, and we divide it into depreciation return. Depreciation is the estimated annual depreciation on all of the water assets, and then the difference is the return. So when we talk about how we're recovering return from outside city customers and inside city customers, that's where that number comes from. And I think if we advance the slide, then we'll see that we have the same
 I thought we had the same thing for wastewater. So this is then that's just another way to kind of show it. We have our three components, O and M, depreciation and return. That return piece then gets broken out and we allocate it then between inside city and outside city return. You go to the next slide. So
 When we when I before you do my closing slide, I want to mention On the previous slide how we allocate it between inside and outside city customers We do that by applying a higher rate of return to outside city customers In order to recognize that risk as opposed to the inside city customers. So that's how we get that differential and
 So the whole point of doing a cost of service study, again, so that we can provide that return back to the city for the equity that's been used in order to build, you know, provide the capital to provide the services to those outside city customers. We use the weighted average cost of capital analysis as a way to determine what that rate of return should be. And again, that's following the M1 manual.
 and then of course we want to take into consideration any city policies existing contracts with the wholesale customers and then ultimately the impact on customers we want to understand what the impact is going to be and if we need to make some considerations in order to reduce the impact if it appears to be too much if we go to the next slide
 Here I just have a summary of what's changed since I was there in June of 2022. So with regards to water capital, we now have this west transmission main that needed to be moved forward in the water CIP.
 It's a very large project, and so it's not a project that can just be funded from cash revenue from rates. So a $90 million revenue bond was added to capital funding. And so you'll see that that has impacted the water revenue increases going forward because we now have to pay the debt service on the $90 million revenue bond.
 the costs to purchase water from beaver water district increased they went up from three percent to six percent annually starting in 2024 so we need to recognize that increase in costs as a result of those two kind of unexpected increases in costs the future revenue adjustments have gone from three percent that we were looking at last year to now six percent per year effective january one of each of those four years
 Next slide. On the wastewater side, kind of the opposite of what we saw in water, the biosolids dryer project, the costs significantly reduced from $30 million to $2.8 million.
 We also made a change in the cost of service allocation. It has to do with how Farmington costs were being allocated to Farmington. Last year, we were allocating, we're doing a direct allocation of the costs allocated
 associated with the Westside Water Treatment Plant, we're allocating 8.2% to Farmington. That's what was indicated in the contract. That has now been taken out of the contract, so we're not doing that allocation anymore. We also decreased the rate of return for Farmington and the outside city customers to align with what is in the contract. And I think in the last slide...
 And then with regards to rate structure changes, from what we were looking at a year ago, all that we've changed is the outside city wastewater rates. There's now one rate for all customers, Farmington and all of the other outside city wastewater customers. There's just one uniform rate. And I think that's the last slide.
 Oh, I'm sorry. One more. So when we did the cost-of-service analysis, we did the update this year, we designed cost-of-service-based rates based on our 2023 test year.
 We then applied the annual 6% increases for water and 3% for wastewater to that 2023 cost of service rate schedule. And that's how we get the rate schedules for 24, 25, 26, and 27 that are being presented tonight. So those rate schedules are based on cost of service.
 It's just the 2023 cost of service. That's the basis. And then we apply the across-the-board increases going forward for the four years. And I do believe that's my last slide. Okay. Paul, do you have anything you want to add?
 Thank you, Anna. I'm going to go through a hopefully brief presentation about what those actual rates look like. So if you bring my slides up, I would appreciate it. I'm going to try to go fairly rapidly to keep within time parameters. Okay.
 Well, I guess I'll press on. I gave the council members a cost of these. Actually, this is a summary of the data that's actually in the rate structure and the rate study. So, I'll go ahead with a verbal presentation on this one. First, the rate study, again, was a cost service-based model.
 Water conservation was a prime consideration of the committee when we changed some of the parameters for this. For one thing, there used to be a 1,000 gallon minimum rate charge. In other words, you paid for 1,000 gallons irrespective of what you used. The committee changed that to increments of 100. There we go. I'll flip up the first one, the first page of that, please.
 Secondary the committee changed that to increments that you pay what you what you use on a balance volumetric rate So you're building increments of 100 gallons, which is the minimum that the system allows us to build not no system I know of allows you to change anything under a hundred gallons Again on the cost of capital rate of return return on investments that I talked about and
 We originally, when we brought the first rate structure to you approximately a year ago, in there was anticipated rate of return of 7% for these cities. Now that was because some of the contracts talk about a coupon rate of the last borrowing plus a 2% risk factor, the risk factor Anna went through with you.
 We did not feel that was a fair calculation. I took it to the committee. The committee talked about that, and we changed that.
 rate of return to 4.36 percent that's 2.8 6% effective interest rates on our last bond issue that was a sales tax bond issue that's that's the cost of the city to borrow money at the last time we actually borrowed money and we included a 1.5 percent risk factor in there so the the
 cost or rate of return on capital investments being allocated is 4.36 percent where before it was 7.0 percent Again, the non residential water water quantity costs Currently reduced from over three hundred thousand gallon over three hundred thousand gallon there was a reduced rate the committee decided to make that a flat rate and
 We're not going to discount as you use more. You're going to pay the same rate per gallon. We're not going to discount larger use. Wholesale demand for peak demand, we now made flat. There was a peak demand decrease before. That was unfair also. That was primarily in water for the wholesalers, and we never really hit that. CIP schedule was revised.
 from the last time as we had to include the cost for water of the 48-inch line coming from Elm Springs to us.
 As we looked at that, we looked at the capital plan for the sewer side, and at that time, we thought we were going to have a much more expensive solution for biosolids that we feel we have a much cheaper solution. So we changed that capital program. It was overall increased primarily for water, but we reduced the sewer side.
 The overall revenue increases, again, as Anna talked about, for the system as a whole, 6% over each year going forward.
 For the water utility, that's driven by the loan or bond issue, whichever we end up with, to finance the 48-inch new line. And 3% annually for wastewater. And wastewater has actually been increasing 3% per year for quite a while. So that's pretty consistent. Let's take a look at what this means, really, on some of the rates. So if we take a look at this very quickly,
 But looking at the meter side, this is a fixed component. There are two components when you're billed for water or wastewater charges. One is a fixed component. In other words, you pay a certain amount per month
 because you need the availability of that system. So there's a minimum amount just to have that system available to you, and that's what this particular cost is. It's a monthly cost, and it's billed by meter size. As you can see, most of the users, residential units, over 47,000 of them,
 have a meter between 5 8 and 3 quarter the increase here is 6% for the city is also 6% or outside of the city as we see some of the meters increase those are for the much larger houses or into the non-residential users we're going to see that those percentages of increases
 percentage increases as we go and that's driven by the cost of service study we've got more non-residential
 users today as a part of the mix than we did back the last time the rate study. So that is what that change is due to. So we see those changes are fairly significant for the fixed rates. As we again go to water chase, this is the volumetric this is the volumetric cost. Again we see for the
 For the city users, generally in the residential, it's up in the 2.2% range. Non-residential, anywhere from 10.8 to 2.39 for those over 300,000 gallons. And that's, again, because of the cost of service change. Major industrial, up 6%.
 and irrigation actually was decreased as a cost of service basis at this point in time. That's for the city. For outside of the city, the rates are higher, roughly 12% for the residential users. Non-residential users are increased because of the allocation of cost of services, and irrigation is up for the larger irrigation users.
 So that's more or less the water biometric charge impact. If we look at the wholesalers for water, if you'd look at the next slide for me, next please.
 Okay, if you will look at the water for the wholesalers, we have several different wholesale users. The two biggest ones are Elkins and West Fork. They have four inch meters. So the fixed cost for their meter is going to be up $6.74 per month.
 for that service for Elkins and West Fork. We have the other meter sizes because we do have other meters, Washington Water, and we have some other wholesalers. If we really look very closely, the peak demand will be up, or excuse me, to reduce, reduce the, or the peak demand, excuse me, will be up 3.1%, so the, the peak demand will be up
 Reduced peak is up from 287 to 3.30, and that is because of, again, the cost of service. We have many more wholesale usage today than we did the last time the rate study was done. If we flip to the wastewater side, we're going to see a very, very different scenario.
 We look at that one of the things I'm going to propose at the at the ordinance hearing which is coming after this I'm going to propose that the fixed rate for Residential units in Fayetteville be reduced from what had been proposed which was eighteen point eight three percent per month
 to 12.75%. And the reason I'm asking for that reduction is because when I looked at the charge of 18.83% fixed charge, I felt that was out of sync with the volumetric charge. And I asked Black and Veatch to look at that and consider whether or not they felt that that was proper or they should make an adjustment on that. So what they did was,
 They reduced that, but they made a biometric charge increase to offset it. So we'll collect the same revenue from the city of Fayetteville users. It's just the fixed charge will be less than had been published
 and the volumetric charge will be more, but the same revenue will be collected and that doesn't affect any of the outside users. But if we go back to this particular study, we can see that most of the outside users, as far as the wastewater charges are concerned, that they are reduced compared to what they
 that was opposite what it was before because before we had the biosolids solution. If we'll move on to the next one, let's look at the volumetric charges. And as you'll see the highlighted ones, that's what we're asking for increases in the volumetric charge to the residential users and make up for the reduction of the fixed charges. So there's always a mixed
 how much do you pay for six charges how much do you pay for volumetric but that will bring in the same amount of revenue from the two as you'll see the wastewater to the actual residents of fayetteville
 up substantially percentage-wise. The reason for that is because of the change we made to Farmington. Remember we held up the entire rate study to look at Farmington and evaluate the Farmington contract which had expired. In that particular contract, Farmington absorbed 8.2% of the cost of the entire operation of the Westside plant.
 That was in the contract. None of us, Kit, Tim or I, felt that should be in the contract. We did negotiate the first one, but it was in there. That expired. Farmington came forward, the mayor and representatives from Farmington, said they did not want to continue with that contract, felt it should be looked at. We looked at that and actually changed that, took that out. That cost is not allocated to Farmington. Farmington is now treated
 just like any of the other outside cities. Greenland is one of them that is compared to. So you're going to see a reduction in the outside users and you're going to see an increase in the costs to the city of Fayetteville and that's because of the adjustment for Farmington and that contract which we didn't agree with and didn't feel was fair anyway.
 So, if we go to the next page, we can see exactly the impact on Farmington. If you go to the next slide for me. Oops. I'm sorry. Where do we have? No. Flip back one more. I'm sorry. Maybe I had you flip the wrong one. There you can see the actual impact on Farmington and what the total impact is, which is minimal. If we look at a couple of quick sample utility rates, please go to the next slide for me.
 We can see if we look at the average utility bill and there's no real average utility bill, but we selected a 4,200 gallon usage for residential customers You can see as far as water is concerned the average customer bill would go up four point seven percent or roughly four dollars
 The outside city users actually would go down two dollars or about two percent. Again, there is no average but that's best we could do to kind of get you a feel for what that impact would be. If we look at non-residential, we picked an average consumption of just under 25,000 gallons. With that, when we look at the average non-residential bill,
 That was up 4.5% or $40 a month for City of Fayetteville residents and slightly up for outside parties by $5.23 or a half a percent. Major impacts of the study are one, industrial users. We look at the industrial users, they're very large
 percentage of our mix on our cost of classifications of service, their rate is going up 16.7% if you approve the rates that we offer.
 that we are bringing forward would go up from $152,243 to $177,682 or $25,000 a month. So that would be a substantial increase. And when we look at the wholesalers, who are a much bigger part of the mix than they were before, so on a cost-to-service basis, that has changed dramatically.
 for West Fork would be up roughly 19% and Elkins would be up 28%. The reason Elkins would be up 28% is we had a reduction in the cost of processing
 sewage sent to our processing plant if it went over a certain level. The committee, as we looked at this, made that flat so there shouldn't be a reduction of that. You should pay what you use and that affects Elkins directly. It does not affect West Fork because that was not in the West Fork
 the West Fork contract so again the major impact are in industrial users and wholesalers because their percentage of the total total classifications have changed since we've done the rate structure I know that was fairly fast but I was trying to keep in time parameters and with that I'll entertain questions if you have any okay what questions does the council have for
 Black and Beach or Paul, or do we want to get on into the public hearing and hear from the public first? Okay. And I do want to make it very clear, Black and Beach did calculate these numbers. That's what we employed them for. I'm just presenting them to you. Okie dokie. And there you have it.
 Okay, now we're going to open up public comments. Everybody has five minutes and to discuss the monthly water and sewer rate and Of course don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic, which I think you know what that might be Please give us your name and where you're from and
 those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating resume will speak after that who would like to address us tonight mayor council thanks for the opportunity i'm heath caudle mayor of west fork i came and spoke to you guys once i've been several months ago and i thought several things would change since then but they haven't i i emailed each of you uh friday a packet with some comments two main points that i wanted to make
 I hope you've had a chance to look over those. I'd be happy to answer any questions if the mayor would kindly give me more time to do so. But first and foremost, we are a wholesale client. That means something.
 Black & Veatch said that you deserved a greater return on investment because we were outside the city and because we posed a risk that we could potentially go somewhere else. Guys, we had an environmental crisis in West Fork with our sewer. We invested $8 million to tie into the city of Fayetteville, tie in our sewer.
 With those attachments that I sent you, you can see that we are having trouble currently meeting our bond payment and meeting our current payments to the City of Fayetteville. But we did it. It needed to be done. It was necessary.
 The point being, we own those assets. We paid for those assets coming to Fayetteville. We don't have the financial resources to go anywhere else. Fayetteville is it for us. And Fayetteville wasn't sitting there raising their hands saying, hey, we want to be the leader in the region for sewer. Unfortunately, you guys are the...
 the big regional player and and you're having to step up and play that leadership role i apologize for that but we don't have a choice at west fork so as a wholesale customer we're getting a reduction in our rates on the water we're getting a 26 rate decrease currently but on our sewer we're currently paying a 40 percent premium
 And that just doesn't make any sense. I want you to understand this. If Fayetteville were to provide sewer services, water services to the city of Westport, we would get a rate decrease. If you guys were doing all of our repairs, all of our installations, all of our service, all of our media reading, our rate would decrease by over 40%. Does that make any sense?
 So secondly, I&I. I&I is that groundwater that gets into the sewer infrastructure. We all deal with it. Twenty-five percent is kind of a conservative rate to go by. The cities of West Fork and Elkins have a meter outside of their city. We capture all of that I&I and then we're billed for that.
 Fayetteville, Farmington, Greenland, nobody's capturing the I&I. The Fayetteville water and sewer budget is absorbing the cost of treating all that I&I for those three cities.
 But when it comes to West Fork and Elkins, we're getting charged for it. We're a wholesale customer. We're paying a 40% premium as a wholesale customer, and we're paying for all of our I&I that's getting treated. Again, it's totally inequitable to even consider these proposed rates that Black & Veatch has put forth. And secondly, I'll close with this, Mayor. I foiled Fayetteville's water loss today.
 Fayetteville to date has has purchased seven point seven billion dollars or seven point seven billion gallons of water They have billed for four point three billion. That's a water loss of forty three percent so in a region where we're expected Double growth in the next decade the city of Fayetteville is losing what I say four point I'm sorry over three billion gallons of water in a seven month period now in
 That 3 billion gallons represents over 50 years of water for the city of West Fork. And we're looking to raise the rates. We don't, when we do our personal budgets, we don't get to do those budgets based on our revenue needs, right? We do it on how much money can we cut out of our budget, right? So this study, and I know that it's a study that's, you know, it's...
 we have an approach of how we initiate these studies. But when we look at it from a revenue needs standpoint, it kind of glosses over the fact that we're losing three billion gallons of water in a seven month period. So if we're just trying to raise our revenues to cover our water losses,
 Are we doing the environment a solid there? I mean, I just don't think so. And with West Fork's rates going up, it decreases our ability to continue to reduce our water loss in the city of West Fork. We're currently at 21% as of last month. It reduces our ability to reduce our I&I that's getting into our infrastructure because our rates are going up. We're sending more money to the city of Fayetteville, and we can't take care of our own system. Thank you.
 You're welcome. Mayor, Council, thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is Troy Reed. I'm the current mayor of the city of Elkins.
 I'm kind of coming in on the back of this because I was elected actually in January, so I haven't been involved in a whole lot of this. But what I have been involved in, it kind of feels like we're being punished for being a wholesaler, to be perfectly honest with you. Yeah.
 This gentleman here was explaining that Elkins is going to go up 28.3%. Well, in the paperwork that was given to me, it shows a 20.6% and an average of 75.8% increase. So I'm not sure which one it is. Hopefully somebody can tell me what it is because the paper that was given to me by the city of Fayetteville –
 shows a 75.8% increase in my sewer. My water, which obviously in Elkins, if you know where that's at, just on the east side, we're in a bowl, and we can't get water from anywhere else.
 No one else can provide us water. We can't have a sewer treatment plant. We have to send our sewer back here to you guys. I currently have a $44.5 million dollar sewer project going on right now. And obviously I'm going to have to increase to be able to pay for that.
 my rates as well. Not real sure how we're going to be able to do this if in fact I am facing a 75.8% increase as well. I've not seen this study from what I understand it was made recently public where we could look at it on a website
 Somewhere like that, but I have yet to see anything like that. Like I said, I've not been involved in much of this at all So I just wanted to say, you know, it does feel You know, this is a David versus Goliath type thing I know these rates are coming and I know there's nothing I can do about it but
 I do want to express my concerns that, not that we're being picked on, but you know, I do feel that we are being penalized for being a wholesaler and I disagree with that. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening, Council and Mayor. I'm Ernie Penn. I'm with the City of Farmington. So I'm kind of getting picked on right now. So I'm kind of a little bit different situation because we're not a wholesale receiver. We're a water and sewer provider from Fayetteville to us, and we're joined at the hip. And I think, Lionel, I think we joined about in the 1960s. That was a little bit before. Well, we were pretty young then, but that was kind of before we were in political. 1960s.
 you know arena but anyway two things that number one I want to thank the council the last time I was here was in July of 2022 and we talked about the right study that had been done and our increase in our sewer rate was going to be like I think it was 50% and and I think on the other side of it was gonna be about 20 percent 22 percent and
 And we requested that a new rate study be done by Black & Veatch or a revised one with some of the factors that Mr. Paul has already mentioned to you that's taken place and along with our contract. And we talked to Kit. And so it's made a big difference for us. And it's actually a much better situation for us.
 So, I appreciate y'all organizing that and allowing that to be happening, and I'm sure it costs you some money. But I appreciate that for our city and being a good partner when it comes to water and sewer. Do we like increases? No. We all know we don't. We understand that things are going to increase just because of the cost of service.
 And one of the things that really stood out to us was the return on the investment. Paul and I discussed that and so we've had some good meetings. And so that's, I was glad to see that changed. I was glad to see that we took out the 8.2% billing that we were being charged for because Farmington right now we're kind of limited on how far we can grow.
 So anyway, so we're kind of a minor player when it comes to it because we do have Washington Water Authority in our city also. But basically, I want to thank you for taking the time to have that new study done, which it basically helped us and reduced the amount that we were going to have to pay.
 and which were was not really realistically Agreeable to any of our City Council. So with saying that I know we're working on a new Contract kits and one to our our city attorney He's reviewed it and we've requested a few changes be made on that So I'm going to let those attorneys deal with that and I'm not gonna be involved in it but
 And so our city council will have to approve the rate study and they'll also have to approve the new contract. So I can't speak for them and say they're going to approve it, but from the indications, I think that they're going to feel that what we see now is a much more fair and palatable rate study for us.
 And I think it will be a favorable discussion when we have our next, hopefully we'll have a new contract maybe by our September meeting or October at the latest. So I just wanted to tell you thank you and I appreciate it and we'll just leave it at that. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hello. My name is Tara Bell from the City of West Fork.
 What I would like to present with you guys, or discuss with you guys, is the rate changes. I feel like everybody has their hands in my pockets, and I know I'm not alone. We have inflation all around us. I know there's cost of everything. I think there's a much greater cost going on as we increase and increase. What are we leaving our future children? Have any of you asked yourselves that?
 Facing down these increases, my sewer bill is already three times what my water bill is. And they want to go up. I have but pocket lint. I am a mom in a new house. I started out, I was born and raised in Springdale, Arkansas.
 I had an apartment in Fayetteville and I was so excited to be able to get a home that I could afford not knowing that there was a seven, eight million dollar thing for West Fork in Fayetteville to be hooked up. That just got dropped on me. And there's like 2,000 people in West Fork but only 750 people are responsible for that. I am one of the 750 people. My husband already worked 16, 17 hour days
 It is hard between childcare, everything, all the expenditures everywhere else to just keep maintaining. I'm telling my daughter, hey, it's much like the depression. You got to be careful on your water usage. You know, we are trying to grow our own food because it's expensive in the stores and our food is under attack from many organizations.
 the water bill goes to pay that that's water that probably leaks down into what west fork is being charged for right the rain water rolling off it's not going into the sewer i just don't understand why i am forced to be one of those 750 people i i just would like you guys to take into consideration i understand there is things that have to be paid for
 I understand that you guys as you vote things into office or into law, needing a budget of 20 million or 20 billion, man, it always comes with expense. I asked my own mayor in West Fork, hey, is there a way we can drop down these prices?
 Why is it this high? I'm told you guys set the rates. I get a hold of the city of Fayetteville and I'm told, well, we've told them that they can work it like this. We look at the rates from November to February and we base our rates off of that. That is something that my mayor said he was unknowing to as well. I'm just trying to find a solution. I'm trying to be the speaker for the people in my town
 that maybe for whatever reason they couldn't be here today take it easy on our wallets i don't have much left to give and i'm sure you guys all have struggling family members too that don't have much to give either but we're giving what we can i feel like i'm up against the mountain when i looked at the numbers that they presented to me last week at the town meeting even through the seven million dollars that we got to pay on that 750 people
 Well, then it has to be filtered, right? All that other stuff. So that's a whole other bill. That's over a million. We're almost like we are already in the negative that we owe you. Just like you said, we are negative with what we owe you guys. So I feel like 10 years from now, 20 years from now, is really what the mayor says that this is in 20 years, it should be OK. I feel like if those numbers keep going and raising and raising and raising, 20 years, we're back worse than when we started.
 Thank you. Not as long. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi there. My name is Grace Morales and my family and I moved to West Fork two years ago after living in Fayetteville for 10 years. I grew up in West Fork and it is no secret that everyone dreads the water bill. Our bill in my house last month was $119 and 86 of that was just for the sewer.
 And unfortunately, that is one of the lower bills from our last two years. Our highest water bill from our entire time in Fayetteville was literally half of that amount with nearly identical usage. Now, Fayetteville is proposing a tremendous price increase for the water and sewer services it provides to West Fork. I would also like to point out that because I live in the city limits,
 we are not subject to the additional fee that is charged to water customers that are outside of West Fork City limits. So our bill may actually be on the lower end when compared to the other citizens of West Fork. I understand that rates have not been looked at in quite some time and that costs are rising across the board. But as Mayor Cottle pointed out, this proposed increase disproportionately affects West Fork.
 As I understand it, a portion of our sewer bill is going towards paying off repair loans that were taken out to repair sewer services and to hook us up to Fayetteville services. It was an absolute necessity at the time. Currently, as others have mentioned, there are only 750 households in West Fork bearing the cost of that entire loan payment.
 But what I don't understand is why West Fork is being held responsible for the majority of this proposed rate increase or why our ground and rainwater is being monitored and treated for an added cost. Ms. White mentioned that there was a customer class study. She said that West Fork is in a different class because we receive different services.
 I'm not sure what different services we are receiving, and it doesn't really sound like we are receiving different services. West Fork citizens are more than a return on an investment for Fayetteville. Ms. White mentioned that wholesale customers have the option to get water from somewhere else, and I just don't think that that's true in our case. Adding another price hike will only further put stress on the citizens of West Fork. These proposed increases will also have an effect on future development within my town.
 As a member of the West Fork Planning Commission, I can tell you that we face many unique challenges when it comes to growth, primarily our topography and access to utilities and infrastructure on the outskirts of town. This proposed increase will cause a domino effect that will be felt for years and years to come. Our population has already been in steady decline over the last decade. Our school's enrollment is consistently down year after year, the school being the largest employer in West Fork.
 Fewer and fewer homes are being built, and with inflation on a seemingly never-ending uptick, the future can seem really bleak for my hometown. So I ask you today to really dive into the numbers and look at this proposed increase as not just a way for Fayetteville to save money, but as something that has the potential to do serious harm to a beautiful small town to yourself. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay.
 Good afternoon. I'm John Kennedy. I'm a resident of West Fork. Everyone's rates are going up, but it looks like a disproportionate amount is going to my neighbors in West Fork and also the people in Elkins. And is this, if all our rates are going up, or why are ours going up more than y'all's? This is just a question. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Cheryl Gordon Pike. I'm a West Fork resident. I'm also a 24 plus year teacher of Fayetteville, FPS and retired teacher from FPS. And I've been involved in this community for quite a while as a teacher and the one thing that always struck me about Fayetteville was equity. We are an equitable community. What's good for you is good for me. And
 We had a community that was very kind and generous, and yes, the funky word too, but we all seemed to pull together. But I lived in Westport because when we moved here, that's what we could afford. We had water bills that were in the $20 range. My water bill currently, and we are at the minimum level of water bill.
 without solid waste management is almost $67, and we are at the lowest level. I'm probably looking at an increase of 115 to $120 bill for sewer and water alone, with the increase that Fayetteville wants, with the increase that the state wants from West Fork. And we're not going anywhere, we're not a risk. We don't have anywhere else to go. We only have Fayetteville.
 Fayetteville, when I was a teacher, always treated everybody well, always treated equality, equability was always such an important thing and I guess that's why I don't understand why we feel like we're being punished. And like I said, I'm one of those 750 people and I actually have two water bills and a garden meter bill and my husband says he's tired of five dollar tomatoes.
 And he would like us to maybe not grow a garden anymore. But we love our tomatoes and our green beans and our cucumbers. But they're costing us more than what we could buy them for in the store. And I think that's one of the saddest things of all is we're trying to be more self-sufficient. And I'm going to tell you that a lot of my neighbors in my neighborhood are on fixed pensions and fixed incomes. And this is going to really hurt them if they can afford it.
 We don't have a lot of children in our neighborhood. We have a lot of older people. And it's going to be a struggle for some of them to be able to afford this new water bill. But thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. I know this has gone to the Water and Sewer Committee. Do you have any?
 I'll make a few comments for the Water and Sewer Committee. We've looked at this many times. There's been a lot of adjustments. As Paul has mentioned, he's reduced many of those items to lessen the burden on our surrounding cities.
 And so we've tried to keep that in mind when we've looked at this. And as Paul mentioned, Black and Veatch is the one that did the study. So those are their numbers, but where we could, we've really tried to make this more equitable as much as possible with the adjustment to Farmington and some of the other items that Paul mentioned earlier. Thank you, Teresa. Does Black and Veatch, I suppose, want to weigh in on
 any of the comments by the mayors or some citizens anna go ahead yes yes i'd be happy to weigh in um with regards to west fork and i certainly understand um the comments tonight it you know when when i look at the tables yes it is a significant increase um it's it
 It's not easy to say, well, it's because of this one thing. It's going back into the allocations and working through the math and see if we can identify exactly what it is that's resulting in a higher increase for West Fork than others and Elkins as well. But I wanted to mention on the sewer side, it was just brought to my attention this morning.
 regarding the I&I and the fact that we may be double counting that. So I did go back, looked at the model, looked at what we were using as the base wastewater flow. It was significantly higher than the past and it made me realize, oh,
 There's I&I already in that number and we didn't account for that. We didn't realize that was in there. So yes, we were counting the I&I twice. So I did run a quick scenario to correct that to see what the impact would be. And it looks like the costs that are allocated to West Fork would go down maybe 10-11%, just making that one change.
 So that will be something that will help, but we also need to go back and look at those calculations from start to finish in detail one more time and see if we can pinpoint what exactly it is that's driving those increases for specific customers.
 Anna, I have a quick question for you. Is that going to affect Elkins as well in their sewer calculations, or was that just a calculation error for West Fork? I would have to rely on Paul to let me know if the situation is the same for Elkins in
 If it goes to the pump station or lift station and then on to Fayetteville, if there is a meter read at that location, in which case, then, yes, we'd also be picking up the I&I account from there and double counting it as well. So it seems like the city and I need to kind of walk through some of these issues together and just make sure.
 that we haven't missed that for anyone else. Mayor, I have a request that we leave this on the first reading. Well, we're doing the public hearing now, and we haven't even got to the ordinance yet. Okay, thank you. So I will certainly make a suggestion. We're certainly not ready to pass anything tonight until that study from Elkins comes in and then the adjustments to the Westport.
 Mr. Mayor. I'm tough. Go ahead. Yeah. I think we appreciate all of the calls for fairness and consideration. You only have one mayor coming before you saying, gee, I love the study. My community is looking better. And that's simply because unbeknownst to Farmington residents, by virtue of their contract, they
 allocating 8% of that Westside wastewater treatment plant, which was more than they were utilizing, they were inadvertently subsidizing other users outside of the city of Fayetteville. So if we say that the costs of operating our wastewater treatment facilities are being spread in the same
 if the portion of that that Farmington is paying for with their residents is reduced in fairness to them you can see why there's going to be increases beyond just the cost of living increase because that total amount has to be picked up and and covered by someone outside the city of Fayetteville and so I
 The residents of Farmington, while not here speaking, if they were, would say, yes, we're all for fairness and in fact, we will gladly pay our fair share. They don't want to subsidize someone else. The challenge we have as City Council members is City of Fayetteville residents also do not want to subsidize any other users.
 We had gone into this study like most communities across the United States assuming that industrial users are somewhat subsidizing residential users. And what the study revealed was the exact opposite. In fact, our residential users were slightly subsidizing our industrial users. And that's why their rates are going up. Again, the model of fairness was being applied.
 every class of customer needed to cover their costs for both water and wastewater treatment. And so I think we're getting very close
 to that model uncomfortably being fair. I had someone explain to me one time, Mr. Whittaker, when everyone in the room is equally unhappy, you have achieved fairness. Because I can assure you there's no Fayetteville resident that's going to come up and hug me after we adjust rates because they are not going to go down. And so I would say to be mindful of the fact that we're simply trying to be as...
 appropriately fair as we can and ensure that no one group unfairly subsidizes another Thank You mr. mayor okay but again I think not having all the complete information that we need to do we need to take this any further until we get that couple of studies in yes Paul I may make a suggestion and catch you can roll on this because this is a public hearing
 since you've heard from the public, I would think what you could do is go to the, we could close the public hearing and then we could go to the actual ordinance, which is next. I'll make my suggestion at that point. Yeah, I think it's appropriate to do that, to close the public hearing, and then we'll basically almost have another public hearing because people can comment on a, on a ordinance. Then there'll be some new adjusted rights. Okay?
 Can I make a suggestion, Paul? Since the Mayor of Elkins was, I mean, I had not heard a 75% rate increase, so could we clarify for him, not necessarily... Sure, if you look at that, what that relates to, if you look at the chart that he is looking
 That is because they were getting a discount for additional wastewater flow over a certain amount. Okay? So that was peak over a certain amount.
 That was felt to be unfair, so we leveled it, and so there was no discount for that. So when you look at those percentages, and you say, what's the change? The change is 75%. However, when we calculate a year of actual usage, we came down to the numbers that I had displayed, so it wouldn't be a 75% over change.
 charge what it would be over actual. However, that would put it on a fairer base with everyone else because that was the only one that was receiving that particular discount for over that flow amount. And I had been planning on addressing so thank you for asking that.
 Okay, well I'm going to have something. Yes, I do. You know, some of the information that we've gotten tonight is the first time we've heard it, and it's a little kind of...
 It's a little frustrating, so I would like to ask if there's any other information that is found. How long are we going to hold this for now? Well, I don't know. We've got to get to, they've got to, Black and Veatch got to do a different study. So, I would definitely, however long we have to hold this to get it right, we need to do that. But I want an update if there's anything else that's found instead of us sitting here and finding it out at this meeting.
 like to propose well i didn't really know that well you know i know nobody knew it so anyway so so if we close the hearing we can go into the ordinance and i'll make make our suggestion or recommendation that pursuant to what uh along the lines uh sarah what you're talking about okay well i'm going to close this meeting let's move on and i'll read it
 to see one yes before we close there was um a piece of information that was brought forward too that i was hoping since we do have staff in the room to get clarification on and if this comes back whenever we we do revisit the ordinance um i think that when uh mayor coddle was speaking he talked about the fayetteville water loss
 And so I would hope that we can maybe speak to that. I mean, we're very aware in the city of Fayetteville that we have aging infrastructure. Anybody that lives in the city of Fayetteville watches our incredible crews out, constantly working on our different lines and would like to be able to kind of address between we have CIP projects and we're looking at that infrastructure,
 I think the public probably needs to have an idea as well of the types of investments the City of Fayetteville is going to be making on that infrastructure to help with the loss.
 is purely lost because just because we didn't bill it to customers we also have experienced you know sustained you know covid um with folks not able to pay their bills and i'm curious how much of that loss that was mentioned potentially might be bills that we've written off just because residents have struggled to pay those bills and so i don't know if today you know in this environment would be the time but at some point it would be nice to kind of have that address since that was raised that
 I'm a numbers guy. That's a question for Tim and exactly the information and what information was requested on whether or not that is the full explanation. Tim want, let's let Tim address that now. That's not my bailiwick. I'm a numbers guy. Thank you, Paul. So when the city was FOI'd today, they asked for two numbers. They asked for the water purchased versus the bought water sold.
 Those are two numbers, but when you do a water loss determination, you have about 11 other factors that you do use. We did a water loss audit back in 2018, and basically the other factors that you use when you calculate water loss is your billed water exported, which is the wholesale customers. You do your billed metered consumption, which is the retail, the bulk of the water sales.
 You do your billed unmetered consumption, which we don't have much of that. That would be for discounts for governments and for schools and this type of deal, which we don't do. Unbilled meter consumption would be all the line washing that the city does themselves. Unbilled unmetered consumption is fire hydrants, fire hydrant usage, flushing, and then also our leaks.
 Customer metering accuracies are factored in, data handling errors, unauthorized consumption, and then the type of leakage. You've got leakage on transmission mains because the pressure is higher, the leaks are greater. You have leakage or overflows on water tanks, if any, and leakage on service connections.
 So all of these factors are calculated in determining the water loss. When we determined the water loss in 2018, it was 25%. It wasn't 46%, just going by the two numbers. And I'm not going to say that since 2018, we had some suggestions from the water audit. One of them was periodic testing of at least 300 meters per year to see the accuracy of the meters.
 We are changing meters out because some of them are quite old and they can tend to be inaccurate. We're to analyze oversize and undersize meters and replace those that we find because an oversized meter actually will not register a low flow. It needs to be factored into the right size.
 They suggested that we added leak detection technicians and we do have leak detection crew now since 2019. If you hear my weekly reports to the mayor, we usually find, you know, eight to 12 leaks a week for repair. That's added to last year we repaired 1,400 leaks.
 We do have an old system, an old town, and we do have leaks that are reported. We have leaks that we find, and then we also have leaks that we haven't found yet because there's no evidence that they're surfacing or going to the ground.
 Another suggestion is to add pressure monitoring in some of the areas of town that have the 200, 100 to 200 PSI. Now, you know, the west side of town, we have got the things in place to do that, but then COVID hit and we haven't got back around, but we've got
 Isolate areas that we're going to put pressure reduction. Can't go too low where the outskirts don't have adequate pressure, but we've got some, like I said, pressures that are 200 psi in town.
 And then the other suggestion was to conduct a forensic analysis analysis of our billing system Which we did get that passed by the City Council at the last meeting They're going to come in and look at all our billing practices for our water and sewer department So although the state of Arkansas does not require water loss audits city of Fayetteville is proactive in doing that because
 We don't like to see the numbers increase. We realize how many leaks that we fix every year. So we're taking the approach to try to get it to go the other way, certainly. And I'd be happy to answer any questions on that.
 Do you have more questions, Sarah? No, I appreciate you clarifying. I wanted to bring to the public's attention, we recognize the need to be good stewards in the City of Fayetteville. Not only are taxpayers in the City of Fayetteville going to hold hands and share the burden by taking increases on their water bill, but we're also going to make sure that we improve practices and improve our infrastructure around town. So I appreciate you giving us more details about that.
 okay now i'm going to close the public meeting okay now we're going to see one an ordinance to amend 51.136 monthly water rates and 51 51.137 sewer rates to change water and sewer rates is recommended by the cost of service study conducted by black and beach so we will table this until we get the new rates in okay
 So somebody make me a motion to table this. Oh, sorry Paul. Okay, we closed the public hearing. Yeah, we're on the rights themselves. I'm going to suggest that Do you need to read that kit? Well, we don't have to read it. If we read it We're gonna put it on the third and final reading so it might be better to table it before that because
 We obviously have a little bit more work to do on some of the rates and so we might want to see if we go ahead and get that done before you put it on the third and final reading. Okay so I'll make my suggestion and I'll make a couple of comments if I may. What the last week, late last week, Mayor West Fork
 sent us all an email and he said, how come I'm paying for I&I and nobody else pays for I&I? That's incorrect. He's in fact paying for I&I because in fact the wastewater is metered.
 The rest of the users, that's all part of the processing fee of the plants. When it goes through, part of that cost is part of the I&I from that. At that point, we had transferred and sent that question to Black & Veatch to ensure that that was the correct answer. That point in time, I asked Black & Veatch if that affected anything from the
 West Fork and were in fact they getting a portion of that I&I and therefore paying for their own I&I and a portion of the I&I that was associated with the rest of the surrounding areas. So that's in fact what Anna and Black & Beach looked at and in fact the answer is they were getting a piece of that.
 So what my suggestion is we table this and you go back to Black and Beach, at Black and Beach to reanalyze this, see if they're going to recommend a rate change. Based on that, we all want fair rates for everybody. That's always been our goal. We look at that and see if in fact,
 that would be a reduction for the West Fork users. And I believe that would affect Elkins too, but we'll have to check that for sure. But that would be my suggestion that we go back and we get it right.
 And we have three weeks and we'll bring it back at that time. Now we have had public hearings so we'll bring back at that time if in fact there's an adjustment rather than dealing with the amendment I had today we'll put that off and if that's the case put together a full
 a full amendment and bring that forward. And I will certainly discuss that with the Water and Sewer Committee the next time we meet at the next agenda session. Remember, we don't have a meeting next week, so that gives us three weeks to get this straightened out. So that is my recommendation. How long is it gonna take Black & Veatch to get this put together? Black & Veatch, how long is it gonna take you to get this done?
 So we can have the initial revised analysis reflecting this change for West Fork and potentially Elkins in terms of the I&I here in the next day or two. And then we can circle back with Paul, discuss what the results look like after making that change, and discuss if there's any other changes that we think need to be evaluated or incorporated as well. Okay. How long is it?
 We're going to table this. We've got to know how long to table this. How long will it take you to get the numbers to me? We'll have that by, I'd say, by Thursday. Just give us a day or two. We'll have time to look at it and take it to water and sewer committee. And maybe we table for two weeks.
 I would really like to make sure that water and sewer has plenty of time to review this. We will. And, you know, so not just tabling it two weeks, but actually a little longer so we maybe can go back over all of these again. I'm a little unsettled tonight since we just found out that there was a, you know, so. That's why I'm asking how long you all want to table it. So could we table this to, um,
 I think, is it the 18th? Is it September 18th? Is that the? The meetings in September or September 5th for city council and then also September 19th. Could we table until September 19th? I'm sure we can. If however long y'all want to table it.
 Yeah, if I may ask a question, I believe that we're just discussing the sewer rates regarding Black and Beach making an adjustment based on I&I volumes. But if there's nothing that impacts water rates.
 I don't view the two as legally bound. Could we act on water rates? I would not suggest that. They've been unified throughout this process by one ordinance with both of them. I do kind of wonder why three weeks would not be long enough for this very minor potential change. And, you know, we, as the mayor was saying, or Paul was, we don't have a meeting in two weeks. You all have a meeting in three weeks.
 And since this is such a minor change to the whole system, I just wonder why we need more than a month to look at it. Well, I don't know, but Theresa, you felt more comfortable with having a little longer, right, with the Water and Sewer Committee? I would, and I would also feel a little bit more comfortable if the numbers for all the different cities were...
 reviewed to make sure the calculations were accurate, that we don't have an oversight like this in some other area. So we need to have the trust of the public and going in there and reviewing that information I think would be appropriate and this will give us enough time. It's certainly up to you, Teresa, but what we could do, we could table it
 to the next meeting. And if we're not comfortable, we could table it from there, but it's up to you.
 I have a city attorney question. I thought when the Farmington mayor was speaking that he stated that we wouldn't have a potentially agreed upon contract from the city of Farmington until September or October. Does that impact and do we need to think about that in the timeline as well? I submitted a contract to them this spring, which I think is an absolutely great contract.
 that they need to approve. I haven't heard anything from their city attorneys pointing out anything in it that is not just hunky-dory. And we don't need that contract to approve, or you don't need that contract to approve the rate increase. The main thing this contract does is help Farmington collect some of their extra charges that they have that they have a right to under that contract.
 So, I expect to see approved contract from Farmington in the very near future, but that should not hold up this rate decision. Scott? And I would tend to agree with Teresa. I think we're all a little caught off guard with this development, and I think that all citizens want us to be on the same page, and we want to be very transparent on what we're doing.
 does not look good so we need to go back and re-look at this and make sure all numbers across the board are correct so it's fair to everybody. So I would, when is our next sewer meeting? Let's see our next agenda is what is it is it the 28th of August? 29th. 29th of August.
 Well, we normally don't have that. We have it on the first Tuesday. So it would be September. Is that the fifth? The fifth. I'm sorry. You're right. September 5th would be the next water and sewer committee. Okay. So that would be when did you say?
 So I believe that the Water and Sewer Committee wishes to table it to September 18th. Is that correct? That's what, that would be great. And the Water and Sewer meeting would be on the 5th, so we would have plenty of time to review it. Absolutely. And then the City Council meeting would be on the 18th. So if we get it back, we can sit and distribute that. If we want to have a meeting, we could, but we'll meet at that point in time to discuss it.
 Yes, Tam, what? The next Oral Security Committee is on September the 12th, the second Tuesday of the month. Is that right? Yeah. Okay. I'm sorry, I guess I should look at my calendar. Again, how long would you all like to table this? I move we table to the 19th.
 September okay there we go second second second second second second more yes yes yes yes yes yes Jones yeah okay well that was fun all right
 We'll see you all next month. Okay, we're about, let's go on to new business. All right. A resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize the procurement of rental equipment from various vendors in excess of $35,000, but to require at least three written or published quotes for each rental. Less.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. This is a resolution to allow purchasing department to follow purchasing policy at time of transaction without regard to citywide aggregate annual spend in reference to the rental of equipment as needed by various departments. Okay. What questions do we have in the Council?
 everybody good no i appreciate it i had asked to keep it on just in the event we heard from the public since it did walk on so thank you i don't have any further questions or i didn't hear any feedback okay uh
 let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak to have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on copy please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this in the chamber okay susan have anybody else here okay all right
 What's the wish of the council that this is a resolution? Motion will pass. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Terrence, please call the roll. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. All right.
 thank you all let's move on number two a resolution to approve change order number 13 of the contract the nab host construction corporation in the amount in the amount of 5 million 521 396 dollars for work related to the cultural arts corridor and to approve budget adjustment this part of the 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project wait thank you mayor
 This change order completes the final bid packages for the Civic Plaza construction. The scope of the work includes demolition, earthwork, storm drainage, structural steel, architectural precast, pervious pavers, electrical plumbing, and street lighting infrastructure for West Avenue from Dixon to Watson. All bids were advertised and bid by the construction manager in accordance with state procurement laws
 and the anticipated start date is in september with the completion of july 24th hey all right what questions council have sarah oh sorry okay cool i'm just checking no no no it's fine all right then let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members
 stay on the on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address us on this in the chamber yeah nobody okay I'm gonna bring this back to the council it is a resolution
 Okay, so Sarah, you're going to make the motion, and Scott, you're going to make the second, right? Oh, Holly, did you make the second? All right, Holly, you can have the second. All right, any final comments from the council? All right. Care which police call it up? Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Let's move along to number four, an ordinance to amend 157 notification in public hearings to clarify the official approval date for administratively approved development applications. Kip? Whereas section 157.11 of the Unified Development Code provides a method of determining the official approval date of large site improvement plans.
 but not any other development application types. And whereas for purposes of consistency and to ensure both the applicant and the public are clearly informed, the Unified Development Code should be amended to include a uniform final approval date for administratively approved development applications. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal section 157.11e regarding public notification of approval of large site improvement plans.
 Section 2 that the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enact section 157.12 as follows section 157.12 public notification of administratively approved development applications the Planning Division's administrative approval of an application under any of the development categories listed in section 16601 B and C shall be placed as an informational item on the final agenda of the Planning Commission and
 And the date of the Planning Commission meeting shall constitute the official date of approval by the Zoning and Development Administrator regarding the development application. The date of the Planning Commission's meeting shall also constitute the date of the final action taken for purposes of appeals. Okay. Please. Thank you, Mayor. Basically what's, this issue arose when we were trying to figure out what the date of appeal was for a lot split.
 And there was quite a bit of discussion between staff about what that date was. So I'm bringing this forward just to clarify for the public and the applicant. And I thank Blake for working on this and bringing it before us. So it's just simply to clarify that date for everybody once there's an administratively approved action by the development department. Okay. What questions do we have in the council?
 Good, okay. Let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic Please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first those just paying by zoom We'll speak after that who would like to address this in the chat?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive, Ward 4. I wanted to express my appreciation for Councilmember Tark always encouraging more public notification and transparency. This, I think, helps fill in a lot of gaps that folks in the community are starting to see when they're watching development as it comes through.
 Maybe on older zoning that hasn't been updated in a while that allows by-right uses that don't necessarily fit with the plans but require variances, there's an increased interest in people paying attention to those. And it's been challenging to figure out the best ways to do that.
 for certain types of approval. So I think this is a great way to simply and elegantly put the information where people can find it in a predictable way without the burden of extra notification letters going out in mailboxes. It's not gonna freak anybody out when they see something they weren't expecting, but somebody who is looking for something will be able to find it. I think this is a great change and I appreciate you bringing it and I hope you all will support it. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. Move to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 third and final read second motion second to go third and final read care would you please call the room more yes we'd occur yes or no yes yes kirk yes earthsburg yes jones yes in the orange men section 157 notification public hearings to clarify the official approval date for administratively approved development applications any final comments from council
 care which please call the roll or yes wedeker yes vernon yes yes turk yes herzberg yes jones yes okay let's move on number five an ordinance to rezone that property describing the zoning petition rzn23-017 located near north truckers drive in ward 2 for approximately 20.23 acres
 from our PZD residential plan zoning district to our MF 18 residential multi-family 18 units break kit be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification the property shown on the map today and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo
 From our PCD residential plan zoning district to RMF 18 residential multifamily 18 units per acre. Section 2 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Jonathan Kirk with the City's Development Services Department. Thank you, Mayor.
 There we are. This particular property is located in northwest Fayetteville in Ward 2. It includes just about 20 acres of land at the north end of Truckers Drive, which you can see in the lower right-hand corner of the aerial image here. The property is currently undeveloped with an unnamed tributary to Clyburn Creek running through the western third of the property.
 Less visible and apparent on the property is some of the extensive zoning history on the site. Given the questions and confusion, it felt like I imparted somewhat of an agenda session. I decided to try to attempt to display this visually, perhaps it's a little bit more digestible.
 The property's history began in Fayetteville with annexation in 1982. This included multiple pieces of land totaling about two square miles. You can see where the subject property lies in the upper right-hand corner near where the red arrow is. At that time, it received the default residential agricultural zoning designation that properties receive when they're annexed into Fayetteville.
 This was followed about 24 years later by the City Council's approval of a PZD, a planned zoning district for the Park West project. It was a pretty robust proposal, including about 850,000 square feet of commercial development and about 1,700 units of housing. As with many proposals that occurred in that time period, however, this is an aerial kind of give you a perspective of how it's describing the property and the extents of the PZD project.
 Given the time period and the Great Recession which occurred a few years after the PZD was approved, it did not come to fruition and lay dormant until the PZD expired in 2011.
 This was followed more recently by a quartet of rezonings that included portions of the overall property. The first of which includes the area that is now where Fellowship Bible Church is in 2014. In January, it was rezoned to CS Community Services. Book ending the other end of December or the other end of 2014 was rezoning to RMF 12 where Grand Retirement currently lies.
 Then following that, in 2015, staff brought forward an internally initiated rezoning proposal that occurred in several places across the city for properties with expired PZDs in an effort to revert them back to their original zoning designations or propose to turn them into zoning districts that related or mirrored what the PZD was approved as.
 Ultimately, the City Council had several concerns about some of the environmental sensitivities of the property and only the northwest corner of that proposal is rezoned and it was rezoned
 If the Council did not have an opportunity to consider all that background material in the staff packet, the second piece of the Council's action in 2015, besides reducing the rezoning proposal, was to refer the remainder of it to the Environmental Action Committee for consideration.
 There were five big pieces that came out of it that they proposed to be considered moving forward. One was to encourage preservation. One was to encourage LID, low impact development features with any development. So two more development oriented pieces to consider.
 The third piece was to break off what was considered the front zoning. When the sustainability staff went back and looked at those meeting minutes, they interpreted that from this discussion to include that piece that's closer to Highway 112, which would be east of what we're considering tonight.
 there's also a encouragement for there to be a family element for the any proposal or proposed rezoning on the property and that was with a specific intent of the possibility that parkland dedication could be a means of of the city receiving land that sensitive lands that could be protected and lastly
 They requested that the EAC, the Environmental Action Committee, be given a review of any future requests on this property. It was brought up at agenda session why the EAC had not had that at this point. That is at the council's discretion. What planning staff's charged with is ensuring the path of our ordinances are observed and those direct applications to our planning commission on to council from where it can be sent back to the Environmental Action Committee, to which you also appoint the members of.
 Moving forward onto most recently, in 2022, if some of the council members may recall, the biotech Pharmacal rezoning that occurred. It also included the bigger chunk of land to the northeast of this property. That rezoned much of the RSF8 area into a mix of CS Community Services, UT Urban Thoroughfare, and NS Neighborhood Services.
 Which finally brings us to the portion you see here in red today. The request before council tonight is to rezone this portion from an expired RPZD residential plan zoning district to RMF18, residential multifamily, 18 units per acre.
 When planning staff evaluated this request from a land use compatibility, we did find it to be compatible. This area where developed is largely residential. It's also in close proximity to one of the city's few interstate interchanges, which facilitates easier movement throughout the region.
 When looking at it from a long-range planning standpoint, staff found it to be consistent with our future land use map, which designates this area as a city neighborhood area, which is intended to be developed with higher densities and intensities of land uses. And that includes or that could be complemented by the RMF zoning district, which allows single, two, three, four, and multifamily residential areas.
 The infill score on the property, perhaps unsurprisingly, given it's fairly detached from much of the rest of the development in the area, varies from two to five with those points or indicators being for water and sewer access. Excuse me, sorry for the typo. It should say grocery store for Sam's Club, not tour. Access to the nearby Clyburn Creek Trail and, again, that future land use map designation
 Here you can see that portion of the future land use map for consumption. Lastly, or in addition to land use compatibility and long-range planning considerations, I'd like to touch on some other items, specifically some that were brought up also at agenda session. The first of these, and they all pertain really to environmental characteristics of the site or the area,
 is topography. As you can see here, and these, you probably find them familiar if you saw the exhibits I included in the packet when the final agenda went out. This one references topography and stream. The topography on the site is very flat. It's about a 1% slope going from north to the south towards Wilson Springs, the preserve that's located about one or two parcels removed from here.
 I added the yellow highlight here so it can be seen more visibly on the slide, but that yellow represents that unnamed tributary which is subject to the City Streamside Protection Standards. I believe that was a question at Agenda as well.
 As it relates to floodplain, this property is, perhaps unsurprisingly, given its distance from Clyburn Creek, well outside any designated floodplain. However, it is within an area of hydric soils. This entire area, all along the Clyburn Creek Basin, is characterized by hydric soils. If the council doesn't recall, those aren't a guarantee that there are wetlands in the area, but they are one of many indicators.
 prompts development review staff to require a wetland delineation as a part of any development proposal. That's when a biologist or other professional goes to the property and identifies if there are plants or other indications that it's wetland and then possibly leading to a Corps of Engineers wetland delineation.
 Another item which I already went into about the Environmental Action Committee, it's my understanding that they are meeting next week. So if it is the council's interest to hear from them as a part of this proposal, there of course is the opportunity to leave this on the first reading. It could be considered by Environmental Action Committee between now and then and then at the September 5th Council meeting that feedback could be provided.
 And then lastly for additional items there has been a bit of public comment on this item Leading up to the Planning Commission. There were several pieces that gave Conditioned support if you will recognizing that there is a need for housing that this property may develop but also hoping or aspiring to see some sort of requirement or standard that there be preservation or environmental sensitivity observed when the site is developed and
 With all that in mind, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council, recommending in favor as well by unanimous vote. Their conversation was very limited. Ultimately, it revolved around a planned Master Street plan connection that's ultimately designed to connect Dean Solomon to the west and Highway 112 to the east. They were satisfied that developing that connection would not be precluded by the rezoning request.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has and I believe John Gilbert and some individuals from his team are here as the applicants, Mayor. Okay, the applicant would like to speak for the council. You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening. I'm Kelly Comer. I'm with Eldridge Brooks Partners, and we're attorneys for the applicant. We have some participants online and also in the audience that are here representing the project, including John Gilbert, who traveled in to be a part of this meeting tonight. We would ask that you guys approve our request, and if there are no issues here raised tonight, we would ask that there be three readings. We're here to answer any questions, and we hope that you'll ask those of us. Thank you. Okay. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff?
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, could you go back and put your slides up, especially the portion, the sequence of annexation or rezoning, actually not annexation, but the rezoning, the different parcels?
 You know, we had a conversation last week at a GENSA session about areas that were unzoned. So this area on the right-hand side right over here that is not the parcel that we're discussing rezoning right now, yeah, to the right, is that still unassigned in zoning? That's correct. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. And then also, I kind of read through some of the recommendations.
 from the public at the Planning Commission meeting and didn't many of those recommendations, you said they were conditional recommendations, was an LID part of that too, low impact development in many of their letters? I think so, I don't recall them verbatim at this point. Do caution, some of them I think use language about getting guarantees and I know that's something that an applicant can offer but it's not something that can be required as a part of an approval.
 And with the approval from the Planning Commission, were there any conditions that they attached to this property? No, the Planning Commission cannot legally apply conditions to rezoning requests. But don't sometimes they make recommendations? Oh, that's a CUP. Never mind. Thank you. Okay. Anything else? Oh, yes. Oh, okay.
 And is it accurate to state that any determination, formal determination of whether wetlands exist won't happen until a development application is submitted?
 Generally, that's correct. If I said that was always the case, that would not be true. I know the council has seen, I think, one or two instances over the last five, ten years where a rezoning that was very contentious or went on. Typically, it's a PZD where there's a much higher level of detail where the applicant was willing to invest the money, an employing professional to go do that determination.
 Rarely it's done at the point of rezoning because of the cost associated with it and lack of certainty knowing if that additional expense is appropriately incurred. And I don't think really we can require that. That was something to be offered by the applicant. Is that like similar to a bill of assurance? I mean they've got to offer that, right? I mean. Yeah, they could certainly offer something, but it's not something we could ask for or require. Okay. All right.
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber?
 Hello again. Mayor Peter, it was nice enough to remind me that I was on the Environmental Action Committee when they discussed that previous rezoning and so I went back to my email and I found the the recommendations that were there.
 This seems to fit pretty well with what they were suggesting back then. It's a housing element on the property. It would be different zoning from the part up along Garland. The only thing that I haven't heard addressed is they would have encouraged low impact development manual be used in designing the project. I'd be curious if they plan to honor that.
 If you're going to hold this long enough for the Environmental Action Committee to discuss it, it might be nice if they had some of those addressed while we got the opportunity here. So that's my only question.
 Tentative on that, I mean this seems like a good use of the area. There's already housing, some kind of special community housing in that area. So I think this is a good use for the area as long as it is done with consideration for the environmental needs of the area. Thanks. Hi, my name is Misty Simpson. I live at 2425 E. Sharon Street, and I've been a resident of Fayetteville this time for 23 years. I wasn't planning on speaking on this topic, but
 I worked in the Fayetteville school districts for five years and I have a real concern about approving all of these multi-family homes on like 18 homes on an acre. If you put two kids in each home, that's a lot of kids. It's 365 homes that you're wanting to build on this 20 acres. Have you taken into consideration where those kids are going to go to school?
 Butterfield is bursting at the seams. My daughter doesn't even have an actual pod in middle school right now, she's in a hallway. Everybody else has pods, but they don't have enough room at McNair to make one for her in sixth grade.
 So that's what needs to be taken into consideration. I don't understand how you say it's not going to affect the road, then you haven't been down Dean Solomon Road. Maybe you're saying that after Phase 6 on that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The comment about it not messing with transportation is,
 365 homes in that little corner. It's a two lane road without even a shoulder. Maybe you're planning on making that a four lane highway or something that I'd missed.
 But 365 homes on 20 acres in Fayetteville is getting to be the norm. And I'm just here to say that I'm not the only person in this area who feels like we need to start backing away from that. I feel like we're turning to all of these instant houses that can be built in a month. I just had a house built behind me in a month. And it's actually a really good house. But a lot of these are going straight up. We don't look like Fayetteville anymore.
 And I mean, just please take into consideration, ask the school districts what they would think about 365 homes being put in that area, because I don't think they would agree with you. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, my name is Marcy Nance. I live at 3132 North Tartan Way. I am Director of Land Protection and Stewardship for the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust and we own and manage Wilson Springs Preserve, a 121-acre nature preserve located about a tenth of a mile south of the subject property. Wilson Springs is one of the largest publicly accessible open spaces in Fayetteville, the largest protected wetland matrix in Fayetteville, and the largest protected remnant prairie in the city.
 The preserve hosts over 1,000 visitors every year. It's home to 600 species of plants and animals including 30 state wildlife species of conservation concern and four state tracked rare plant species. An unnamed tributary flows south through the subject property and terminates on the preserve at the confluence with Claver Creek. Claver Creek runs for half a mile through the preserve and onto Underwood Park. It's a major tributary, which is a major tributary to the Illinois River.
 The Arkansas darter, a state fish species of conservation concern only known from five locations in Arkansas, lives on the preserve and has been observed in this tributary. These fish require shallow, cold, clean, low velocity spring water.
 Over the last 10 years, we've seen a decline in the numbers of these fish on the preserve, which has coincided with the continued and rapid development around us. We've also watched as Claver Creek continues to build with sediment. Wilson Springs Preserve accepts stormwater from approximately 700 developed acres. The preserve has 12 stormwater inputs from the surrounding developed area.
 We've seen our largest flooding events within the past three years, which has damaged infrastructure, closed the preserve, and blown out spring runs, which the fish requires for survival. We've also observed this on the Underwood Park property as well. The preserve is always intended to capture, sequester, and filter stormwater for the surrounding area, but we believe it may be reaching its capacity to do so.
 The Land Trust in general is not opposed to responsible high density infill within our urban core. We have been in discussions with regional partners about the need for more housing, especially workforce housing and affordable housing. That being stated, we have concerns about potential negative effects to the ecological integrity of Wilson Springs, which is under constant pressure from development around it, especially when there's a potential for negative impacts on species of conservation concerns.
 Our concerns for this project are additional sedimentation of Clabber Creek and its tributary, especially during the construction phase, increase in water temperature, volume, and velocity in the tributary during rain events, conservation of the Arkansas Darter and potential extirpation from the preserve, additional potential for damaging floods on the preserve and farther downstream, and negative water quality impacts to Clabber Creek and its tributary.
 The land on which Wilson Springs and the subject property lay was once tall grass prairie which stretched more than a thousand acres across the area. We've lost most of that ecosystem and many of the plants and animals that depend on it. Small areas such as Wilson Springs are the last remnants of the system and a final holdout for many grassland and wetland species in this area of Fayetteville. I ask the City Council to strongly consider our open spaces, green infrastructure, and enduring green network when deciding upon developments and rezoning requests such as this.
 Thank you. Who else wants to address us? I do have someone on Zoom down there. Okay. Margaret Britton. Go ahead. Go ahead. Margaret. Okay, go ahead. I'm here. I just, it took a while to get the unmute of Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville. Thank you.
 i come here wearing two hats the first is as a member of the environmental action committee um i would like to bring your attention to the letter that the eac sent to the council and the mayor i believe you got it last friday requesting that we be given time to consider this property um more completely and also we hope to tour it so uh
 With regards to the other hat, me, concerned citizen, I would like to echo everything that Marcy and Nance just said, and I will not repeat it, but I want to remind everyone that wetlands are an incredibly important resource. We've just spent hours talking about how much we value water, what we're going to charge for water, and yet at the same time, I see the city saying,
 building over wetlands right and left, we've got to understand that wetlands are important to water quality. Obviously to Wilson Springs, but also to the general health of all of our water. This is part of the Illinois River system, which is
 obviously impacts many of us. If this is to be developed, I think we have to insist that it's less dense, first of all, but also that it utilizes low-impact development. And one more thing.
 i looked at it the other day there are creeks on both sides that are running right now um i think that's all i've got to say thank you good night thank you who else i have no one else okay i'm gonna bring it back to the council this is an ordinance um and what action would you like to take what discussion would you like to have have the council members from ward two
 haven't heard anything but i was hoping we would leave this on the first reading to give the eac time to get back to us okay so i mean i'm i'm definitely open the same i haven't besides the letter that was mentioned um from the last speaker i haven't heard from any other community members that are concerned okay scott uh i did speak with uh representatives from the church and they're fully on board with the rezoning oh
 Well, I assume you all want to leave it here. Teresa? Yes, the EAC is going to meet on Monday night. And so I think given the past discussion at the previous council in 2015 and some information that we've had tonight from the public, I would hope that we can just leave it on the first reading. Okay.
 Just a follow up to that. Just wanted to see, I mean, do we, you know, we do know that these developments, I mean, time is money and we know we need housing. I'm just curious and just, again, not familiar since this was 2015 when that conversation happened. Does it sound feasible that one meeting, one conversation with this committee would be suitable before it would come back to council or do you suspect any other delays of the
 I hope that we can actually schedule a tour on Monday. So maybe if staff could reach out, and I think that would be very helpful, and hopefully we could just really focus on this piece of property that the EAC could, and also with the tour. And then they could come back with their thoughts or recommendations. It's hard to say, but I would counsel them that
 Yes, there are projects waiting and it in time. Ling this would be very helpful. Yeah. Well, let's just leave it right here All right Let's go on to number six a resolution pursuant to thirty nine point one OC for of the federal city code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of fifty thousand dollars to Misty Simpson and
 for a water damage claim arising at 2425 East Sharon Street. Tim. Thank you, Mayor. On September 20, 2021, the city experienced a large 36-inch diameter water main break on North McKee Court. Ms. Simpson owns the home located at 2425 East Sharon Street. This large water main break caused substantial amounts of flooding and damage to the neighborhood and to the Simpson residence.
 Ms. Simpson's insurance company denied her claim, so she immediately filed a damage claim with the city. The water main break flooded the residence and caused major damage to the foundation of the home. The claimant is requesting payment in the amount of $61,200 for the repair of the foundation, driveway and sidewalk. The water main break also damaged areas in the bathroom and bedroom with repair requests for $16,075.
 The claimant is requesting payment in the amount of $5,861.33, plus any taxes for remediation of the front and side yard and the repositioning of a storage shed. Ms. Simpson is requesting payment in the amount of $14,801.98 for rebuilding a back patio.
 The claimant did request payment for fencing and backyard landscaping in the amount of $12,610, but the city has previously paid for these services, and we don't feel like that they qualify for re-reimbursement.
 Partial payments have previously been made to Ms. Simpson, to Privacy Fence Incorporated, a clean cut lawn care, Stanley Steamer and Hall Engineering in the amount of $19,961.77 for loss of personal belongings, flooring and ductwork cleaning, structural investigation, fence replacement, and landscaping services.
 Total repair amount Ms. Simpson is requesting, excluding those repairs already paid by the city, is in the amount of $97,938.31.
 Staff does request approval to reimburse Misty Simpson for the maximum amount allowed by Section 39-10 of the City Code. This was presented to the Water and Sewer Committee in April and was unanimously voted on to report to the City Council with the recommendation for consideration. Oh, okay. Do you have any answering questions? Do you have any questions you want to hear from...
 Ms. Simpson, would you like to address us? I'm Misty Simpson again. I live at 2425 East Sharon Street.
 Yes, the city has paid for my fence, the backyard landscaping, and some personal belongings that were destroyed. As you all know, there was over 25 million gallons of water. My yard sits about 18 inches off of higher than the other yards, so I think what happened,
 All of that water went through my yard, and my fence was built. It's a very expensive fence, and it was built with the planks together because I like privacy. Well, what that did is the pressure from the water main break was pushing the water into my yard, but the fence swelled shut on the other side, so it was filling up my yard. The shed that floated that needs to be moved is an 8 by 10 solid wood shed. The only thing that kept it in my backyard was my fence.
 and the fence was laying down on the back. When my landscaping was replaced, I went out and I knew that it wasn't done properly. I guess when the water went away,
 a bunch of sediment stayed in my yard and it didn't dry. It molds, it gets sticky, it's slippery when it's wet, but it sticks to your shoe. It's the weirdest stuff I've ever seen in my life, but I had about that much of it left in my yard. I called the water department because I have four dogs. After like two days, I'm like, I can't do this because my house is a mess. So they came out and put a truckload of mulch on my backyard. I was very grateful for that.
 So when we decide that it's time to
 fix the yard, the people that did it did not take that three to four inches of lake water, mulch and stuff off of the yard. They started to, I left, came back, it was done in an hour. So I started questioning him. He told me that he did it. They laid the sod. Well, all of that sediment literally ate the sod.
 So that's why we're back at the same spot. Everything that was done to the yard because Mark signed off on it because I had to call him out there, he signed off on it. So I had nothing, I couldn't fight it because you guys picked the contractor and you guys paid the contractor. It's just my yard.
 So this has all come back up. I've been living in this filth for two years now. And I have asked help from the water department to fight this person that did not do the work. He didn't move my shed. My shed is still sitting in the mud. It's not back on its support. He didn't take any of the dirt off. The grass was a total loss. But I'm standing here on my own to fight him. I called him. He came out and he looked and he went...
 and Tim has said that it's my deal, it's my problem to deal with, but it's not. So I'm asking that my house be repaired after two years of living in this filthy mess and I'm also asking that if you do approve the repairs that I can be in charge of the money. You guys have all of the bids, you have everything that needs to be done, except you're not paying for the mold behind my shower.
 Because I couldn't have somebody come and tear out my shower because I have no idea how long it's going to take to get it repaired because we're going on two years now. So I was told I need an estimate for the mold. Well, I'm not going to let somebody tear out my shower. So that's not in this, the mold repair. That's not in it. My fence that I had before set up on top of garden posts that were planted in the ground so that my dogs didn't dig out. Fence is not back up on those because we were trying to stay in a budget.
 Nothing was done correctly because we were trying to stay in a budget. And I feel like if I came and ran my car through the courthouse, you would never let me fix it for $20,000 because that's all I had to give you. You would make me pay to fix it exactly how it was before my car ran through it. And so I'm standing here before you today to fix my house.
 Before y'all your water ran through it. I have been treated like I'm asking for too much and I've lived in this for way too long I have to change my air filters monthly if not every three weeks I have dirt have to dust and sweep daily. I can see dirt in my light fixtures How many when's the last time you changed the dirt in your light fixture? When's the last time any of you dusted off a painting in your house? I do it every single week. I
 every week without fail. And I sit and wonder what it's doing to my kids.
 Yes, you cleaned out my air conditioning system for me, but because the yard wasn't done right, it's all moot now. It's all pointless. And if the yard does get redone, now my fence has to be recut and everything to fit back on the yard. I mean, it's a complete disaster, and I feel like I've been left out here to handle it on my own. So I'm begging you to fix my house the way it was before the flood. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, what discussion would the council like to have? I'd actually like to ask Tim about the contract. I'd like to ask Tim about the contract with the yard fix-up and who had the contract? Do we have, was it a written contract? I would have to check into that kit and I will, but we have a staff member take care of that, so I haven't seen the, I haven't seen the contract.
 So Mark was the one who was taking care of that. Well, I need to see what he has to take a look at that. We use our own, we paid that ourselves? Yes. Okay. Were we, was it a contract with the city? I believe so. Okay, well, I'd like to see that contract. Ms. Simpson, you have to turn it to Mike.
 Now if they want to give you more time, they can bring you back up there to hear something else. Sorry, it's my first time here. It's okay. I understand that. Actually, I don't think she needed a timer of five minutes. She should have had ten. So if you'd like to have another five minutes, I will give you that. I have all the information, whatever you need to know. The contract was with a clean cut.
 I think it was called the clean cut. Give me another five minute timer. And I've had him, I've had the owner back out to my house and he's not going to remediate it. Well, the reason I asked about that, it was a written contract. And it's enforceable, still enforceable right now.
 I understand, but I've been dealing with this for two years. I'm ready to get this done. When Ms. Knapp came in here to beg for an increase of $5,000 so she could put her house back on its foundation, everybody here was like, oh my gosh, it was like World War I over there. Give these people what they need.
 Well, I've been met at every turn being told no, no, no. I have spent hours getting bids. I've spent hours meeting contractors only to be told, oh, we don't need three bids for that anymore. It's only for stuff over 5,000. I have gotten ready to have my yard redone, and then I was told we can't use a clean cut for your front yard. You're going to have to get new bids again because we've mixed the cap on the clean cuts. I mean, it's been, and I'm standing here shaking. This is my home.
 This is the second most important thing to me besides those two people sitting right there. And I shouldn't have to beg and shake for you all to fix it. Like, this is your responsibility. I pay my taxes. I've been here for 23 years. I was born here.
 Like, I shouldn't have to be standing up here wondering if my house is going to continue sinking into the ground. It's already sunk an inch and a half in the back. It's sinking in the middle. I have windows that fog over. It never did that before. My driveway is about to buckle in half. The crack in the driveway goes all the way into my garage and all the way out to the middle of the street. I was in that flood.
 I was in the flood for three and a half years. I'll just read you some things you're not paying for. Two dogs that I found swimming in the backyard died within six months from lung infections. The bathroom windows, the fence is not even the same quality as it was before. I mentioned the mold, the air filters. I have bought probably four different machines trying to figure out how to clean this weird clay, sand, grossness out of my house.
 I have three decks that now have to be removed because they sat in water for three and a half hours and they deteriorated. I was told by Aaron, I had a bill for all three decks to be replaced. And then I was like, no, I really only need one. So I told Aaron when he said you have to have this in by the 26th. I was like, the guy hasn't gotten back to me with the reduced bed on the deck.
 He's like, too bad. We're going to Congress. We're going to council on the 15th. I said, can we just move it to September so I can get that on here? Nope. We're going on the 15th. So here I am begging you to fix my home. I'm begging you. This was all I have. It's all I have. And I'm not asking for anything extra. I'm not asking for anything extra. There's things on here that you're not taking care of.
 And it's ridiculous. My son and I broke down our fence trying to save our home. We have floor damage. I can't even take a shower because there's black mold in it. We're down to one shower. And I'm told that, nope, no help. Can't do it. It's between you and the gardener. Well, I tried. I did. I had him out there, me and him, standing in my backyard.
 And I finally had to step down off of the four inch lift of my yard down into my sinking patio and go, now can you see the difference? It looks like that, but it's built up on my yard and my patio sinking into the ground. Doors don't shut. Don't worry about that. When the ground dries out, it'll shut just fine. Next time it rains, probably be a different door.
 You can look at the report. My house is sinking in the middle. It's sinking on the back end. The chimney's pulling the back end down. It's pulled the overhang from my roof over the patio. It's pulling it down. It's all rotted out because water's gotten under everything. I'm done. Like, I'm done. I need help. And I've lived here long enough that you all should not be putting me through this to get help. It's disgusting.
 Okay, what discussion with the council like to have I? Cannot imagine the frustration she's going through I went out to the house myself personally and met with her and It's amazing the amount of damage that was caused by water and you've always heard, you know water can do amazing things and that that you really don't realize it until you see it and I
 That's the situation here. The house is tremendously damaged. And I think I get your passion. And again, I can't imagine the frustration you're going through. But I think what Kit was trying to allude to,
 was the fact that we may have some recourse, if I'm understanding it, maybe his line of questioning it, we may have some recourse with the landscaper if he did not do what he was contracted to do in a proper fashion. Am I reading your line of questioning correctly? Yeah, I really need to see the contract itself to be able to interpret it. But if he has breached the contract, then...
 and cause damages because of it it's not only the fact that he maybe should not have been paid for that but also if there's additional damages because the way that he did not complete the contract and those damages could be recoverable and if the city was able to then recover those damages i think those damages would would go to the homeowner uh and
 However, as I told you earlier, our code limits the amount of damages that the city can pay on this particular damage claim. It was raised by 25% a few years back when it seemed that the $40,000 was too low and it was something that had been established several years before. And so with inflation, the city council decided they were going to increase it by 25%.
 And they did, and you put a new cap instead of $40,000 to $50,000. Obviously, the city is actually not legally liable for a penny on this. We have sovereign immunity that protects us even if we were negligent, even if our negligence caused this.
 However, the statute also gives us the right to have a claims situation, a claims form, a claims system, which you all have done, and the claims system must have a cap to be very effective and to keep us from just becoming an insurance company, which we are not.
 And the cap is $50,000 and the Supreme Court has said that cities don't always have to have an ordinance to do something like this. But if you do, you must obey it. You can't just ignore it. You can't waive it. You have to follow your own ordinances. And so that's what I have to tell you at this point, the most that you could provide this homeowner,
 is what exactly what the resolution says which is about thirty one thousand dollars more than Has been spent on this but I will say that I would like to see I have the the water department show me the contract and explain the situation to me and
 so that it is very possible that we could actually initiate suit. I'd have to ask you. I don't sue someone unless the city council tells me I can't. But, and I don't want, I'm not asking for that because I want to see that. I need to do a little bit of investigation before I would even make that request to make sure that we're on solid ground. That is something
 That sounded very strange to me that a contractor would do something that would not be in compliance with the contract. I think people should follow their word and they should do what they say they're going to do and if they don't then we do have legal remedies for that. Mayor, I have a question for Kit. Kit, do you need extra time or are we able to pass this and then you can review that contract?
 I think probably you should go ahead and pass this resolution. This is the maximum amount that you're allowed to provide her. And I don't think anything that I would recover would legally really be the homeowners because they were the third-party beneficiary of the contract. And so if I had to file suit and if I was successful, then any recovery I'd have would go to the homeowner. But that wouldn't make any difference in what you're doing tonight.
 I move we pass the resolution. I'm sorry, I've been over here with my button on. Can I ask a question? Sure. Thank you. I had a follow-up to that. I mean, I agree this is incredibly unsettling. Some of us who are homeowners here and some of us in modest ways, this would be incredibly devastating to our finances, to our well-being of our household. And so I absolutely understand and I appreciate the explanation about what are ordinance and what –
 The Supreme Court has said, I'm just curious about the exploration as she's expressed a lot of distress around these additional things that she's struggling to repair with what happened.
 I believe, I'm not an insurance expert, that's why I'm asking, but I believe a lot of times when water is involved, you have to have flood insurance. But are there other avenues, even with this being something that came from a city water issue that she has available to her, or are there other potential things in our region that we can explore alongside the homeowner to see if there's anything possible?
 There wouldn't be any other things from the city that would be available. Now, like you said, it's possible that she might have some sort of insurance protection, but something tells me she doesn't because that's something that we also need to know. Because if insurance isn't going to pay for it, we're not going to pay an insurance company back. They've had a contract with the homeowner, and they should fulfill it.
 So I imagine there's probably not flooding insurance with the with the homeowners policy That's actually fairly rare if you're not in a floodplain for you to get that and so I doubt if she has that and so I Don't know of any other potential remedy that she has Besides if in fact a contractor did not do the job and that's something that the city should certainly look at very carefully grace
 I just have one follow-up. Oh, sure. No, it's okay. Just because of what was mentioned by Council Member Hertzberg, could we potentially pass this tonight and then explore in the event if there were some avenues in the region? I mean, just because we passed this and she's paid this money that we have the availability, we can continue to do due diligence with city staff to see if there's anything available for her statewide or...
 or what have you i mean we may look and we may exhaust all options i'm just wondering if it can be a step process i mean is there the availability for us to pass this money to get this moving for her and is there an availability to look and to see if there's anything that might potentially be available past this i mean that might be outside the city i mean do we have is that within our scope or is that outside of our scope i guess
 Tonight what you can do is pass this resolution and that'll get as much money To her at this point in time that we have ability to do or that you have the ability to do Beyond that the only other remedies I can see it all would be if in fact I could bring a breach of contract case against the contractor if in fact they did not follow the contract and
 I hope the contract was clear and placed real duties on the contractor. And that's one of the things I want to look at. I've got to talk to the city staff that looked at the situation. But you, anyway, I still think from the way it's been described, even though maybe at one point the city thought that they had fulfilled the contract,
 I think there's still potentially a way that we could try to make sure that the contract was in fact done properly and correctly and not as been described by the homeowner as as Not not up to what was required under the contract Thank You mayor Kit I think I know the answer to this but I still want to ask it um
 If she withdrew her request tonight, would we be able, would the city council be able to draft a new ordinance that would raise the reimbursement amount? And then she could resubmit it? Is that possible? I mean, this was a very extraordinary, catastrophic water main break that has impacted people.
 her significantly through no fault of her own. So I just want to ask that question. No, I would not recommend that. If you wanted to raise the rates, a couple things you would probably need to think about. One thing, you would just want to table this request because you can't submit a new request. We have time limits on when you submit a request for damages, so you don't want to have her withdraw that and she's out of the time limits. So that wouldn't work.
 And the other thing that you need to think about is that the higher you make the top limit, the more strict and closely examining you're going to have to start doing with the claims that are going to start coming in. You know, we're not an insurance company. We don't have insurance company adjusters to go out and look and say, well, we'll pay you something, but you've got to appreciate that because appreciated value is all you're going to get.
 and we don't have anybody on staff that's capable of going out and doing really insurance adjuster work and the higher you make the potential claim the higher the claims are going to be and the more it's going to be incumbent upon the city to look at getting an adjuster as a contractor probably or whatever to start going out and looking at all these claims
 But this is a policy decision for the city council. You are the policy makers. And so it's up to you to decide what you want to do. And if you do want to try to go forward to raise the claim level for everybody, then in order to help this particular person, then you would need to table this
 and then come back with a new ordinance that would raise the claim level. Keep in mind, this is being paid not out of the sky, this is being paid out of our sewer and water customers.
 You know, go into the rates. So the rates, if you pay a lot, the rates are going to go up because you've got to pay. It's very, very difficult when you see a compassionate person here that has been harmed to want to do everything you can to make sure that they're going to be all 100% protected. I can understand that. And I feel the same way.
 But you are charged, you're the guardians of the treasury, you are charged with the difficult decision in a case like this, what are you going to do? And that's really up to you to decide because you all are the ones that control that. So I'll just leave that up to you. You get to decide what you want to do.
 Those lights really. I know, it's all going together. You know, in this, that was such an unusual occurrence. I've never seen anything like it, you know. And, you know, my feeling is that it's been, it was so unusual and exceptional that maybe we should look at raising the limits.
 I don't know what we would raise it to. I understand everything Kit's saying, and I agree with him that the higher our limit is, probably the higher the request we're going to be getting, not necessarily from Ms. Simpson, but y'all help me out here. I want to do the right thing. We have to get three minutes. Ma'am, ma'am, ma'am, don't disrupt me.
 You know I want to I want to do what is right what I think is right and fair and I think if we my feeling is maybe we go back and look at that revisit that a little bit The amount that we offer I remember when we raised it the last time and I don't know that we can raise it to exactly what she's asking for but I
 I just feel like there were some exceptional circumstances involved around this. That's just my feelings. Sorry, thanks. I think I go back to, I've been back and forth with Kit on the phone a couple times on this issue and like I said, I went out to the home and looked at this property. And again, I can't imagine her frustration, but I can only try to put myself in her shoes
 And if I'm sitting watching TV one night and I look up and a wall of water is coming at me from an unknown source and wipes my house out, I didn't do anything wrong. And we can say we have immunity because we are a municipality, legal immunity, but I don't think we have ethical immunity. And I am of the opinion that I...
 Not that we're going to be able to make her whole, but I think we need to do our best to put her home back to at least a livable condition. And right now, I mean, again, I saw it. It's falling apart. And it wasn't I'm pretty sure it wasn't falling apart before the before the flood. When you've got.
 sizable cracks in the foundation. You've got sizable cracks going up the walls. You've got rotting awnings. I just can't in good conscious say that we're doing the right thing. And that's what I always try to do whether people agree with me or disagree with me. I always try to do what I think is the
 the right thing. And in this particular situation, I think the right thing is us to table this and try to work up something that we can lay our head on the pillow at night and say we did the right thing or we did the best thing. I don't know that it will ever be able to go back and get it perfect. But I think we need to be able to say we did the best we could do in that situation.
 Okay, so do you all want to table it? I do. All right. I'd like to try to work on this a little bit more. It would need to be tabled long enough to be able to have a new ordinance drafted and approved, so I'm not sure exactly how that long will take it. It's really not too long if you all come up with it.
 somebody present at least numbers to me so I know what to put in the ordinance I do want to say I agree with Scott and what Sarah have said I do want to make sure that we're taking into consideration that this will cause a rate increase as kit has mentioned and we've already heard that this rate increase is going to be detrimental to many folks so well I would like to just you know give as much money as we can I do want to take into consideration the whole citizenry
 And I appreciate that because I would caution whenever, you know, again, this is a very devastating situation. But, you know, we have 100,000 individuals in the city of Fayetteville. And you're right, outside of that in the region, we're taking care of other water customers as well as we've had a very in-depth conversation. And, yeah.
 I want us to have extreme caution. I mean, I just see, you know, huge yellow light of just, you know, this is a one unique instance that I just want to make sure that we're not making policy. And I hear my colleagues being conservative and saying we may not be able to make her whole, but I also want to make us all kind of sit with, and I don't want us to rush to writing up a revised ordinance.
 I'd like to have some additional information. I'd like to understand what other folks in the region are doing when they've raised their ceiling by a certain amount, how that impacted them. I'd like to understand what kind of liability we might be opening ourselves up to as we're looking at our budgets.
 this household though from being able to move forward and as living you know in a livable conditions to I also you know I heard mentioned earlier by kit you know we might need to pass this so that she can move on with some repairs and so that's kind of my question as well is there an ability to potentially do two steps because it sounds like current ordinance if we you know pass them to tonight and she moved forward either there may not be additional remedy available but if we also are trying to do our proper diligence
 she might be delayed in her house being livable for a portion of time. And so just trying to keep that in consideration and making sure being mindful of the true impact that this might have. Michael's next. Thank you. I would be interested in requesting, Mr. Mayor, that staff consider some additional alternatives
 whether that would be grant programs using HUD money, whether there would be the ability to legally carve out a small portion of our remaining ARPA money, things of that nature. I'm not sure that the $50,000 is completely inappropriate, but whether there's grants that could be available for ARPA,
 We make them for other individuals that are eligible for home repairs. The criteria is low-income senior housing, for instance. But I think that it would behoove us to at least have any other form of eligibility be researched and continued because that might benefit the homeowner, that might benefit the rate payers, that might benefit everyone in the city of Fayetteville.
 And if we still have the latitude with some control over this small portion of remaining ARPA funding that we can legally apply, to me that would not be an inappropriate use of that funding. Thank you. Yes, Trace. Thank you, Mike, for those ideas.
 I guess we would need to have Paul and Stephen review the ARPA requirements to see if this would be something that would be fundable. But I wanted to ask Ms. Simpson how she felt about this discussion, that if you needed the money right now, I know it's been a very, very long time, but if you gave us a
 you know, at least a month. We couldn't do anything quicker than that, probably more like two months to explore these other options. How would that affect you or what would be your preference? I've been living like this for two years and the $50,000 won't even put piers under my house. So, I mean, you can think about that. Like it's not going to fix anything else. The $50,000 will put the piers and level it and that's it.
 all of everything else that's broken and rotted. And I forgot to even put in here that it's pulled my backsplash away from my brand new countertops that I had replaced. Somebody had mentioned the RSO in the northwest corner, and we were talking about water and sewer. A month before this, the main on my house broke and flooded my house. Then this happened, and then two months after this happened,
 My water heater blew up because the pressure coming into my house was so great that when the plumber came up to check it, it broke his meter, his RSO meter. So, I mean, there's a lot of issues in that area. And, you know, I know that you say you're opening yourself up by increasing this, but...
 I have to get three bids for everything I'm having done. I mean, if I can steal money from you after spending this much time putting this together, I would deserve it. I mean, I know that you're opening yourself up for liability, but we have to have vetted contractors. They have to be, you know, with the city. I have to have three of them. Every bid has to match exactly the other bid. And I'm like...
 I don't know how anybody would steal from you. I don't, because it's taken a long time to put this together. So, I mean, please take that into consideration when you're thinking about raising the maximum allowed, is we have to do a whole lot of work to even get to here. And it took forever. You know, we can only use these reputable companies. Erin was, I mean, not Erin, but Mark was knocking people off my list, and I have to go back to square one and start over.
 So I hear your frustration. If this had happened in my house, I'm sure I'd feel exactly the way you do, just exhausted. This has been going on for quite a long time. But would it be okay if we explored this for the next couple of months? Because I do really appreciate this idea about maybe being able to use those ARPA funds, and then we don't have to change our policy, but we could try and provide –
 Some additional support to remedy the situation that you've been through? Please, because the $50,000 is not going to make a difference. It's going to make my doors shut properly and then that's it. I will still have mold, I will still have sinking patios, I will still have broken driveways, I will still have dirt, and I will have all that gross mud in my backyard.
 So, what I'm hearing from the council is you want to table it for a couple of months and then we'll look at the ARPA funding while we're exploring. Look at exploring multiple options and see if we can come up with the best solution. All right. I move we table for two months. Second. Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 that would put it for the october 17th meeting whatever two months is yes please thank you more yes let me go back one moment i'm so sorry holly you made the motion who seconded second thank you so much sorry i'm i'm thinking about water
 Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. What announcements do we have?
 I have one announcement, or actually two. Council Member Moore asked me to see what I could learn about the status of our animal services. Last month, or a couple of weeks ago, I mentioned that we were in emergency mode because the shelter was full.
 We have had good success lately and yeah, we have lots of folks getting the dogs. This is still, August is still, we're not in emergency mode anymore, but August is still the free dog giveaway month, adopt dog month. So yeah, we'll have more dogs.
 We have pictures of those dogs on our social every day, so I think y'all can find one that you like. Okay, moving on the second announcement.
 The city has started a new series with the human resources of having job fairs in our lobby for all of the vacant positions that we have at City Hall. And so the second one of those, I meant to announce the first one and it slipped my mind, but the second one will be this Friday. So we'll have a job fair with our HR all in the lobby. And anybody's welcome to come look at all the different openings we have and we've got
 information to help people want to warm right up to becoming a city employee lots of swag so come on down training opportunities lots of good jobs that can be had so the time is from 9 to 3 this Friday the 18th and we'll have follow-ons actually we'll have more job fairs in September in October and November so I'll try to make sure everybody knows when those are
 And then if I may, I almost forgot, but we have vacancies on boards and commissions coming up for the quarter. The city clerk's office is recruiting for those within the Environmental Action Committee, the Arts Council, the Housing Authority, Town and Gown Committee, the Urban Forestry Advisory Board, and the Walton Arts Center Council. So interested residents will want to get those applications in for those. Thank you.
 Quick question because I think we had two different people sit here for two different things. We have a meeting next week or do we not have a meeting next week? No meeting next week. Two weeks would be agenda session?
 Okay. And then I just want to make sure everybody, I saw this on Facebook this morning, but I think the Hamstring Creek review is Thursday at 5.30, I think. So I just wanted to make sure that the public knew that. That's the first I had heard about it, but it was on, it was out of the city's Facebook page. I saw it as well and I'll confirm that time.
 The public meeting regarding Hamstring Creek Watershed Blood Mitigation Study will be held Thursday, August 17th at 5.30 p.m. in the Fayetteville Police Department Community Room at the North Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? Good work, y'all. We're adjourned.