I'm going to call the City Council meeting of August 16 2016 to order son. Would you please call the roll? here Yeah Here here here I'm here. Did you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. OK, the first order of business we have tonight is a Federal Natural Heritage Association check presentation. Yes.
 Hi. I'm Jennifer Ogle. I'm chair of the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association. For those of you present who don't know us, we're a local organization that's committed to conserving natural areas in Fayetteville. And as you know, we are a funding partner in the acquisition of Kessler Mountain. We've committed to raising $300,000 to help cover a portion of the purchase price of this very important urban area, natural area.
 And so I have a check for you tonight to fulfill that commitment in part. But before I give that check to you, I would like to just thank you for reserving a portion of that money towards doing some really great opportunities for Kessler Mountain, including biological assessments, habitat management plan, and a conservation easement. That's really unique to some of these urban natural areas and...
 I want to thank the City Council, the Mayor, Mayor Jordan, I'd like to thank you and your staff for your dedication to conservation in Fayetteville. So with that, I'd like to present this check to you for $60,000.
 I would like to say this is not the first time we've partnered with HA on two of the projects, Brooks Hummel and I remember the property of the house cemetery. We worked on that, and there was another piece of property off of Roger's Drive we worked on together. You've always been a great partner for us, and you always put your heart...
 and to the city and your investment. So, again, I want to thank you all for having myself and the citizens and, of course, the city council for this wonderful check. So thank you again. All right. Okay. All right. The next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 2, 2016, city council.
 meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve cooperative agreement between the city of Edmonds and Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport and the Northwest Arkansas Council Foundation regarding the placement of wayfinding signs directing travelers to and from the airport in the public rights of way at no cost to the city and
 Number three, a resolution to approve an amendment number four to the contract with Mitchell, Williams, Sealy, Gates, and Woodard PLLC in the amount of $15,000 for additional legal services related to the White River Water Quality Standards petition to the Arkansas Pollution Control and College Commission and to approve a budget adjustment.
 And number four, resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $11,820 recognizing revenue from CDI Contractors LLC for its share of cost for repairs to Wilson Avenue. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. All right. We have Sarah and we've got Adele. Second. All right. All right.
 We've got Matthew, or we've got... I reverted back to our previous... Well, however that all works. You've got that, Sandra. Everybody keeps popping up here. Yes, I noticed that. All right. We have a motion and a second to accept consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I hear that.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Thank you all under unfinished business number one an ordinance to authorize the City Council grant of variance in the single Family infill standard to support attainable affordable housing Justin. I believe you have something on this Yes, thank you mayor
 ordinance review committee met last thursday i thought we had a very productive meeting we heard from members of the public we also had a very good discussion with the committee members as well as city staff and i want to thank city staff for their participation in this kit did his normal really really good job and i thought andrew did a really good job as well giving us some
 some good ideas and some changes that I thought needed to be made and the committee voted unanimously in that same way, so There was a couple of proposed changes and do you want to give a quick overview what those are? I can I
 Basically, the committee favored what Planning had suggested, and I want to thank Planning for doing that. They more focused the Ordinance and Code section on actually truly small lots, which are now 50 feet wide and smaller. And I think that resolves a lot of the issues that we had had, that I had seen at the Planning Commission. And that's one reason I think that there was unanimous agreement that this was a good change.
 Secondly, there was discussion and I did place into the ordinance a little bit of change of the purpose section, keeping what was in there already but adding aesthetics because obviously I think that was something that can support this ordinance. It is something I would like to see as city attorney because that has been recognized by the Supreme Court as a valid concern of the cities. So if this ordinance would ever be challenged, I would like to have that in there to defend the ordinance.
 Finally, I did speak to the Ordinance Review Committee and said that I might want to put back in some of the wording that Planning had initially removed a little bit. That wording was when a garage opening might be more than 50 percent of the front of the
 of the facade of the house, which if you are going to have a two-car garage in a very small lot, it might be more than 50 percent. It might be impossible not to build it that way. And so what planning had had in before, we replaced. That means that it really has to be a two-story house so that the second story would have windows facing the front.
 and or you could have a deck or a balcony that would extend up to the flush with the garage for both aesthetic reasons and also to keep eyes on the street, which is one of the reasons that this ordinance originally passed. So I drafted such an ordinance, and we sent it out electronically this morning, and I have it in front of you all today.
 right now so that rather than reading an ordinance that we don't need anymore, I would like to see maybe a motion to do what the Ordinance Review Committee unanimously recommended and to change the current ordinance to the one that has been presented to you tonight.
 well i was just going to say mayor that we we had um again several discussions on this that night and you can certainly watch the video um alderman petty made a couple of of good recommendations and gave some good ideas i think what we decided was that there may be some other changes to this and the overall um
 changes to the items that are on this or the actual ordinance itself or maybe some of our standards later, but for right now we needed to make these changes both for the current developer that has a situation and frankly anything else because I think some of the
 some hard work is going to have to go into making some big changes and i think this is the way to do it right now but certainly maybe something that we'll revisit later on so thank you to the committee and everyone that participated okay as a procedure if the amendments are introduced then we vote on the amendment then i go back to the amended ordinance correct that's correct mayor okay i'm just trying to get my head wrapped around this uh john thank you mr mayor
 I voted as part of the unanimous vote in the ordinance review committee for this change. But I need to explain that vote. I think we are losing our freedom from the city can tell you where you place your garage. I think that decision should be made by the homeowner, his builder, and his architect. I voted for this provision because it is lessening the impact.
 Originally, the ordinance said if your lot is 70 feet or smaller, this provision applies to you. Now what we're changing is it's going from 70 to 50 feet, so it will impact on fewer people. I voted for it for that reason. It was a step in the right direction.
 but i would like to see us make the people of fayetteville more free and let them place their garage where they'd like to place a garage so long as it meets the setbacks and fire safety standards of our city and national building codes i do not like calling someone's house a snout house i think that is a demeaning term and i think some people enjoy having their garages a little ahead of their front door and i think some lots are very difficult to build on without that provision
 And I think it is demeaning to people and disrespectful to call it a snout house. And I would like for our city council to refrain from doing so in our publications and in our discussion. That's uncalled for, in my mind. So I'd like to see us eliminate, eventually, and as our chairman has said, ultimate tenant. This is a beginning step.
 ultimate petty i think used the term a band-aid on a on a large injury or something i think at our city uh our ordinance review committee but we're all saying it's not a perfect ordinance now but this is making it better so i just want to clarify that thank you mayor you're welcome thank you mayor i'd like to move that we uh amend the ordinance of course to the one presented by the city attorney that the ordinance review committee supported
 John, I still have you. Are you? Okay. Mark. I'm a second there. Okay. We have a motion and a second to add these amendments to the ordinance that we had before. Is that correct? It basically is a substituted ordinance. There were many changes in whereas clauses as well as the operative. It uses some of the same terms as the original ordinance, but there have been substantial changes. Okay. Well, let's keep then the remarks to the...
 uh amendment um what discussion do we have on the amendments that we have a motion to second off from the council okay uh sarah i'm just curious as to uh what happened to the uh whereas about affordable housing because it was my understanding that that was the primary motivation behind uh passing looking at this ordinance
 Well, the affordable housing was in relation to if we were going to have a variance procedure in front of the City Council. The variance procedure will no longer be part of this ordinance if you agree to this amendment.
 I thank Alderman Schottmeyer for sponsoring that proposed amendment. Part of the reason for that was to make sure the City Council knew that there had been some problems with this particular ordinance and to bring it back in front of you.
 real substantive changes, so I thought bringing back a potential variance procedure in front of you so that you all would see and be more aware of some of the concerns that had happened, some of the things that had happened, is why it was presented that way. But at this point, this is now the recommendation of the planning department to make these modifications, and I join in that recommendation.
 And so that's why I didn't talk about affordable or attainable housing, because that variance procedure is no longer part of this ordinance. So this is no longer about creating affordable housing. It's about making it easier for developers. Is that correct? I think it does help affordable housing, because I think that we heard from the developers about how that without, you know, if we had continued with the ordinance where it's less than 70 feet,
 and you have to have the garages recessed and not just flush then in fact that could be expensive for home buyers so i think even though this this is not the major purpose of this particular ordinance but i think that is one effect that it will in fact help affordability and attainability of houses anybody else okay what public comment do we have on these amendments bear with me just a second i've had a lot of allergies today so i'm gonna put my glasses on
 I'm Mark Marquis with Riverwood Homes, and I am on behalf of myself, Charlie Sloan, our team, and all the people that work for us. We'd just like to say thank you. Thank you to the council. Thank you to the staff. Thank you to Kit Williams, and especially thank you, Mayor Jordan, because we know that you've always been a champion for the affordable housing. You look up here and you read that last item, and it says we'll create opportunities for the attainable housing.
 To your question a while ago Had we not had this this change? there's two things that could happen if we had to go from a 70 foot lot to a 60 foot lot and still and Change everything up it would be expensive But if we stayed with the 70 foot lot It could possibly cost that homeowner another five to ten thousand just because of the size of the law so this allowed us the flexibility to drop a
 this size lot down to create this affordable housing in the manner that we have done for so many years and and been embraced with Fayetteville
 involved with them for over 20 years now. We thank you and I know that this may have shocked some of the system, may have created some controversy and some emotions from all ends, but I think when we look at what the staff did through their hard efforts that we see that this is kinda worked out for the best of everybody and not have to keep bringing in a variance every time. With us, we were just getting ready to start this
 construction homes so timing was really of an essence to us and you guys are incredible that this has been brought together from two weeks ago to fruition today and we just want to say thank you and thank you for the concern not so specifically for us but for saying that we're gonna blend a whole community together and I think when you see a year from now what this looks like you'll really be pleased thank you again we have any questions
 but thank you mark i appreciate it charlie who else good evening my name is aaron worth i'm with cobblestone homes i'm a builder and also a developer i've got a development uh right across the road from mark and uh i was a little late to the party on this and i i guess i've got three three concerns and i wanted to voice those uh the first one is that i learned about this in the paper uh and i don't always do a perfect job but i try try this
 stay in touch with you guys and what's going on and I work I think pretty hard to know what rules are being changed and so I was pretty disappointed to find about about the paper and frankly I Panicked when I saw it because like mark I have a project that's dirt is turning right now With 70 foot lot. So it was written half my subdivision And it's mountain ranch phase 3 85 lots 45 of those and
 we're going to change how I could build and build, and when I go to sell those, and so that's a huge, huge deal, and we're, we're in motion right now. I guess this passed, I don't know, last October, and I'm still surprised I took this long to figure out what was going on, but I immediately called some HBA folks and Mark, and he got me up to speed, and you know, he was, he was working on it with you guys, and I do appreciate you guys taking a look at this, and
 And I'm making some changes, and I do think that I'd love to see it go away, to be real honest. That being said, I think it's definitely a step in the right direction, the 50 foot. I still have 20 lots in my subdivision that will be affected by this. I do intend to try to put the garages in the back. And that's, as a builder, we know people like that look, and we try to do that. There is no doubt, in my experience, that it costs money.
 more money and more complication and it also limits the people that want to buy those because you usually end up with a rear entry or a side entry and I can tell you a side entry is very very complicated on a lot that's less than 50 foot so you end up with an alleyway with no backyard and I'll stop with the details but it's just complicated limits your market and definitely adds more money. I currently have a project in Mountain Ranch that I redeveloped called Park Hill that's 45 foot lots all the garages in the back.
 I'm having trouble getting those sold, not because people don't want them, because I can't get them to appraise because they're so expensive.
 I do think there's a need for them, and I think people want them. I can tell you this, they're not what I would call affordable housing. I mean, they are lower priced, but they're very high per foot, but I'm not necessarily going after the first-time homebuyer. So it certainly limits what we can do on the lots, and as a developer, it just adds a lot of complication in an already complicated process. It's taken me many years to get this far and to find out something like this midstream and really, you know, again, I've...
 When I read the article, I just about came off the hinges. So I appreciate you guys making these steps in this direction. We're working out here to build houses that look good, that are as affordable as we can make them.
 you know just a lot of factors go into this and i really think john i appreciate your comments there and that that you know we we need the home buyer you know to say what they want and us as developers and builders are going to try to bring those products but you know see what the market let the market drive those things so those are my comments thank you thank you who else would like to address
 good evening mr mayor my name is lorraine o'neill i'm with 3001 west weddington apartment 82 and it's it's very easy to only criticize and never commend and i think this is an instance where accommodation is definitely available and should be brought forth you guys did a good job it was a hard work i watched the video of the um the ordinance review committee
 and there was a lot of good comments made and I think this is a step in the right direction. A city to grow, for a city to grow, it needs to be fluid and ever-changing and meeting the needs of the people who want to relocate there. And this is a step in the right direction. Good job. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay. Now we're going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second on the amendments, do we not? I don't know.
 Yes. Okay. All right. What final? Well, we need to go through the readings, correct, Kit?
 I can either read this now or I can read it after the motion has been passed because it needs to be read in full according to the statute. And then we just start taking readings, correct? Actually you can place it on the third and final reading. What I'd like to do is actually have a motion to place, once it's been amended, a motion to place on the third and final reading and then I will fully read it.
 We just received this information today, so I have an issue with sending it to the third and final reading because one of the things that we've heard feedback on is that when we pass these two quickly, the media doesn't have time to report it. Citizens aren't aware of what we're doing. They don't have an opportunity to give feedback. So I would request that we hold this on the second reading so that we at least have two weeks.
 for our citizens to review these significant changes? Well, it was already left on the second reading, so unless there's a motion to table, it'll automatically be on. It's on the third reading tonight, and so I will read it unless there's a motion to table. Okay.
 we first talked about this two weeks ago we've had an ordinance review or or longer we've had an ordinance review committee take it up it's all on the internet any interested parties could certainly look at it i don't think it's going to change many minds to delay another two weeks to our next city council meeting so i strongly support moving to the third and final reading tonight okay is that a motion john to move it to the third and final reading it is first first it needs the amendment needs to be voted on mayor okay
 Are we ready to vote on the menu?
 and the only reason i'm asking for you to suspend the rules go to third and final reading is because we haven't actually read this before and so if anybody would want to challenge us procedurally i think that motion in and of itself would be enough to qualify for three readings at this point okay sarah i think because we haven't read it before it is important to hold it where it is and give the community an opportunity to learn what we're doing
 Or of course we go to the third and final reading mayor now Okay, we've got a motion second to go to the third and finally Yes Yes, yes Yes, Mars, no Yes Yes, the motion passes and I'm gonna read the entire ordinance. All right. I
 At NORDINESS demands section 164.23 single family infill standards, whereas section 164.23 single family infill standards should be renamed small lot design standards to recognize such standards would apply to small lots 50 feet wide or less throughout the city.
 And whereas section 164.23's initial application to all lots smaller than 70 feet wide has created problems for several home builders and buyers and should be more focused upon truly small lots 50 feet or less. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 164.23, Single Family Infill Standards, by repealing it and enacting a modified version entitled Small Lot Design Standards, as follows. Section 164.23, Small Lot Design Standards. A. Purpose.
 The purpose of these standards is to better maintain visibility, security, safety, and aesthetics for pedestrians, drivers, and the residents of homes built on relatively narrow lots.
 B. Applicability. These standards apply to new detached single-family homes with street frontage of 50 feet or less. 1. Each home shall have a clearly defined front door and windows on the facade facing the street.
 This is only required on one side of the home where there is more than one street frontage. Subsection 2, garage openings that are on the same side of the home as the front door shall not protrude forward past the edge of the principal facade. And number 3, the garage opening shall be less than 50% of the principal facade length unless the house has a second story with windows facing the street
 or has a balcony, deck, or similar feature which projects at least flush with the garage opening toward the street. Okay. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to make the same point I made at the ordinance review committee, now that we're together as a full council, and clearly I'm going to support this, but
 I think this is part of a broader recognition that we need to have as a council and as an
 written incorrectly if not broken. I'm not saying that we should throw them out, but they certainly need to be recalibrated according to what we already have and what we really want. Whether it's the downtown design standards or the urban residential standards,
 Or, in this case, single family standards, there are a lot of instances, if you have a close reading of the code and you look at the kinds of projects that are actually feasible, where you can find lines in the code that really probably do need to be struck or at least closely looked at.
 So I'm hopeful that this conversation, in addition to what we're doing with the developer input groups and in general, the sentiment in the city that we need to lower barriers to good development, I hope we can take all of that.
 and approach that in that conversation in good faith because i think it's actually something that that needs to happen and it's probably one of the uh the highest barriers we have to the kind of development we say we want in our 2030 plan okay sarah i just wanted to address alderman latour's comments about snout houses and reiterate that
 that that is the accepted architectural term for a house with a protruding garage that takes up most of the facade. So this is not a pejorative. This is an appropriate architectural term. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Well, before we vote, we have been meeting with developers for about the last seven months on a lot of these things. I think this one just occurred here, so...
 We will fix it. I told Mark two weeks ago we would come up with something, we would fix this, and that's why I wanted the ordinance review to weigh in on it. But we have been taking input from developers, Jeremy, how long, seven months or so, to try and flush out some of these things that we want to make changes on our code. So we are working on it. Okay. Any other final comments? All right. Sally Orn is back.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 All right, under new business number one in order to rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN 16-5474 for approximately 1.28 acres located south of 1297 East Farmers Road from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre to
 R.S.F. 7, residential single-family savings. Chair Gensler. Chair Gensler. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo.
 from RA, residential agricultural, and RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to RSF7, residential single-family, seven units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Okay. Chairman. This is property located on Armory Drive, which is marked directly east of the Walmart. We'll mark it.
 The question is, do you know?
 Sorry, the request is to rezone 1.28 acres from the current zoning, which is RA and RSF4 to a district called RSF7, residential single family, seven units per acre. The property we feel is, this request is consistent with the future land use map, City Plan 2030, making traditional town form the standard. RSF7 allows for smaller lots, the 60-foot lots, and that is the request here. As you can see from the...
 zoning map in the packet there's a patchwork of zoning in this area from c2 to p1 institutional rsf4 rt12 and rmf24 we believe this is consistent with our future land use plan the planning commission also recommended approval unanimously and we're supporting the rezoning request okay any questions from the city council okay a public comment we have on this
 Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Allen. I'd like to make a motion to move to the second reading. Justin. I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall I motion that? Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddie. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5474 for approximately 1.28 acres located south of 1297 East Farmers Road from residential agricultural and residential single family 4 units per acre to residential single family 7 units per acre. Yes. I move we go to the third and final reading. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Yes.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
 okay any final comments from the council shall the ordinance pass yes john myer yes yes long yes gray yes marsh yes union yes eddie yes okay thank you all number two resolution authorized mayor jordan signed a grant of conservation easement to the northwest arkansas land trust for the preservation of kessler mountain jeremy
 In 2014, the city obtained approximately 376 acres of land in Southwest Fayetteville, commonly known as Kessler Mountain. It's adjacent to a 200-acre parcel the city had previously acquired for the new regional park, which, by the way, opens this coming Saturday. Kessler Mountain is a unique property within city limits. It has stands of native old growth, natural springs, seeps, rock outcroppings, and geological interest.
 There's an existing 8-mile nature trail network utilized by hikers and bikers. This purchase of Kessler Mountain by the City was made possible by a one-to-one matching grant from the Walton Family Foundation in the amount of $1.5 million from each. The City contributed that same amount and also agreed to certain terms with the Foundation in order to realize and consummate the purchase.
 One of those terms was to outline a plan and process for placing the property in the public domain and permanent preservation as a green space while also maintaining the current and future trails on the property to a high standard for hikers, bikers, walkers, runners, bird enthusiasts, and others. The vehicle identified for achieving that permanent preservation is a conservation easement
 A conservation easement is a voluntary agreement between the landowner, which is the city of Fayetteville in this case, and a land trust, which is an organization that holds easements such as this. It permanently limits the use of that land in order to protect its conservation values.
 After the City Council unanimously approved this purchase back in February, we entered into discussions to establish a conservation easement. And late in 2014, the City Council agreed to enter informal conversations with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust to begin that process of establishing a conservation easement.
 the conservation easement here is a document that's attached to your agenda packet it essentially encompasses 384 acres identified here in your maps that's essentially the gray section of the map that you see before you the conservation purposes are outlined in the document as well as a baseline documentation report which essentially is an inventory of what's out there today and that establishes the current uses and the current state of the property
 The easement identifies uses that are both prohibited but also uses that are permitted on the property once the easement is signed and established. As is the intent of a conservation easement, the basic development rights of the landowner or the city in this case are removed. Uses of the property consistent with the identified conservation values are permitted, such as wildlife viewing, trails for all the users we've identified, habitat management, streamside restoration, and so forth.
 the construction of structures roads utilities and the use of the property for special events is restricted by the document and those restrictions are outlined in the packet as well essentially those are to limit damage to the conservation values that protect the property
 Most recently members of Northwest Arkansas Land Trust and a broad cross section of the community participated in a citywide master planning process for our trail system which you can also see in this document. The red lines are indicative of the existing trails there today. The blue lines are indicative of the master plan trails that will hopefully occur in the future just to the west of the regional park and accessed from the regional park.
 This plan is the first step in improvements to Kessler Mountain, particularly its trail system, and we hope to begin those improvements this year. There is a cost to the conservation easement, but due to an agreement, as you heard earlier, with the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association, they've agreed to front that cost for the conservation easement. They've already done so for an initial cost, and then a subsequent cost.
 subsequent check will be paid to the northwest Arkansas land trust a total of fifty thousand three hundred and nine dollars so we're certainly grateful for that participation from our citizens and the natural heritage association as well
 We're recommending approval of this document, this easement document, and I'd just simply like to thank the city attorney's office and the staff that have worked on this, including Connie Edmondson and her staff in the parks to review the document on several occasions, and also Terry Lane, executive director of the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust. Do you have anything you'd like to add or...
 Terri Lane, I'm the executive director of the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust and definitely want to say thank you for allowing us to Be a partner in permanently protecting this very important natural area in our growing region as we know Natural places like this and Kessler is just a premier example these natural amenities are so important to our community and to future generations and
 And I think that Fayetteville and with this project is such a shining example for the rest of the region of the different partnerships that can come together to protect these places in our region. And no one entity can do all of this alone. So it's been members of the community. It's been recreation groups. It's been Fayetteville Natural Heritage, Beaver Water District, the Land Trust, the Parks Department. You also...
 I just want to say thank you for allowing us to participate in that, and we're really excited to see this part of Kessler protected forever. Thank you, Terri, very much. Thank you. What questions do we have, Council? John? I'll make it brief. I'm having a hard time supporting the resolution, Mayor. Let me be very honest. I have nothing against conservation. I have nothing against people biking and hiking and riding and playing and having fun.
 What I question is the wisdom of uncovering this land for eternity and perpetuity. I would rather see us grant the easement for 100 years or even 200 years, put some limit on it. Here, we don't know. 200 years from now, I won't be here. None of us will be here, probably. We don't know what those uses will be.
 Maybe we would prefer to have a natural area further away from the center of town, where there's a greater variety of wildlife and things like that. This area may be surrounded by metropolitan development for 10 miles on all sides.
 And we've encumbered the land so it can only be used for this one purpose. I would rather leave people in the future to decide its best use at that point because we don't have the wisdom to see 200 years from now. But we're taking upon ourselves to encumber the land here through perpetuity until kingdom come, as we used to say. So it's the durational limit that I have the problem with.
 So I just want to go on record that I'm in favor of hiking and boating and all that other good stuff. Not that there's going to be boating here, but you get the idea. It's just the duration that I question. Thank you, Mayor. You're welcome, John. Matt here. Yes, Mayor. I move to pass resolution.
 Before you pass that, maybe we should explain why it is perpetual. Number one, we got half of the money needed to buy Kessler Mountain from the Walton Family Foundation, which required this sort of perpetual easement to preserve this for our children and their children's children forever. And that was part of the deal of getting one and a half million dollars from them.
 And secondly, you can look at this like our own state parks or national parks, which are going to be preserved hopefully forever. There's sometimes threats to some of the national parks, but fortunately they're beaten back.
 This will be a gem for generations to come, and the more Fayetteville grows, the more important it is that we have these hundreds of acres preserved. And if we grow all the way around Kessler Mountain, it'll be even that more important, just like Central Park is important to New York City. So I think that's why it needs to be perpetual, and that's why it is perpetual.
 Okay. John, you're back on the... Excuse me. I'll withdraw my request. Okay. Alan. And I'd just like to echo that the reason that I think this is such a great thing is that the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust did go into such a cooperative agreement with the city and put up that much money. And with that, I'll second the motion. Okay. What other discussion do we have? Okay.
 What public comments do we have on this? I'm going to bring it back to the council, if it's most. And second, any final comments from the council? You know, council, it's important that we support our natural heritage. You know, a lot of the discussions when they preserved Yellowstone Park was because they wanted to develop it. And people stepped in and they said, no, we're going to preserve that for generations to come for our children and our children's children. Kids already talked about the park in New York and they were developing all around that.
 And they said, we're going to preserve this. Because once it's gone, it doesn't come back. It's gone forever. And the reason I have supported preserving that urban forest up there, we owe that to our kids. We're going to be gone, but they're going to remain. As I've said before, if this city lasts 10,000 years, they're not going to remember any of us up here. But they're going to walk on that Kessler Mountain, and they're going to say, I'm glad someone had the forethought to think about the future of this city and our children.
 That's why I've supported this and will continue to support this. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all very much. All right. Number three.
 In order to resolve that property, describe and resolve the petition RZN 16-5483 for approximately 36 acres located at the northeast corner of Morningside and 15th Street from RSF 4, residential single-family four-use breaker to NC, neighborhood conservation subject to a bill of insurance kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from residential single-family, four units per acre, to neighborhood conservation, subject to a bill of assurance, Exhibit C, to the Planning Department's agenda memo.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of a barclay hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville To reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Okay chair
 This is a 36 acre parcel located on the northeast corner of Morningside Drive and 15th Street. There's also a small portion of the parcel, as you can see on this map, that actually extends to the southeast corner of that intersection as well. The property is currently zoned RSF4, which is residential single family, four units per acre. It's undeveloped pasture land and does remain in agricultural use currently.
 There's some floodplain on the parcel. There's a string of ponds. Essentially, they become a protected stream immediately to the south of the property. These valuable natural resources are classified as a natural area on the 2030 Future Land Use Plan, and the remainder of the site is classified as a city neighborhood area, which supports a higher density of land use.
 The request here is to rezone the property from the current zoning designation, RSO 4, to neighborhood conservation, which is one of our single-family zoning districts allowing up to 10 units per acre. The applicant has also provided a bill of assurance placing the lands classified as natural areas within a conservation easement. And you can see those are indicated here in this exhibit to the bill of assurance.
 The proposed zoning we feel is compatible with surrounding mixture of land uses, primarily residential. You can see here Main Street Center, downtown, Main Street Center neighborhood conservation, RT-12, C-1, which is a commercial zoning district, RSF-8, which is a single family district allowing up to eight units per acre. There's a mixture of zoning in the area.
 You'll note this is also directly east of the Walker Park Master Plan boundary, which does support a variety of uses as well, so we do feel like it is consistent with that
 consistent with both the adopted Future Land Use Plan but also the Walker Park Master Plan. You may also remember that within the recent several weeks you rezoned, which is also reflected on this map, property directly to the north of this, also neighborhood conservation and also protecting some of those natural areas. So we see a trend developing here with developers looking at our Future Land Use Maps and also our natural areas and so we're certainly supportive of that.
 staff is supportive of the request as the Planning Commission with a vote of six to zero Okay, what questions we have to Jeremy? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading We have a motion second go the second reading So I'm going to please call them
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes enormous reason that property described and rezoning petition RZ and 16-50 483 for approximately 36 acres located in northeast corner of Morningside and 15th Street from residential single-family four units breaker to neighborhood conservation subject to a bill of assurance
 And I should note for the record that some people might recognize Jesse Fulcher, who is a representative of the developer here. And I think we need to get him up here and quiz him a little bit before we go to the third and final reading. Yeah, we quiz. Quiz Jesse and that problem. Adele. I think we've got the third and final reading. Yeah.
 i'll second that you have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass yes yes yes yes yes yes yes in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 16-5483 for approximately 36 acres located in the northeast corner of morningside and 15th street
 from residential single family four units per acre to neighborhood conservation subject to a bill of assurance now sarah i have not received any citizen feedback on this proposed rezoning but just wanted to applaud the applicant for the conservation areas to protect water quality i think that that was a very good move for that piece of land thank you okay anybody else all right sally orton's place
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number four, an ordinance rezoning that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 16-55 with one for approximately .17 acres located at 1030 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to NS Neighborhood Services. Kim.
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of favela arkansas section one that the city council of the city of favela arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from neighborhood conservation to neighborhood services section two at the city council the city of fail arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fail to reflect the zoning change provided in section one jeremy
 This is 0.17 acres located at 1030 South College Avenue. Historically, there's been a building there for many years, a 1,400-square-foot structure that historically utilized as a site for various churches, the gravel parking lot and the gravel drive in the rear of the structure. The applicant's request here is to rezone the property from Neighborhood Conservation, which is part of the zoning that was...
 It was owned for the Walker Park Master Plan to neighborhood services, which is a newer form-based code that we created a few years ago to allow for flexible office and studio space. Neighborhood conservation and neighborhood services aren't that much different. The primary difference is neighborhood conservation allows for limited business, which is smaller scale business by conditional use permit, whereas neighborhood services allows it as a matter of right. So there are no special permits to occupy a structure for those types of uses.
 We did receive public comments. Two longtime residents of the neighborhood called our staff to speak against their rezoning. Their primary concern was introduction of commercial uses within the neighborhood. The immediately surrounding properties are single family, detached residences, and of course the park, which is close to this area. And a rezoning to neighborhood services could allow for the property to be redeveloped, which we did tell the residents.
 We don't think that's the intent here, but it is a zoning so it's it's goes with the land, not necessarily with the owner. The kind of use is permitted in neighborhood.
 Services such as single family, two and three family, limited business, and home occupations we feel are relatively compatible with the current uses in the surrounding neighborhood. Some non-residential uses and more intense development patterns within a single family we feel should be more concentrated toward corner locations rather than mid-block, and that's really the primary reason staff didn't support the request. Planning Commission felt comfortable with it, however, and voted 8-1 in support of the request to rezone the property to neighborhood services.
 Okay. What questions do we have, counsel? Al? There was actually a business owner that had a business. It was two streets south of this. And he had to – actually, he didn't –
 run a business out of it full time. He operated part time there. It was a landscape business. And he had to close his business and move to Springdale because we didn't allow things like this. And so I'm just looking at this and wondering if we're applying our zoning fairly in that it's not consistent with the surrounding zoning. If you could speak to
 I'm not sure if I quite understand the question. Well, this is not necessarily compatible from one perspective with the surrounding area, but a person that lived about two blocks away also ran a landscape business out of their home and they were forced to move their business into a different city.
 guess they could have moved somewhere else in Fayetteville, but they didn't find the property they were needing, but they didn't move to Springdale, so I guess would you be considering this to be fair to that business? If we allow
 this to be rezoned to a zoning classification that allows a business like this to be done by right i'm not sure about the fairness issue and that in that particular case the landscape business we had received complaints from neighbors about the storing of trash and debris on the site we i spoke with the business owner they also gathered their mornings with their crews and so it was it was a disruption to the neighborhood they completely understood however and so they they were willing to find another location um
 They also had the option though to rezone the property or to request the rezoning of the property so that's certainly something they could have pursued. They chose simply not to do that. I don't think it was the ideal location for them anyway in that particular case. This particular site, they could request a conditional use permit so it could stay the same zoning.
 request a conditional use permit for the very use that they're proposing. The challenge, obviously, for the property owner is that if they change that use or someone wanted to move in that's different than the business, they would have to request another conditional use permit, so there's never a guarantee they could utilize the property as such. I think the other difference here is that this has historically not been a residential building
 for many, many years. It's more of a commercial, but it's been a church for as long as most people can remember, whereas the others, the one that you're speaking of, had been a house very recently. Okay. Thank you. I just wanted to get some background and perspective on this, too. Okay. Anybody else? Sarah. I just want to point out that the applicant is here, if you would like to hear from him. Okay. Yeah. Dean, you want to say something? Sorry. I thought we were on questions for the city staff. All right.
 Alright, so just wanted to share a couple reasons for why we were requesting the ReZone. So because it's always been a church, the building's not really suitable for residential use in any way. It doesn't have shower facilities or anything like that. So it lends itself to more of a commercial use anyway. Okay.
 We're not planning to change the structure, the footprint, anything about the building other than paint and just kind of a refresh. So we felt like maintaining the footprint of the building and kind of the historical use of the building would both...
 maintain the kind of the historical nature of it and the and and keep the the historical context of the neighborhood intact but also but also allow us allow us a little bit more flexibility and um and we wouldn't have to to add residential facilities to a historically non-residential building we did um collect just some some letters of support from from neighbors
 So I don't know if it's a what the appropriate action is to submit those but Okay, I will do that And then just finally, you know I think looking at the Walker Park neighborhood master plan and it's talk about kind of diversity of uses and
 and also city plan 2030 and making traditional town form the standard. I think the request falls in line with both of those goals. It's certainly a form-based kind of use that we're asking for and not a use-based classification because it's mixed. So happy to answer any questions. Yes, do we have any questions? Alan?
 I do have a question for you, Keaton, and thank you for being here tonight. So with the church being there, and I hope that you do grow to the point where you do eventually need a larger facility one day. Do you think that that puts the neighborhood in any kind of situation with the property being rezoned because a person that moves in to purchase the property would then be dealing with the different uses by right?
 I mean, in terms of the risk to the neighborhood of a commercial use that's unfavorable or disruptive to the neighborhood moving in, I think the risk is really low of that just because the site is so small. I mean, and what's allowed in neighborhood services is...
 You know, it's such a light commercial use. It's really just professional offices, and I think even a cafe or coffee shop would require a conditional use permit. So, you know, I just can't imagine the property being redeveloped in a way that would create a disruptive commercial use by right in the zoning category. Thank you. I just wanted to get your input on that, too. Appreciate it.
 Any other questions? Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Well, I've got to get some public. Well, go ahead. It's all right. Do you have a motion to go to the second reading? And Matthew? Well, I'm not ready to second the motion. Okay. I have a question for Keaton now. Keaton, come back up. Let's start there.
 Hi, Keaton. Is it true that you have a pending lease on the property? Yes. I'll just talk about what that is. Sure. It is a local nonprofit theater company that plans to use the space for office space and studio space. Yeah, so this resuming request is denied and you elect to still come back for a conditional
 you yeah at the very least it would delay it all right all right seeing none I'll bring back to the council okay well I'm inclined to support the request and not because there's a pending lease although I think that is useful context you know I read through the staff report thank you the staff report in detail and
 Quite frankly, it seems a little bit confused on the compatibility standpoint. You know, it starts out saying that this requested rezoning is consistent, and I'm reading it, is consistent in terms of development to the northeast and south.
 It goes on to reinforce that point, but then it ends the paragraph saying that it's not compatible because it is mid-block. On that point, maybe there's some saliency there, but I think that we should temper that commitment to putting things on corner blocks. That should be tempered in this case because of the length of the block. There's 9th Street, and then there's no 10th, there's no 11th, and the next is the cross is 12th.
 which is unusual, it's an unusual pattern in that neighborhood. And so I also think that, you know, with the senior center being essentially across the street, not directly across the street, but the land certainly is, the sidewalk is,
 i i think that if we are and i'm not sure we should be but if we are committed to only putting commercial uses on corners of streets in this neighborhood and again i'm not sure we should have that commitment that that commitment should be tempered in this case i would also say with regards to the uses that are allowed around in neighborhood services um
 their commercial uses are so extraordinarily limited in neighborhood services. You know, it's really only what's called limited business, which means you can't put a 15,000 or 20,000 square foot grocery store in there, and you can't put a manufacturing, you know, a large scale manufacturing facility or anything like that. It's that and it's home occupations. You know, so I think that, like Saf said at the beginning,
 The requested rezoning is generally compatible with everything around it. So I can support this without reservation, and I would even if there wasn't a lease pending. Okay. Adele? I second the motion to go to the second reading. Thank you.
 Why don't you make the motion and Sarah you second it or however you all want to do this. I thought we kind of Sarah I think already moved and I seconded it. All right very good then we have a motion to second go to second reading.
 Yes. Shop Mart? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. All right. An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the rezoning petition RZN 16-5501 for approximately .17 acres located at 1030 South College Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Neighborhood Services. Okay. Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Yeah, I would second that but I would also like to say that I've had one Neighborhood one person from the neighborhood call me and they were just concerned that we were going to be Making everything on that block Commercial and I assured her that I did not see that happening. So you must have got the same call So I'm seconding the motion that we go the third and final reading Okay, we have a motion second third and final reading. I
 Please call the roll yes Yes, yes, right yes March yes Yes, yes, and ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZ n 16-55 Oh one for approximately point one seven acres located at 1030 South College Avenue from neighborhood conservation to neighborhood services final comments from the council
 I just wanted to say that I think that this project is entirely consistent with our 2030 city plan. And while I do agree that staff had some reasonable concerns about introducing commercial midblock, I just want to remind the council that this is only .17 acres, this is less than a quarter
 By doing this, we're enabling the adaptive reuse of a historic, it's an Ozarks vernacular congregation building, and so it's an important piece of the architectural heritage of that neighborhood, and this is a great new use that will bring some jobs into that neighborhood. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Shelly Orton is back.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Have them check out our Fayetteville-AR.gov website for lots of activities that are taking place through the city. For the council and the public, we have a fun and exciting time this Saturday, August the 20th, from 8 a.m. to 12 noon, our regional park, our Kessler Mountain Regional Park grand opening will be Saturday.
 At 8 a.m., there are bike rides and trail run. At 8.30, there's a plant scavenger hunt. At 9 a.m., there's a stream restoration tour. At 10, will be the grand opening ceremony. We hope all of you will attend. At 11 a.m., our lawn games, and there will be music from the School of Rock for performances at 9, 30, and 11. So we hope you'll come out. This has been a long time coming, and we're looking forward to it.
 celebrating the opening of our park. Yes. Anybody else? Okay. Well, thank you all very much, and we're adjourned. I'll leave the chair.