I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of August 17th, 2021. Karen, would you please call the roll? Herk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Jones. Jones. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Petty. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, good evening everyone. Let's go ahead and get started. The first order of business that we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 3rd, 2021 City Council Meeting of Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $6,389 recognizing revenue from the Community Development Block Grant Program to provide staff support for the Yvonne Richardson Community Center Kids Night Afterschool Program for the 2021 fall semester.
 Number three, a resolution to approve Amendment Number One to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of $71,300 for design and construction phase services associated with the Missouri Creek Drainage Basin Project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 Drainage Improvements Bond Project.
 Number four, a resolution to award bid number 21-62 and authorize contract with KJAC's Contractors Incorporated in the amount of $748,000 for construction of the Richland Creek Water Line Crossing project and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $149,600.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 21-52 an authorized contract with ArcStar Electric LLC in the amount of $598,000.
 443 dollars for the installation of decorative lighting on spring street from west avenue to college avenue to approve a project contingency in the amount of sixty thousand dollars into ruby approve a budget adjustment this is a 2019 street improvement bond project and number six a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with northwest arkansas land trust for approximately
 4.3 acres of property located east of Broyles Road to develop and manage the Woolsey working farm and to approve budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. I'm going to take care of it. Okay. Please call the roll. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Harris?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to unfinished business. Number one, a resolution to grant the appeal of Daniel Hayes and approve a major modification of large-scale development LSD 19-6780 by granting a variance to the city's access management standards to allow a second driveway at 2512
 West Mount Comfort Road Jonathan I believe you have this I do mayor and I have no new updates or information to offer. Okay Does the applicant wish to speak for the council you have ten minutes Thank you mayor. Thank you council the application for a large-scale development of
 says assessors parcel number for property 765 135 82 dash 101 and a portion of parcel 765 135 82 dash 0 0 0 total acreage of 2.024 acres it also says on the letter
 from each property owner must be provided indicating that the agent is authorized to act on her or his behalf and according to the form it says 2.024 acres parcel number 765-13582-101 is only 0.41 acres parcel 765-135882-000
 was 23.166 acres of that 1.614 acres 14.35 percent of the total parcel is all That Allen Deavers was allegedly authorized to negotiate Arkansas Code statue section 4 59 101 section a
 unless the agreement promise or contract is made in writing and signed by the party to be charged No action shall be brought to change any person upon any contract with sale of lands tenements or Air limits and any interest in or concerning them Arkansas Supreme Court
 Dolphin vs. Wilson says statues of fraud must be proven by clear and convincing evidence. The large-scale development application states that the parcel 7651352-000 is a portion of a total 2.024 acres. Mr. Deaver negotiated a driveway extension,
 the close of a curb cut that was not in the 2.024 acres that is on the application and was not authorized in any way to have this curb cut removed the application is believed to me i believe is vague on the authorization of for the property owner
 due to the fact that this had been a full parcel that was being sold, there would be no question. But this is only a portion of the parcel in question and a small portion of that parcel. Thank you for your time, and if you have any questions, I'd be grateful to answer them. Okay, thank you. What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant from the City Council? I have a question for the applicant. Sure. Sure.
 I was wondering if we were able to add an amendment that said that this if this variance were granted that it would only apply until the property was sold I was wondering if you would be in favor of that okay
 didn't quite understand okay if if we were to pass an amendment that said that the var if if we were to grant this that the variance would only apply until after the property is sold to just prevent any future development concerns that anyone might have would that be okay with you um yes because um the remaining 21 acres after the sale two cases um
 that would, to do anything, any development on the property would require the buyer to look into another large scale development before they would be able to do any construction or anything like this. So it wouldn't be a way for someone to just buy the property and go in and start building or doing some other type of business on the property without going
 through the process of of getting a large-scale development approved okay then i guess my next question is to kit would that be possible to add to this the city council certainly has authority to put conditions on if you would grant the appeal
 I'm not really sure the condition you're talking about, that it wouldn't apply until after the sale? No, it would apply until after the sale. And then at that point, then you would be saying that once it is sold, then they could have their own curb cut, a new curb cut? After it was sold, then we would have to close the curb cut.
 So the curb cut would only be open for a short amount of time, is that what you're saying? The curb cut would only be open until the property was sold to somebody else. Just because I know one of the council members, I can't remember who it was, they had a concern that if the property was sold and developed in the future, that curb cut could be a problem. Well, in fact, it would be a problem in that
 It is always difficult for the city to close a curb cut because a property owner has a right to access a road that goes in front of their property, that abuts their property. In this particular case, the curb cut was really not closed, it was moved.
 It was moved because Casey's certainly needed, and that's who they sold the land to and why they authorized this engineer who was working for Casey's to do the large-scale development. Casey's certainly needed access onto Mount Comfort Road, and their original access was going to be a full access and not just a ride-in, ride-out, which is how it ended.
 And not only that, but the full access also made a better access into the Hayes' remaining property than what they originally had with their curb cut. And keep in mind, they have another curb cut on Mount Comfort Road already to serve the mobile home park, but also it could also serve the rest of their property because they own all that property there. But, so the curb cut was not really closed, but it was moved
 And when I looked at the documents that were provided to me, it appears to me that Mrs. Hayes, as the trustee for the Hayes Trust that was owning this property, did sign a consent that Mr. Deaver would be her agent and had the right to act for her, which is what he did. I think that one of the things that,
 he did was move the curb cut over and there was going to be a joint access, which there is right now. The difference was, and I think what has caused the haste and problems, is that now this is a right in, right out only curb cut where the other one was full access. I think that's understandable though because at this point in time the curb cut has been moved close to the intersection, the signalized intersection, and therefore
 It's a shorter distance to the intersection than what the old one was and therefore it is a more dangerous situation to have a full access there. A full access for the land in the curb cut. But anyway, I don't think that we could really say that the curb cut remains until it's sold. I guess we could work out some sort of deed restriction.
 if they were willing to do that, but that would really put them in no better situation than they are right now, where they have a limited access curb cut on the property line, which is what was always anticipated to be a joint access, which is what they have. They have their existing curb cut that serves their mobile home park, but can serve this acreage also.
 That other acreage also is on another road that accesses the traffic light, so they can also come in from the east. So they have lots of access into this property right now. And I think that's why the Planning Commission eventually approved this very limited curb cut.
 even though the Hayes would certainly want it to be a full access curb cut. I think they looked at the other options, the reasonable options that that the Hayes Trust has for this whole property and that's why it was approved like that. Now, your, the City Council can grant the appeal
 then attempt to put some conditions on I would be Concerned if it was just our conditions and we didn't have an actual deed in our hand That says that they give up that curb cut because otherwise when they would sell the property We would have an issue with whoever bought it about whether or not they get a curb cut or not And so I think that needs to be handled and decided now and not pushed off into the future. I
 I think my only concern is I would like to have the Hayes have access to have their curb cut, but not to just grant that forever. I don't know if that makes sense. That would be very difficult, I think, to be able to do legally, to give a temporary curb cut is what you're saying? I guess it's a curb cut for just their family until they sell the property to somebody else. And that they could not convey it to anybody else.
 They could not convey the right to have a curb cut to anybody else. Right. It was only for their family until they sell the property. Yes. So I guess it's conditional on the sale. I would find that very difficult, and really what I would need to do, if the city council wanted to do that, is that I would need to work with an attorney representing the Hays so that we could...
 come to the appropriate language that everybody could agree on before that. In other words, I don't think this is something the city council could just do on its own and avoid what I would think would be future problems. So if the city council does not want to, if they want to grant the appeal, or if they don't want to, if they want to table this long enough for the Hays to get an attorney to see if some sort of thing like that could be worked out,
 Or, and the third option is for not to grant the appeal so they can do any of those things the city council could do. But I'm not, I don't think I can fashion any condition tonight that would satisfy what you're trying to do. Yeah, I believe that the last meeting I said I'm concerned that we're,
 almost practicing law as city council. And based on what the applicant has presented, it's almost even gone further in that direction. And I'm concerned about that. Giving them a curb cut until they sell it. Well, what is sell it? What if they put it in an LLC? What if it's transferred? I mean, the amount of,
 directions that could go would kind of get crazy and that if we're going to have to vote on it again i'm not a lawyer um so i i really feel like this is something that the attorney in the courts need to decide i think we've got buyer's remorse and maybe somebody didn't fully understand a contract or thought it was going in a different direction than they thought it would um
 i i don't i don't plan on the appeal i think i think a court needs to sit down and decide you know if there are actual damages or or um deceit or some some other uh issue here uh we're getting in really deep uh i think on this one okay what other questions do we have in the council anything
 I have a question, Mayor. This is a question for Mr. Hayes, and I don't know if I can ask this or not, but my question is, are you in litigation now with Casey's since you claim that they have misrepresented or did not have the authority to make the decision about this curb cut? No, not at this time. It is...
 I think the only issues we have are trying to keep our driveway and keep the current curb cut that we have. So at this time, no, we haven't started anything with cases. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I have a quick question for staff here. Jonathan, on – and I'm sorry, I'm not sure which page this is of our packet, but it's –
 I guess it's the first diagram of the Casey site where it's got numbers between the different, you know, different curb cuts. You know, and the curb cut is right in, right out. But there's a little dashed line across the top of it. Is that, I mean, is this, you know, where this driveway is being moved, proposed to be moved to.
 The Hayes family would be accessing the Casey's, a corner of the Casey's parking lot and going into that ride out, or ride in, ride out driveway, correct?
 Yes, I believe I'm looking at the same document as you. I can't find the page number on it. I think the dashed line that you're referencing is an access easement, and that was a requirement from staff that both this right-in, right-out access on the Mount Comfort Road and the full access on the Shiloh were dedicated within access easements to ensure that the Hayes property could use both of those entrances. Okay, so they can come off of their property. They don't have to go to that right-in, right-out property.
 they could drive across the lot and come out on on the street and come out of the stoplight correct yes you mean do you mean on shiloh on shiloh yes yes right across from from the Subaru dealership yes that's correct okay thank you any other questions from the council okay let's take some public comment
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those that are joining us by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person will be allowed to speak second uh susan do we have anybody on zoom no hands are raised at the moment
 Okay, then is there anybody else in here that would like to speak to us on this topic? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is a resolution. What discussion or action would you, Council, like to take? Like I said before, I think I would be voting against this. I'm okay if we needed to table it.
 There's obviously a lot of new stuff presented today, but most of that I don't think goes to us. I think it would go to a court. We need to make our decisions based on what is keeping our city safe, and we have access management codes. And I think we should follow those and not change the safety of the city based on a kind of contract dispute between two parties. So, thank you.
 I would like to table this to see if maybe Kit and the Hayes' attorney would be able to come up with something. Then we need a motion and a second to table. I move we table. Do we have a second on tabling? Okay, that dies for a lack of second. Okay, we have before you the resolution. Okay, and the motion must, there must be a motion to pass the resolution and that would grant the appeal.
 And even if you are in favor of granting the appeal, there still needs to be a motion to pass the resolution before this item can be taken care of. I move we pass the resolution. I had a few more comments. I'm sorry. OK.
 So I appreciate Mr. Hayes giving us the tour a couple of weeks ago. That was really helpful and informative about what was going on over there. But I will not be supporting this appeal because I think it sets a bad precedent. This has broader implications. There's also a dispute that's been discussed between Casey's and Mr. Hayes or the Hayes family today.
 And they have multiple access points. So my biggest concern is about precedent setting, and I do believe it is a serious safety hazard right there. There are reasons for those codes. So that's, thank you. That's all I have to say.
 We still have a motion on the floor to pass resolution. And there needs to be a second. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? No. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? Kenyon? No. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Okay.
 Okay. Fines. No. Okay, the appeal has failed. Okay. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's move along to number two. An ordinance to amend 158.05 off-site improvements delays to conform this section to the requirement of ACA 14-56-103.
 development impact fees definition. Now this was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerwood, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin?
 Yes. Thanks. Yes. In Ordinance Amendment Section 158.05, Offsite Improvement Belays to conform this section to requirements of ACA 1456.103 Development Impact Fees Definition. I should first note for the record that City Council Member Jones had an operation today, so he is ill and will not be able to attend the meeting.
 I also want to thank the council members last meeting for leaving this on the first reading because after I had read it to you, I noticed that it needed a couple minor changes but important changes.
 And so I have explained them to you in my memo of August the 9th about that. I wanted to remove the language I had in there, which is oftentimes used when we are making substantial amendments to a code section, where you just repeal it and then have a whole new code section that includes a lot of the former language but with significant changes.
 So I started to do that, and when I read that, I realized that no, we don't want to repeal this, because the impact fee statute says that impact fee ordinance in existence before 2003, even if amended, can remain effective. But I was afraid if I used the word repeals, that might mean that this could actually no longer be effective, which was certainly not my intent.
 and therefore I did send on also a very slightly amended ordinance to you that changed repeals to amends in Section 1 and also in the title, changing the title to include off-site improvement slash development impact fees for specific infrastructure improvement needs necessitated by a particular development
 so the only changes were to change repeals to amends and to add off-site improvement to the title and i would ask that the city council amend this particular ordinance to that effect okay so i move that we amend the ordinance to that effect second
 Thank you all very much. Any discussion on the amendment from the council? Care which police call? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 And Mr. Mayor, I did explain at last city council meeting, I think, all the reasons I had for this, mainly that we're just trying to comply with state law so that our impact fee ordinances match up with the impact fee statute. And we actually have been following the statute, but our impact fee ordinance was not exactly in tune. And so I wanted to make sure it exactly conforms.
 To the impact fee statute and I'm ready to answer any questions that the City Council might have okay What questions do we have from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn speak You have a five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. I
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are here in person will be allowed to speak second. Who do we have on Zoom? Susan? Okay. Is there anybody here that would like to speak to this ordinance? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What action or discussion would the council like to do?
 move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading care which please call her yes Hertzberg yes it's here is yes Indian yes Teddy yes Scroggins yes that's
 and your notice amends section 158.05 off-site improvements delays to conform this section to the requirements of aca section 1456 103 development impact fees definition any final comments from the council i want to thank the city attorney for his work on this thank you very much okay care would you please go on the road turk yes herzberg yes it's here is yes canyon
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, let's move on to new business. Number one, a resolution requested the administration establish program to use federal COVID-19 relief funds to encourage unvaccinated employees of businesses in federal and federal residents to get vaccinated. Matthew, I believe this is yours. Yes, thank you, Mayor.
 We just want to question asked by council members about what the potential budget might be and also had a couple other questions and suggestions from about how incentives could be used. And opening amendment today that specifies budget this incentive program is $400,000 to establish our intention for the program.
 I would ask if we could pick up discussion again. Excuse me, Matthew. We're having a hard time hearing you. You're cutting out and I'm wondering if you... Then maybe we could pick some... Yeah, maybe if you cut your video, we could hear you better. I'll try that. Is that better? That's better. I think you should pick it up from the beginning. Okay. Okay. A resolution to launch a cash incentive...
 This program will hear the agenda session about how much a season shaking is. I'm sorry, but we are hearing about every other phrase. To amend the resolution via email. Did I hear correctly that Matthew wants to move to approve it via email? Yes.
 From what I heard, I thought I heard Councilmember Petty said he wanted to move to amend this per the email that he sent. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. So what I see on the amendment is $400,000. Is that correct, Matthew, on a budget adjustment for the program? And Kit...
 Matthew did send me an email earlier today where there were several things that he thought might be added. And what I did is, if you look in the bottom two whereas clauses, let me read them. This was something he wanted added, I think, because this is the version I sent out to the council yesterday.
 Just a few minutes ago. The first added whereas clause would say, whereas quickly and substantially increasing the number and percentage of vaccinated persons will reduce...
 Actually, that's that's that one's the same. So it's one below that. Whereas these incentive funds for persons to become fully vaccinated against COVID-19 are available to all residents, employees working in Fayetteville, but special emphasis should be taken to ensure health care and social assistance workers.
 Educators and support staffs and hotel and food service workers reached the highest percentage possible for vaccinations. And whereas the local courts should be encouraged to consider reducing existing or future fines that otherwise would go to the city to persons who quickly become vaccinated after the passage of this resolution.
 And then the operative language, which is in Section 1, let me read how that has been amended, not very substantially, but some. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, I hereby request the administration promptly to establish a program using an outside contractor if necessary, with federal COVID-19 relief funds in the amount of $400,000 to establish vaccine incentive awards,
 of $100 for all residents of Fayetteville and all employees working in Fayetteville who become fully vaccinated on or after August 17, 2021, when this resolution was passed by the City Council and before the blank day of blank 2021 and approves a budget adjustment in the amount of $400,000 from federal COVID relief funds. So that is what I sent out. Obviously, I didn't have an ending date for you.
 Okay. Matthew, does that sum up what you're looking at? Yes. Are you able to hear me better now? Yes. Okay. Wonderful. Yes. Thank you. You summed it up very well. And the motion is to make that the amendment, and I have to answer any questions before or after. Did you have a cutoff date, Matthew, you want to put in? Let's go with November 15th of this year. Okay.
 October 15, excuse me. October? OK. So that would be your motion to amend? Yes, sir. OK. Second. OK. So we have a motion and a second to amend to the $400,000. They can have discussion if they want to or whatever. Yes. What discussion do we have on the amendment? Mayor, I have some comments. I think October 15 is an appropriate date. Thank you for identifying an end date.
 I do have concerns about $400,000 because I hope this is extremely successful. I really do. And I appreciate you bringing this forward, Matthew, and trying to be innovative and continue to incentivize people for getting vaccinations. However, unfortunately, monetary awards have not been that successful nationally and I believe with city staff.
 locally too. So having $400,000 tied up and not being able to be allocated or at least considered with other funding, I think the amount is too high.
 What I would suggest is $200,000. And I think in your original email that you sent out, you had suggested that it come back to the city council when those funds were exhausted at an 80% level. And so we could allocate more money at that time
 So that would be my suggestion. I mean, I hope that all of that is used and those 4,000 people all get vaccinated. It's just we haven't really seen that kind of response. And I just don't want money left on the table idly, I guess, if it is not successful. Thanks. Thanks.
 Thank you, Councilmember Tarrick. I'd certainly take that suggestion in good faith. Perhaps it would be useful to explain where the $400,000 number came from. And then I might just share some of my thoughts and feelings about how the utilization of the incentive program might work given what we've already seen in some other incentive programs.
 So the first thing I asked for when this idea was put forward was employee counts in the city by sector. And from that, we made some guesses about what
 The rate of vaccination is in the sector. So, for example, the local hospitals have been talking about their high rate of vaccinations. The school district claims a 94% rate of vaccinations among faculty and staff. And we know what it overall is in the county.
 So, focused on healthcare and social assistance, education services, and hospitality, and assuming that VACs vary somewhere between 70 to 90% in the city, in those sectors, at $100 incentive, that totals up to about $340,000.
 I suggest that we rounded that off to 400,000 to account for two things. First, there are other classes of essential workers that need to be incentivized, and I wasn't sure how best to count those up because they're spread across several of our
 of our codes in our economic development data. And secondly, I'm also not sure what the administrative costs of this program are going to be. And so, we wanted to create some sort of an administrative or overhead category in the resolution so that the administration had the authority they needed to launch the program.
 So that was how we got to 400,000. By the way, if we were to try and run an incentive program for the entire population of the city, there's about 45,000 workers, not counting some of the federal and state institutions. And if we're vaccinated at the same rate as the county, I think we're a bit higher. But if we're only at 50%, this program would cost 2.2 million. Just have a benchmark there for what the 400,000 means.
 Okay, so we do have some data of our own on city toys and also some anecdotes.
 from local business owners that incentives have not worked as well as we're hoped. However, all of those programs that I've learned about so far only offered an incentive at the $50 level, which frankly just isn't enough. I don't even know if 100 will be enough. Perhaps it won't, which is why I think that it's really important that we strongly encourage matches.
 $200 is a lot different than $50 for your average worker in terms of missing work, in terms of being compensated for the inconvenience of needing to get the vaccine.
 so i i don't know i'm like you uh in that i'm hopeful but uh we i'm not sure that we can really put um i wouldn't count all the ducks uh just yet or or count all the chickens i don't think this egg is really hatched however um i'm personally comfortable with this allocation of 400 000 because it has the end date and i don't see there's any way of us uh needing to
 requisition the $17.9 million of CARES funding that we received in that timeframe of the next few months. So it seems like there's enough play in the fund itself that as of October, we'd be able to make an assessment about whether the program is successful.
 If it is, presumably we'd wrap it up or we'd give it more money. And if it's not successful, we could rebudget any leftover money at that time.
 Of course, I'm very curious to hear each other's thoughts, because it's certainly true that if we wanted to budget less tonight and then anticipate budgeting more of the program successful, that can be a fine way to do it. I chose to propose it in this manner because of the time sensitivities involved and really wanted to make sure we had a clear authorization from the council up front for the duration of the program.
 So the, what I'm hearing the peak is supposed to be in October. We are stewards of the Treasury here. I obviously haven't sat down and done a lot of penciling of numbers, but I assume that if we were to actually vaccinate another 4,000 people, it would save the city, hospitals, etc., the U of A way, way, way more than $400,000.
 just in reduction of people getting the virus to the point that they have to go to the hospital and if you can even go to the hospital. So I know it sounds like a big number.
 i think it would pay back dividends um for us doing this and not to mention we may save lives and not just you know the 4 000 you vaccinate well the people that don't get covered because these people were vaccinated um so so when we're talking about something that grows exponentially um i i think this money is is well spent
 yes i i totally agree i think this is a great pilot project i like the end date and i like the 400 000 um for the reasons that sloan just mentioned and um i would definitely support it as as it's stated any other comments questions from the council discussion well i also have a concern at the 400 000 level if it were tied up and it weren't used as council member turk mentioned um
 $400,000 is a bunch of money to tie up that we're not sure if people are going to utilize this program or not. Just on my mind, Matthew, you said that you didn't mind if we amended it to the $200,000, maybe $250,000, and then come back if we need more. Is that what I heard you say? Okay.
 i would certainly log that as a win for the city and a smart program i think that to say no matter how the program rolled out it'll be a smart thing to do but my preference is still to give a full authorization from the beginning
 I'm concerned about funding for parliamentary hiccups, not political hiccups, but just having to come back here in the middle of a successful incentive program for more authorization. If this is successful, we'll be wishing we had already authorized the money. Well, I'm going to counter that. If I think it's successful, I'll be anxious to go ahead and give more money towards it. You know, it can work both ways.
 I would like to offer an amendment to set the cap at $250,000 with, I don't know if we can put with the understanding we can come back because we can always come back, but I would like to propose that amendment. Second. So we have a vote. We need to divide the question here because I want $400,000.
 Well, I have a motion and a second to amend. And then you have another amendment to that amendment, which is proper, and that would be the first one to be voted on. The new amendment would change the initial amendment from $400,000 to $250,000. So we'll vote on the $250,000 first? Yes. Correct? Because the way I've always done this, the last amendment is the first one we vote on. That's correct. Okay. Making sure I've got everything right here.
 So we have an amendment to go to $250,000. Well, do we need discussion on that? I'm sure we do. What discussion do we have amongst council on $250,000? So 400,000 is like 2 1⁄2% of the total CARES. This isn't a large percentage of CARES.
 250 instead of 400 is 1500 less people getting vaccinated. If everybody were to use this, I guess the question we need to look at is what if we don't spend it? How long is that tied off? I don't know if that's a cat question for Paul or for a cat. Paul, why don't you make a stab at that one?
 Well, whatever we prove, we actually, what we don't spend, we come back at a point in time and reduce that appropriation to zero.
 making the funding back to what it originally was. So obviously if we don't spend it, we don't spend it. It would tie up whatever's approved. In this particular case, an additional $150,000 would tie it up for at least two months. So once again, that's up to the council. It's tied up. If it's spent, it's spent. If it's not spent, it's spent. We come back and reduce it back, transfer it back to the recovery fund.
 any other questions how long would it take to get additional money if we approved 250 000 and we spent all of that well i can handle that end of it i can get it to the council pretty quick if you all decide to go with 250. if you go with 400 we'll go with 400 but let's do something i'll handle it either way i don't i don't think in two months we're going to figure out how to spend the other 97.5 percent so i don't
 Yeah, and my thoughts are, you know, we need to be kind of, we need to be incredibly proactive right now and put a lot of effort in kind of a prevention and a positive spin to get people to incentivize them to get their vaccine.
 I think cash is an excellent way for incentivizing and prevention. And if I could, I'd put, you know...
 enough to vaccinate everybody who's not vaccinated. So to me right now, it's an incredibly conservative number, 400,000 for the safety and the health and safety and a life or death situation for some people. So to me, it's already conservative, and I think we need to just stick with the 400,000. Well, what you have for you right now at this moment is $250,000. So what other discussion do we have?
 So if you want $400,000, you vote against this amendment. Yes. If you want $250,000, you vote for it. OK. That's easy enough. OK. Well, Carol, let's call the roll and see what we got here on 250. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty? No. No. Scroggins? No.
 Thanks. No. So the amendment on the amendment fails. We're back to the original amendment suggested by Council Member Petty. Yes. Thank you. So what discussion do we have on the $400,000? Anything else? Mayor, I have a comment.
 You know, these are federal funds, and I'm hoping that there's some way to ensure that we don't have fraud or double-dipping, because there's a lot of other programs that are out there. And so we get a lot of federal money, you know, through grants and all sorts of other things.
 I think that's probably really a challenge to the administration on how, you know, you put those safeguards in place. But I just wanted to bring that up because I do think it's a concern that we all need to be aware of. Well, I think that's a good point. And the staff and I have been talking about that very thing for the last week. So we do have a program.
 And we can run by what we've come up with. Paul, do you want to do that? Susan, do you want to do that? Who's got that? OK. Paul, if you want to handle the fraud and double dipping question, then I can describe the program we're doing. Yep. I will. And it's a pretty simple program, really. My staff and I and a bunch of staff, IT, Susan, the mayor, we've all discussed this. Obviously, one of our primary fears is fraud.
 essentially what the intent is is we would put out we're going to have a form put out by IT where documentation would be sent to us in an application requesting this funding then in effect once we get everything we would respond to the individual tell them yes they're approved then we would pay them in the form of a
 bank card, Visa card, we would ask them to come in, show identification at that point in time, give them the card. To me, that would be the safest method of doing it at this point in time. If we try to mail the card, cards can be lost. It's the same as mailing cash.
 We sent a check. The check could be lost. The check could be misused. The check could be stolen. So at this point in time, what our anticipation is to clear them for eligibility through a form available in IT. And in fact, for those people that don't have the capability of doing that online, we would set up a kiosk here at the front
 at the first floor to come in and they could file their application at that point in time but we would pay them in the form of a guest card ask them to come in verify their identification that point in time given the card and i think that would be proper uh proper internal control for the disbursement of cash susan i know you probably have a couple things to add to that
 Well, as to potential double dipping, we really can only have an attestation on the form that the applicant is simply going to guarantee they've not done that. We don't have any way to verify whether there is any double dipping, Teresa. But the program that IT staff is able to
 pretty quickly go ahead and design. And in fact, it's pretty quickly because we have other programs similar to this. For example, in our claims application process. So we have a certain system that we're able to stand up this particular type of a form.
 with the capability to upload documentation that can be verified as Paul said when the applicant comes by. So I think we've got the staff who are asking all the right questions and making sure we're able to
 implement the workflow for the authorization of the payment and then Paul's team will generate the payments as he described and it's really not a very difficult program for IT to administer on their end and it's more or less the verification of the authentication of the documents that we'll have to do when the person comes in but that's how we intend to implement any questions on that what questions do we have in the council
 We started to work on this Wednesday morning, so I thought we had done pretty well to get it all lined out today. So kudos to the staff and Paul and everybody that worked on that. We went to work on this Wednesday, and we have something pretty well ready to go today. I think we could possibly roll it out by the end of the week, if not the beginning of next week. Paul's giving me the sign, maybe two weeks, but it's imminent.
 Let's see, I think we can have it rolled out in two weeks, but it'll be a time. We've already set the date for the beginning, so that would be time for them to get the vaccination. By the time they completed it, we'll have the system up and ready to go. And it goes back to August the 10th, if you want to understand. The revised resolution is August 17th. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So what questions do we have?
 One question, was a marketing campaign discussed
 with and about, or how would that, because I think that is just as key, you know, for the success of this. Do we have a plan on that, or what's your thoughts? Certainly, we will use all of the same channels that we have for notification. We have a pretty large following through both our media outlets and social media, so I think that we'll be able to reach people
 many people who want to hear the message through our typical channels and through print and advertising will will do what we can we have the capability there too
 don't believe we'll need to hire anybody to help us with that either. On our Facebook page I found out today, Lisa did inform me, we've got 23,000 people on our Facebook page. Is that correct Lisa? Yes. So we'll be sending it out to that many people. I have 5,000 on my page. We'll be happy to entertain any additional ideas for outreach that any any council members of the public may have but I think we have the capacity to do outreach.
 And again, that's part of the reason that we looked at this design. Oh, go ahead. Sorry, Paul. Go ahead. I'm sorry. That's one of the things we looked at in the design, Sonia, was to make it a type of system that could be designed
 reached by most any citizen whether or not they had a permanent residence. Residents are not, which in which case we would have to send out send out information to them or mail a check. But that's one of the reasons we can push this out through our normal information. Certainly we can contact
 people such as Seven Hills, areas like that, to inform people what's available if, in fact, they get the vaccinations. Again, we'll have a kiosk here where they can request it if they don't have the technology available to them to get it. So I think we're doing everything possible that we can do to advertise it and make it as accessible as possible.
 Yeah, I was just my thing was just making sure that there were, you know, resources available if you needed them and you have them to make sure we can get the word out as much as possible. I did have a good conversation today. I have been working with some university students and a lot of them are telling me they're not on Facebook anymore.
 And so I'm just wanting to make sure that, and I'm happy to help with that, kind of coordinate some connections there with ASG, the Associated Student Government and university connections, so that the students also understand and know about the program. But that all sounds good to me. Thank you, Sonja. We'll take all the help we can get. Okay. Great. I don't have anything else. Anything else from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. They have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. I think this is the amendment that we're still talking about. We haven't finally approved the original amendment, have we? You're right. So we're not ready to vote on the resolution yet? No, just on the amendment. Okay, okay, okay, okay. Sorry. All right. Any other discussion on the amendment? Okay. Do we have a motion and a second?
 We do. All right. Thank you, Karen. All right. Would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yep. Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Now we have the amended resolution. What discussion and action does the council wish to take? What discussion do we have on the amended resolution?
 Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Everyone that's attending by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those attending in person will be allowed to speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one. Okay, is there anyone here would like to speak on this?
 I don't see anybody. I'll bring it back to the council. This is resolution. Mayor, I have one final comment to make. Okay.
 First, I wanted to thank everybody for taking this up quickly. I doubt it will be the last kind of incentive we consider. For instance, tomorrow the Board of Health is considering a behavioral incentive where we might, where we would consider waiving the individual masking requirement at locations where proof of vaccination is required for entry. And that's just one example of the many kinds of things that we might be able to do to encourage vaccination. On that note,
 I want to call, and I hope that as we administer and launch this program, that we'll all join in this call upon the courts, the libraries, the schools, the clinics.
 and all employers to try to match us with this. And if you aren't able to, to be our partner in outreach and marketing to your own workers. That's really key for making this program successful. Our workers need to hear from you. And I think that to the extent that we can do somewhat aggressive outreach directly
 to businesses in accommodation and food services, to our healthcare partners and our social care providers, and also to our educational institutions. I know that they'll help us advertise this incentive. So thank you all for considering this and taking this pandemic seriously. Okay.
 any other comments from council okay would you please call the road have we had a first or a second i didn't hear yeah i thought i thought i asked for a girl if we had a motion in a second to do before i don't know if we had one on the amendment uh just to have the specific date with a 400 000. you're right we need a motion in a second to pass the amended resolution thank you care move to approve the resolution second okay you have a motion would you please call the road
 Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Mayor, I have a question regarding this one. Do we need to have an emergency action in order to implement this immediately or not? This is a resolution, so it's effective immediately.
 Okay, thank you. Okay. All right move along to number two an ordinance to waive the requirements for Competitive bidding and to approve a contract with Ozark Tennis Academy LLC to provide tennis instruction to federal residents kit. I
 Whereas Ozark Tennis Academy must elect to provide tennis instruction to Fayetteville residents at the Wilson Park Tennis Complex through an informal request for proposals process in March of 2021 because it was not anticipated that the fees for services would exceed $20,000.
 and whereas more participants have registered for the programs provided by Ozark Tennis Academy than expected and fees will likely exceed the twenty thousand dollar competitive bidding threshold required by the city code before the end of the year. Whereas registration for the fall tennis program which will start in September is already underway and staff does not recommend changing providers in the middle of the year. Now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one
 that the city council of the city of favorable arcs are hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract with ozark tennessee tennis academy llc provide tennis instruction to favorable residents at the wilson park tennis complex through december 31st 2021. okay lee
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I don't have too much more to update other than what Kit has provided.
 further provide that the Informer RFP was sent to known vendors in our area in which we did have three submissions. That criteria for selection was based on qualifications, experience, proposed work method, past performance, and proposed fees, and ultimately Ozark Tennis Academy was selected based on that criteria. I'd be happy to answer any further questions you may have. Okay. What questions do we have for Lee on this? From the council.
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Okay, and do we have anybody that's here in the chamber?
 Now, I'm going back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What actions or conversations does the council want to have? Anybody? Any opinions? Or maybe you'd like to move it on to another reading? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Tarrant? Yes. Yes.
 Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Ozark Tennis Academy LLC to provide tennis instruction to Fayetteville residents. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Caravage Police, call the roll. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Ozark Tennis Academy LLC to provide tennis instruction to Fayetteville residents. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? All right, Kerbich, please call the roll. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Funch?
 Yes. Thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to approve Vacation 21-020 from property located adjacent to 61 South Harmon Road to vacate a portion of an alley right of way. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of an alley right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of street and alley right-of-way as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2. That a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. 1. Any damage to or relocation of existing utilities or existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense or at the expense of the property owner or developer.
 And number two, the vacation shall only be effective upon the consent of all adjacent property owners. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in central Fayetteville, just west of downtown at the northern extents of the Fayetteville High School or Fayetteville Public Schools High School campus. It includes about 0.16 acres of public right-of-way. This dedication of this right-of-way is quite old. It came about in the early 1900s as a part of the Duncan addition subdivision.
 Aerial imagery for as old as the 1920s indicates that the right-of-way was never developed, which you can see here on that aerial imagery.
 The right-of-ways lack of use is exemplified today by several gradual encroachments into it over the last hundred years or so, including a parking lot and a building and some other manmade features. And evaluating the request, staff focused on three main issues. First, one of the typical ones that council sees with every vacation request is the franchise utility sign-offs. These have been completed with no objection.
 The second, which you heard Mr. Williams describe in the second condition of approval on this item is that all adjacent property owners need to consent to the request. Up until yesterday afternoon, we had not received it for one of the adjacent property owners. Hopefully the council was able to see that.
 This morning that that was emailed out when it was received from the applicant. This is a slightly blurry one, not as clear as what was sent to you in the email, but it does indicate that the one outstanding property owner that had not submitted consent has provided it to staff at this point. It is confirmed that they are not opposed to the right-of-ways vacation.
 And the last major consideration is as the staff considers the impacts, the public's interest of any vacation. In this instance, staff does not consider the right of way to currently or in the future serve any of the interests of the adjacent properties or the larger neighborhood. The reasoning behind this is twofold. First, it's a dead end right of way. You can see it here in yellow. Even if it were to be built out, it would not be able to connect the Clinton Drive to the west.
 It's effectively, again, a dead end stub. And then the second side of that is that all the surrounding property owners, excepting the one who gave their consent yesterday, indicated here in white, are large institutional users who will likely not ever utilize or develop that right away as a public street. With that, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission unanimously concurred.
 Again, Mr. Williams noted the two conditions on it, the first of which is a typical one in the utility relocation or damage done as or that occurs as a part of this vacation is a developer's expense, and the second of which was satisfied with receipt of the owner consent form yesterday.
 We've received no public comment on the item. Available for questions. And I believe Zach Hickson is available tonight. He's the applicant, but I can't say for certain if he's in the chambers or not. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Mr. Hickson. I'm sorry. I have nothing further to add, but I am here to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay, thank you.
 What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Okay, well let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in chambers
 Council chambers second. So is anyone on zoom that would like to address us on this? No, sir. Okay. Anyone in the chambers? I don't see anybody. All right. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what's the wishes council, what action or discussions you like to take or talk about? There's no discussion. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the second reading.
 care would you please call the rock turk yes earthsburg yes it's here is yes canyon yes eddie petty yeah scroggin yes bunch yes and orange approved vac 21-020 for property located adjacent to 61 south harman road to vacate a portion of an alley right of way
 okay this is an ordinance it's on the second reading what's the wishes the council will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading care which please call the role turk yes herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones kenyon yes petty yes scroggen yes bunch yes
 And the ordinance approved VAC 21-020 for property located adjacent to 61 South Harmon Road, the vacator portion of an alley right-of-way. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Moving along to number four, a resolution to approve the 2022 Employee Benefits Package. Miss? Thank you, Mayor and Council. As we discussed last week, we're bringing forward our annual renewal for 2022 open enrollment, which is... Can you hear me? Okay.
 okay sorry i'm bringing forward the 2022 open enrollment package for council's review and for the most part our race for dental vision life insurances disability insurances we were all on a guaranteed rate hold for next year so we're very fortunate to be able to extend those same packages with no change to rates and that's what staff is recommending
 We have some decision points to bring to you tonight on our medical specifically, our health insurance. And I've got a few slides to cover on that and have some discussion. And the other thing that the staff is recommending is a change in our COBRA vendor to a local Arkansas-based COBRA.
 COBRA vendor that we feel like will provide better service to our retirees and our employee benefits when folks need COBRA insurance.
 So I've asked Jacob Salinas to be on the call, and I think I'm going to run the projector, to kind of talk about something that Council had asked for as to why staff is recommending a plan design change over the existing plans. We will bring forward to you the comparison of the two plans so that you have hopefully the information that you need to make a decision. I will say that both of these plans are excellent plans and the city offers
 a great rate, which we'll cover in one of the slides, as well as great contribution. So I don't feel that council can go wrong with one of the rate designs that we are recommending. So I'm going to pull up some slides and ask Jacob to go through. Thank you, Missy. Good evening, Mayor Jordan, city council members. Pleasure to be with you again tonight. Jacob Slim.
 I am your benefit consultant.
 city had for quite some time. As Missy stated, we wanted to provide some context in terms of the process that we go through working with you all collaboratively, HR and administration to present the recommendations that are being today. Yes. If you could stay in one place and speak more clearly straight into your mic, because. No, okay. Can you hear me? I'm sorry, I apologize.
 So what you have in front of you is a slide presentation that we put together to give City Council context of how we approach the renewal analysis, providing data analytics, the information, what backs the recommendations that are being made. This slide here is the...
 industry practices that we belong to our work. I personally work in the public sector. I represent city government, state county government, as well as K-12 school districts. The majority of my client base is in the public sector. That's important to know because when we work with MISI and team, we are presenting information from a benchmark data standpoint of what your peers are doing in the industry.
 in terms of plan design, in terms of trends, what is happening in the marketplace relative to public sector. And so when we're presenting this information, then you can compare where you are compared to where your peers are relative to benefits and plan design. Missy, next slide, please.
 So our approach really are two prong. One is the consulting side of it, which is what I do. Think of me as the quarterback leading the team, providing guidance and recommendations. The other part is the actual service approach. So the inner pieces of the pie in the circle is really our service approach of what we provide on an ongoing basis, supporting the city, the community.
 the team and the employees of the city. Ongoing client support in terms of giving guidance, information as relative to plan design benefits, continuing project management, even more importantly, financial monitoring. How is the plan performing relative to what was budgeted in the premium rate that's being charged to the city and its employees?
 We are very involved in the vendor management piece of it as well. So working with your various insurance companies, being that liaison, that buffer, helping with issue resolution, triaging issues as they come up. And we provide a ton of compliance support,
 And even more so now with COVID and the pandemic, as you all know, there was a bunch of regulations that were passed in the last year and a half that really impacted employees and employee benefits. So it's a very client-centric model.
 From the consulting side of it, really we look at it from a four-phase process. Develop goals. So we sit down with Missy and team, staff every year at the beginning of the year, and we set forth a roadmap, a client strategic roadmap of what goals, what objectives are going to be met for that plan year and going into the future. Once we do that, we try to understand what's happening with the data.
 So our underwriters, our financial consultants that work on our team, that work with Blue Cross folks, work with looking at the data, presenting that data to you to show you how you're performing relative to the budget.
 With that data point, we look at, we identify opportunities to bring, continue to bring value in the budget plan design, as well as saving opportunities for both city and employees. And then we continue to optimize that throughout the process. So it's an ongoing cycle, if you will, on an annual basis. So hopefully that gives you some context of how we approach it.
 Looking at the raw data that was presented to staff, this is a 12 month rolling snapshot beginning of May of 2020 through April of 2021. That is the time period that was used by Blue Cross to develop the renewal. As you can see, it goes by month, it counts the number of members covered under the plan, the number of contracts that would relate to and defined as employees, how much premium was paid into the plan,
 how much was paid out in medical claims and pharmacy claims for a total. You look to the bottom right corner, $5.7 million were paid in total claims compared to the 6.2 million, almost 6.3 million paid in premium. That equates to a 91.2% medical loss ratio or what we call MLR in the industry.
 Because we've negotiated a renewal guarantee for the city, that MLR slotted into a 6% increase on the current benefits being offered for the two health plans. Missy, next slide.
 We also provide a historical look back. This is going back six years of each renewal year going back from 2016 through 2021, what that percent of increase was, and then comparing it to the total claims paid versus premium and that total paid loss ratio. So you can see from that six-year period of time, almost $29, almost $30 million worth of claims are paid on the city's behalf.
 close to $32 million in premium was paid for an overall loss ratio of 92.6%. As you can see in the most recent years, the city has been trending better from an overall loss ratio. Missy?
 We also look at where the money is being spent by the population. So this first slide here is paid distribution of claims for the high deductible health plan. That is the plans in conjunction with the HSA or the health savings account. This is a three-year look back. Pay close attention to the most current 12 months, January 20 through December 20. I circled a certain segment of the population.
 78.4% of the HSA total membership spent less than $1,000 in claims in the year 2020. That is a lion's share of the population. This speaks to both benefit philosophy and benefit plan design. And when we look at this kind of data and we sit and talk strategically with your team, we talk about what does a plan design look like and who's utilizing those plans. So for these individuals...
 The majority of the 80% rule, if you will, any plan design would work for these individuals because they are very low utilizers of the healthcare. As you go down the line and look at the dollars being paid out, obviously very few individuals fall into the bigger buckets. Although there are a few individuals, dollars. But everybody on this plan.
 same out of pocket on an annual basis. So regarding the number of claims they're having, they have a maximum ceiling of what they would reach for their out of pocket, which we'll discuss in a second. Missy, next slide please.
 and if you look at the total so both the hsa or the high deductible home plan and the ppo combined for the city in 2020 75.7 almost 76 percent of the total membership spent less than a thousand dollars in total claims in the year 2020 so again along those same lines of that discussion of benefit philosophy and benefit strategy plan designs coupled with our benchmarks um where where's where does the road lead us where do we want to take this discussion this
 Next slide. So looking at the plans that were presented,
 The current plan came out based on the renewal guarantee. The current plan as it stated today has a thousand dollar deductible, annual deductible for an individual, 2000 per family with a $3,000 total out of pocket for an individual or 6,000 per family. I'm paying close attention to in-network benefits because obviously individuals staying in network get a bigger value in their benefit.
 the proposed change is looking at raising that deductible from a thousand to fifteen hundred the family deductible goes from two thousand to three thousand the total out of pocket goes from three thousand forty five hundred for individual and six thousand to nine thousand for a family
 Significant changes in this plan as well is putting into the plan design co-pays. This would be the first time on this core PPO plan that individuals enrolled in this plan, which is a total of 63 individuals currently today with the city, would have co-pays when they visit a physician, a primary care physician, or specialist. Also included is a co-pay for urgent care visits for those individuals that need to seek care after hours in an urgent situation.
 Prescription drug card stays the same on this plan as well. So those are the significant changes to the plan with a slight decrease in the total overall premium to the city and its employees. Missy? And on the high deductible health plan or the plan with the HSA, this is where the lion's share of membership sits today. Through years of contributing to the HSA, many individuals have taken advantage of this plan. The current plan today sits at a $3,000 deductible.
 $6,000 deductible for family. It is a 100% coinsurance plan, meaning that once an individual reaches deductible, the plan starts paying at 100%. It is important to point out that
 Regardless of the plan design you vote on today. Okay, check. Yes. Staff only has 10 minutes to make presentations. Okay, I apologize. This is my last slide, Mayor. I apologize for that. I just wanted to point out this is a... Before you apologize, Council's going to have to give you more time before we continue on. Okay. I would hope the Council... I move to give five more minutes. Thank you. I second that. All right. Thank you all. Thank you. Go on, Jack.
 Thank you, sir. I just want to point out this is an embedded deductible. So the way an embedded deductible works in a high deductible health plan is that once an individual reaches that deductible, they start, the insurance company starts paying in on the coinsurance. So on your current plan, that's 100% coinsurance. On the proposed plan that Missy is presenting today, we are looking at a $2,800 deductible. So the deductible is actually being lowered by $200.
 with a family deductible of $5,600.
 And as you can see here, the increase in the total out of pocket with the plan also changing from 100% coinsurance after deductible satisfied to 80%. The biggest change here is the deductible and coinsurance. And also this is an embedded deductible as well. Once an individual reaches their deductible, the insurance company will start paying on that person's plan. And then everybody else enrolled in the family plan,
 fills up the bucket of claims with the various claims that they incurred through the year. So no change in the embedded deductible position of both plans being presented. Missy, I'll turn it over to you with the remainder of the presentation. Thank you for your time.
 Okay, thank you. And this last slide is just a comparison from the cost analysis of it. As I said earlier, both of our plans, whether we went with a 6% renewal or we went with the proposed plan design, which Jacob covered while we were proposing it, it's a great rate for our employees. So if you look at the employee-only coverage,
 With a 6% renewal, that's $52.60 a month, and I believe the city contributes to their HSA $70.80 a month. And then with our proposed design, the cost to an employee is $45.96 a month for the employee-only coverage. And again, our HSA contribution from the city is $70.80. One of the recommendations and reasons that we are –
 putting both of these forward is we do want to recognize that there is a budgetary impact on moving to the proposed design as well. And I tried to summarize that in the bottom of this slide, but roughly if you go with the renewal for the 6% renewal, it ends up being about $125,000 different to employees. And if you go with the 6% renewal of the current plan for the
 for the city, it ends up being
 a difference of 680 000 so renewal versus what we're proposing overall there's about eight hundred thousand dollar difference now the budgetary impact from what we're paying this year is only about four hundred thousand dollars based on our current 2021 uh rates that we're paying so just to give you an impact um analysis on what that would look like
 And again, I bring it forward to council because I know that both of these plans are excellent plans and would love to put those before you so that we could make a decision and move forward with our open enrollment. And the other thing that had been requested that I wanted to throw in to this presentation, it was asked at the last meeting to discuss what options council members could potentially have.
 for benefit offerings. And Kit, I'm sure, will speak a little bit more about how this would happen. But basically, you can see the list on the left is our current benefits that we offer to city council. And those are the health insurance, group plan, and then it's either the health savings account or flexible spending, depending on which plan that you select. And then we have the...
 uh... you have to believe that the other evidence that remember that the people or and and supplemental products that are fully paid by you if you want them that is something that and it's really offered and then jacob did go back to our vendors to ask if it is possible to carve out
 and add for city council to be included in our rates, our dental rates for group dental insurance and vision insurance, as well as a potential flat rate life insurance through One America. And we would have to select which option we would pick there.
 But I don't know if Kit wants to weigh in on what we would need to do to make that happen. But I do believe because it's dictated by current Fayetteville City Code 3116, there is some other action that potentially would have to take place to include that. And that's all of my presentation, so I'm ready for any questions. Let me stop. Okay. What questions do we have from council? Okay.
 So this isn't really a question about the plan, but more about inflammation. When do we need to vote on this? Because I've had a lot of people reach out that are concerned about this and seem to have a whole lot of questions. And I don't think we're gonna be ready today. But is that detrimental if we don't vote on this today? What's the timeline?
 Well, we have, we're scheduled to start our education meetings right after the Labor Day holiday. So the behind the scenes, and because you all aren't meeting again, I don't believe in August, we would have to figure something out with our vendor to decide.
 reschedule open enrollment because it's scheduled for the middle of September. And there's testing and different things that have to take place behind the scenes with payroll and all the different vendors to make sure the rates are going to go through, our COBRA vendor to make sure they're loading the correct information. So it takes a good month to get all of that put into the system and verify that the data is accurate before we actually implement it with staff and do the educational meetings and enrollment.
 But, Missy, you're asking for a vote tonight. Is that correct? Yes. Yes. And, you know, I'm, again, the reason I did bring forward that 6% renewal is if that is the wish of council, we are ready to implement that as well. You know, it's our desire to offer the best package that we can to staff. And I do feel that both of these plans have excellent outcomes.
 coverage. I do feel that the numbers support either one of those. I think just looking at the total package and looking at the budgetary impact, that is why we are recommending one over the other. Well, that's unfortunate because I've had people call and they feel that some of the peer cities have better plans and they're worried about being priced out, which I
 Maybe there's misinformation that's going out or maybe that's correct, but that's based on the volume of questions we had at agenda session, which we're usually not supposed to have questions. That's unfortunate we have to vote on this tonight. Thank you. If I may respond to that comment or...
 In terms of rates, rates being presented for either the current plan or the proposed plan, when looking at benchmarks, the city of Fayetteville for public sector falls within the 25th percentile or the best in class from a rate structure standpoint. So when comparing the rates relative to your peers, the city is in a very good position from a premium standpoint.
 if that makes sense missy it might be helpful if you would talk about some of the common misunderstandings that have been repeated by staff that you've been hearing well i mean i think one of the things that you know i i mainly have heard from people who have had some catastrophic events and and of course they have had um until
 Unfortunately, some pretty significant things happen. Some due to COVID, some due to other things. And so I don't want to discount what they feel and what they've impacted in their lives. And so that's why I feel very comfortable making sure that both of these products are out there and that we're looking out after the majority of our population. I will say in speaking with those individuals about their individual perspective, I'm
 their maximum exposure, because typically when you have a family plan, because you have the embedded deductible, you do have one person that tends to contribute to the plan dollars or has the event or diagnosis or something that ends up costing the money. That person's maximum risk under this plan does go up. I mean, it's going to be higher than $3,000. It's going to be $5,600. But there's also...
 a slight decrease on their premium. You know, there's no way to sugarcoat whether this plan would be perfect for everyone who had a catastrophic event. They would much rather have the 6%. I mean, take the 6%. And I can understand that. I think the, if you look at
 your level of risk that you're willing to take, and I'm on this plan as well, so I can speak to that. Some of the things that I want to educate staff on are supplemental products. So if I'm looking at events that cause big claims, it's going to be hospitalization, potentially a cancer diagnosis. Those are things that I'm going to take a supplemental product on and do because, again,
 I want to have that level of comfort that if I have to go meet my deductible, I'm also going to have some income coming in from American Fidelity that will help offset that. And they don't coordinate benefits. Blue Cross Blue Shield does not coordinate with American Fidelity. So I would just educate anyone who's having some significant financial
 things in their home and in their family on all of their options and how to best maximize their HSA contributions, as well as look at the supplemental products specific to what's going on with them, and look at their level of risk, which for an individual individual
 in a max year it's going to be 5600 and the rest of the family as jacob implied is basically meeting the rest of that deductible but typically it is one person in your family that's having that significant cost so i think that's the number one thing that i've been able to discuss with some of the folks that i know have spoken with you and and hopefully and i've encouraged them to be on here and speak as well
 So the average cost of a hospital stay, if you get COVID, is $50,000. So if somebody were to get that under the two plans, what would their out-of-pocket be? I can answer that. On the current plan, the HSA plan, it's $3,000 total out-of-pocket. Once deductible and out-of-pocket cement, it's paid at 100%.
 And on the proposed plan, it would be $5,600, $2,800 deductible, and then an 80% coinsurance, or the member is responsible for 20% coinsurance up to the maximum out-of-pocket of $5,600. That's their ceiling for the year. Okay, so that $5,600 comes from both the deductible and... It's together, correct. It's not added together. It's $5,600 total. Okay.
 On this, Jacob, so that's on the individual vote, right? That's not for the family. So the family is also having their own deductibles going on. Correct. And as Missy commented, the way the embedded deductibles work on these plans is that it meets their own...
 then your family unit fills up the rest of the claims. You're cutting out on your... Okay, I'm sorry. Once an individual meets their own individual deductible on these plans, the rest of the family fills the rest of the bucket up, if you will, with their claims to meet the family deductible. So, yeah.
 I understand that. Jacob, could you comment on what that is specifically for the family? Because you talked about the $3,000 under the current plan and the $5,600 under the new plan. So if it's a family, what are those comparisons? Under the proposed plan, the family deductible is $5,600.
 And the total out-of-pocket maximum, which is the ceiling or the maximum exposure someone would have in a family unit would have in a calendar year, is $11,200. Thank you. Okay. What other questions do we have, counsel? Okay.
 Mayor, I have a few comments and a few questions. So next year, could you please give us at least a couple of city council meetings so we can have the information and discuss this ahead of time where it doesn't influence the open enrollment? I would really appreciate that because it's a lot to digest. And I anticipate that our rates are going to go up next year because of COVID, because of the pandemic.
 issues that we've had with COVID. I was wondering, are there insurance programs out there now that assess risk based on whether you're vaccinated versus unvaccinated? I haven't seen any of those, but I think that's kind of an interesting discussion and
 Maybe those kinds of plans are not there, but it's also, if there were, that's another way to incentivize people getting vaccinated. So I just, if you all have had time to investigate that, I would appreciate any information you have. Councilwoman Turk, I'm not aware of any...
 plans out there that incentivize create plan design or premium based on vaccination rate. The plans are
 I guess, projected based on total experience of the claims. So included in that total experience of the claims are COVID claims, whether it's diagnostic, testing or for treatment. But pulling the data for COVID diagnosis and treatment since the inception of the pandemic, we had roughly about 7% of total claims were related to COVID.
 And we provide that information to MISSI and TEAM as well. So when looking at the total claim expenditure for the city, COVID makes up 7 percent of that. And that information is then taken by the underwriters of Blue Cross and project forward for the overall increase. What we've done to protect the city in negotiation with Blue Cross is that guarantee.
 Quite honestly, if that guarantee wasn't there, you may be looking at a higher increase, but because of that renewal guarantee, you know, the cap is 6%. I hope that answers your question. Yes, thank you. It just sounds like the whole structure of the plan can't be parsed out into vaccinated and unvaccinated. So thank you for that answer. Well, what other questions do we have, Councilor?
 Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those that are in person in the chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Michelle Jewsbury. Okay, go ahead. Michelle?
 Michelle, if you could unmute your mic. Yes, thank you for letting me speak. Basically, when I'm looking at these plans, you're either saving. I thought I had. It says it isn't. Michelle, you'll need to unmute your mic.
 I unmuted it, but it's not... I don't think it's going through. We hear you now. Okay, good. Thank you. Sorry for the trouble. I'm new at this. Basically, when I'm looking at these plans, we have a choice between... I unmuted it. Yeah, you're good. You're good. You're good. It's all good. Okay. Would you like to keep talking? Yes. We have a choice between we either save $250, basically, and our...
 deductible, I mean, our out-of-pocket almost doubles. Or we can spend, yes. The other hand, we can spend $250 and spend and stay where we were at the $3,000. And then the other thing is that Missy mentioned the other plans that we could get for supplemental.
 Well, if we get the supplemental, that's still another premium that we have to pay for something that would be covered usually under the plan that we have now. Do you have anything else? No, that's it. Is that if, you know, the $250 difference one way or the other, you stay at your regular $3,000 for one person.
 for the $250 more or you spend $250 less and your deductible is basically doubled. Okay. Did that go through? Yes, it went through. Thank you, Michelle. Unless there's anything else. No, that's it. Okay. You have no other Zoom members, Mayor. Okay. Let's bring it back to the council. Well, what would you all like to do?
 So when we're looking at the cost that the city is investing with the new plan, can we talk a little bit about that, Missy? We talked about today. Missy took some time today to really go in deep with me about this, and so that helped me as well. What are we investing into it as a city? Sure.
 And Sonia, are you speaking to the HSA as well, kind of our contribution into it? Yes, the two scenarios. Right. So, you know, we're keeping our contribution to the HSA the same as it has been. So, you know, we basically help.
 an employee to take insurance because we're pretty much offsetting that with what we put in every month. And just to give the employee amount, with that 6% renewal, the employee's paying $52.60 a month, and we're contributing $70.80 a month. And if you look at a family plan under that 6% renewal, it's about a wash. The employee will pay $160.
 $168.62 a month, and we'll put into their HSA $156.66 a month. So that's just what the city puts in. And then there's a maximum, of course, that the IRS will allow the employee to then pre-tax, put into that to help cover some of the risk that's associated with a high-deductible plan. And then looking at our proposed plan, which includes a coinsurance component, we're
 our employee coverage, it would cost them $45.96 a month, and we would put in their HSA to $70.80. And then for a family under that plan, it's gonna cost them $100.
 $147.36 a month for a family coverage. And we put into the plan, again, $156.66. So with the alternate plan, we actually are putting in more money than the employee is paying in premium, which they pay in pre-tax dollars.
 So the theory, of course, is for the employee to maximize their pre-tax deductions through the HSA to help build up that account to help prepare for any catastrophic event that potentially could happen in our lives with ourselves or our families or anything else. So does that answer kind of what you were looking for, Sonia?
 Yeah, that's part of it. And then I think the second part is if we go with the option to stay, to remain with the current plan, what is the investment of the city versus not? Yeah, so the additional expense to go...
 It's going to cost the city $680,000 less on just the high deductible plan to go with the proposed plan, as opposed to going with the renewal. Now, the budgetary impact is a little different because this year we budgeted $680,000.
 about a four hundred thousand dollar difference so the real true budget impact to the city and paul can correct me if i'm wrong but it's somewhere around 400 000 different to the positive of the city um and to the employees and as far as the employees the total population if we go with the
 the proposed plan over the six percent renewal the total population is 125 000 better off um in premium savings so that kind of breaks it between city and the reason for that is because the city picks up a significant portion of the cost um for our insurance because back to jacob's point we want to be ahead in that game as opposed to our peers so our cost sharing is somewhere around
 The employee pays about 14.88% of the premium, and we pay the rest on that high deductible plan. And I primarily talk about the high deductible plan because 92% of our staff are on it, and we only have 66 or 63 people on the PPO. So there is a cost savings to premium, and then we're also putting a significant amount of money in that HSA on behalf of the employee. Okay.
 Okay. And then I guess, I don't know if this is a Paul question, but if we stay in the current plan and don't pass on the increase, Paul, can we sustain that on the budget? And Macy, you may know this already as well.
 Well, Paul's in there, but I think we have the green light from Paul. So, but I don't know if he wants to speak as to actual numbers. I'm here. I don't have precise numbers because it all depends on what selection and what plan is selected by the individual. But I'm sorry, Sonya, I didn't understand your entire question. Susan, could you? Sonya, if you could restate the question.
 Sure. Yeah. So my understanding is that if we stay how we are currently, there's an increase to the cost to the city that the city picks up, right? Versus if we go to the new proposed plan, then the cost goes, there's more cost that goes to the individual. Is that correct?
 The question is, Paul, if we went with the previous plan, what's the difference between how much the city invests with the previous plan and the proposed plan? Is there any difference in percentage of the amount of money invested by the city between the two plans? Yes.
 The cost that if the question is the cost of the city. Yes, there's an increased cost to the city if we Stay on our current plan. There's a savings if we go to the new plan However, remember that cost say when we say the city that's the cost of the entire
 plan both to the city and to the individual. So the individual currently pays, Missy, you can correct me if I'm wrong, but about 22% of the premium is paid by the employees, the balance paid by the city for the high deductible. Therefore, there would be an increase
 to the city and also an increase to the individual if we go to the if we continue to keep the current plan because that plan Has an increase to it there would be a lower cost to the individual and a lower cost to the actual city and
 if in fact we went to the plan with the higher out-of-pocket total cost. Does that answer your question, Sonia? Yes, it does. I was just wondering if we have that number. Was that on one of the slides missing maybe?
 Well, the slide that I have, I'm not sure if it plays into your question, but I think that last slide just talks about the total difference between the two plans to the city and to the employee. So looking at that medical rate comparison slide, if you drop to the bottom, it should be about $680,000, $680,000, $565,000.
 More cost to the city in premium if we go with the 6% renewal. And then the impact directly to employees of the premium based on what they're paying, it's about $125,000 more to the overall body of employees.
 if we go with a 6% renewal. And that's because our cost share is significant. So in the original legislature packet, I've got the cost share numbers at about 14.88% that the employee pays on premium to 85.12% that the city pays. And there's a different rate for PPO. So Paul is probably correcting the average of 20 something between the two plans.
 But again, I speak today just because 700 and something people are on it. That's the one that I look at the most. Okay. Yeah, I think that's – I'm hopeful that these questions are helping all the council members because we did have a good conversation. I think the other piece of it that we discussed was, you know, for me –
 You know, when we're talking about the other 20, you know, Jacob did a good job of talking about the majority of the 78% that are not even meeting and needing that $1,000 that's in their HSA. They're fairly healthy people.
 They don't ever meet that high deductible. But when we're talking about insurance, it's there for when we have this catastrophic, very surprised situation.
 thing. And so when we have, we have already a really difficult time in a medical situation, a surprise, something that's, that we didn't plan. And then now we have a much higher deductible. It's sort of insult to injury, right? So, you know, and that's what insurance is supposed to be there for, to, to help pat us and hold us whenever we're having a really already a hard time and then not add more
 of the financial stress.
 So that's kind of where I'm seeing it right now. Now that I've been on the plan for myself, and I'll say I also participated in the high deductible plan, the last three years, two and a half years, I haven't met that high deductible. This year I had a big surprise, becoming pregnant at 47, and I'm going to max it out. And so I'm not prepared. I wish I was better prepared financially. Right.
 So I'm glad that my deductible is $3,000. So it's a, you know, I'm trying to just kind of consider, you know, just being prepared for a catastrophic thing. And that's what I'm looking at. And I think that's kind of what we heard from our person who spoke for the public. So I'm happy to hear from everyone else because I feel like I've spoken enough. Okay.
 What else do we have? I had a good conversation with Missy about this as well. Pretty lengthy. And, you know, I'm really wishing that we didn't have to vote on this tonight because it does seem kind of quick. I mean, I know we're expected to, but
 I got lots of calls from a group of people that were really concerned about this, and they are the people who've been affected by the most catastrophic, you know, health care events that have cost them a lot or will cost them a lot. Now, I do understand that we have to focus on what is going to meet the needs of the most people instead of...
 you know, directing everything toward the fewer folks that have had the really big expenses. And we're trying to, you know, budget for the city and everything. And it is a cost game in the end. But I, you know, I understand all of that, but it's a hard decision to make because I know some of these people could be really, might be very adversely affected by this. That's all I have right now. Thank you.
 Okay, well I'm not really feeling the sense that the council is really ready to vote on this tonight, so What options have we got here missing? I can call the special city council meeting next week and then everybody can review the information and
 i would actually like that so and i think next tuesday it's not even an agenda session that's a free tuesday since we have five tuesdays this month there's no sense in us having that so um we will set up what we need mayor are what other questions people need answers to because i'm not sure of that at this point well i've been asking for we're getting on close to an hour now so
 What other questions would you like for us to research? Now, when I worked at the university, which was a long time ago, whatever the insurance went up, that's what they charged you. Started across the board and everybody, they paid half and you paid half. So, you know, there is the option of it going up a certain percent for everybody, I think. Is that correct, Missy? Yes, Mayor. Okay. So there's always that option. Which would be how much?
 That would be the 6% total. Okay. That would be, if we renewed our current plan, which again, it's a good plan. So, you know, I'm not, I want to make sure you have all the information you have to make a decision. So there's this blended plan or there's the other plan where it's just straight across the board, 6% increase, is that correct? Yes, Mayor. Okay. So Missy, I think what would be helpful to me and maybe to the public is,
 is boiling some of these things down that we asked for tonight and having it just real clear on the slide. I appreciate you all showing us all the information, but it was also really kind of hard to digest or to pull out because you had a lot of information in there, which I always like the details.
 But if there was a way for you all to summarize it. So some of the questions that we asked about, you know, the out-of-pocket expenses, the current plan versus the new plan, family versus individual, you know, just a really simple spreadsheet.
 I believe that would be helpful. How much the employee would pay, I think $52.60 you mentioned with the 6% plan, and then the contribution from the city of $70.80 versus the $45.90 with the new plan. So if you could just highlight those in maybe three slides. Okay.
 And then the other thing, the amount of money that the city would have to pay, which I think you said $680,000 if we went up with a 6% renewal, and around $125,000 for the employees. So just kind of boiling it down. I know that would be extremely helpful to me and maybe shed some light for the public as well, the employees as well.
 Thank you. I think that's a good point. Okay. So if we're not going to decide tonight, it needs to have a motion to table. Okay. Okay, yeah, it's a resolution. I need a motion to table and we'll pick this up next Tuesday. I'd like to move to table. I'll second that, but I assume we need to put in that we actually plan on meeting next Tuesday at a regular time.
 which i know it's not a regular time because normally but it's you know i'm thinking next tuesday at 5 30 just the regular time like we set up a regular city council meeting okay i second it if it's for next tuesday 5 30. yeah okay we have a motion to second the table till next tuesday at 5 30. okay care would you please call the road turk yes earthsburg yes it's here as yes canyon
 Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move on to number five. Yes. Okay. An ordinance to amend 97.081, intoxicating beverages of the Federal Code regarding possession and consumption of the alcoholic beverages on
 city park property and trails within the downtown outdoor refreshment area and to clarify that the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages of any other city park property or trail is subject to special event permit approval kit whereas section 97.081 of the fatal city code currently prevents the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages within city parks without obtaining a special event permit and
 whereas on June 4th 2020 the Fayetteville City Council established the city's first outdoor refreshment area or a and the program is operated without issues since its inception with a 96 percent participation rate among businesses no litter problems of zero citations for violating the rules of the outdoor refreshment area whereas currently the only route in
 to the mill district within downtown outdoor refreshment area is south school avenue and while west avenue and razorback greenway were preferred for safety reasons they were not included in the original outdoor refreshment area boundary due to construction taking place in those areas and whereas the staff also recommends clarifying
 that the possession and consumption of alcohol on other city park property or trails outside the downtown ORA will only be allowed if the city issues a special event permit. Now therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 97.001, intoxicating beverages, by repealing Subsection B2,
 and enacting a new subsection B2 as follows, quote, subsection 2, the mayor or the mayor's designee may issue a permit allowing the temporary possession, sale, and consumption of alcoholic beverages in city parks for special events as long as the event sponsors fully comply with all April state and local laws and regulations, including alcohol beverage control requirements.
 The permit may include any conditions necessary to ensure public safety and the protection of city property, unquote. Section 2. At the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Archer, heard by men, Section 97.01, intoxicating beverages. By enacting a new subsection B3 as follows, quote, Subsection 3. Alcoholic beverages may be possessed or consumed in a city park.
 or other recreational facility within the downtown outdoor refreshment area boundaries pursuant to provisions of section 111.07 of the fable city code and any additional administrative regulations okay thank you mayor good evening council members my name is steven howland director of economic vitality for the city of fayetteville
 This is the first of two items that are very related to each other that I'll go over tonight. This will be very brief. In consultation with the attorney's office, they advised us that this revision would be needed to ensure consistency across our code with the possible addition of Centennial Park special events only aura, which we will talk about next on the agenda tonight.
 This amendment is about that. It's about ensuring consistency. It does not have any rippling actions attached to it, other than it enables the topic to be considered by you in the future, such as the item that will follow this. We presented, we talked about the Centennial Parks Law and this amendment at the parks board meeting on August 2nd, had a good discussion. The six members who were present voted unanimously to let you know that they supported these items.
 Here's the language that Kit just read too. Very simple change, and the special events only is taken care of in Section 2. And Section 3 was put in place for anticipation of talking about the downtown outdoor refreshment area soon. Tonight we're not discussing, staff's not proposing any changes to that, but this makes it where we don't have to come back in. And it also cleans it up when we think about it, maybe existing parks, but parks in the downtown area that aren't even built yet or in the future.
 I'm happy to answer any questions. I have a larger presentation for prayer for the Centennial Parks or annex Here if you need have any questions, thank you. What questions do we have? Here I have a question sure So Devin, I'm just trying to make sure I understand the proposal in its entirety so
 What we have on the table right now just ensures a process. Is that a consistent process with any outdoor refreshment, any alcoholic beverages that may be approved by a special event permit? Is that it? It's just a procedural thing that we're discussing?
 Yes, Councilmember Turk, it is. If we look at that section of the code, the intoxicating beverages, we actually see an exception that was put in place by a past city council for weddings in the botanical gardens. That was put in as one of those things. This is procedural to ensure consistency across our code. Now that we have outdoor freshman areas in the city, that revision needs to be there so it's not in conflict with this section of the code.
 It doesn't have any actual actions on itself other than enabling the conversations on items like we're talking about next to take place. Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some comments then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in the chamber will have time to line up and speak if you're here. So who do we have on Zoom? Nobody. Okay.
 I don't seem to have anybody in here either. So I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion or action would the council like to take tonight? It's on the first reading. If there aren't any questions, I would move we suspend the rules and go to reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. If you care, would you please call the roll? Tarrant. Second.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. And your ordinance amends section 97.081, intoxicating beverages of the Fayetteville Code regarding possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages on city park property and trails within the downtown outdoor refreshment area.
 and to clarify that the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages on any other city park property or trail is subject to a special event permit approval okay um this is an ordinance this is on the second reading what's the wishes council i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the final reading okay did i hear a second second okay now i hear a second
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Here, would you please call the roll? Turr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 And your order to amend section 97.081 intoxicating beverages of the fatal code regarding possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages on city park property and trails within the downtown outdoor refreshment area and to clarify that the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages on any other city park property or trail is subject to special event permit approval. Okay what final comments do we have in the council?
 All right, can you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six, an ordinance to amend 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to create the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area kit.
 Whereas on June 4th of 2020, let's see, sorry, my computer is acting up, so I guess I'm going to have to go to my written information. Hold the standby. Okay. The City Council approved Ordinance 6322, pursuant to Act 112 of 2019, which established the city's first entertainment district permitting alcohol possession in outdoor public spaces.
 whereas staff recommends creating the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area as a way to provide a pathway for possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages at special events held to the park without participants being restricted to a small fenced area. Now therefore it being ordained by the City Council the City of Favreau Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend subsection of section 111.07, Outdoor Refreshment Area of the Fayetteville City Code, by expanding the list of open consumption districts to include quote, subsection 3, Centennial Park Outdoor Refreshment Area, unquote, and adopting the map attached to the SAF memo as Exhibit 1.
 Section 2 that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 111.07 Outdoor Refreshment Area of the Fayetteville City Code by enacting a new subsection as follows and renumbering the subsequent sections accordingly. Subsection F, conditions for consumption of alcoholic beverages in the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area. The possession and consumption of alcohol beverages within the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area
 is prohibited except during special events that have received a permit from the City pursuant to section 97.081 of the Fayetteville Code subject to following additional regulations, number 1,
 It shall be unlawful for a person to distribute alcohol obtained from a vendor within the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area to any other individual. Subsection 2. No person shall publicly consume within the outdoor refreshment area any alcoholic beverage purchased or obtained outside of the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area. Number 3.
 Container types, visible identifiers, and specific boundaries for the sale, possession, and consumption may be addressed in the special event permit. However, no container in which an alcoholic beverage is dispensed within the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area shall exceed 16 fluid ounces in size. Okay, Devin. Am I on air? Can you get the screen up?
 Good evening, Council, again. I have a little bit more to say about this one tonight, and the audit before you does create our third outdoor freshman area in the city of Fayetteville.
 For folks watching at home, I just kind of wanted, we haven't talked about where this came from in a little over a year. And so I wanted to provide a little bit of background of what Act 812 is and how we're able to use it so flexibly. This was passed during the previous legislative session, not the last one. And it gives cities a path to designate areas where public alcohol consumption is allowed.
 Why that matters is because in Arkansas, the definition of public consumption is greatly different than other states, which is why you see at restaurants on their patios, they have to have signs saying no alcohol past this point. And the big thing that it does inside of these wars is it shifts that public consumption jurisdiction to the municipality. In this case, it'll be a special events permit process.
 We have seen flexible use of this. We're familiar with the downtown one. We've had a lot of special events. Not in downtown. We'll mention some of those later. But if you'll remember Evelyn Hills, we needed to do it to get the beer across the sidewalk for Mockingbird Kitchen with their parklet slash patio that they built. So really flexible application of this. And those rules are up to you to establish. And so Centennial Park has one entitlement, and that is special events.
 So the two ordinances, and thank you for your passage of amending section 97.08 of the code. This one by its creation is here for one big reason. We are so excited to host international visitors from across the world this year and in 2022 with UCI World Cup coming at the World Cup in October 13th of this year and the following championships in January 28th to the 30th of next year.
 And if we think about biking and we think about other racing events, you know, that makes beer gardens really problematic. I think it, you know, a lot of events make beer gardens really problematic. And so this fixes that. And again, we did discuss this with Parks and Recreation Advisory Board on August 2nd.
 And so why is this needed, especially because we think about this is sitting on property. Why is this needed? And the big answer is when a special event comes in, they have to obtain a picnic permit from the state's alcoholic beverage control division. Part of that picnic permit application is defining the area where possession and consumption is allowed, beer gardens.
 And so this special event organizers, this special events aura, it'll give event organizers the opportunity to request this on their special event permit application. That's reviewed by all the applicable departments, including the Fayetteville Police, and these special event permits ultimately end up for Mayor Jordan's final review and approval. If this area is designated as a special event only aura,
 We're not going to see things like signing the property. That's not needed with this. We can lead to confusion with parks guests. You will only notice this when we have an event on the park. Here's the area we're looking at, the southern area, in consultation with staff. It's really not needed. This is the main heart of this property. And so when we think about, we'll talk about what this won't do in a minute. It does not mean free reign throughout all of this.
 And so an event organizer would submit this permit, and it would go through parks, and when it comes through Justin, the police, and the Mayor Jordan. During that review process, as Kit mentioned, that is when we're going to work out things like cup designation, visible identifiers, waste receptacles, recycling receptacles to capture these compostable cups. All of that will be finalized. That's important to leave flexible because when you think about these events, they may have sponsorship opportunities on those cups, and so we don't want to inhibit that.
 And as I've mentioned, we are not going to be signing this. We don't want to have the opportunity for any misunderstandings with this. That served us really well in downtown, making this a very simple program.
 What that does not allow, you cannot take it anywhere on the property. You cannot bring alcohol in, and spectators cannot bring that in. Sidewalk cafes, parklets, not really applicable here. It's going to have to be procured from a vendor on this site during these events. And what we mentioned, too, we're really optimistic, and I believe we will have a lot more special events. And, you know, even beyond biking on that incredible piece of property.
 We've talked a lot about the Outdoor Freshman Area. It's metrics. It's done really well. We're really, really proud and thankful of our businesses who manage that program on the day-to-day. They do an outstanding job. What we haven't talked about to you is the success we've seen with special events in downtown with the Outdoor Freshman Area. Bowling's used it more than Roots HQ. And if you've been familiar with their Roots HQ on the Avenue series, they've done 18 of these events since Oro was established.
 And the Northwest Arkansas Pride Weekend, we saw the 17th Annual Pride Parade. While that was not an Aura event, it was an event happening in Aura, and it was in full swing that day. And it went on without issue. Again, really, really proud of that. First Thursday during the rescheduling, we're looking at this. And the Startup Crawl, which we are moving into spring of 2022, that press release is going out today, will also be an Aura special event when the case counts make it safer to do so.
 Again, we've had no issues with this program. And if our event organizers that request this give the same level of care our businesses do to our program, I have no questions that this will be successful.
 And to Councilmember Turb talked about these other parks. And so that's something we'll definitely look at. I just want the time to work with our park staff and the other appropriate divisions on what that looks like. But we have had other interest and inquiries from event organizers on that as well. So happy to answer any questions. Thank you for your consideration. Tim, what questions do we have for Devin on this? Okay, let's take some public comments.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a five minute duration broken into statements of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the chamber after that. So who on, do we have anyone on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. We don't seem to have anybody in the council chambers.
 So I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wish to the council? If there are not any questions, I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Okay. Would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes.
 yeah scroggin yes bunch yes and northern saman section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to create the centennial park outdoor refreshment area yeah i mean we spend the rules and go to the third reading second okay thank you we have a motion a second to go to the third and final read care please call the roll terry yes
 Hertzberg yes Gutierrez yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes and Norris amends section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to create the Centennial Park outdoor refreshment area comments from the council I want to thank Devin for all his hard work on this you did a very good job Devin I really appreciate it so
 With that, Kara, would you please call the roll? Terk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Number seven, a resolution to establish a commission to preserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create black historical markers in Fedville.
 Council member Jones is the sponsor of this, but he's not here. So I think he asked Councilmember Gutierrez to handle this Sonia you have this one
 Honestly, I am not up to speed on it, but as far as the information that was presented here, I am more than happy to and planning to support this because of the nature of it.
 I can't answer questions, specific questions like council member Jones, but I guess if we need to, we can table it and wait until he comes back. So I don't really see a an urgency in terms of, you know, a couple of weeks or three. Well, I guess three weeks. So that's kind of all I've got. I do. I do believe he wanted it passed tonight, if possible, Mayor, because he was going to use this before our next regular city council meeting.
 To explain a little bit more on it, I can just read the first section that the City Council will establish a commission to reserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create black historical markers to recognize the struggles and achievements of our black citizens to promote diversity and equality and to oppose discrimination against any person in Fayetteville.
 This resolution begins to establish this commission. In the future, I will work with Councilmember Jones in order to bring to the City Council an ordinance to codify the establishment of this commission to set forth its goals and aims and the membership and terms.
 We weren't ready to do that yet, but we're going to work on that quickly. So that will be coming to the City Council within the next month, I think, to formally establish this commission. And it will be subject to all the rules of our regular committees, and its members will be appointed by or, yes, selected by the City Council. So...
 If this is established, then the City Council, it would go through the nominating committee. That's correct. And then it would be up to the nominating committee who they put on the board. That's correct and I do think after talking to Councilmember Jones that there will be one City Councilmember to be appointed by the Mayor for this commission. Okay, that's the way we usually do that. I'll appoint the Councilmember. Okay.
 Well, I think that's pretty straightforward myself. Is there any questions from the council on this?
 Okay, then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to go first and then those in the city council chambers. Who do we have on Zoom? Tyler Wagner. Okay, go ahead.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council, for allowing me time to speak. My name is Tyler Wagner. I live at 1340 North 59th Avenue in Fayetteville, and I'm a lifetime resident of Northwest Arkansas.
 Councilmember Jones asked me to speak in regards to this resolution and coinciding with the creation of black historical markers, I believe that there is an opportunity and a duty to remove or replace all racist and or offensive markers with black historical markers or markers of unity and diversity throughout Fayetteville. I'm fairly certain that not all of you are aware of the street names that remain in one of our local neighborhoods.
 Heritage Village being one of those, located off of West Weddington Drive, contains a number of streets that are named to reflect the initial developer's view of a rich heritage. Streets such as tradition, legacy, and lineage all reflect this. However, the developer's idea of a rich heritage unfortunately includes words such as plantation and chattel.
 Chattel is defined as the ownership of property, however, the word is more frequently used and known in conjunction with the word slavery. Chattel slavery is defined as the ownership of people or the use of people as property. As I surveyed the neighborhood, I found that most residents living on Chattel Street were told by local realtors for decades that chattel was a French word pronounced chattel and had a different meaning.
 Though the word does have a French origin, the meaning remains the same, just to put that argument to rest. And given the overall context of the other street names within this subdivision, I believe it is clear that the developer was referring to enslaved people when they decided to list it among their idea of parrotage. This is not only offensive, but outrageously inappropriate, wrong, hurtful, and does not reflect the values of this city that I know and have called home all of my life.
 My wife and I have started a petition which currently has over 70 signatures from Fayetteville residents, with the vast majority of signatures being of those who live within Heritage Village, which I might add is made up of almost 10% Black residents. I think it is the responsibility and duty of this council to have these two street names changed immediately and replaced with the names that truly reflect the values and people of the City of Fayetteville, such as Unity and Diversity, for example.
 As I conclude, I want to share that in my canvassing of the neighborhood, a 25-year resident of Heritage Village was made aware for the first time of the street names on the backside of the neighborhood and wrote a letter to the editor of the Northwest Arkansas Democratic Gazette, which was published. She shared her shame and disgust for her realization, and at the end of the letter, she recommends, and I am in full agreement,
 that the name of the park in the back of the neighborhood also be renamed as it is named after after the developer who chose and implemented the offensive and haple street names themselves thank you for your time and consideration and i'm happy to answer any questions anyone may have okay thank you very much who else would like to address us nope okay there's nobody in the chambers
 So I will bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. It's merely a motion and a second, and then a vote in the council. Mayor, I have a comment. I'd like to respond to Mr. Wagner's suggestions. Okay.
 uh mr wagner we've had um another resolution before us maybe last year where they brought forward a name change and that was successfully done and we passed that and so i would recommend that you work with one of your council members i'd be happy to work with you and and maybe others would be happy to work with you to propose changing those names and bringing it before the council in the near future
 I agree with you. Those are offensive. They're out of date. We need to reflect our inclusive practices
 and progressive character of Fayetteville, and that would be a good way to update that. So thank you. I'd like to add on to what Teresa said. I know we've discussed this at our work for meeting before, and we have another work for meeting at the end of this month. So Council Member Turk, would you be in favor of adding that to our work for agenda?
 Definitely. And we need Mr. Wagner to attend. So I would hope that he would be at our Ward 4 meeting. Thank you. Great idea. I have a quick question here. You know, I think the story that Teresa is talking about,
 only had two houses on it. Is that the one you're talking about, Teresa? So, what if, you know, usually we look at, yeah, usually we'd look at, like, input from the neighbors, and, you know, is there a possibility that we could have a street that was, had something that was an offensive name, and the neighbors could say, well, we don't wanna change it. Is that, could that happen?
 Well, what I understood from the citizen, from Mr. Wagner, was that he had about 70 people already, and many of them were in that neighborhood. So sitting down to kind of identify, you know, which houses, which neighbors, I think is really important in getting their viewpoint. So absolutely. And you're right. I think it only had three or four houses. It wouldn't – maybe it was two. Okay. It was a small number for sure. Yeah.
 So, yes, I think that's so important. Okay. I was just, you know, I was hoping we would not. I would hope we would never have that situation, but I just know we have this procedure that we go through, and it's never come up that we, I don't think, would, you know, not want to rename something that was called chattel. I've come up with a better name for that, but, you know, just wanted to check on that. Okay.
 Yeah, I was showing a house in that area and it was blown away. I thought maybe like that one was saying that just driving through and I'm like, oh, it's a theme all the way through. So hopefully we can change that on the actual resolution in front of us. I move to support the resolution. Second. We have a motion and second to pass resolution. Any final comments from council?
 I have a quick thing that I do know coming up, and this is why maybe DeAndre had me to continue to make sure it was going to get discussed and hopefully passed tonight. I know that there is a discussion for coming up in September to hopefully re-allocate, but...
 address and define the original black historic neighborhood in Fayetteville. So I, you know, that is something that that's constituents in Ward 1, because that area is Ward 1, have been working on and they've been working directly and closely with with DeAndre. I have not worked with them, but I know the work is happening.
 And so they're very excited, they have pride, they have reached out to DeAndre about that. And so this potential, a potential marker, for example, could be defining where the original historic black neighborhood was.
 in Ward 1. So I think that's an exciting thing. I think that talks about happiness and pride and history and celebrating something positive, which we need right now in the world. And so I'm excited that they reached out to DeAndre. So just so you can get some ideas, because it's a little bit vague, like what are these markers doing besides the cemeteries? So I think that's really exciting. And there was even a discussion. At one point, I heard somebody like,
 there were businesses in the neighborhood as well. So we might even have an opportunity to provide some economic development to bring back some black businesses to the neighborhood. So that is exciting to me as well. But again, you know, these are all kind of plans, ideas, proposals. But just so you get a more background on that. But yes, that's it. Anything else? Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. I need a short break. I need about seven minutes. All right, let's take a break. All righty then. Oh. Recording in progress. Yes, I know. Okay, so we're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. Okay. So, we're going to go ahead and get started. Okay. So, we're going to go ahead and get started. Okay.
 How well I know the recording and the problem. Alright, let's get started again. Alright, we have, we are on C8.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-051 located east of Futrell Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Weddington Drive for approximately 9.40 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 40 unit spreader to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to UT urban thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. OK, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Although this item and the next two are discrete properties, they're easy to confuse. So I wanted to open up with just a brief overview of where we're looking at it and which ones we're looking at at which point. All three of them are west or south of the southwest slopes of Markham Hill. All are adjacent to Futile Drive between Martin Luther King to the south and Whittington to the north.
 and all are before the council on appeal from the planning commission's denial of their requests. The first on the agenda is the Southernmost parcel, which totals about 9.5 acres
 It's most notable for its unusual shape that has a depth of about 1,200 feet stretching eastward from Futrell up into the slope of Markham Hill. The property is characterized by a fairly complete canopy. The slopes vary but are generally between 10 and 15 percent across the overall site. Reflecting this, the steepest parts of the property are in the north central area and are inside of the city's hillside hilltop overlay district.
 Surrounding properties include a variety of zoning districts ranging from multifamily to the south and east, agricultural zoning to the north that is associated with the 2018 Markham Hill rezoning and intended for land conservation, and a mix of PZD and multifamily development west of the interstate which is developed with some attached residential housing.
 The request before the council tonight, as Mayor, Mr. Williams and I alluded to, is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Although development plans have not been submitted, the applicant has indicated the desire to develop the property with mini storage, which is a conditional use in the UT Urban Thoroughfare zoning district.
 Staff found the request to be largely inconsistent with our adopted plans and generally incompatible with surrounding land uses, beginning with our long-range planning documents.
 The site is a bit unusual in that it's split between two future land use map designations. The portion that's in the hillside hilltop overlay district is designated as residential neighborhood, which is intended for, as its name suggests, residential uses with the potential for some moderate or smaller commercial uses. City neighborhood is meant to be a step above that, and it is the portion of the property adjacent to Futurall.
 and is anticipated to also include residential uses with a bit increased intensity in any services and amenities being offered.
 as far as city plan 2040 the request finds itself somewhat mixed in terms of the goals in that document on the one hand the property is on future which is a major corridor that connects other significant routes also there is a nearby stop for razorback transit on the other hand whether the property is considered appropriate infill is probably questionable at best
 There are fairly good response times for the fire department located on Hollywood. There is water and sewer accessible and Gramey Junior High is nearby. However, other amenities that are identified in the infill matrix are perhaps deceptive. It notes that there are parks and trails nearby, but these are on the other side of Interstate 49, which is a pretty significant barrier to access.
 Also, it is worth noting that the infill score in the report staff gave to council was off by a point. We did include that there was an ORT stop, and I just wanted to clarify that. I think that's either been removed recently or that may just be a flat-out error from staff, but there's not an ORT stop that I'm aware of in this area.
 That said, some staff's findings were fairly or somewhat mixed regarding the land use adopted plans, but we did find them to be generally inconsistent. Regarding land use, staff again finds the request to be generally incompatible. There are apartments to the south, of course. There's the potential for apartments to the east, but the zoning districts to the north are the complete opposite.
 Mark Benthien, ECA, Mirror to the urban therapy zoning district. So the property zone RA residential agricultural has very limited potential for intensity. It's intended to be kept natural in this case with the Markham Hill projects and tend to dedicated to the land trust and
 Additionally, the property itself is not a clear and level site. Rezoning the property to urban thoroughfare would entitle it for lower tree preservation standards, and it could encourage a fairly large amount of grading. While the city's hilltop, hillside, overlay district standards do offer some protections, UT is an urban district, and then one...
 nuance of that is it doesn't have any inherent lock coverage standards that some of our other zoning districts have. This allows larger building footprints and coupled with the UT zoning districts built to zone it could place buildings all along Futrell where there are hydric soils or or elsewhere in the site where it required quite a bit of cut and fill work that could damage slopes there.
 lastly regarding public comment it was fairly limited prior to the planning commission with one member of the public sharing their opposition with staff since the appeals were filed however there have been numerous individuals who voiced their opposition to the requests this has been issued to the council to the clerk over the last week and rather than try to characterize several emails and each one of their details i do want to at least offer a summary these
 largely revolved around concerns for damaging damage that development would cause to the adjacent natural areas or the natural areas on these properties, whether that's regarding noise or incremental canopy loss to the hill or otherwise. None of the comments that I read distinguish between this request or the subsequent two, so I will note that there was comment in opposition, but I'm not describing as much detail going forward.
 All things considered, staff does recommend denial of the request. The Planning Commission voted by 6-1 to deny it.
 The six prevailing boats cited lacking existing infrastructure and some conflicts with the future land use map and also shared some of the public comments about the concern for natural features. The one dissenting commissioner contended that the higher density development is appropriate along the interstate, especially at this location right next to some existing multifamily housing.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Tom Terminella is present virtually, if I'm not mistaken, as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Go ahead, Tom. Tom, will Tom Terminella can unmute? There we go. Can you hear me? Go ahead. Can you hear me? Go ahead. I'm assuming you can hear me. Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Good evening, Mayor Jordan and Council. I'll just shift in the neutral here and ask what is appropriate on a six-lane interstate? It's certainly not single-family residential zoning. You know, I've asked for urban thoroughfare...
 On all of the parcels because urban thoroughfare allows with the conditional use permit for storage on the southern parcel. The other two parcels would be designated for multifamily, which is adjacent to that southern track and also across the interstate and in the neighborhood. Here again, looking for some direction, you know.
 There's no zoning in the Unified Development Code that allows storage by right. It either has to be in C2 with a CUP, or it has to be in Urban Thoroughfare, which is the new Unified Development Code with a CUP, or it has to be an industrial zone. And I certainly don't think there's any appetite to zone the property industrial or C2. So I'm only asking...
 for what's on the books, what's currently code. And, of course, it's not by right. It has to have a CUP in addition to the UT. So everybody, you know, I appreciate everybody's comments and the concerns, but, you know, a quarter mile away from here, the city council and this administration approved a commercial planned zoning district in the middle of Markham Mountain.
 for commercial uses, for motels, for all sorts of things that are not compatible with that neighborhood. And I'm simply asking, what does the planning department, what are the wishes of the city? You know, I don't know anybody that wants to build residential properties on the interstate. Multifamily, yes. Single-family, no.
 So the Barnes family have owned this for multi-generations. You know, it was, you know, in trust. These are the kids. They're wanting to entitle the property to something other than single-family residential. We have a customer that's come to town that wants to provide commercial services as far as storage, modern storage, for all of the hundreds and thousands of multifamily doors in this area. The services are needed. There's a demand for it.
 The latest 300 apartments that got built on Ruble filled up literally before they could get them punched out. All those people need places to put their bikes and canoes and everything else. So I'm struggling. In the neighborhood, there's RMF 24, there's RMF 18, there's public institution for schools. There's even an industrial zone down on MLK where the old Walmart store was, the optical lab. So if...
 the planners and council for that matter don't feel like urban thoroughfare, which is part of the new unified development code that was adopted by the city. If that's not compatible, then somebody help me out or help the civil engineers out and identify exactly what zone they will support because the commercial services are needed.
 the affordable multifamily housing is needed. It's, for goodness sakes, it's on a six-lane interstate. You know, access, Razorback Transit, schools, commercial services are all in the area. And I can appreciate people wanting to protect viewshed and this, that, and, you know, canopy and things of that nature. But if they feel so strongly about it, then...
 they probably ought to get their own land trust together and their own resources together and buy it and protect it for perpetuity. But to sit here and just say, oh, no, we don't think that this is an appropriate use to provide commercial services or storage or warehousing or multifamily buildings along an interstate, it doesn't make any sense to me. And it's such a sensitive area.
 in the world did we approve a commercial planned zoning district here in Fayetteville called Markham Mountain, Markham Hill. If everybody was so concerned, why in the world did that get approved? And how did it get approved? And that's simply a half mile away from this site. So you know if not urban thoroughfare can somebody please in the planning department or the administrator, Jonathan, somebody tell me how we're supposed to operate under this new code.
 You know, urban thoroughfare is the only thing in the UDC that says with a conditional use permit, you can put warehousing and storage. Outside of that, you have to go to C2 or industrial. So I was only picking the zoning that's on the books that would accommodate this by CEP. So if it's not urban thoroughfare, can somebody please help me? And we can table this or, you know, there's three items.
 There's the nine-acre piece next to the apartment complex of Lindsay. There's a small triangular piece, and then there's another nine acres north of there. The second and third items on the agenda, we're asking for urban thoroughfare, but it's not for storage. It's for multifamily. And, you know, we can certainly retool those for RMF 24 would be the minimal, C3, which allows unlimited density for multifamily,
 you know, we could retool and re-ask for a different zoning for those parcels because they were never intended to be storage. So if UT is not acceptable, then I'm looking for a little direction on what zoning is acceptable that we can do a conditional use permit and operate.
 within that envelope for commercial services for climate-controlled modern storage. That's the one that we're on right now, the 9.4-acre track, the southern track. Okay, Mr. Terminal, you have about 30 seconds to finish up. Oh, Mayor, that's it. So that's all I had. If anybody has questions, I'll be on standby. Okay. All right. What questions does the City Council have for the staff or the applicant?
 I have one question. I think I cut out there for a minute. I have one question here. You know, this comparison has been made to Markham Hill, but it's been a while since we did Markham Hill. So someone could refresh my memory. I believe we were presented with a PZD for Markham Hill. It was already one and it was, you know, modifying into another one. It wasn't just a blank rezoning. Was that correct?
 mr mayor i can attempt to feel that sure uh the is a two-part request there was certainly a request to amend the pzd and that included expanding the hospitality uses near the exact existing prat place in and then there was also a uh an approved allowance to have single family homes built along markham road and a portion of saying and then the other piece of it which
 perhaps larger in area was the top of Markham Hill, was a pretty large acreage area of which about, I believe it was about 60 to 70% of it was rezoned to RAU, residential intermediate urban. And then the balance of the property was rezoned to RA, residential agriculture, with the intent of placing that into a land trust for preservation. Okay. Does that answer your question? Yeah, yeah, it does, thank you.
 What other questions do we have in council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Don't remove behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the council chambers after that. So who do we have on Zoom? Johnny Walker. Okay, go ahead.
 My name is Johnny Walker. I live at 878 Fritz Drive. I'm a born and raised Fayettevillian and as a lifelong resident of Fayetteville, I've heard all the stories concerning Markham Hill. But today, developers are chewing away at this Fayetteville relic. I currently hike the Markham Hill Trail on a daily basis, and I am amazed each day at its beauty. The bypass, now called Interstate 49,
 provides an excellent buffer. It's time for this board to make a statement not about the past of Markham Hill, but for its future. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Lisa Orton. Go ahead.
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Tossel Road in Fayetteville and I oppose the rezoning requests of all three Barnes properties. I mean, I can speak after each one, but I'm talking about all three properties.
 And they're on the west and south sides of Markham Hill. And all three of the parcels total around 20 acres. And the planning commission, you know, studied it thoroughly and decided that it was incompatible to do urban thoroughfare next to a nature preserve. You know, there's almost 100% tree cover canopy here and a steep grade.
 and a significant portion is in the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District. And the UT or Urban Thoroughfare allows for buildings up to seven stories. And the barns say they want to build storage units and I guess multi-housing or whatever. But they could, I mean, once you rezone something, you can do anything that's in that, what's allowed in that.
 And so the Barnes parcels are adjacent to the 50-acre nature preserve that Specialized Real Estate Group is in the process of constructing.
 putting in a conservation easement with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust. I think they want to call it Evangeline Archer Nature Preserve. That's 50 acres right next to these barns, three barns parcels. And that's also the northern parcel of the barns parcel is adjacent to the university, well, the city's 62 to 63 acres that you all want to keep preserved, which I really appreciate.
 And so here's these 62 to 63 acre nature preserve belonging to the city right next to Barnsland. And there's 50 acre nature preserve next to all three parcels. And I believe it's inappropriate and incompatible to develop urban thoroughfare facilities.
 or any real dense kind of urban development beside nature preserve. I believe there should be a gradual transition from nature preserve to higher density. Therefore, these three parcels and any adjacent land to the nature preserves here
 I believe should remain forested land. If it's developed at all, it should be very low density with all structures at most one story. You know, the lights, noise, people, traffic, cement, beside nature preserves are harmful to the plant and animal life and the quiet at the preserve. I mean, Highway 49 is enough disturbance.
 besides these nature preserves and a more reasonable boundary of protection to protect these nature preserves. And I think of the Buffalo River, the Buffalo National River and Hobbs Park and Lake Weddington and other nature preserves around in the area and across the country. And, you know,
 that they want to protect these preserves. And I'm in the process right now of contacting the Nature Conservancy of Arkansas and the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust and other groups that has, who know about nature preserves, wildlife preserves, conservation easements to get their advice on, you know, what do they think about, what's their advice on development right adjacent to nature preserves?
 And I can let you know what I find out from them. So I really, Fayetteville loses many acres of tree cover every year. And I think we need to protect it.
 our intact urban forests and all of our nature preserves within the city. And here are two nature preserves, the city nature preserve of the 62 to 63 acres and the 50 acres nature preserve of specialized. And we need to protect those. And I hope that you will oppose all three of these rezonings. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Penny Davis. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, I'm Penny Davis. I live at 949 North Oak Drive in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Thank you, Mayor Jordan and members of the City Council for allowing me to speak. I appreciate your public service. I oppose the barn rezoning request of the three parcels of land abutting Markham Hill. The encroachment of the development is going to further destroy the environment surrounding the nature preserve with its noise, lights, increased traffic, and commercial development.
 I don't believe there is a need for more multi large multi-family dwellings. Most families want a yard, sidewalks and a neighborhood to raise their family in with some stability, not people moving in and out every 12, 6 to 12 months.
 And I don't believe what they're trying to build could be done just as successfully somewhere else. It doesn't need this specific site unless they're trying to make way for more commercial development down the line that requires high visibility from I-49. And they're slowly but surely, as the first speaker said, they're slowly but surely eating away at this nature preserve that is just beautiful. And do we really want to destroy this beautiful area to build more storage units?
 are the large uh what's what's the nature preserve is destroyed there is no building it back be a guardian for the city and maintain this unique area while there is still a chance thank you for your time thank you who else would like to address us that's all okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the uh what's the wishes of the council
 I'll go ahead and start. I'm probably going to sound a lot different than I do most nights. This is absolutely the wrong place for UT. I don't know the applicants asking where you can build storage. Well, that's absolutely the wrong place for storage.
 When you drive up coming from the south, I-49, the thing that makes Fayetteville beautiful is, one, you get to see Old Main when you first start coming up. And then this stretch, this stretch of the forest, on the west side, you get to see Centennial Park. And on the right side, you get to see Markham Hill. I think Planning Commission got all three of these right.
 I don't know how they would have got it wrong. This is clearly the wrong thing for this area. Storage shouldn't be here.
 Maybe there would be a PZD that I could see that would keep that view scape. But a blanket rezone for seven stories is silly. Comparing this to what was on the top of Markham Hill is also kind of mismatched. That was a PZD. It was a long discussion, many meetings.
 I think what we did up there is right. And I'm seeing what's being built up there. And I continue to believe that. But this is not, I don't think this is right. I think planning commission got this right. I'm frankly tired of seeing these appeals when planning commission gets them so right. I wish there was a way we could reduce these bills
 I think the people in planning commission are getting tired of seeing their stuff have to come to us. But luckily, for the most part, we continue to back what they say. I really hope we back what they say on this one. I wouldn't want storage anywhere near this. I wouldn't want seven stories anywhere near this. I would fight against that. Yeah.
 I think CS is too much for this, but I've been told that Planning Commission may have actually said that CS was possible here. Maybe Jonathan can speak to that a little bit more after I stop talking, but I don't believe that our planning department is just going to shut off conversations with applicants.
 which was kind of insinuated tonight. I believe the staff does a heck of a job. I think they got this one right. I think planning commission got this one right. I don't want to table this. I want to vote it down, all three of them tonight.
 and they can go back to the planning department, which we'll talk to them and come up with something that works a little better here. I think a PZD because on top of the Markham Hill, they upzone some stuff and downzone some stuff. This we're talking just straight up upzone for all of it. So I know I sound way different than I do most nights, but I think the loss of,
 property taxes if we kill that view shape escape would be immense. There's no way the property taxes and sales taxes generated along here would make up for that loss to the property values across the city by losing that. So I definitely hope we vote on this tonight. I hope we both know. Thank you.
 Okay, what other discussion does the council have? This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wish of the council? Isn't this an appeal, Mayor? So it's not an... It's an appeal. Right. So, Kit, is this the same thing they had to do before? Yep. Yes. Eventually it's going to have to be voted up and down as an ordinance, so it's going to require three readings and...
 The reason that it's structured this way is that the department is on the afternoon... Mr. Williams, your microphone is not on. I think Kittney's attorney is not on. I'm sorry. I had it off so I wouldn't make any noises and I guess I was being successful.
 This is an appeal of a rezoning request and it has to be an ordinance to do any kind of rezoning. And it's done this way because the burden must be on the applicant like it always is for rezoning. And so eventually this will have to be voted up or down by the City Council and go through all three readings at some point. Well, if you don't want to... Thank you. Go ahead, Teresa, please.
 i didn't know if we were going to have any more discussions if we weren't i was going to move that we suspended rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion in a second we go to the second three care would you please cover turk yes herdsburg yes gutierrez yes kenyon yes petty petty scroggins yes bunch
 Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-051, located east of Futrell Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Weddington Drive for approximately 9.4 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to UT Urban Thoroughfare. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property as described, a rezoning petition RZN 21-51 located east of Futrell Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd and Weddington Drive for approximately 9.4 acres.
 from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to UT urban thoroughfare. Now, on this particular ordinance, if it's a no vote, that's against the appeal, correct? Well, yeah, it does not rezone the property. Right. Okay. All right. Caravage Police, call the roll. Turk? No. Ertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? Scroggins? No. Ertzberg?
 Bunch. Bunch. No. Okay, the ordinance fails. And we're on to the next one. All right, let's move along to number nine. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-052 located east of Futual Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Wellington Drive for approximately 1.37 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map to Exhibit A, and the legal description to Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to UT urban thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Good. Jonathan. Good.
 thank you mayor this request takes us a little bit further north along futral to the central of the three requests before you all tonight it's a markedly smaller piece including about one and a half acres of undeveloped land although it's similarly covered in tree canopy to the previous property it is relatively more level with slopes of approximately 10 percent and no portion of it within the hillside hilltop overlay district
 as already discussed with the previous item this proposal is also to rezone from rsf4 to ut different than the other one though no development plans have been proposed although i believe the applicant just commented that housing of some sort would be intended for this property
 The property, again, it's further to the north, so if you're familiar with the zoning map from the last item, it is largely low-density residential and agricultural on this entire side of the interstate adjacent to the property.
 Staff found that the request does not align with Fayetteville's long-range plans. The property is designated uniformly as a residential neighborhood area, which is not an appropriate place generally that we find to rezone to UT. Other inconsistencies with adopted plans include the property is not reasonably considered infill at this location.
 This property has no access to water and similar to the last item, the accessible or nearby parking trail is not accessible because it's on the other side of the interstate. And again, there has been quite a bit of public comment in the last week and uniformly in opposition to the request.
 staff is opposed to this request, similar to the last one. The Planning Commission recommended denial, although this one was by a slightly more favorable vote, although it was five to two overall. The prevailing commissioners commented that UT was simply too intense of a district for the location. Those in the minority felt that the size of the property could have some inherent constraints on the development there, possibly making it more compatible
 Again, I'm happy to take questions and I believe Mr. Terminillo is also the representative for this item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Tom? Yeah. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Well, I've heard about three different ways folks have said that this has no access to any parks or green space and correct me if I'm wrong, somebody's talking about, you know,
 the adjoining land being gifted into a land trust. They've been talking about that for three or four years. The city just acquired from the University of Arkansas 50 or 60 acres. That's a park, is it not, that adjoins these parcels. So just clarification on that point. Here again, you know, withdraw this item and the other item.
 You know, I'm looking for direction from the planning staff. Planning staff has told my civil engineers that, you know, they can't support anything other than residential development here. I've been in the real estate business my 34th year. I don't know anybody that has a desire to build a single family property, residential property on the interstate.
 Okay, I don't know how this property got zoned or except for I don't know the evolution of property But that's certainly not compatible for a six lane interstate And if all these folks miss Wharton included want to preserve this land Then go get your checkbook and buy it and give it to a land trust You know if they own the property and it was on the interstate and they had inherited it They would want to monetize it
 They would want to realize a benefit from their parents working hard, right? Same with the Barnes. They want to monetize their inheritance, okay? Obviously, we're not going to get anywhere tonight, okay? Obviously, there's a mindset that this needs to be single-family residential on the interstate. I can make no sense of that, none. And...
 Council member talking about loss of revenue for sales tax. Loss of revenue by lack of development and lack of services in our community is what's happening. There's hundreds of millions of dollars worth of projects going north of here. I guess we just like, you know, being in this, little bitty university town, let's just build. So seven stories, the Marshall on Razorback Road is compatible.
 Talk about an eyesore. You know, it's a bunch of nonsense. So I'm going to yield the rest of my time, withdraw this one and the other one. Getting nowhere can't make sense out of any of this. Single family properties do not belong on interstates. They belong in neighborhoods. You know, they belong somewhere else.
 where there's not commercial traffic rolling down the road 24 hours a day. So with that, good night, and thanks for your time. See you later. Well, if I understood the African, he wishes to withdraw the last two items? Mayor, we really don't have any procedure for that. I know that maybe in front of the Planning Commission they're allowed to withdraw, but here it's been presented as an ordinance. City Council needs to be voted up or down. Well, all right, then.
 Okay. Can we table indefinitely and it just goes away at the end of the year? Uh, that is an option if you want to keep it in existence until the end of the year. I would like to vote it up or down tonight. Okay. Let's do that. Move to second reading. Well, wait a minute. Everybody hang on. Don't get in a hurry here. We've got to take some public comment. Uh, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the chamber will be allowed to speak after that. Do we have anyone on Zoom, Susan? Yes, sir. Lisa Orton. All right. Lisa, you go ahead. Okay.
 Hello, this is Lisa Orton at 1663 West Hossel Road and I just wanted to, you already know that I oppose all three parcels being rezoned so I just wanted to let you know again and also I thought it was you know Mr. Terminelli doesn't didn't know my parents if I had inherited all that land
 that land, it would naturally go into a conservation easement and a nature preserve. That's what my mother would have wanted, Marion Orton. So thank you all. Thanks. That's all I have to say. Okay. Who else do we have? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Turk? No. Herzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? May I change my vote? I meant to vote yes. I'm sorry. It's late. Okay. So it's a yes vote, correct? Okay. Here we go. We got it. Gutierrez? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggen? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Mayor, I only count five votes in favor of suspending the rules. Do you care to vote? Yes, I do. I'm going to vote yes. All right. I'll read the ordinance title. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-52, located east of Futrell Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Weddington Drive for approximately 1.37 acres from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Okay, what's the wishes the council we're on the second reading this is an ordinance I move this in the rules and go to the third and final reading Second that we have a motion the second to go to the third Here would you please call the roll Turk? Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Gutierrez Yes, Kenyon. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes, I
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-52, located east of Futual Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Weddington Drive, for approximately 1.37 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to UT Urban Thoroughfare. What kind of comments do we have from council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? No. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No.
 No. Kenyon? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? No. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move along to number 10. An ordinance...
 To rezone that property, inscribed in rezoning petition RZN 21-053, located east of Futrell Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Weddington Drive for approximately 9.77 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Um, Kip? Kip Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal descriptions of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'll be brief. This is the third of three parcels, the northernmost one. It totals just shy of 10 acres and similar to the others has a significant amount of tree canopy. This one has a much more slope than the others and is almost entirely in the hillside hilltop overlay district.
 Again, similarly to the last one, the zoning, all sides of the property is very low intensity and low density. We did not find it as staff to be compatible request to rezone it to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Other staff findings were very similar to the previous request, so I'll focus on the main difference, which is that this property, in addition to not having water, also does not have sewer. So it lacks either of the main utilities necessary for development of a property in Fayetteville.
 Again, there was a significant amount of public comment in opposition, and staff is recommending denial of the request. The Planning Commission unanimously agreed on this one, finding that a more appropriate
 or excuse me that would be more appropriate at lower density with attention towards preservation and just as a brief closing note to speak to some of the comments that i've heard the council's solicit staff did offer alternatives especially on the southernmost property but the applicant did make it very clear that what they wanted to build was mini storage and while we did share that we would not be able to support our zoning through ut that was possibly their best route forward
 The other properties we did advise that this was likely not the time. It may never be the time. Our future land use map is set for 2040, so that's 19 years in the future. Things can change. It does not mean that those properties need to be rezoned today and be developed today.
 There is a misconception that just because a zoning district is on the books It could potentially be applied to any property in the city And that's fully in your purview and the Planning Commission's to make those decisions does not mean it's appropriate I'm happy to take any questions. Thanks Would the applicant like speak before the council they have ten minutes Okay
 Well, obviously the applicant has left us. So what questions does the council have for the staff? Okay. Okay.
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those here in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom?
 Okay, and there's no one here in the chamber, so I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? Before we move, I just want to say thanks to the planning department. Y'all stay very professional even when others don't. And I know that y'all will present
 uh ideas if you're very clear on usually what uh planning uh council and then the council will vote for and uh i appreciate the uh transparency you give most applicants so thank you and then i move to spend rules and go to second reading second we have a motion the second to go to the second read karen would you please call the role tarik yes hartzberg yes
 Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-53 located east of Futrell Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Weddington Drive for approximately 10 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to urban thoroughfare.
 Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-53 located east of Futrell Drive between Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Weddington Drive for approximately 10 acres from RSF4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to urban thoroughfare. Do we have any final comments from the council? Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Turk? No. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. No.
 Kenyon? No. Scroggin? No. Bunch? No. Okay, thank you all very much. We have a reconsideration. Is that correct, Kent? Yes. I sent out a memo to the council this afternoon explaining that at the last meeting, even though I think the ordinance that was passed by the council was in good order and needs no changes.
 The exhibits, which included very long and more current national building codes, need some minor amendments. Some of these codes had sections that had blanks in them and that were not totally filled out. And so, in my opinion, the codes were incomplete and unenforceable. At least enforcement of them in some circumstances would be problematic.
 I want to thank Mr. Robert Williams for pointing out these emissions to me and members of the city staff.
 I think that it would be appropriate at this point for a council member to move to reconsider the ordinance to amend Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Unified Development Code to align the City's building regulations with building codes adopted by the State of Arkansas to authorize prosecutions of violations of Section 173-08, unsafe buildings and property nuisances
 to adopt the international property code property maintenance codes, excuse me if it is If this is reconsidered it would not really be discussed tonight. It would be handled at the September 7th meeting
 This will give the opportunity for staff who has worked hard on this to make sure all the codes are now completely filled out and do not conflict with city code at all. That would give the city council as well as the public a chance to examine all that during the next three weeks and then hopefully pass it again after amending the codes to their final versions. So I'd ask some council member to have a motion to reconsider that.
 i'm going to reconsider second we have a motion to second to reconsider and we'll put it on the next agenda i assume kit yes it'll automatically go to the next agenda items on september the 7th okay all right any discussion on that care of which please call the row turk yes artsburg yes gutierrez yes canyon yes scroggins yes bunch
 Yes. Okay. Thank you all. That concludes our business. Susan, do you have any announcements? All right. Anybody got anything? All right. Thank you all very much. We are adjourned.