i'd like to go ahead and call the order to city council meeting in august 24th for the board of directors please call the order herzberg here gutierrez gutierrez here jones kenyon here petty here scroggins president budge turk turk
 So, I mean, is that give us care? We do have a quorum, though. We have five. Okay. Not counting you. Turk. Teresa, can you hear? Budge. Here. I can see, Sarah Budge, but I don't think Teresa Turk can hear us. Okay. Well, let's go ahead and do the Pledge of Allegiance. I'll call him. Mayor Jordan. Yes, here. Okay. Thank you.
 i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible liberty and justice for all okay i assume that other council members will be joining us as we go along so um the only order business have tonight is the
 the august 17 2021 city council meeting this item was tabled for one week it's a resolution to approve the 2022 employee benefits package so we have called a special city council meeting to discuss that and i believe we will start with missy thank you mayor and thank you council
 as we presented before the city council wanted to take a look at our two high deductible plan options and one of the things that i know that mayor and council is very engaged in and wants to make sure that we are offering is that we are offering the best package for our staff and for their dependents missy excuse me just a moment i know that normally you have 10 minutes i understand that you need some more time tonight on your presentation
 So I would ask the council to allow Missy more than 10 minutes. I would like to throw out a time of at least 20 minutes and then whatever questions you might have. So I will need a motion and a second from the city council. I move we give Missy 20 minutes. I second. We have a motion and a second to allow Missy 20 minutes for her presentation. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Aye.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Ingram? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Okay. Go ahead, Missy. Okay.
 So I wanted to point out to council that we know that we have a good benefits package for our staff and one of the things that we look at is the percentage of employees that are benefit eligible that actually select a City of Fayetteville plan as opposed to some of the other plans that they might have access to through their dependents. And at the City of Fayetteville, 97% of our employees select a City of Fayetteville benefit
 I think a large portion of this and the reason that's so important is because the city has been very committed to maintaining a high percentage share of what we contribute to the deductible and excuse me to the premium and to a health savings account.
 So when we look at our plan options, we have a high deductible plan that the city contributes 85 to 86 percent of the premium and we pay some HSA funds or health savings accounts funds which are something that the employees can use to help build for the future.
 In addition to that, what it does is it allows your employees to have more take-home pay that they then have the discretion of using for the things that they would like to use it for, whether it be putting money into the HSA pre-tax to help pay for some of those expenses or to use it on basic needs for their family. So what I'd like to do on behalf of council is to compare and contrast the two options for our high-deductible health plan.
 So what I did with this slide is I took the actual Blue Cross Blue Shield data from claims that were paid from January 1 of 2020 through December of 2020.
 And I wanted counsel to be able to see what that would have played out to an employee on either one of the plans. On the left-hand side, you have the current plan that we have, which is our high-deductible health plan, 3,000. And what that means is when an employee hits 3,000 individual or 6,000 for the family, then their claims are then paid at 100%.
 The other plan option that I've put forward for Council to consider is a plan design change, and that has a deductible of $2,800 for an individual or $5,600 for a family, and then it has a coinsurance component where the plan picks up 80% and the employee picks up 20%. So looking at the claims that we had in 2020,
 We had 1,484 claimants that had claims of $3,000 or less. So if you look at both of those plans, an employee is pretty much under the deductible. So they're going to pay dollar for dollar for those claims. Some of the statistics that we know if we dive into that $3,000 is that 78% of the people on the high deductible plan spend $1,000 or less.
 So for those employees, their impact is pretty much the same on both of these plans. Now on the right-hand side,
 where you have the high deductible 2800 plan. If an employee had a $3,000 claim, you'll notice that that's a little different from the left-hand side. And the reason for that is they're going to pay dollar for dollar for the first $2,800 and for the extra $200 they're paying 20%. So that's where the 2840 number comes in. And then if you go back over to the left-hand side, it plays out the same. So you've got 158 employees
 that had claims from $3,100 to $50,000, and those claims were paid out at $3,000. And on the right-hand side, the high deductible $2,800 plan, those claims would be anywhere from $2,860 to $5,600.
 And then if you drop down back to the high deductible current plan, we had 15 claimants that had claims between $50,000 and $250,000 and their claims were paid at $3,000. And on the other plan, the 2800 plan, those claims will be paid at $5,600 which is the max for the embedded deductible. I think we can look at the next slide.
 So the next thing I wanted to let council know is that you would ask for is the cost impact. So this slide once again compares the current plan 3,000 on the left hand side and on the right hand side we have the 2,800 with co-insurance. So on the left looking at our current plan we currently have 304 employees that choose employee only insurance. Their monthly premium would be $52.60.
 the City of Fayetteville's monthly premium because we pick up 86% of that particular employee only, we would pay $321.56 per month on each of those. And then we would also contribute into the HSA $70.80. Dropping down to the employee plus spouse category, we have 105 employees on that. Their monthly premium would be $120.08.
 The City of Fayetteville monthly premium is an 85% cost share and it's $686.88 plus our HSA contribution per month of the $106.66. The next tier down would be employee child. That has 61 employees that choose this plan and their monthly premium would be $90.96. The City of Fayetteville would contribute 85% of the bill.
 which is 520.32, and then our HSA contribution is 132.50. And then finally you have the family plan, and we have 236 families that are enrolled in the family plan currently. Those individuals would pay $168.62 a month. The city of Fayetteville would pay $964.56, and the monthly contribution of $156.66.
 So stepping down, what you can see is the total City of Fayetteville monthly contribution ends up being just over half a million and then annualizing that out, it's the six million dollar number. And the total increase for the employees I think goes up about 111 if you spread it out across all of those categories that they're currently in.
 So then just to compare and contrast that, on the right-hand side was the plan design option. Those same numbers of employees, if 304 elected, they would pay $45.96 per month in premium. The city of Fayetteville would pay, again at the 86% cost share, would pay $281.02, and we'd contribute the same amount, $70.80 to their HSA. The employee plus spouse is $105.00.
 Their monthly premium is $104.92, and the City of Fayetteville's monthly contribution is $600.28 with the same HSA contribution. An employee plus child, 61 individuals,
 $79.48 is the cost to the employee per month. The cost to the city is $454.72, and the HSA contribution is $132.50. And then finally, the family plan is we have 236 members on that. The monthly contribution that the employee would pay is $147.36. Okay.
 city of Fayetteville pays $842.94 on that plan and the HSA contribution would remain the same at $156,000. So then you can see that the difference on the monthly contribution is $452,000 and our annualized cost is about $5.4 million. So overall to the city it's
 somewhere around $650,000 difference in premium plus HSA combined and it's somewhere around $100,000 or $111,000 to employees for their monthly premium difference between the $3,000 current plan and the $2,800.
 The other thing that council asked for in making their decision was to look at what is our maximum exposure to an employee or their family on both of these plans. And I would just focus on the fact that this is a one-year snapshot.
 So this is your annual maximum exposure and it doesn't factor in an employee potentially having an HSA balance that carries over. It's strictly a one year snapshot. So on the left looking at the current plan again, you have what the employee pays in premium. So annually they're paying $631.20. Their out-of-pocket max is $3,000.
 then we subtracted out what the HSA contribution from the City of Fayetteville is of $849.60 to come up with a total exposure to an employee of $2881.60 and then dropping down in that same column to the family the family premium annually is about $2,000 the family out-of-pocket maximum is $6,000 and the HSA paid by the City of Fayetteville is we subtract out that $1,879 that we put into the HSA.
 So your total exposure is over $6,000 there. And then compare and contrast on the right-hand side, the $2,800. The individual premium that's paid by an employee is $551.52. Their out-of-pocket max would be $5,600. So that's the $2,800 plus their 80-20 co-insurance up to the $5,600. Okay.
 The HSA paid by the city of Fayetteville would be subtracted out, and so the total exposure to employee only would be $5301.92. And then dropping down to the family expense, you have the family premium that's paid by an employee of $1768.32. We added in the out-of-pocket max, which would be if two or more individuals had significant claims, $11,200.
 less the HSA pay from the City of Fayetteville. So the total exposure to the family is around $11,088.40. So we do know that with the claims data that 5%, when you look and break down all the claims data that Blue Cross Blue Shield gave us, that about 5% of our claims equal $10,000 or greater.
 So in order to hit that family max exposure, you would need more than one person in your family to come up with those types of claims. But just to give council an idea of what the current statistics are based on current numbers that have been paid, that's kind of what you're looking at. And I'm happy to take any questions at this time. Okay, what questions do we have in the city council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes of duration broken into segment and three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public. Can the council member stay on the topic, which is the benefits package? Please, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and we will take people that is participating by Zoom first, and then we will take folks in the council chamber. Who do you have on Zoom? Susan. Cody Ashworth. Okay, go ahead. I understand the—can you guys hear me? Okay.
 Yes. Okay. I understand that there's a small percentage of employees that will be affected by the plan change from the family side, but the difference in the out-of-pocket costs from what we're having now is monumental. People pay for insurance as a security blanket. They pay for it as a way to get through tough times.
 I've worked for the city for a long time. I love my job. I love serving Fayetteville, but this is something that is going to negatively impact the employees that are serving those folks.
 You can't even contribute enough to your HSA account to cover the maximum out-of-pocket costs. On the family plan, if an employee could afford to max out their HSA, and I promise you the majority of us can't do that, an employee would still be on the hook for nearly $4,000. That's not something that a lot of people have. I don't know many people who can afford those types of bills.
 I've talked to a lot of employees. I have not talked with one who is in favor of this plan change. It takes away the security we have of knowing that if something does go wrong, we have that stop loss at 6,000 or 3,000. This is a pretty drastic change, and I think you would find that the majority of employees would not be in favor of it. That's all I have. Thank you for letting me speak. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? There's one person who's online but has not raised his hand, so I guess go ahead to the room. Okay, let's take public comment from the room. Who would like to address this first? Hello, Mayor. My name is Nick White. I'm the president of the Fayetteville Paternal Lawyer Police. I've worked for the city for about 14 and a half years. Currently, I'm a patrolman.
 So the paternal order of police represents about 90% of our 126 current officers. That's about 112 police officers that I speak for by way of polling. It's how we arrived at our conclusion or our decision to not support moving forward with the new plan, but rather support the shared premium increase of the old plan. And so we're looking at our youngest or lowest paid earners,
 youngest in tenure, it's not always by age, but we're looking at the exposure to the family slide, which is roughly $11,088, I believe is what it said. You know, for employees that reach that on an annual basis, I just don't want them coming up to a point where they're having to finance their medical costs.
 you know it's far more accessible to pay the the $6,000 versus the 11,000 88 and and I think that that's everybody's feeling but like the previous speaker said we love our job and we appreciate our benefits and just appreciate the opportunity to be heard in the chambers here tonight sir okay thank you thank
 Hello Mr. Mayor, Council, Jimmy Vineyard, resident of the City of Fayetteville, 8651 West Stonehenge Drive. I'm the president of the Firefighter Association, represent 112 members of the active fire department. We also polled our membership with this question.
 We had young and old both reach out to us and give us their concerns about the potential change We overwhelmingly support staying with the current deductible plans with three thousand and six thousand with knowing that there would be a potential increase to the employees and I would like for you guys to understand that the group came to us understanding that I
 We educated them on the fact that a high percentage of them do not meet their deductible, but they did understand that at any given moment, them and their family could be put at that position. And this increase of a high deductible and stop loss could put them at a financial hardship
 that could tumble out of control with medical issues year after year potentially. So they understood those consequences and it was resounding within our group that they'd like to stay with the current plan and deductible and they understood that. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I will bring it back to the city council. We have a resolution. What is the wishes of the council?
 Mayor, I have a question. Paul, last week I think Councilmember Gutierrez asked about the budget, how much you had allocated for the budget for health care, and I'm not sure I understood your answer. I'm assuming that you have to put a number in there every year to
 And so I'm just wondering what number you put in and how this affects the budget. So if you could be so kind to help me understand that a little bit better, I would appreciate it. Thank you. I'll be happy to, Teresa. As you know, we are currently working on the 2022 budget at this time. So there isn't a budget that has been developed completely as yet.
 In the budget that we looked at, at this point in time, we looked at the plan presented that showed a reduction from last year and the reduced plan which was presented to you. Again, we're working on the budget at this point in time. The difference in cost to the city of Fayetteville is $650,000, which is a substantial amount.
 Also, the cost to the employees, additionally, for the maintaining the same plan would be an increase of $112,000.
 However, the budget hasn't been completed, but this would be an increase to last year's budget, a minimal of roughly $400,000. Remember, as we go into the budget year, we have to factor in all of the costs associated.
 So this is the 2020 budget, 2022 budget, excuse me, we're working on. This would give us, if the reduced plan were in fact passed, it would give us additional amounts to look at other areas that we know will be coming up. We're going to want to be looking at a salary increase of some sort that we look at the first quarter of 2022.
 We are going to have other needs. We've got fuel costs that are going up. We've got utility costs going up. We're going to have maintenance costs going up. We're going to have personnel requests because as we add to the city, we add benefits and parks, additional parkland that's going to take maintenance. As we add
 the police station, which hopefully will be completed, as well as the fire stations. Next year, we're going to have to increase some costs. And we're looking at cleaning and maintenance costs for those. We knew they were coming on at a point in time when these were completed. But we're going to have to look at factoring in those operating costs. So I hope that answers your question. Right now, I don't have a definitive amount in the budget.
 because we are still working on the budget. When we make the decision tonight, this will be factored into that. But it is a significant amount as far as costs are concerned. Does that address your question?
 Yes, it does. Thank you. I guess I didn't quite understand that the budget hadn't, you hadn't put a number in for next year. So thank you. That answers my question fully. I have a couple of comments if I can continue to hold the floor.
 Recently, we passed an incentive package for retaining and recruiting our police officers. To me, part of the package, although it was an incentive package, health insurance is part of the benefit.
 And if we want to retain our police officers, recruit good police officers, as well as firefighters and other city employees, then we've really got to maintain our health benefits. And I think from the public comments,
 Also, from all the emails that we've received today, I think overwhelmingly the employees would like to continue to have the same, the high deductible health plan 3000 rather than the new plan.
 because of their input. And although it will cost the city some extra money, I do think it's really important that we retain our good employees. And so I will be supporting the health plan 3000, the one that we have with the 6% increase. So that will be my position. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yeah, I really wish we could have looked at this earlier. There's a lot of stuff that comes kind of at the last second. And I agree with Council Member Tartt that overwhelmingly they're interested in. They helped plan 3000, but the reason is the Mac's out of pocket. And so usually in the negotiations, one of the things is you want to see what really matters to the people that it affects. And it seems like sometimes
 We could have worked on the premium prices and did the 100-0 split and kind of split some of this cost here. I've heard from too many staff to not vote for the Health Plan 3000, but $650,000 is also about a person per department, like a police officer, a firefighter.
 Just imagine every department losing a person to pay the difference. And I think if it had been presented that way a little earlier, then maybe people would have been like, okay, well, let's figure out, can we raise the premium $20 per person?
 I think at $20 per person that gets you half of the cost back and then maybe the city would then pay paying 300,000 of the new difference instead of the 650. But we don't have time to kind of get down in those weeds because, well, we had to have a special meeting to even really discuss this. So...
 I hate it that that 650,000 because I do know that basically that's a police officer and a firefighter and a staff person and we don't have time to go back and talk with the insurance and say okay well.
 what would the firefighters and the police officers like an increase in their premium so that we don't brought the full 60 or 650 and we could keep staff levels. But I'm not gonna vote against that many staff. I hear them. I just wish we had more time to try to figure out how we
 to make that max out of pocket and not hurt them so much and not hit the city so hard.
 Thank you. What other comments do we have? I had a lady that called me, and I've been trying to jump in here. Her name's Michelle Jewsberry. She sent me a print written out where she was just really concerned about that the savings to her family was not going to be significant enough to cover what the cost could be to her. I think that's what it said.
 what I'm taking away from this little diagram here. And I just want to make sure, since she didn't get this in,
 quicker, you know, in time for us to put it all online and all that stuff. You know, she spoke at our last meeting and had a little difficulty with the Zoom, you know, capacity and all that. And maybe doesn't have the best Wi-Fi in the world. I don't know. But I just want to make sure that her concerns were heard and that, you know, that she's concerned about the overall savings does not compensate her for the potential costs that she might face. Yeah.
 Okay, what else do we have? I have a clarifying question for Paul What was the year-to-year cost change was that the 450? Year to year the increase for year-to-year Is roughly three hundred and fifty thousand dollars the combination of the two Comes to the 650. Okay. Thank you I
 I have a comment. You know, I think we always hear that the values of a group or individual can be challenged by, you know, where we invest our money. And, you know, I believe that our staff and our people are our number one, you know, asset to making sure the city runs smoothly and
 the talent is is is rewarded and compensated and so um you know listening to what what they have i have the same you know overwhelming support for the current plan um and it is a it is a great thing to be able to to know that you know if you have that emergency that you won't have this giant
 And I found that co-insurance piece, it took me a little while to wrap my head around it. I talked to Missy over three or four days, over a week about it. So it is even, not only is it more, but it's just a little bit more complex, the 80-20 thing. So I definitely want to support the current plan. But one question I have is, is it in fact too late, Missy?
 To split the difference of the, the cost that it's going to take is it 6% increase. I think is what we're saying and give 3% to the city and 3% to the employees so that it's not such a cost burden on the city. And we, we all take, you know, an equal cost burden. Does that make sense? Yeah. I think what I hear you saying is it would shift the cost sharing by
 on the current plan, we would shift from the city picking up 86%. We would take the 6% and split that. That's correct. Yeah. This is not the whole thing, just the part that's increasing. Is that something we can do?
 we can certainly put those numbers together um the only i guess my only concern about it is one of the things when it comes to promoting our plans is that kind of throws our cost sharing out of whack and i can no longer go out and say we're picking up 85 and 80 percent of the 85 and 86 of the premium because at that point we wouldn't be
 So I think what I hear you saying is changing our cost sharing model for that high deductible plan and keeping the current plan. Yes, I'm kind of wondering about that. Is it if it's if it's something we can still discuss? And if, you know, people are I mean, I think that everyone's willing to to increase the premiums a little bit. That's kind of what I generally gathered. Sure.
 And I think that they understand that we don't necessarily want to burden the city with everything. So can we share that 6%? So then I guess what that would mean is then what would that percentage be? I'm not the math person in the room. Well, the total cost change is.
 650,000 less our HSA plus the employees piece. I mean, it's a big chunk of change if we pass that along to the employees half of it. I don't think I wanna do that. Okay. I'd rather make the cuts in the budget than I would to do that. So, you know, so we're basically we're looking at it's all or nothing and just stick with the 85. Okay, that answers my question, thank you.
 i think the question for the council if you want to keep the present plan that we have we probably just need a motion in a second to continue on with the plan that we have and yes we eventually need a motion to amend the resolution yeah and then you can make a motion to amend the resolution and keep the plan that you got and i'll make whatever appropriate cuts we need to make in the budget to make it work out
 I would like to make a motion to amend the plan that we have and support the current plan of the employees. Does that make sense? Second. Thank you.
 Okay, we have a motion to second continue with the plan that we have put an amendment on what we have to continue Let me read what I wrote out to see if I capture that a little bit more clearly It would be amending section 1 To say the City Council will see a favor of Arkansas hereby approves the 2022 employee benefits package including a premium increase of 6% for both employees and the city under the current plan and
 Is that the other option we have, Missy? Is that, did I say that correctly? Okay. So the high deductible health plan 3000 is what we're amending to? Yeah, that's what I understand.
 Right? Yeah, there's too many words current in there. Yeah, really. What we're saying is you put an amendment on there to continue with the plan that you've got with a 6% increase to the employee and a 6% increase to the city. That's right. Right? And then I'll make the appropriate cuts in the budget I need to of the $650,000. Well, you don't have to say that. I'll handle that end of it. Do we get a motion? We got a motion and a second. Any other final comments on this?
 I'm sorry, Mayor, I have a couple of final comments. Missy, I want to thank you very much for providing this information so clearly tonight. This was very helpful, I think, to everybody. I would say next year, if you could please give us a little bit more time to digest any changes, that would be extremely helpful, I think, to everybody. Thank you.
 And then the employees, because we're going to support you here tonight. That's what I'm hearing from all the other council members is that
 We're here. We want you to stay and work hard for the city of Fayetteville and be healthy and stay healthy. But those of you that are not vaccinated, please, please, please get vaccinated. And so to keep you healthy, keep our health care costs down, and that would be so much appreciated. So that's all I have to say. Thank you very much. Before we vote, you know,
 I just can't, you know, I can't justify, you know, when people are calling and asking, you know, they're worried about their insurance and, you know, I can't.
 You know, I can't put someone in the bind that I'm afraid, you know, if we did not vote in favor of this, we would be putting people in bind. But I'm also concerned about, and I wanted to go on the record saying this, that I'm concerned that the insurance, you know, how insurance used to be one way and then it switched around and the programs were a little bit different. We used to have two or three choices. Now we have two. And I think things are trying to become more streamlined and better.
 I guess that's more efficient for an insurance company, but I'm afraid, you know, I'm kind of concerned that we're kicking the can down the road and we're going to be faced with a similar situation next year. I just, you know, want to go on the record with that. I'm going to vote in favor of this because I don't know what else to do.
 in this instance where we have so many people calling us and they're really concerned about their their health insurance but but i'm afraid this may be a trend that we're getting into and that next year we will be faced with a similar situation and we can't you know i don't know that we can always cut out of the budget every year to take care of it so we need to kind of probably have a little more time to work on something than we did this year you know thank you i can make the appropriate custom budget i need to
 may not suit everybody but i can handle that end of it um what are the final comments do we have uh i would just like to add uh missy thank you so much for your hard work on this we really appreciate you and to the staff thank you for reaching out thank you for serving fed bill and i'm echoing the words of our councilwoman turk please get vaccinated okay any other final comments from council
 Okay, Karen would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. I don't think we have anything else. We actually have to vote on it.
 oh i'm sorry i thought i thought we that was the amendment wasn't it i apologize now we have the amended resolution um we need a motion in a second to pass the amended resolution thank you all good catch all right we have a motion in a second to pass the amended resolution any final comments on that care would you please call the road herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones
 Yes. Canyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. Now we're done with our business. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned. Thank you.