I would like to call the City Council meeting of August 21st, 2018 to order. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Here. Latorre. Present. Smith. Here. Gray. Marsh. Here. Ginnion. Here. Eddy. Here. Tennant.
 and Mayor Jordan. Here, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening everyone. Welcome. Our first order of business that we have tonight is the Consent Agenda.
 number one approval of the july 24 2018 special city council meeting minutes special it was number two a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of sixteen thousand five hundred and forty six dollars
 Representing donations to the Community Resources Division and Community Development Block Grant Program, income received from a housing lien payoff and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $7,553 to allocate use fund balance prior funds. Number three, a resolution to approve renewal of two Special Needs Assistance Program grant agreements with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 and the total amount of $73,278 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. Number four, a resolution to award bid number 18-41 and to authorize a contract with Steve Beam Construction Incorporated in the amount of $291,477 for construction work associated with the Meadow Street Parking Deck Improvements Project
 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $29,147. Number five, a resolution to approve a cost reimbursement agreement with the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service for funding in the amount of $20,000 for the installation of a low-impact development feature in City Parking Lot 55, located at 401 West Watson Street, and to approve budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution...
 to approve Amendment Number 1 to the contract with what my eyes have seen, photography for photography services to be provided through the end of 2018. Number 7, a resolution to approve an agreement with Food Loops LLC for the hauling of compostable and recyclable material in the City of Federal. Number 8,
 A resolution to authorize a contract with Tom January Floors Incorporated in the amount of $30,926 for replacement of vinyl flooring and to Walker Park Senior Activity and Wellness Center and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000.
 Number nine, resolution to repeal resolution number 150-18 and rescind the contract with Modern Exteriors of Springfield for the construction of a sunroom enclosure at the Walker Park Senior Activity Wellness Center.
 A resolution to award RFP 18-05 and to approve a one-year contract with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms with AvFuel Corporation for the provision of aviation fuel and refueler trucks for Federal Executive Airport Drakefield. Number 11.
 a resolution to prove a 20-year ground lease agreement with cursin properties llc for airport property located at 4240 south school avenue for the construction of a 100 by 75 foot hanger with an option to extend the ground lease for an additional five-year term and with a first rider refusal to lease the property for an additional five years after the hanger becomes the property of the city and number 12.
 A resolution to authorize applications for two Federal Aviation Administration 9010 grants for completion of construction phase services and project closeouts associated with the Taxiway B widening and rehabilitation project in the alternative amounts of $2,072,169 and $1,652,878 and $2,000.
 approve how authorized mayor Jordan to execute the grant agree will entertain a motion except consent agenda is read Sarah yes I'll make a motion we accept the consent agenda second all right we have motion in a second to accept the consent agenda is Lisa would you please call the roll
 Bunch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, we have none.
 Number one, an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a contract for the immediate removal and replacement of the entry, stairs, and landing at the Federal Town Center by benchmark construction of NWA Incorporated in the amount of $205,300 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $14,800 and to approve a budget adjustment. Blake.
 Whereas leaking chlorinated fountain water has caused the substructure of the stairs and landing at the Fayetteville Town Center to corrode, resulting in settling. And whereas on December 19th, 2017, the City Council passed Resolution No. 269-17, authorizing funding for the engineering design and construction of the necessary repairs. An Olson Associates engineering firm was engaged to generate the construction drawings.
 And whereas since the passage of that resolution, the stairs have settled an additional three inches and it is important to prevent further settling as quickly as possible.
 And whereas staff solicited three contractors and received two bids for the project, and as time is of the essence for this repair, staff recommends awarding the contract to the lowest responsive bidder. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that the facts shown above establish that an exceptional situation exists
 in which competitive bidding is not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a contract for the immediate removal and replacement of the entry stairs and landing at the Fayetteville Town Center by benchmark construction of NWA Inc. in the amount of $205,300 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $14,800.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to the staff review memo in the amount of $70,000. Well, you pretty much summed that up. Thank you. Yeah, so this is something that's needed to be addressed for a long time, and I think we've got some good solutions to move forward with this. And we do have some...
 Included in this bid is the removal of existing stairs and landings, the substructure, expansion joints, removal of the loose brick pavers on the landings and the entryway, and the side landings. They're to be replaced with the new concrete scored on a squared pattern. There will be LED lighted railings and stair nosings that integrate with the new lighting control at the Peace Fountain.
 aluminum stair treads and expansion you want covers in lieu of stainless steel and possible reconfiguration and the stairs are being considered as value engineering items these items could yield another ten to twelve thousand dollars in savings so that's pretty much it if y'all got any questions what questions do we have I went over and looked at those stairs I can assure you I've been around the block on construction they need to be replaced
 So, Mayor, I do want to point out to the Council that we're doing repairs for the town center in stages. So, we had the initial fountain repair in the Water League.
 we're doing this stair repair and then in the future cip budget you have the actual replacement of the concrete deck it goes all the way out so these collectively together were too large to put all in one item but we have them funded over multiple years and so i just don't want you to think why why do we keep writing this an item it's purposefully done in your cip to stretch these out over time any questions or anything do we have any public comment on this
 okay so you know bring back to the council Sarah Marsh I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading John second motion there we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading Lisa would you please call the roll yes yes Smith yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes
 In ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a contract for the immediate removal and replacement of the entry stairs and landing at the Fayetteville Town Center by benchmark construction of NWA Inc. in the amount of $205,300 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $14,800 and to approve a budget adjustment. And so. Second. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Give me just a minute to get the motion in. It keeps disappearing.
 Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ginnion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a contract for the immediate removal and replacement of the entry stairs and landing at the Fayetteville Town Center by benchmark construction of NWA Inc. in the amount of $205,300 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $14,800 and to approve a budget adjustment. Any final comments from the council? No.
 all right Lisa would you please call the roll Bunch yes Latour yes Smith yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Eddy yes okay thank you all number two in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding to authorize the purchase of vehicles for the police department's non-motor pool program any amount of not to exceed $30,000
 per vehicle and to allow the existing non-motor pool vehicles to be sold for trade-in value toward replacements like whereas on january 18 2011 the city council approved ordinance number 5381 waiving the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizing mayor jordan to purchase vehicles for the police department's unmarked unit program in an amount not to exceed 25 000 per vehicle
 And whereas this important program has been in place for more than three decades and is a critical component of criminal investigative operations and administrative functions, and whereas it is becoming increasingly difficult to find appropriate vehicles with the existing cost restriction of $25,000 per vehicle.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that the facts shown above establish that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of vehicles for the Police Department's non-motorpool program in an amount not to exceed $30,000, and further allows the existing non-motorpool vehicles to be sold for trade-in value for replacement vehicles.
 Chief. Mayor, Council, this is a bid waiver we've had in place for many years. The last time it was in front of the Council was in 2011, and the Council raised it from $20,000 to $25,000. Obviously the price of vehicles have went up since 2011, so once again we're asking this to be moved from $25,000 to $30,000. Okay, what questions do we have in the Council on this? Okay, is there any public comment on this? Okay, bring it back to the Council.
 thank you we go to the second reading mark i'll second that we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading please would you please call them up yes yes smith yes marsh yes inion yes eddie yes
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of vehicles for the police department's non-motor pool program in an amount not to exceed $30,000 per vehicle and to allow the existing non-motor pool vehicles to be sold for trade-in value toward replacements. Okay. Sarah? Move we go to the third and final reading. Matthew? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Please call the roll. Okay.
 Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ginnion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of vehicles for the police department's non-motor pool program in an amount not to exceed $30,000 per vehicle and to allow the existing non-motor pool vehicles to be sold for traded value toward replacements. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the run?
 Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Thank you all. Number three.
 An ordinance to approve vacation 18-6148 for property located at 1901 South Harding Place to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Whereas the City Council has the authority under Arkansas Code Annotated Section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes,
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following condition. Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner slash developer's expense.
 Yes, Mayor, this is in the Falcon Ridge subdivision, which is located in the far southeast corner of the city. It's just for the allow the construction of a storage building. It's actually about 110 square feet of the utility easement. None of the responding agencies needed this particular easement and planning commission staff recommend approval.
 okay what questions do we have from the City Council good all right public comment do we have on this okay bring back to the council sir we've we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Sarah I second that motion okay all right we have a motion that and say Lisa would you please call
 Munch yes Lutour yes Smith yes Marsh yes Ginnion yes Eddy yes an ordinance to approve vacation 18-6148 for property located at 1901 South Harding Place to vacate a portion of a utility easement sir move we go to the third reading second motion second go to the third and final reading please so would you please call the roll got to get second thank you Kyle all right
 Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. An ordinance to approve vacation 18-6148 for property located at 1901 South Harding Place to vacate a portion of utility easement. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this one? Alright. Would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 okay thank you all number four a resolution to express the city council's intent to create historic district design guidelines and or create a design overlay district for washington willow historic district and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of twenty thousand dollars to provide funding for a project consultant garner
 Yes, Mayor and Council, we're pleased to bring this forward on behalf of and in cooperation with our Historic District Commission. And the request is for Council to support the creation of historic district guidelines and or design overlay zoning district changes and the approval of a budget amendment not to exceed $20,000.
 The historic district guidelines would allow protection of the historic district, the Washington-Willow historic district. Design overlay zoning district we think is complementary and allows a better fit. This particular historic district was built long before the RSF-4 zoning district was created.
 the overlay zoning district allows us to look at building orientation setbacks lot sizes all of which are not exactly a fit with the RSF for district okay what questions so I'm sorry quickly I'm sorry I'm sorry the
 Just a little bit of background information. Historic District Commission has been in existence since the 70s and has diligently been studying Fayetteville's historic resources and has created or nominated seven national historic districts. Another one is in the works. The state has approved it and we expect the feds to approve it soon.
 But Fayetteville has only created the Drakefield White Hangar District as a local historic district ordinance. Arkansas has had local historic districts for many years. In fact, there are 21 local districts in the state. Just quickly background, a community meeting was held in January.
 It was decided after that meeting to focus on the Washington-Willow National Register District, and the property owners in that district were surveyed, and they responded largely positive towards the idea of creating a local district.
 The boundaries of the district, Council Member Smith mentioned that our previous map showed these boundaries going through buildings. Those buildings were located through our satellite imagery, and we've checked, and they indeed do follow appropriate lot lines. But the district is on the northern boundary, Prospect Street. On the south, it extends below Spring Street.
 basically one block east of College, and North Olive Street makes the far eastern boundary. It's got lots of fine examples of Fayetteville historic homes. I think preservationists would call this Gothic revival, French revival, neoclassic, Queen Anne. I don't know.
 And then a nice modest tutor. We do have some requirements in terms of direction for the creation of the guidelines. They should be generally based on the Interior Secretary's standards and that's by Fayetteville's ordinance.
 The state law says that local guidelines can't prohibit ordinary maintenance and repair and taking care of public safety issues. Interior renovations work not visible from the public right-of-way.
 so the next step would be that provided you approve this tonight would be to retain a consultant to help us prepare these guidelines and work with the historic district commission in the neighborhood to create the design guidelines we envision it as a highly interactive process
 And then after those draft guidelines have been produced and extensively reviewed, the Historic District Commission would be in a position to actually initiate a local ordinance district. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have? John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Garner. Garner.
 If a citizen is not satisfied with the decision of this commission that will eventually form, will there be an appeals process? Yes. It's governed by Arkansas state law, and it actually goes to the district court, I believe. Is that correct? Circuit court. Circuit court. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Obviously they can request Changes to the guidelines and so forth, but right. Thank you Where it says a sort district commission initiates a local ordinance district, what's the City Council's role after this step? The Council would be the approval body for the district if the historic district commission initiates an ordinance
 It requires review by our Planning Commission and it requires notification to the property owners and then it would come back after that has occurred, it would come back to you for the creation of the district. Only City Council can create the district. Okay. And the City Council would have the authority to initiate that themselves.
 My second question is when we talk about these design guidelines, are those guidelines focused on architectural and urban design factors or do they go beyond that to talk about land use more broadly? Well, the reason we were suggesting both the zoning overlay district and historic guidelines was precisely so we could look at having them work in a complementary way.
 So the only overlay district could deal with setbacks, building orientation, where parking is located, and the historic design guidelines obviously would look at setting up a certificate appropriateness process that would discourage demolition of historic buildings as well as approving appropriate changes to the exterior.
 Okay, I follow that. To be more specific, right now it's possible through conditional use permits to do things like a cottage court, for instance, or in some areas a duplex or other things. Would you see any conflict with our current process for issuing conditional uses arising out of this? I don't see a conflict there.
 the district isn't uniformly single-family okay thanks anybody else okay well let's take some public comment
 all right before everybody gets up everybody gets one time to microphone you have five minutes keep your comments directed to me don't engage city council member anybody in the public stay on topic and the only way you can get more time is if council makes council member makes a motion and a second by majority vote of the council you can have more time or they can bring you back up to ask you questions and if you would give us your name and address and here we go
 Yeah, come on in. I'm sorry I'm late this evening. I got some traffic this evening. I was looking at the AvFuel Corporation. My name is Jay Cole, 16261 Penn Oak Road, Fayetteville, 72704. I was looking at the AvFuel Corporation resolution to keep AvFuel there for the con- Wait, wait, wait, you're totally, we're talking about the historic district. Oh, I'm sorry. Right now. Okay, I was thinking further down. That's already been, that was on the consent agenda. My apologies.
 All right, who would like to address us next on the historic district? Hi, good evening, everybody. I'm Teresa Turk, 1408 West Cleveland, 72701. I'm a member of the Historic District Commission, and
 and since 2013 and we've basically been talking about this for quite a long time. We've had many citizen complaints about destruction, excuse me, demolition of historic properties without a process, without any protections and so much of this discussion was out of that of those concerns and I believe this is the right approach.
 This is getting us started so that we can create these design guidelines to enable citizens to be able to follow those, to make it easy, very user-friendly, and hopefully preserve our history. As Garner just mentioned, we'll have to come back with a local ordinance before you to seek approval for that.
 And once we get there, there will be a lot more details on the process. But this is just to create guidelines and hopefully very user-friendly, easy-to-follow guidelines for residents in Washington Willow District. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading this is a resolution oh then I move we pass the resolution okay Matthew second we have a motion and second to pass resolution any final comments from the council on this one okay would you please call the roll Bunch yes Latured yes Smith yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes
 Okay, thank you all very much. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 Mayor, several announcements. The Wilson Park pool has extended its hours through Labor Day holiday. So it normally closes on the weekend prior to the start of school, which was last weekend. It has been extended at the direction of the mayor until Labor Day. So come out to the Wilson Park pool, for those of you. They're open Monday through Friday from 4 to 7 p.m. after school, Saturdays and Sundays 1 to 6 p.m.
 And of course on Labor Day. We're going to have a new event at the pool on the very last day, and it's a Bring Your Pet to the Pool. So a dog swim and human swim. So that information is on the website. I didn't name the event, but the name of the event is Jewel in the Pool. So if you want to bring your dog, I'd let them, I guess,
 Get wet, that's what it will be. It's going to be on September the 3rd from 6 to 8 p.m. So...
 New event in Fayetteville on the last day. And humans will not be swimming in the pool after that. It will be closed and drained, and this has been approved by the health department. Also, we've had some frustration, you may have heard, about road projects and overlay projects taking place. Obviously, they're more inconvenient at the start of school and the university year. Huntsville Road has been affected this week. So we've tried to do a lot of...
 public outreach to make people aware. In fact, I think we've been somewhat successful because we've had 7,000 people contact the city through our Facebook, social media, and website page thanking us for the notification, but there's always people that don't necessarily get that. So hopefully it'll improve a little bit tomorrow morning's commute now that we have half of it laid and can keep the traffic moving. But if you want to be aware of where you can expect delays,
 due to construction projects the city has our information on the city's website on cone patrol for any other projects that one is taking place this week though so for people who are out and about also there's a special meeting Thursday which is the 23rd at the Walker Senior Center it starts at 4 30 p.m.
 It goes as long as it needs to be. It's a special parks and recreation advisory board meeting that is being held to take input regarding the Gully community park master plan as well as the future capital projects that were identified during our survey and parks master planning for the council's upcoming
 bond discussions so if you have input on those two topics that special parks board meeting will be thursday at 4 30 and i think that's all the announcements we have okay anybody else all right thank you all we're adjourned