I would like to call to order the city council meeting for September 3rd, 2019. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Eddy. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all well good evening everyone i i'm certainly almost positive we will keep you entertained tonight um first order business we have tonight under reports is the monthly financial report from paul becker
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be for the month of July, that's month seven in our fiscal year.
 Revenues are pretty flat to expenditures right about now, so as the overall budget, we're doing fine at the moment. Our sales tax is now half a percent when compared to budget. That's about $100,000. Building permits are down a little bit through July, but we're close to budget there. We're down about 5% at this point in time. Revenue total for the general fund is down about 0.7%, which is $200,000.
 There's a good chance if we get a couple upticks, we will hit budget by the end of the year. We still have five months to go. However, I want to remind everyone we're going against a pretty good sales tax numbers last year at the end of the year. Our sales tax was fairly strong.
 again where we are right now on the general fund is our revenues down about two hundred thousand dollars our expenditures are tracking just about where I would expect them to as far as the street fund is concerned the street fund is up about four percent at this point in time basically driven by the turn back of the half cent penny for the sales tax
 from the state that the citizens throughout the state voted on. So we're having good revenue results there at the street fund. Parking's up about 3.4%. Remember earlier in the year, we were kind of weak, but we're making up for that at this point in time. Parks developments, which is HMR taxes, is up 3.25%.
 Water and sewer was up in revenue about 2.6%. Remember, we've been tracking about 4%, so we started to decrease a little bit. I think that's showing a slowdown in demand, but we'll have to track that going forward. However, we're still meeting revenue to meet expenditures, so we're still good in the water and sewer fund. Trash.
 Trash and recycling fund is up about 2.6% compared to budget at this point in time. Remember, that was budgeted at a $1.1 million deficit because we were looking at the new rates that were enacted earlier this year. So we're catching up on that pretty well. We still have some capital in progress.
 to pay for, but our revenue's keeping up, and I'm pretty confident that we're going to hit, we're gonna hit the expenditure budget by this, by the end of the year. That is revenue to match expenditures by the end of the year because of the increases.
 As far as the airport's concerned, fuel sales are down 17% compared to last year. That's a lot compared to last year. However, still, last year was a banner year for fuel sales at the airport. So we're actually tracking 2% over what I had forecasted for budget at this point in time. So we're a little ahead of budget at the airport at this point in time.
 So overall, I would say we're looking solid so far this point in time. I'd like to see our revenue pick up a bit between now and the end of the year in the general fund, but we'll see what happens as we look forward. Again, Internet sales is something we're looking forward to see some results, but we're not going to see results on that until the November collections probably. I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 Do we have any questions, Paul, on finance support? Okay. Thank you, Paul. All right. The next order of business is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 20, 2019 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to amend Resolution 117-19 to authorize the payment of applicable sales, taxes, and freight charges in addition to the purchase price of $60,990 for the purchase of vehicles.
 water leak detection equipment from ABO Multi-Amp Corporation, DBA, Baker Group for the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number 3, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $14,643 plus taxes from Carlson Heavy Contractors Incorporated for the installation of a baffle plate at the Holy Wagonum Wastewater Lift Station and to approve budget adjustment. Number 4,
 A resolution to approve professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount not to exceed $59,600 for the rehabilitation of the Round Mountain Water Standpipe project. Number five, a resolution to approve a one-year master service agreement with Badger Meters Incorporated in the amount of $240,817 plus applicable taxes.
 to purchase 1,200 smart water meters through its supplier, Hennard Utility Products Incorporated, for the Water and Sewer Department. Number six, a resolution pursuant to 166.1,
 Oh, four B. Three of the federal unified development code to approve the dedication of a reduced amount of right away along West Martin Luther King Junior Boulevard by approximately eighteen square feet to account for a portion of an existing structure and to reduce the master street plan right away dedication.
 for this portion of west martin luther king jr boulevard by 18 square feet and number seven a resolution pursuant to 166.04 b2 of the federal unified development code to approve the dedication of a reduced amount of right-of-way along east
 north street by approximately 33.5 square feet associated with a law split at 312 east north street and to reduce the master street plan right away dedication for this portion of east north street by 33.5 square feet i'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read sonja i'll move to approve kyle second we have a motion and second to accept the consent agenda is read
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Thank you all. Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6716 for approximately 10.43 acres located east of 3638 North Front Street from CT Fairfair Commercial and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial CS Community Services. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Sarah. So moved. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 So I'm going to please call the roll. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Hattie. Yes. Groggin. Yes. Batch. Yes. Turk. Yes.
 And in order to rezone that property, describe in a rezoning petition RZN 19-6716 for approximately 10.43 acres located east of 3638 North Front Street from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and I1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrial to CS Community Services. Governor, what do we have? I don't have anything to add other than draw the council's attention that the applicant did submit a bill of assurance.
 the bill assurance proposes to limit the height to three stories the not germane to this request but the bill of assurance also limits the height to the adjacent properties that's on RMF 24 to the east and it also has a map associated with it to protect the trees in the steepest part
 that parcel now make sure that we point out that the adjacent parcel was zoned in the early 90s and what's in front of you is the merits of rezoning from I1 to C2 to community services and not the adjacent parcel happy to answer any questions I believe mr. Jarrett is here
 and wishes to make a presentation, I believe. Before he speaks, we need a motion to amend the current rezoning ordinance so we can make it subject to the bill of assurance so that the title would, at the very end, say subject to the attached bill of assurance and subsection one would end, after community service, it would say subject to the attached bill of assurance. I was gonna make that motion, but I'm gonna let other people speak first.
 I guess I was wondering if we could hear from the applicant first. In case we have questions about the bill of assurance or things that come up associated with that. My understanding is that we have to have an amendment kit, do we not? We do and if it's not satisfactory to you, you might certainly vote for the rezoning. And then we can discuss the amendment and then I'll open it also up for public comment for the amendment if I remember correctly.
 i got to have somebody to make a motion to amend okay sloan i'll make that motion okay mark i'll second that we have a motion to second to amend kid you want to do your language on that again well to make to make the rezoning subject to the bill of assurance okay we have a motion to second to amend um any comments from the council okay
 Sorry, please call the roll. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? No. Kirk? Yes. Okay. Okay, so that motion passes, and now it's ready, I guess, for the applicant. Okay, what discussion, first of all, does council have on the amendment? I'd just like to hear the council members who voted no articulate their concerns. Okay.
 I guess for me I think the the three three story height limit on the portion that Garner reminded us isn't part of tonight's discussion seems totally appropriate I'm a little more concerned about three-story limits on the part we're looking at now as it's further from existing residential it's
 right where the Fulbright Expressway lets out, and I have a hard time imagining a place that calls for more residential density than right there.
 With other things to be considered, that situation I just thought deserved a little more attention. I stumbled across a couple of layers on our GIS maps last night that show population density and job density, and this is possibly the highest job density and lowest residential density area of town. And I'm just concerned that a three-story limit there ends up looking like
 Like all of the other three-story apartments where they stop because the fourth would require an elevator anyway and And I'm concerned that that may limit the mixed-use capacity for the area
 okay I think that overall I think this is far superior to its existing zoning which allows a myriad of really unusual things that you wouldn't expect to find right in the middle of of town like it is now my concern and I may have voted improperly but I had a concern about the the definition on the
 a bill of assurance for mature trees what are the mature trees and what are the what do they consider immature and are they just going to go in and you know when they um when they leave trees are they going to take out small ones or what are they going to do so who decides what are mature trees and need to be left okay that's a good point uh would the applicant like to speak to the council yes sir this is on the amendment yes sir
 My name is Hugh Jarrett. I'm here for the applicant. Appreciate the opportunity to speak This is just on the amendment. Yes, okay, and then we'll get to the amended Yes, sir the the language on the Bill of Assurance about the mature trees is is
 It's basically citing that the hillside is where most of the mature trees are on this site. However, in tree preservation areas, you cannot do anything in there. So before anybody develops anything in a tree preservation area, it has to be fenced off. You can't take out little things. You can't take anything out. So the reference to the term mature was wrong.
 Sighting that that's where the big trees are I was not it was not to the exclusion of little things or brush or anything like that So that's that's not I wouldn't say we're clear underneath the big trees. That was a that was unintentional and then the We're kind of caught trying to work with neighbors to the site that spoke two weeks ago Trying to come up with something that works for everyone so it appeared two weeks ago that really
 The neighbors were looking for the best of both worlds on the mixed-use height restrictions and didn't like the five stories and the RMF24. So in an effort to try to work with our neighbors who we met with today, I was trying to come to some method to address everyone's concerns is the reason that we launched the entire project.
 three parcels together that was the the reasoning there and then on the on the tree preservation if it is delineated you can't touch anything in there um you know at all so thank you thank you okay i do want to explain something what i thought we were voting on is to put the amendment up for discussion and then have the public weigh in on it and then you would have a final vote on the
 Well, of course, if there's something that makes the City Council concerned about the amendment, about the bill of assurance, then you certainly can do a secondary motion and remove it if you feel like it is not appropriate. Yeah. Okay. So, Tracy. Could the applicant come back up? I have a question.
 So on the bill of assurance, you limited to three stories. Does that include any parking or any other levels on top of there? I just want to make sure three stories is the absolute total limit. There's no exemptions or anything like that. That's correct. Okay. I believe it says no structures greater than three stories, which would be anything. And I can talk, but y'all asked me about traffic last time. I can talk about that.
 Is that? Yeah. Okay. I just want to make sure. Thank you. Okay. Kyle. I just want to, I don't think you have to come back up. I just wanted to thank you for the broader look and including some of those other areas that had neighbors concerned. I just, to be clear, I think it was a chainsaw approach where maybe a scalpel could have been a little better.
 Not surprised, though. I mean, I guess I wouldn't be surprised if we only got three stories even without the bill of assurance, just from the shape of other Lindsay properties in town. But if there were an opportunity here to –
 treat one end of the site different from the other I would certainly be interested in a little more nuanced approach I agree mr. stall spoke to this two weeks ago about parking requirements and other site requirements so going at some point going up becomes prohibitive no matter who it is but but I agree thank you anything else from the council
 Okay, I will take public comment on the amendment of the three stories right kit pretty much Who would like to address this on the amendment everybody gets one turn at the microphone? You have a five minute limit unless the council by majority vote gives you more time Stay on topic keeps your comments addressed to me. Don't engage anybody on the council or out in the public Give us your name and address and who would like to be first? I
 Okay. Come on up. Yeah, where's the timer? Hi. I wasn't prepared to do this, but just briefly, my name is Jeff Reddicop. But you're hoping to knock a little bit closer. I'm having a little bit of trouble hearing you. Sure. My name is Jeff Reddicop, and I live up on Buckingham, right above one of the above properties. My wife and I walk.
 and I bike through the Mud Creek Trail quite a bit. And I'm just wondering an overall aspect of, and again, I'm talking about the adjacent property where the limit is being talked about as being three stories. It looks to me, from looking down at the sky map on it, the Google map that was provided, that the area between the onset of the hill and where the creek is,
 The riparian areas on the would be the south side of the creek is is quite narrow so I guess what I'm wondering is as This I mean it's a piece of property that was bought in 1990 which I believe probably precedes most of a lot of this newer guiding principles and city planning I could be wrong, but I
 I'm just wondering if you know in light of that it might be something to revisit just in terms of its overall Application to the city's new plans in such a such a fragile area and I understand Fayetteville is a very beautiful town there's lots of very beautiful areas and infill is important to prevent what I grew up with in California and
 But still, I just wonder sometimes. I saw a deer and her baby sleeping out there on a field this morning when we went for a walk just after sunrise. And again, it just looks like it's quite a small controlled area. Thank you. Okay, thank you. You know...
 There was a little bit of my confusion because I thought we were talking about a rezoning of a certain property, but now we've entered into a bill of assurance which is including two different properties, and that's why I wanted to vote with you all before we got into a lot of discussion on this. And so I thought we were – this started with a rezoning of a certain piece of property, and now we seem to have added in the R-24 and into the mix now, right? Yeah.
 So with the three-story height limit on both pieces of property, so we're looking at both pieces of property, I would assume. Well, in reality, there's only one piece of property before the city council at this point. There was no notice given about the RMF 24 land. It's already zoned as the applicant would need to use it.
 He has put some limits on it in his bill of assurance potentially, but the only property looking at zoning is the property he wants to go to CS from heavy commercial light industrial. So that's the property you need to be looking at rather than RMF 24, which is not really before the city council for any decision. Okay. The other, and I know the council, mayor and council know this, but, um,
 The bill of assurance, that's a voluntary concession that the applicant is bringing forward. In no way does it change any of our requirements. We still have tree preservation requirements. We have water retention requirements. We have large scale development that it has to go through because it's going to be over an acre. And we have subdivision requirements if you propose multiple lots.
 all that is completely neutral to the submission of his voluntary concession not to build the buildings taller than three stories okay I guess it's a point of order question since this provide puts concessions on a property that we're not considering that hasn't notification is this
 Is this even a proper request for this bill of assurance? It's never been done before in the 18 years. I've been city attorney However, I won't say categorically that it has no effect a bill of assurance is something that a landowner presents to the City Council in order to convince you to agree to his rezoning or her rezoning and I
 Normally, the bill of assurance will only cover that particular property. And it is a restriction on the owner's rights, not our rights at all. As Garner was telling you, we have all of our development requirements are still in there. Nothing is affected whatsoever by what the applicant might suggest in his bill of assurance. It just restricts the applicant's rights.
 I've not seen before another piece of property to be affected by a bill of assurance. I'm not saying it absolutely would control or would not control.
 It will control, I know, under the CS property. Now, whether it will have any real effect on our RMFM24 property, I don't know. A reasonable argument could be made that, yes, an owner can do that. He owns this property, and in order to get the zoning on the adjoining property, maybe he can't put restrictions on his own property. It's just never come up before, so I can't really give you a definitive answer. Just one.
 To clarify and this may have may have changed since the maps last updated But right now the the RMF for parcel shows under a different owner Normally 24 partial does it is vantage square a joint venture and the ones we're looking at our AW Realty Company So you may be able to clarify maybe those are the same owner there. They're not okay Years ago
 Kit was around, but Mr. Lindsey and the gas company developed all that. Okay, so that whole deal was developed by Mr. Lindsey and the gas company. So in the fallout, at the end, there was some vacant land left over. So when they were parceling out the vacant pieces, the piece that is owned, RMF24, was
 Mr. Lindsay retained an ownership interest in. He doesn't own it 100%, but he has an ownership interest in it. Then the piece that is actually under rezoning now, Mr. Lindsay had no ownership interest in it. So when all of this started coming together, we made a deal for everything. So basically, this is the remnants of...
 of a development that's 30 some odd years old and the ownership was broken up at that time. I apologize about muddying the water, trying to work with the neighbors, trying to come up with a solution that fit everybody.
 Yes, I'm trying to come with some understanding on this. I have one question for you. Do you have the authorities from the owners of both parcels for this bill of assurance? Yes. From both parcels? Yes. Okay. Yes. Thank you. Yes, we do. Now you see why I wanted to vote before we got too far into this. See if we're going to entertain this. Okay, what other public comment do we have now?
 I guess I will hear comments on both pieces of property, but when it comes back to the council, we will be voting on no.
 Just probably should be on the one that's before the council, which is a property to be rezoned community services. Okay, okie dokie. I can do that too. All right, has everybody got it? I hope I do. Let's stay with the rezoning of the property that's before us and not get off into the R24. Right? That's correct, Mayor. Okay, here we go. All right, who would like to address this?
 Hi, I'm Brenda Walner. I live at 3582 North Buckingham Drive. And the rezoning that is being asked, they're asking for a CS, which is Community Service Mixed Development. That means that the area should be primarily to provide convenience goods and personal services for persons living in the surrounding residential areas.
 The information I've been provided is that those two parcels that we're talking about will be only apartments. So it's not going to be any mixed use. It's not going to provide goods and personal services to the area. They're going to be apartments only. The developer is known just to build apartments. So I don't think that's an issue that we're going to argue about.
 With this being said, if you approve the CS zoning that allows for administrative approval of the development once rezoning is approved, that would not allow a public hearing as part of the development process. The people in the surrounding area would have no say, nor would the city council really have any say of what's being built.
 And we are not, we support positive development in our city, but we think there needs to be some accountability of what is being built. And we feel like that as the people in that area, we should have some say and to give control all over to the developer, we don't feel like that that's a good option. And we would like you to consider a different zoning in order to,
 for us to be able to work together as a community and find a better option. So you're saying you want to differ zoning for both pieces of property? Yes, I'm saying deny the CS. Deny what they're asking for. Let's come up with a better option. Because community service mixed development, this is not what that is. It's not going to be mixed development. It's going to be apartments.
 And so where are the goods and services and the personal stuff for the surrounding? I mean, that's what it says and then when we give give them all when it's to made it Administrative sign off then we have no say and it's carte blanche and I know they're saying they have assurances But that's for a different thing. This is not what we're talking about right now. Okay. Thank you. Thank you Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I
 I know I talked a bit about this at the last meeting, and I kind of mentioned that I wanted it stair-stepped. I wanted almost like 5-3-2 or something of that nature. With the bill of assurance, I'm a lot closer to being able to approve this because it will stay at three stories. I kind of agree with that.
 Kyle that you know I would like to see that front actually at five it's one of the highest uses areas there's a lot of rows around there but what's been presented as three stories that I'm okay with that I'm not as confused about the bill of assurance covering land that's not on there as it seems like the other people have has said
 it actually kind of makes sense to me because I know that most of the issues with building there were actually about concerns on the RMF 24, so I kind of appreciate that the applicant has lowered
 the height there and then also dedicated a tree preservation and I think that alleviates many not all but many of the concerns that the neighbors on top of that hill had so not 100% how I'm going to vote but definitely a lot closer to yes with the bill of assurance. Okay, Sarah.
 Yes, I have some questions I'd like to ask for Garner about possibly addressing some of the things that, I'm not sure, I caught your last name, I thought it was Mahler maybe? But, sorry, I was totally wrong. Anyway, when something, when we rezone something, you know, the complaints have been made that
 the citizens will have no say so on anything that happens once we rezone it. Can you kind of break down, you started in this a minute ago telling us about it goes through subdivision committee, it goes through planning commission. Where are the opportunities from this point on if citizens were unhappy with it that they might be able to address their concerns? The...
 plat uh would if they propose more than four lots would go to the planning commission which would have a hearing but um both platting and large scale and i use this word advisably because it means different things to different people they're both technically administrative the question is who makes the decision and who can appeal that decision
 As an incentive to use the form-based codes to community services and the urban thoroughfare Council some time ago allowed For large-scale to be approved by staff. I remember we're applying the code at this point This is not a discretionary process so if they meet every all the requirements of the ordinance they can be approved at the staff level and
 if they're asking for a variance it would automatically go to the planning Commission so but planning and large-scale are both administrative in the sense that we're administering your your policies your the land use code we're not making a discretionary decision they can be appealed but the peel would be saying that the administrative official whether it be staff or planning Commission
 made an error or didn't apply the code correctly would be the basis for an appeal. They're not like a rezoning item, which is discretionary. Mr. Mayor, if I could add, as I informed every one of you all during your orientation, the discretion that the city council has is in rezoning.
 Once a property has been zoned correctly for what the developer wants to do, if they follow all the code sections, which they normally do, it must be approved. It cannot be turned down. There is one semi-discretionary part of that, which is traffic safety.
 So that still can be presented. It can be considered by staff as well as the Planning Commission and on appeal even to the City Council. But beyond that, it's kind of check the box. Have they done what our code tells them to do? So all of your discretion about what can be built on that property, virtually all of it is here right now tonight.
 Now, I have told you also in the past that when you rezone property, you don't consider a particular project because there's not a particular project in front of you. There's a whole range of things that people can build if you give them the right zone. So even though there's been certainly a lot of discussion about apartments, nobody is bound to that, and they can put whatever community services would allow on that land.
 So at the end of the day, once it's zoned a certain way, if they stay within the confines of that zoning, it's a bill by right? Must be approved. All right. Yes, I understand that, but I was just wanting to make sure that the audience got the grasp of it and what their recourse might be if they wanted to address a certain issue with a property. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Sure. Thank you. I have a question for Garner. You know, Ms. Waller had, I agree with her assessment that that area does need goods and services. And, you know, we are making a significant investment in infrastructure in that area. And I think that we do need goods and services. What planning tools do we have at this level to ensure that we actually get some mixed-use development and not just apartments? Sure.
 Communities sometimes adopt zoning districts that require mixed use within the same building. Fayetteville's districts do not. That is certainly something council could consider. Vertical mixed use buildings is what they're called.
 there's an like every other planning policy there's there's an upside and a downside it significantly increases the cost of buildings and I wasn't here when those zoning districts were crafted but I suspect that may have influenced past council for allowing mixture of uses but not requiring whether not requiring a mixture uses in a single building
 Okay, thank you. Because I tend to agree with Kyle about, you know, we have this density of jobs and we need places within walking or cycling distance that are affordable for people to live to work at all of those jobs down there. So we absolutely do need apartments in this area.
 And we probably need a lot of them, but I agree with the citizens that we also need these goods and services So I I guess I'm still undecided on this issue And I wish we had more planning tools to be more proactive and delivering exactly what this knit area of town most needs But I'm a little uncomfortable with the three-story height limit that was proposed but I do want to commend the developer for working with the neighborhood and in trying to find a middle ground and
 yeah carl um i've heard two still not sure how we're going to vote on it vote on it so i'll break the ice and tell you that i won't vote for it in the form it's in right now i think it's it's moving in a right direction of of consideration for the area and the neighbors and the impact that this will have i just don't think that it's there yet and so i hope that we will uh
 stick with the second reading tonight and get to come back to this in two weeks with maybe some around round three of new ideas so that's that's my hope anyway okay thank you mayor um corner at what point is a traffic study conducted is that after rezoning occurs because so it's not before it's not before if you really think about it these by right districts
 have the gamut in terms of traffic generation. So you really need to get down to either the plat level or the large scale level to know what the specific use is. If you calculated the worst case scenario, which would be the only valid thing to do for a by-right district, you can't assume less than the worst case, the worst case scenario would generate many times more traffic than typical development.
 for the by right district if it's not a planned zoning district the proper time is later
 It's not at the zoning stage. It's probably better at large-scale development or preliminary plant where you can actually see the lots, you know what they're going to be used for, and then you can start doing your computations about what kind of trip generation they're going to cause. But as we just talked about with large-scale development and the plant review, that's all administratively done. So at what point...
 does the traffic issue, if it is the worst case scenario, come into the discussion? No, the traffic is taken into account on a large scale development.
 It's primarily taken into account to make sure the egress and ingress is correctly developed. And you can take into account traffic in a zoning decision too. It's just like we're not going to be doing a traffic study on that. You'll just have to use your general knowledge about if you're changing zones, what could that do to the traffic and how is it handled now, how will it be handled in the future,
 situations or even congestion at the rezoning level. I don't have to do a traffic study. If you took the worst case scenario of the C2 in terms of traffic generation, it would be far higher than the community services because of intense commercial uses that generate a lot of trips. Okay, I have one other question. You know, most of this rezoning is right in the floodplain, the 100-year floodplain. Is there any kind of floodplain...
 review we're having you know a discussion about that in terms of you know flooding and zoning and that sort of thing so is there any kind of study that's undertaken to take a look at that yes yes where is that you have to they have to meet our engineering requirements for how the impact the conveyance of the flood flood way
 that also occurs at the large scale or at the subdivisions stage okay thank you small yeah I guess two things I know we're talking about you know concern about this being all apartments even if it is all apartments there's there's more business that can be walked to there than there are residentials
 I'm not too concerned about is this a mixed-use building versus is this a mixed-use area. And this would actually be a more mixed-use area if it was all apartments. So that's not a large concern of mine. I think that would actually lower some traffic, especially having people with the ability to bike on the trail system.
 And then the other thing about not voting against this because we would like higher stories on the area that's closer to Panera. If the developer doesn't want to go past three stories, he's not going to, whether we make that an option or not.
 there's not a lot of stuff that's higher than three stories in that area anyway. You've got the Lindsey building across Joyce, and then you have Roush Coleman, and that's about it. So, you know, Panera is one story. Hass Hall is one story. There's a lot of one stories, so I don't see somebody jumping up to five stories there. So I would hate to vote against this based solely on the possibility of allowing somebody up to five stories in the future.
 I just don't see anybody wanting to build past three stories right now. Mark? I haven't really decided completely how I'm going to vote either. One of the things that we have not talked about this evening is the traffic as far as the impact at the corner of College Avenue and Front Street. If anyone – I worked at Bank of Arkansas right there at that intersection, and it has to be the most weird, complicated, backed-up, silly –
 unmanageable intersection in Fayetteville. And we're adding more traffic to it here because Vantage has not been completed. Vantage is not going to be easily completed because we're going to have to have a bridge over the creek and we're going across the floodplain there. So, and even if we had Vantage, it's putting it back into the other neighborhood.
 Without the bridge, they're going to have to go north to that church and down Millsap to the crazy, silly, unmanageable, who the heck did this intersection? Because, you know, that's also the flyover. And I don't know if it's one of the highest accident intersections. It has to be because there was an intersection accident there or fender bender. It seemed like almost every week sometimes. So, yeah.
 We haven't talked about that here. We've talked about the height of the buildings. Well, I guess by limiting it to three, you're not going to have as much density if you had five, so that controls some of the traffic. But this is adding a lot of cars to a really crazy traffic pattern. So that's what I keep thinking about. How are we going to get it over to Vantage? Because once we get it to Vantage, that's going to be a lot better. There's traffic control light there at Vantage and Joyce. Okay.
 That's what I see whenever I'm looking at this because it is pushing everyone on the south side of the creek to go to that one route. I know we're already working on the engineering for Vantage and Sane Vantage and the bridge. Is that a phase one construction project for the bond or did we save that one to phase two? I don't have it committed to memory yet.
 it's actually well along in the process it is completely engineered it's a federal aid project so the participation is only the 20% and it's get its schedule for construction next year okay that's and it has been through transportation that's true just keep at least a year out right right maybe so
 That just came up while I was waiting. Another comment that was made earlier was I think Garner was pointing out that we don't currently have a zoning district that requires mixed use. And I'm not sure that a vertical mix is necessarily what we need, but in a parcel this big, there's –
 going to be more than one building in the development. There's certainly room for different buildings of different uses and it occurred to me that we do have a tool for that. I mean, we could certainly be looking at a PZD here if we were really wanting to get into the weeds on that sort of thing if the applicant were looking to fulfill the vision that I think I've heard mentioned up here a time or two, that might be one route about it.
 okay anybody else all right do we want to hear anything from slump um i just wanted to point out one thing uh i mean it's really hard to get anything built at any reasonable time i assume that uh that road will start before they can actually finish um
 There's obviously no guarantee of that, but no developers finishing anything on any reasonable time level in Fayetteville right now.
 i don't know if there's any requirement that this new road needs to go in before they can start building but i don't think logistically they would want to do those things separate i don't i don't see them wanting to build a development then have a road go in nine months later so right i mean i don't you know i i can't really give you a solid timeline on when we're going to build that road so i i don't want i just don't know
 So what do you all want to do? You want to hold it on? Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to put a little bow on the conversation about the road. From our conversation with the Transportation Committee, the design and engineering was funded actually out of the last bond issue. So it's been planned and discussed for quite a bit of time, and it's funded in the first phase while the mayor can't promise a specific date.
 we've all committed and the citizens have committed to do it it's going to be a reality um that that uh the the extension of saying up to advantages is going to be constructed and in the relatively near term um and if if i'm only speculating to say this but i would
 that the current transaction that's behind this rezoning is at least partially motivated by those plans. So I would expect from the exhibits and from the long discussions we've had about that road that both designs will proceed in accordance with one another.
 In general, if we're not going to vote on this tonight, I'll say I am more or less, I guess on the whole or on average, I'm comfortable with what's been presented tonight. I'm more comfortable than I was now that we have the bill of assurance, although I'm not making any kind of claims that what's represented is what would occur in my perfect world. Thank you.
 On the notion of traffic, I'm probably more comfortable with respect to the traffic that might be generated from this than I am with the form of the development that might occur on the property. I'm very anxious about what the development might look like, regardless of whether it's in our firm-based codes or regardless of whether it's limited to three stories. I think you can get great development.
 with three stories that meets all of our goals. But it takes a little bit of, there's kind of a secret sauce, I think, to doing that. With respect to traffic, though, I'm a lot more comfortable because when I look at,
 our housing and transportation systems i mean if if we're just i'll just talk in round numbers to illustrate the point um i mean just 500 units on the edge of town it's the worst case scenario 500 units in on the edge of town for people to live in and a big box store for them to shop in on the site that's the absolute worst case scenario that's that's saying i mean we might as well ask ourselves uh how can we design a system for the most possible most congestion possible
 Because that's what we'll get if we make everybody live in a different place from where they work Which is what we have right now make them use the same roads at the same times a day To go back and forth is exactly what we have today and it's what we'll have more of if we don't get housing constructed on the site and
 It's not that every person who lives here is never going to drive a car, that's crazy to say, but it's certainly the case that people who live here will drive their cars less. I don't necessarily mean less often, but it could mean three miles less than what they would normally drive, even if they're driving just as frequently. And that adds up quite a bit as we make a relative comparison for where other housing might be located. Okay. Thank you.
 I think we were heading in the direction of holding this on the second reading. Is that kind of what everybody's leaning toward? Okay, just wanted to. Is that good? I guess we will hold it on the second reading. I hope everybody's good with that. So we'll hold it right here for two weeks, okay? Then we'll discuss the whole thing again. I'm excited. How about you? Thank you all.
 All right, number two under unfinished business. Anonymous streets on that property described as under petition RZN 19-6737 for approximately 1.81 acres located at 4195 and 4245 West Martin Luther King Boulevard from RO residential office to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 i'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved kyle yes uh second we have a motion in the second to go to the second reading sonny would you please call the roll
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6737 for approximately 1.81 acres located at 4195 and 4245 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from RO residential office to UT urban thoroughfare.
 okay garner mayor and council i don't have anything to add be happy to answer any questions okay is the applicant here too uh we did hear from the applicant uh due to his scheduling uh he was not able to attend tonight okay any questions for uh garner on this council do we have any public comment on this okay we'll bring it back to the council
 Kyle. I hope we can not take another hour on this one, and I'll suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Bob. We've still had zero public input. Yeah. Okay, second. Yeah, I haven't heard anything. We did try to bring it up at a word for meeting, and nobody was interested, so. Okay. Sounds pretty easy. Thank you. I've not heard anything. Okay. All right, good. We have a motion to say we can go to the third and final reading.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 and ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition rgn 19-6737 for approximately 1.81 acres located at 4195 and 4245 west martin luther king boulevard from ro residential office to ut urban thoroughfare okay any final comments from the council on this all right senator would you please call the roll
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes hey thank you all number three an ordinance to establish boundaries for an entertainment district in the city of family to prom gave rules for the limited outdoor consumption of alcohol in certain public places i will entertain a motion go to the second reading so kit doesn't have to read the whole thing all over again
 I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Ms. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Ms. Harris? Yes. Ms. Marsh? Yes. Ms. Ingram? Yes. Ms. Eddy? Yes. Ms. Strong? Yes. Ms. Nash? Yes. Ms. Church? Yes.
 in order to establish boundaries for entertainment district in the city of favo and to proclaim promulgate rules for the limited outdoor consumption of alcohol in certain public places i did send to you earlier last week a proposal that would put some definitions in this to kind of clear up some confusion and also to some extent make it shorter
 I've handed out another copy of that to you here. It basically doesn't change anything except that just makes it more clarified who a permittee is and who an owner is. And so I would suggest just as a housekeeping measure, regardless of what you think about this, that you go ahead and amend to this improved version. Okay. I understand this one a little better. So it's an amendment for the definitions.
 Basically, that's right. Just basically definitions. And you can see right on the first page, they define customer, owner, and permittee. Sarah? I move that we accept or that we amend to accept the definitions as proposed by the city attorney. There you go. Sonja? Second. I have a motion and a second to amend to accept the definitions. Are we having a discussion on this?
 Okay, do we have any public comment on the amendment, on the definitions? Just the definitions only. I didn't think so. I don't know what they are. Last one I had a little trouble understanding, but this one I kind of got. I have a couple of different properties working together. I don't understand what we need to do. Okay, any comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll on the amendment? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And just for the public's information, we put in a new subsection definitions. Number one, customers shall include a patron, guest, or member.
 Two, owner shall include the owner, manager, or operator of an establishment permitted to sell alcoholic beverages. And three, permittee shall mean the person or entity who has received an event permit from the city of Fayetteville allowing the outdoor consumption of alcoholic beverages within an established entertainment district. Okay. Now we have the amended ordinance before us. Garner, what do you have?
 Only to mention that we did have several meetings as you are aware of since you attended. Yes, I'm very aware of those meetings. Since you attended both. We had a very robust discussion with the owners of various businesses on Dixon Street. And then Thursday, I guess about 40 people showed up at a meeting here at City Hall.
 and I think it's safe to say that most of the participants were anxious to discover what was being proposed, the nature of the rules, and how it might impact their businesses. Retailers were concerned about the process perhaps being very successful, and streets being closed more frequently, which,
 I think that was the retailers on Dixon Street. Yes. There was concern from some of the restaurant and bar owners that perhaps this would allow someone to come in and with very little expense, provide alcohol from temporary facilities and reduce their business during these special events.
 Of course, that's all under the control of the special events permit. Devon was there, I don't know if I missed anything. Mary. I'm on it.
 Good evening, Mayor, City Council members. My name is Devin Howland, Director of Economic Vitality. And I'd like to hit on, you know, we say concerns, but also some of the questions that these business owners brought up, their expertise in doing this day in and day out, and their livelihood being invested. They look at it through a little bit different of a lens, and some of their questions they had were fantastic. And I think a rollout of Act 812 in Fayetteville will be even better when we can fully answer some of these questions.
 Garner did mention the frequency. That was discussed at both meetings in regards to if it is popular, what if somebody, theoretically, through a special events permit process, could shut down a road every day? Mayor Jordan made it very clear he would not. That is not the intention or sentence is approved by the mayor that that would happen.
 Concerns are brought up about debris too. We think about public events, sometimes a lot of that trash, whether it be a cup, even if it's compostable, and etc., still ending up on private property. Standard event approval processes, cleanup is the responsibility of that permittee, and ensuring that we keep it clean. Double permitting was a big one. This is an ABC in regards to you need to be able to trace back where the alcohol came from.
 And this question really leads into general liability. When you're talking about the walls of their respective establishments, they work very hard to make sure it's safe for their patrons and the public. And this changes that with the ability to be able to walk out. And so where does liability really come into if there was an infraction? Was it the event holder, the restaurant, which one, if they went to multiple, et cetera?
 And those questions really aren't ours to answer. We feel, and I want to credit to Molly Ron at the Advertising and Promotion Agency for suggesting we go directly to ABC to seek clarity on those. And we are doing that right now and we will report back when we do have that clarity and to our businesses as well. We had inquiries if businesses would be required to participate. They would not. We had inquiries over control out of substance with 21 year olds and over. I know you all talked about the visible identifier last time and we'll keep having those conversations.
 and the outside competition with the vendors. As Garner mentioned, we want to make sure that this is a benefit to our existing businesses in downtown, so the ones with overhead costs, et cetera. And it doesn't directly hurt them in that case.
 I will say the support on sidewalk cafes is big. That's been probably when I was last Tuesday walking the streets. A lot of excitement about that and how that can change downtown and the placemaking aspect of it. And being able to, through the permitting process, not have to have that wall and be able to sit out on the street or on the sidewalk and have a meal.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions if I have. But those were the key questions that we got brought up from our businesses, and we'll keep working hard to find those answers. Okay. Sloan. If we're talking about events, I guess the one that I'd like to talk about is like the Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue. Do the businesses that operate during Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue feel that they have more business or less business during that week?
 I think it would vary on the type of business. Some have said less, some have said more, depending upon if you're a retailer or you're a restaurant or you're strictly a bar, et cetera. So the bars is what I'm specifically interested in? The bars? Yes. I think you would see an increase in attendance potentially, but you also have to remember that with the picnic permit, et cetera, on the WAC lot that's going on at that time, they can acquire beverages from there as well. Okay. Okay, thanks. Okay, Teresa. Okay.
 Thanks. Thank you, Mayor. How long do you anticipate it will take for ABC to get back to you? Any idea about that? Because I think those are important questions to be answered
 They are. I cannot speculate on how long, but we'll begin reaching out immediately. One of the things that we're going to do is take this initial draft of questions, kind of revisit with some of the businesses that came to that meeting to confirm. Is this it? Have you thought of anything else? We really left that meeting with an open door to. If something pops in your mind after this, we really want to know so that we can get it addressed on the front end. We'll begin actively pursuing those answers this week.
 one other item that came up to my mind is that um you know there's going to be increased costs for the city so there'll be increased police and other kinds of that activity have we really considered that or given that much thought or budgeted or any of those considerations well it's it's are we going to be able to cover the cost of the police usually
 Well, I think we do have some concerns about increased manpower and the number of officers it might take to keep people and their liquor inside the entertainment district. I mean, have we done any real analysis of that? No, but we do have some concerns about increased manpower during a special event where we were using this as an entertainment district.
 Do you anticipate a little bit of planning that could be brought back to the council to understand maybe a little bit better about what the impacts might be? Yes, I think the thing we like most about this is it's not a Monday through Friday, every day of the week it goes through this special event process. Obviously, we get to look at that early on and based on the event itself and then –
 you know, the number of people I anticipate, that's when we could actually really figure out the manpower that we're gonna need. And obviously, as most of you know, I think on most for-profit, typically the special events, I think the word is permittee now, they would pay for that extra law enforcement personnel to be there. But on something like some nonprofits, they do not, like Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue and others.
 I just think it would be helpful so we would kind of have an idea about, you know, I mean, you could look at, I suppose you could go back and look at Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue, and then maybe you could do some guesstimates about Lights of the Ozarks and some of these other events that are contained already within there. Obviously, we know Bikes and Blues, and I think based on that, you could make a guesstimate on some of those other events. Okay. Thank you. So I just want to...
 make sure I'm clear on this. So basically, this is a trial no matter what, since the mayor gets to vote on it pretty much each time. It's got to go through May 4th. Each time. So if we have one of these events and it doesn't work, the mayor's going to go, that didn't work, and figure out a way to pare it back. That's exactly right. So I don't think this is like a boulder that we're pushing down a hill. So I definitely want the ability –
 I don't drink as much now that I'm a diabetic, but I want other people to drink if they want to. And I'm aware that the mayor has the ability to put the brakes on it pretty quickly. So hopefully we keep that in mind as we go forward. I have that skill set. Okay. Okay.
 I'm going to take some public comment, but I do want to counsel a whole list at least, at least two weeks, and I may need a little bit longer. I don't know how much longer I'm going to need, but I want to do this correctly. I heard from about 40 businesses last week, and they had a lot of questions and a lot more concerns than what I thought we might run into on this. So...
 I would hope that you would honor that, not vote on it tonight, and I may need a longer stint of time even after two weeks because I want to be sure we've covered everything that we can possibly cover. I will take some public comment tonight, but we're not probably going to vote on this tonight. All right. Well, hello, everybody. I'm Bo Counts.
 often cited as the unofficial mayor of fun here in Fayetteville. I don't want to take any steam away from Mayor Jordan, but I'm also a local bar owner and a non-profit event coordinator, and I've been dabbling with Arkansas liquor laws for probably about 15 years here. And one of the things that I think, I mean, the mayor and I and Mr. Stoll, we were all talking a lot about a lot of different things, but I want everybody to really kind of wrap their brain around
 It's no mistake that we think this is fun. It's no mistake that we don't want like cafe, you know, seating. That sounds awesome. But as a business owner, this is not like a sandwich we're selling or a tree that we're moving out of a garden. Like, okay, you moved the wrong tree. Well, oops, shame on you.
 You serve a sandwich to someone. There's no sandwich-related accidents on the flyover that you're responsible for. This is a controlled substance that we work incredibly hard to manage within our walls.
 and when we don't have the ability to manage that outside of our walls, it's not, oops, you shouldn't have done that. It's your business permit goes away. You possibly could face jail time. That's really big words when you're talking to these people about, oh, wouldn't it be fun to have outside containers? Yes, absolutely. It would be super fun. But it's also really scary for those of us that are entrepreneurs
 Kind of holding the keys to the responsibility when the ABC, who currently right now has no idea how this will, you can call them up and ask them. They're like, well, we don't really know.
 But when they figure it out, it's not, hey, we're sorry. Don't do it again in the future. It's we reassessed your vehicles wrong. Give us $80. You know what I mean? It's you don't get a do over. And, you know, I want the council to really take that into consideration when they're when they're doing this. This zoning is it's a lot more than just cafes and sandwiches and fun and good times. I mean, even Bikes, Blues and Barbecue has gone on record saying that they're not really interested in doing this because it's.
 that's a lot you know and like to the ozarks as far as i'm concerned or to my understanding is also not really interested in this right now until we kind of look at a little bit further mountain home has already done a little bit of it but mountain home's not fayetteville same with little rock the river the river market is a tiny strip and our downtown dwarfs them in terms of entertainment like per capita on every friday and saturday so i think that if we kind of look at them as examples to see
 how those things, because they've only been doing it a couple of weeks, and maybe learn from that data before we kind of put something in writing, I think we'll all be a lot better for it. Thank you. Thank you both. And as a business owner, if you have any of those questions about sales, feel free to ask me. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring back to the council. I assume we're going to hold this right where it is, at least for two weeks. All right, number four.
 An ordinance to amend 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the federal city code to expand residential only parking in the north zone of the entertainment district parking zone. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading on this one. Mark. I move we go to the second reading. Sondra. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Tariff.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to amend Section 72.18, Residential Parking Permit Program for the Entertainment District Parking Zone of the Fayetteville City Code to expand residential-only parking in the north zone of the Entertainment District Parking Zone. Okay. So, Mark, you want to start or...?
 Well, in the area, specifically in this legislation, there is a lot of problems with parking, right? And so that's why I guess we're looking at this. I would agree with that. Yeah. I mean, it's really that simple. A lot of people make it hard, but it's not hard if you ever drive down there. The bottom line here that I see is not the number of residents.
 or the number of people that live in the institutions that are causing the parking problem. What we've done is we've allowed two event centers practically – well, they are. They're next door to each other. There's probably 10 feet between them. So a whole block is an entertainment venue where –
 There can be up to 600 people being in these special events on a weekend where there might be a football game or during a day that is especially special to the fraternities and sororities, but yet there is no parking for these special events. Imagine, if you will, what if Theater Squared, which has actually less...
 less numbers at events than one of these sorority event centers. What if they built on the corner of Van Deventer and Maple and they made no allowance for parking? I think that people would be outraged. But when we allow, and we kind of got tricked by this because I do live there and I want that to be known.
 But by living there, I also know what experience you have by the number of people attending special events. Up to 300 people can go to their dining rooms for each one of them. And they go, they don't live in the house, but they come for their meals and they're there all the time and they come and go. They don't.
 They don't respect the property in the area because I was a student once, you wanna get to have some fun and you head over there. There's nothing intentional about anything that these people are doing. It's unintentional because we did not plan well. We didn't catch this. We only looked at the number, they said, well, we're only gonna increase the number of residents by 13 people. Okay, but you're increasing the number at a special event
 exponentially and I that's how we have to look at this and if you have lived in the neighborhood for 50 years I think some people were saying well why did you move to the neighborhood if you don't like the students that is not the problem in fact I think the students in my opinion that's exactly why I moved there because I like the energy I love being close to the University I'm an alumni I like all that
 But whenever you have 600 people heading for a special event and there's no parking, people get very irritated and they park anywhere. They double park. You'll see some pictures, I imagine, in the public discussion showing how crazy it gets. I was interviewed by Greg Harden and he said, what's the problem? I said, it's chaos. He said, what do you mean by chaos? I said, I mean chaos. Okay.
 It's chaotic over here. So that's the reason I brought this. I do think that it needs to be expanded from Isla Street from Wilson to Park. I think that we can identify the parking management a little bit differently. I don't know what that is, but I think that there could be a way to look at that that is a compromise. But it's not just Isla. It's Vandivinter, Shady, Lincoln. It's all these side streets.
 And that's where you see people parking in the residence lawns, even on Louise. There's no curb there, so let's just pull up in the lawn because it's handy. So that's just some of the reason that we had to do this. But we also have to look at the impact of...
 If we just do one block, they go down to the next block. If they do the next block, they go to the next one. Well, this street is only, I think, five blocks long, and so it's not like it's out of control, and it is bound on the west by Wilson and on the east by Park, so there's a natural barrier there to define the boundaries of this parking that we need to look at.
 Okay, Sloan. As we go through this discussion, I hope that we can start talking about
 other alternatives, whether it be mixed use, whether it be something else, maybe a time limit that the sororities, their events are usually after five, so maybe it becomes residential only after six or something of that nature. I'm a little concerned if we're just gonna start limiting public right away to only citizens.
 because everybody up here pays their taxes, they have a right to park in a public right of way. Whether that's free or there's some cost to that may be something we need to discuss.
 But there's a giant park that people want to go to that's a couple blocks over, and there are people who want to go to sorority events, so maybe we've got some pricing scheme where, you know, like 10% of them want to come, and if they have any mobility issues, being able to pay is useful to them, and then somebody else that has less issues can actually park further away and walk. Having some cost to parking there helps.
 I do agree that we need to restripe at a minimum because it's pretty obvious when you drive through there you don't know where things end and where things begin. I've seen people put up cones, which kind of irks me because it's like saying, hey, this public right-of-way is no longer available to other people but myself.
 So that was upsetting to see. So we need something else there. Right now, just limiting it to the residents, I can't vote for that. So hopefully we can find something else. Okay. Teresa. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. You know, I've kind of looked at this quite a bit, and I've driven by there many different times of day, different days of the week, and clearly there's definitely a problem over there, and I hope we can solve this. And from my point of view, I think it needs to be that eight-square block from Louise over to Wilson up to Isla, and then I think it's Park Street. So if we could look at...
 If we could actually look at it within that eight block area and maybe create, I don't know if you would be willing to do this or not, Commissioner, Council Member Kenyon, but if we were able to make our own separate parking district rather than hitching it to the entertainment district.
 because in my view that that comes with a lot of it's misplaced it's not really part of the entertainment district and so maybe a separate kind of district could be formed or considered that could create some of this mixed parking and something reasonable that would match the complexion of that particular neighborhood
 You know making parking so difficult for our existing residents I just I just think that's really bad form That's not the kind of city that we want and I don't know if the city has been able to reach out or talk to any of the sororities or not because Obviously they need to be made aware of some of the discussions that are going on and some of the problems that are happening And maybe help us solve some of these problems if we if
 If we have compliance from the sororities, I'm less inclined to regulate. But if that's falling on deaf ears, then that's another situation. But I do think they need to be part of the solution and part of the discussion. Okay. Maxie? Yes, thank you, Mayor. So far, based on the comments from other council members, I'm a little optimistic about what we might be able to do to help the neighbors
 You know, in my experience, there's quite a bit of a problem with respect to all the inconveniences that are caused. And I appreciate, Mark, that you talked about it being event-oriented because that's been my assessment as well as somebody who lives nearby but not on the street. What Council Member Tuerck said about making it a separate district I think is a fantastic idea and it's one that I hope the council tonight will affirm.
 and gives staff and the mayor at least at least an informal recommendation that we look at this area The Wilson Park neighborhood through through that lens and with that opportunity in mind. I think there are a number of Mechanisms that could be devised that that could address some of the problems and I don't think that I
 binary choice between having it all public and completely free or Completely not not public are our only two options But I dream that this might be an opportunity for us to do the city's first parking benefits district Which is something some other cities have done where they actually give neighbors experiencing problems like this
 control some measure of control and authority over their parking situation and broad strokes the way that might work would be to institute a fee and some hourly restrictions for public parkers with hang tags or permits for people who live there
 So that the amount of parking, public parking that's taking place actually goes down. So that's goal number one. But then goal number two, to give the neighbors actual authority over the revenues collected so that you can spend it on infrastructure improvements or a massive
 block party or parkland donations or whatever it is you might want with some limited restrictions. I think it would be a real powerful way for us to both solve this problem and give the neighbors some measure of control over it for the long term.
 and an opportunity to make a lemon, so to speak, and make direct investments with their own decisions over their streets and nearby amenities. I think as long as, you know, it would be the first time we did that, there would definitely be details to work out, but I think as long as the city was able to
 retain some small proportion of the revenues collected to help enforce the program, which is another concern I think about expanding the boundaries we have today. I think it could be a real elegant system. That's not to say that it's the only way to do this, but it's something that I dream about. And I'm really encouraged at some of the other things that have been kind of tossed against the wall tonight because I think all that starts to fit together.
 Like I said, it's not the only way. We could certainly choose to limit this strictly based on residency. We could try to do something more middle of the road, which I'd be inclined to do where we have hourly restrictions, but I'd really like the opportunity if the other council members agree and, based on other feedback we might get tonight to explore a more win-win scenario.
 Okay, Sarah. Yes, thank you. You know, I agree with a lot of what's been said here tonight, and I've started looking at this neighborhood and this area a lot differently as, you know, I just kind of thought, well, I know there's always been parking problems over there, and I believe the mayor told us that there were problems when he was on city council, but it's not something new. It's something we've struggled with for a long time, and it just kind of gets a little bit worse and a little bit worse.
 So I think we have the opportunity to do something kind of unique in this area. And I agree that it needs to go beyond just this one or two streets. It needs to be the entire area over there because we also have a public park in the middle of
 this neighborhood and I I guess if I was a student can can I go and park at the park and leave my car there all day because I there been a few times that I've tried to go over there when I don't go to Wilson Park as much as I used to but and I would drove over and couldn't find parking you know so where am I supposed to park and I just want to use the park for an hour
 So we've got a bigger issue than just a little bit of parking on a couple of streets here. So I think we can come up with maybe put our heads together and come up with some good solutions. And if they're imperfect, I had a person call me today and we were talking about it.
 signs no parking signs on one street and you know that the That this person's neighbor said that the signs were up maybe a year before people started parking there illegally again And then you had to enforce it and then it was just you know kind of hit or miss You know do you want your police to spend all their time enforcing parking probably not? so so I think it
 It can be we can put our heads together and come up with something that will be a better alternative than what we have now and really maybe help the neighborhood and get everybody working together a little bit, hopefully. Thank you.
 Sure. Thank you. Um, I really like the idea that council member Petty proposed about the parking benefit district And I hope we have an opportunity to explore that more but I also wanted to echo what council member bunch said about Wilson Park I've been going through that neighborhood at different times of the day to assess things and the other day I had a little extra time to kill so I thought oh I'll go to the park and walk around there were a disproportionate number of cars to people using the park and
 And, you know, I think that with the very high prices and our Cape parking system up on the university that we're just feeling that. But ultimately, I want to just remind us that we don't have a parking problem. We have a transportation problem and we have a lack of good sidewalks down there. We have a lack of bicycling infrastructure. We have a woeful lack of effective public transit there.
 a lack of mixed-use housing, and a lack of affordable housing for students close to the university. So let's keep that in mind while we look for parking solutions, that this is bigger than just a parking problem and that we need to have a comprehensive approach to transportation in this community. Thank you.
 I do want to thank everyone for coming to the tour. That was really helpful. We could see kind of the amount of traffic that was coming during a really critical time. And to everyone that we've heard from about dealing with issues and there's a critical time. I want to stress this time period to figure out this program because in the meantime, people are waiting and trying to deal with all this parking situation. So I would just want to stress the time that we can figure out how,
 How we can help to move this along as speedy as possible for the residents. And then to add to what Sarah said regarding transportation issues, because I do think there's that's great to bring that up is adding also the lack of bus shelters. I see a lot of people not wanting to go to take the bus because.
 bus shelters, which I don't know where, how that connects here, but it does. I know. So, um, so I think the, the looking at the problem, you know, from a very, you know, back kind of step out, back away, um, we can, we can think about that because the, the, um, the women who were coming out of their cars were fully dressed in very nice, beautiful gowns. And I don't think they're going to stand or wait at a bus shelter, wait at a, wait at a sign where there's,
 grass and there's a sign there and there's nowhere for them to sit or be out of the sun or out of the rain so i don't i don't we're going to keep having this problem until we really care about our bus shelters oh i think i'm the last one to go here and i'd
 have just been sitting here nodding along. This has gone all of a sudden from a really annoying, painful issue to one that's kind of exciting, that we may come up with some solutions that are, I'll say innovative because they're new for Fayetteville, but I think that there are lots of models we can borrow from around the country.
 and I hope that that makes it easier to address it sooner rather than later like Sonia was saying. Every time, everybody's,
 had their turn and I'm sitting here thinking, what else can I say? And then the next person adds on, oh yeah, that's good too. So there's a nice consensus here, I think, towards moving in the right direction. And I hope that what we get is a program that is different enough from the entertainment district that it can be applied in other neighborhood settings where we may find similar situations crop up over time and we'll have this new tool that fits a need other than,
 night time and weekend Dixon Street and surrounding area. So there's places all around the university and other areas that could benefit from something like this. Nancy. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to request that we got to see some of the data staff intended to present at the last meeting today. Okay. And if we were gonna do that in the near term, I was also hoping if we might get a sense of the viability
 about the concepts we've talked about tonight, at least in terms of kind of pass-fail worth looking at. And I guess where I'm going with that is I'm real sensitive to the time that it might take
 to design and launch a new program, assuming there's support for it after it's done. And so I'm interested in moving relatively quickly, even if that means calling a meeting of the Transportation Committee to review a technical document or going to a meeting of the Ordnance Review Committee or whatever the right body might be to actually do some real work quickly. Did you say you wanted to hear some of the numbers tonight? Yes, yeah. Justin, I believe you have some numbers.
 I do. Mayor, council, thank you. So I thought we'd just start with a map here. I think we're all familiar with the area, but maybe for some others that are new to this.
 So this is the stretch of Isla between Wilson and Vandivinter that's currently residential only. This red indicates the original proposal of the expansion, one more block of Isla, two more blocks of Vandivinter. If we go block by block in that section, the residential only portion averages about 65% utilization, has an evening peak somewhere between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. There's 15 spaces on that stretch.
 So that comes out to nine or ten vehicles there during, parked there during peak periods. The, if we look at the proposed area, which is the one more block of Islay and then the two blocks of Vandaventer, they see heavy utilization, right? I don't think that's a surprise to anyone. Average about 90% during a,
 pretty sustained daytime peak between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m., drops off a little bit at 10 p.m., but still sees about 75% utilization, which I would consider to be a significant utilization in a residential neighborhood. Look at the first block of Vandivinter between Maple and Isla, same story, it actually drops
 stays full functionally speaking and as an evening peak drops off slightly on the next block of end of enter but again I would I think this confirms that indeed there is a parking opportunity here within this this proposed area
 So there's your summary. Again, that sustained peak right at 90% between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. And even at that 10 p.m. lull, we're still at about 80% utilization, which is pretty significant. We also looked at the larger neighborhood area as a whole. And, you know, as you get further away towards the east, utilization does lessen.
 but it's still well above 50% at all times. The stretch on Louise, the westernmost stretch on Louise between Wilson and Banda Venter. Sarah, did you have a question? Yeah, I was just curious. What would we consider an optimal utilization rate so that we're using it well, but that there's still some opportunity there? Yeah, for a...
 an urban area the rule of thumb is 80% is what you're shooting for I don't know that we want to apply that to strictly a neighborhood that's primarily for residential use but the entertainment district and into other areas that we monitor and enforce 80% the is the target okay the target I would say something slightly less than that for this particular neighborhood thank you
 Sonia, did you have a question? Yeah, I do. So then these are during the week or during the weekend? So we began conducting counts.
 around August 15th, that was a Thursday, and we've been conducting on this Reflex data through Sunday morning, through this past Sunday morning. So it included the week of rush, where things were indeed chaotic, and this past week as well, where we did see some drops in utilization, although this, what I would consider this core area, the original proposed area, maintained its high utilization rate.
 okay go on okay okay i mean i think this is the the uh the gist of the proposed area we have we have some analysis on the larger neighborhood as well if we want to get into that today or we need to just need to know where everybody wants to go and cost
 Do you all have any questions? Do you have any questions? All right. I have a question. Just a couple of questions just to clarify, based on your own expertise, the viability of some of what's been talked about tonight. First one, there's been some talk, and some of the citizens even last time talked about the flow of the idea of doing some kind of paid parking scheme. If we were to move from free parking to paid parking, do you think utilization would go down?
 i would anticipate that it would yes okay um trying to be exceedingly clear um uh with respect to um uh having hourly restrictions for the public or a parking benefits district that that mixes public parking and resident permits um do you think that these areas would be good candidates for testing something like that or is it uh are these just crazy ideas
 I know, I think they're all great ideas and ones that we would be excited to explore further and determine the viability and feasibility of implementing. How long do you think it would take to get something that looks like a framework and a pro-con list on some of these things? Well, we can get some...
 bones of ideas put together You know in a matter of weeks by the next round of meetings if you need it sooner
 Well, it's a good enough answer for me. Some questions in government take years to answer and some take a lot less time. So when somebody says weeks, I say, well, okay, that's short term. He's speaking for his office, not my office. We would be drafting the ordinance.
 I've heard a lot of good ideas here from you. I've heard some ideas that are not going to be legal or constitutional, like taking money from one citizen and giving it to another citizen. That's not going to work. So is that. Having, you know, taking money from parking and have a block party, I don't think that's going to work. But there are a lot of good ideas I've heard here that I think can work, and I certainly agree with the common idea that this should be a different district if you're going to do it and not part of the other district because we don't want –
 the other district coming up and parking up here. This should be, this district has its own problems. And also they shouldn't be going down and parking in the entertainment zone district either as if they were residents. So certainly it should be a separate district. And I do think we can have a mixture enough to be able to at least pay the increased cost it'll be for our staff. But the money that is gonna be charged, whatever we do,
 needs to come to the city into the parking department so they can pay their ongoing costs rather than Returning it to other citizens who happen to live in the favored district But the good news is I still think we can do it, you know a matter of short weeks Mark
 mayor what do i always say about neighborhoods and getting information from the neighborhood i think i say let's hear from the neighbors i do because i think that when we talk about neighborhoods in our city or developing neighborhoods or new neighborhoods what i think that you have to think about is what is the identity of the neighborhood
 What is the heritage of the neighborhood? What makes that neighborhood what it is? Because every neighborhood has some type of identity, or at least the historical ones especially do, our older ones. So I think that the most important thing we need to do here is listen to the neighbors. Just saying. Okay. Well, let us take some public comment now. Okay.
 Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have five minutes, unless the council, by majority vote, gives you more time. Please keep your comments to me. Don't engage anybody in the council or anybody out in the neighborhood. Please stay on the topic. Let's see. That would be – what would that be now? I think we're talking about the entire neighborhood now. Yeah, the entire –
 neighborhood well i'd just like to hear from you so let us begin shall we give us your name and address please come on in yeah i'm alan wood and i live at 279 west isla which is the corner of shady and isla across the street from where the ordinance is proposed to make the change i don't want to make a mistake and snatch defeat from the jaws of victory because i really like what i'm hearing you say
 You're looking at the entire area and you if you did what's in the ordinance We'd be back here in six months Yes Because we would have exactly the same problem that I have in that 300 block And if you did that the 400 block would be back pretty quickly too because they're going to have the same problem I want to make just a couple of points though first of all, there's this idea of cooperation from the students and
 They don't have to cooperate now. It's legal. They can come there and park. If I were a student and that was available and I needed to park there, I'd park there. Now, I probably wouldn't leave my car there a week like some people do. That's one reason you have that high utilization. A lot of those are the same cars over and over again. But compliance is a problem, and I'll be real brief with this, but we got permission to take parking off of Shady between Maple and Iowa.
 They put, the city came out and put signs up, and it took a year to get people to quit parking in those spaces. We would go out and tell the people, most of whom have decals on their back windows, and say, you know, you can't park here. Then we ended up calling the police far more times than we needed to to utilize their services. And they were nice. They wrote notes. They couldn't have been any nicer to them. They just kept parking there.
 So if you can't get compliance with signs there, if you have to get down to towing cars, which is what ultimately happened, they towed a few, they put some tickets on a few, and now it works. But it takes, the compliance is not gonna be voluntary under any circumstances. I think the idea of some sort of restricted parking is probably the only thing that will work, but I like the idea of the different things that you all are talking about.
 which would allow somebody to park there. I don't think you're gonna have very many students park there if it's paid parking. But maybe it would be cheaper than that otherwise. Personally, that wouldn't bother me at all if there's spaces there that could be utilized. But the residents need a place to park. Finally, it's not just one event a week.
 Sunday, University Baptist Church starts parking in the 200 and 100 block and all up and down the side streets. Monday, every Monday, you have the sorority meetings. You have special events involving the sorority houses with parents on weekends. I mean, this is a regular thing in the neighborhood. Finally, I moved into the neighborhood in 2012. Wow.
 The first change that affected us was when the area where Mark lives was was was no no I'm not calling you out. I'm not because I you needed help same same way the people do there now But with that area that block went away then that's when it got worse in the next block So historically that's that's the way it is Same thing would go right down the street secondly you have the addition of the more people that
 going to meetings in the sorority houses. You have more residences in the sorority houses, and you have very little parking there, which I realize y'all have no control over. That made a difference. Then the increase in enrollment in the university, although it didn't increase that much this year, they're not all sorority people parking there. There are commuters who are parking in those areas. And finally, you can talk about hours, and maybe that works, but I
 There are a lot of cars stored there. I had a car, I took pictures of it, I didn't bring it, but for a week. Texas with a decal on the back of it. Pretty obvious where it came from. So we've got a parking problem and we've got a storage problem, and I hope that through what you all are talking about,
 you can come up with something that'll work. And I think you're going to get pretty good support from the neighbors. I think everybody recognizes the problem. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi. My name is Phyllis Head, and I live at 402 West Isla Street. And I am one of the lucky people in the neighborhood because I happen to have residential parking and parking.
 I just want to say that your plan for the rest of the neighborhood is sounding pretty good. I've missed some of the meetings, but I just want to say that it is such a serious problem. I mean, on my street, it's like you can breathe. You look up the street, and they're like,
 There's like a million zillion cars and going down Vanderventer, the same thing. And what's the reason? I hate to tell you is that...
 Every single one of our students from Texas who go to these sororities, I mean, they do have to have a nice, beautiful car, which is really sweet and everything, but they do need some place to park. And a lot of them are parking right there in our neighborhood. And it really is. I've been in that neighborhood since 1970.
 84, okay? I mean, I've seen it change a lot. And I love that neighborhood. And I love...
 I love the students, too. I do, you know. The university, I mean, really did want to grow, grow, grow, grow. But that's another story, okay? Isn't it wonderful? But you know what? There are consequences. And when every single person who goes to the school has to have a car, no, it's too much for us and for everybody. And they should really...
 Well, there's a lot more I could say, but I think I'll end it at that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Hi, my name is Allison Toma, and I live at 414 West Isla. And I'm coming to you today as part of the minority on Isla Street. On my side of the street, I'm one of three who live there that is under 60. Okay.
 So, with that, just do take that into account when it comes to parking and how people get into and out of their homes. I'm also, like Phyllis, part of the lucky few that actually have residential parking. My family moved to 414 West Isla when I was in ninth grade in 2014. No, excuse me, 2004. I wish I was that young.
 And we've seen the neighborhood change. Before that we lived on Cleburne Street on the other side of the park. So Wilson Park in that area to me truly is a really really special place. And so I wanted to take the time to say thank you first off for recognizing that there is a problem. And I do really enjoy hearing this conversation and knowing that you guys are looking for a solution. I do have two
 Qualms with some of the the solutions that were presented With the potential for some of paid parking I know that
 traffic has come up earlier today and one thing that I found and have seen on campus is that when you have paid parking it's this idea of random reinforcement if someone drives down the street and gets paid parking one day they're gonna be back the next day and if there's not parking they're gonna circle and they circle and they circle we all do it in Walmart parking lot right surely you know we don't want to park way way back we're gonna circle and finally someone's gonna pull out so I
 I do see that as a potential problem. The other issue that was brought up was potentially time boxing. The sororities do have events that happen after five. That is absolutely true. On the weekends, they have events that happen all day. Also, five days a week, they serve lunch.
 I have friends who are Pi-Fi's and there are 85 girls in the house, that's 85 people who eat lunch there most days. And she said that there's probably about 100 people a day at lunch just at Pi-Fi. There's not 100 parking spots. Yes, some of them will walk from campus, but certainly not everybody. So as far as time boxing, that is also a concern that you guys should take into account that it's not just after 5 PM. They do have events that happen throughout the day.
 Other than that, I just really want to say that I really am so supportive of these, expanding this and having the other neighbors
 have the same benefit that we do because you know I've lived in Wilson Park since I was three. I've watched this community grow. I've watched the university grow. I went away for grad for undergrad and I came back for graduate school because Northwest Arkansas is a big black hole that sucks everybody back. It's such a wonderful place and so with that in mind I really want you guys to just be
 Protect our neighborhood. It's our neighborhood. It's where I grew up. It's special and it makes me really sad to see it overrun By people who are just coming in and coming out and don't understand the importance in the history of the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you Hello, I'm a golf Wilkin. I live at 318 West Island and
 First, I want to mention the car storage issue. It's fun to go to Google Street View, and you can watch the cars from 2014. I don't think they moved in five years. What do you think a parking spot is worth in Fayetteville? I guess you just take the cost of a parking garage and divide it by the spaces, but I think it's really between $10,000 and $20,000. Right?
 So if we look at it that way, I think there is a market solution to this, and this might be not popular with everybody here, but I appreciate where the council is coming from, really all the discussion tonight, is I think having paid parking would solve the problem. One thing about UBC has been very accommodating to the sorority members, and they charge $100 a year for a parking pass for students.
 Now you have to leave, I believe, Saturday night and Sunday morning, so you would have to find a parking spot then. But I'm amazed how few sorority members take advantage of that. So $50 a semester is a lot cheaper than the university.
 But if it was free until 2, just like the entertainment district, and then it was the hourly charge, and the residences, I think in Tulsa there's a district where every household, you get a residential permit for every licensed driver. So if you have two licensed drivers, you get two residential parking permits. Then if the rest was paid parking, I think it would solve the problem. I think right now in the residential parking, in the entertainment district, I think it's a maximum of $5 a day.
 But when it's free, and it's interesting how the city, you know, you guys don't want people parking where they don't belong because you go to Wilson Park and what's the big sign that greets you? You know, parking for patrons only. So it's interesting, the city, they don't want sorority members or students or commuters or whatever parking in the city parking lot. Just like we don't, in our neighborhood, we're just overwhelmed, right?
 So, yeah, and I think another option would be it could be no overnight parking except for residents. I think that's a problem that drives people crazy when you see the car there for a week or two or for four years in several circumstances. Really do that so when you cruise through on Google Street View, you can just change the view. And you see the tires are in the same exact spot for five years. So I think there is a market solution, I think, definitely.
 The problem is that it's free, and free doesn't work. So thank you very much, but I think your comments have been great, so I'm excited to see what you guys will come up with. Okay. Thank you, Rob. Mark.
 Okay. I'm Barbara Dillon from Isla Street. And just very quickly, I agree with the idea of the paid parking, but one thing we have to keep in mind is that somehow there have to be parking spaces that really belong to the residents because you go out and do an errand and then you come back and you don't have a parking space until the next day. So just as you put all these ideas in the hopper, which I'm really grateful for, please consider that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Hello. I'm Gary Vassar. I live at 463 West Isla Street. First of all, I want to apologize to Mr. Kenyon. I came off a little terse. I misunderstood the entire situation, but I've got a better understanding of it at this point. Just to give you some background, my other half, she can't be here tonight. She's been here over 30 years.
 in one of the houses on that side of the street. She purchased another set of houses, built a new house there. Now she's down to two houses. But yeah, there is a parking issue there. It's pretty clear. Some of it, I'm not exactly sure how it got out of hand as far as it has. As I've seen, I've been part of the planning.
 for some of these houses. I've been to the meetings, the pre-approval meetings, and they've all identified that they will be taking care of additional parking. Now this last one that went up on the end of Van Deventer and Maple, I got a copy of the plans of it, and there was discussion that there would be parking on the other side of Maple Street from that house.
 It was even in the planning that they would restructure that parking area. And there was an agreement between the church and that house. Now, I don't know what happened with that. All I know is it's not, it didn't happen. Also in that plan, there were more beds than there were parking spaces. So it's a little late to, to try and reel this thing back in.
 but after sitting here for a couple of meetings with y'all, it seems like there's always a question about, you know, what's the, what's the proper, um, use zone for these places. And one of the things that, that seems to be over really overlooked is the parking, the traffic and the infrastructure. If you, that's what you want to call it. I mean, parking is part of an infrastructure to support the residents in that area.
 And so in the future, please, it doesn't do anything to resolve this today, but look at the zoning and make sure that there's adequate infrastructure, such as something as small as parking, because now you can see just how far out of hand it can get. I've been all across the country. I've owned several businesses. I'm involved in several businesses, and I'm in and out of this area all the time. Okay.
 Fayetteville is a very special city. I like it. I chose this to live in and If my other half can stay here for that long I'd like to stay here at least that long if you all let me but along with that has to be enough parking That's that's all I've got Thank you Okay, who else would like to address this? I
 Hello, Mayor. My name is Jeff Mincy. I live at 641 North Wilson at the intersection of Louise and North Wilson. I would like to request that the council includes Louise in their planning. There's definitely a parking problem there.
 I know it's been said that if we if Louise has included that it might push the parking back It may but I don't see people parking on the other side of the park. I Don't know that the transportation study included Louise, but I would say it's saturated almost on a daily basis especially on the the middle and the western end and and
 That's the main request I have is that you do include Louise because it's definitely a parking there's a parking problem with my wife and I've been there for over eight years and it has changed and it's changed drastically we all know in the past year due to the addition of the two or three new sorority houses. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else? Good evening. Mayor, Council, thanks for your time.
 letting us speak. I'm Greg Toma. I live in 414 West Isla. My daughter eloquently spoke to you a few moments ago, and I would second everything that she said, so I won't repeat it. Also, I've heard quite a number of, I think, very supportive comments from the community. I think that the
 deliberations that you're having are moving in the right direction there is very clearly a parking problem in the area I am very supportive of expanding it to include the leaves as was mentioned by the previous speaker and I think that there will there are some creative solutions I don't know that it
 necessarily means completely restricted to residential, but I do agree with, I think Phyllis said that we have to have some guarantee of parking for the people who live there. We come and we go during the day, and to not be able to park near our home and carry heavy bags of groceries in, for example, is problematic. Okay.
 We've been on the south side of the park for about 15 years, and as the previous speaker said, it has changed in those 15 years. It's gotten progressively worse. But when the residential parking was established on our block of Isla, it was a tremendous change.
 relief to not have to jostle with the students and others on a daily and sometimes multiple times in a day basis to try to find a place to park when we did leave for errands or whatever. So anyway I'm very supportive of the process and moving forward and hope that the timing can be quick so that the rest of the neighbors
 can enjoy the same relief that we have from the congestion. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Okay, Sloan. I just wanna thank everybody for coming out.
 It looks like I think both sides of this are ready to find a solution that that works for everybody I do know some people somebody mentioned their concern if we go to paid parking that it gets full Generally the idea of paid parking is that you find a price level that there's at least one parking spot on every block at all times and so we have the ability that if
 to regulate that price. So if it starts out, it's a quarter an hour, which I believe is 50 cents an hour, which is the other areas. If that's not working, there's too many people parking there. I think we'd be happy to up that so that we would have that available parking spot at pretty much all times. That's special. Okay. Who else would, what else? Mark.
 There was a question if I would be willing to allow amendments for this, and of course I am. The reason this was originally on these blocks is because the neighbors on those blocks were unified and they brought...
 to my attention, a petition with all the residents and landowners in that area. It was in no way to slight the rest of the south side of the park, but it was certainly a way to start a conversation because of the increased problem that we have.
 The intent is here and it was evident tonight. And I think that we do know that it has to be a Southside, Wilson Park Southside parking district of some sort. And I so appreciate the neighborhood I live in and I love. I have the best neighbors in the world. That Phyllis, hey girl. Yeah. But anyway.
 i it was it's very reassuring to know that i have council members as colleagues that had such good discussion tonight and are willing to work with our neighborhood because this is a very unique situation it's not typical it's not like it ever was and i'm telling you it's because they're event centers and we've got to keep that in mind in the future so i'm pretty uh darned excited about this moving forward and finding a solution for the neighborhood okay
 I think it's clear that we're a long way out on the details of how we want to resolve this, but I wonder if we might go ahead and memorialize our agreement and intent by amending Mark's proposal to include the streets that we've talked about. I would say instead of that, I would ask that you actually table this at the first meeting in October, March.
 because this is going to be a complicated issue if we want to have paid parking then we got to have a machine to take the money or else a whole bunch of parking meters we've got to decide where it's going to go there's lots of things you know how many permits are we going to allow per house you know things like that we have to look at you know what are we going to require and so I think that
 just enlarging it all of a sudden without having all those other things answered is probably not the right way to go. So, I was not suggesting that we pass it tonight as part of the entertainment district, just that we...
 At least make clear that we are in agreement that whatever solution we come up with as sounds like probably separate from the entertainment district should include those streets. I think I've heard pretty much a consensus. Is anybody wanting to try to look at this piecemeal or is everyone pretty much in agreement that we have to basically look at this whole, I guess it's an eight block area, something like that?
 Okay, I'm just trying to get my head wrapped around this because I've got to have staff do this We got to run through the finances to see what the cost is going to be You may have to add more staff to enforce this thing now I'm not saying that I don't support the neighborhood or anything, but there is a cost to doing this as well So I want to be able to bring you those numbers where you can make a determination Not only you know, we also got to look at the cost of this what I have is
 that you all want to look at a larger district which would include also Louise, right? Right? Okay. So that's, okay, we got that area. I wanted to look at, get with the finance director and see what costs there might be to this too and I want you to see those numbers or if we need to add extra staff, then we need to look at that. Storage issues, I hear a lot about storage issues.
 Look at a paid parking program while protecting the neighborhood, I think was the key thing here, right? Yeah, I would envision it would be a mixed sum, just residential, some allowing paid. Mayor, could I ask that you look at a range of options? So status quo, how much does it cost for police? Yes.
 residential only mixed with paid so that we can okay well the benefit if we go into another system is it will actually be our parking people that will be doing it rather than the police and they'll be out there all the time like they are right now in our other districts and so we have good enforcement in our other districts and good compliance and I would accept
 Expect that would be the same thing there if we actually had a district up there. Okay, but they also look at things like people illegally parked, right, Chief? Like you're parked across the driveway, you're parked in, help me out here a little bit.
 I want to look at those. At least the way it is today, we don't enforce any of the parking in the entertainment district unless it is something, you know, an actual violation of the parking order. It's not just paying your fee, which is, you know, park too close to a hydrant, blocking a driveway, too close to a stop sign, those kind of things. Okay. And those are the expensive tows.
 I do agree with Mark that there is a parking issue down there that we need to be looking at. And we will, but I've got to get my head wrapped around about everything. So right now we're looking at also maybe different hourly parking, if I heard that correctly. Of course, the transportation, Sarah, that's just what it is.
 I mean, I agree with you. I agree with both of you on the bus stops and transportation. A larger district, storage issues, paid parking program while protecting the neighborhood, add Louise on there, whatever police costs that might be added to it. Can you all think of anything else? Mayor, I guess what I was trying to convey is that
 what does it cost right now for the police to come over there versus in the future, if we do a mix of paid parking, what is that likely cost? And, and then if we only did residential, so just so we have the whole range of options and what the costs are to all of that. The other thing that I wanted to know is, has anybody reached out to the sororities? Has that, has that occurred? Is, is that going to occur? Because I think,
 letting them know exactly our discussion and some of the concerns we have is really critical. Susan. Well, I...
 Justin is nodding his head, so if you'd like to say something about reaching out to sororities. And I also want to say, I know Justin has expressed to us in the administration, he's really anxious to look at new models. And so I appreciate the opportunity to explore all of these things. He's kind of thinking about who his dream team might be to help get the input from the neighbors. But also, I just wondered, while you were walking up there, what was your dream team?
 Thank you. This is a city of dreams. Go ahead. We dare to dream. We just live from dream to dream to dream. I did reach out to both sororities. I talked to the, I guess, the house moms of each. And they're very interested in being part of the conversation and working with us to
 formulate a solution and want to have that dialogue so i'm not exactly sure what that means for next steps but they're they're aware of the issues and recognize that there are issues going on in that neighborhood um and and are eager to be part of the conversation
 Justin, do you have any idea, which is the list that I've given all of you all, I mean, how long do you think you need to put something together? Would you say, just off the top of your head? We won't have it together, probably in two weeks. No, not in two weeks. Maybe the next...
 round of meetings, so four weeks, I guess. Keep in mind the agenda for the next meeting is already together and will be approved finally tomorrow. I think it's got like 27 items on it, so something to look forward to. So continue to hold items so we can make it even longer. So that means if we can get everything together in two weeks, then that's when we could meet tomorrow.
 Your month tabling. So that's why I said a month. I'm hopeful we can do it in two weeks to get something at least out there to you. Yeah. I think we could have a range of options to start talking about. In two weeks? Yeah. Okay. Well, there you have it. What else, Mark? I just wanted to mention that we don't want to vilify these young ladies that live in this area or visit the area. They're not the ones that caused this problem.
 They're the ones that have to deal with it just like we have to deal with it. And the history of working with the sororities, I've lived there for 20-some years, and I used to be president of our neighborhood association. And if you ever knew Lyle Thompson, he had been there, oh, 180 years? No, no, he'd been there, I think, since early in the neighborhood's development. And we did meet with the sororities traditionally every year,
 and had dialogue with them. And what we found, it really isn't... These young ladies are really pretty terrific. They just got put in a bad situation. So that's how come we need to handle this with care. I don't want them to think that the city is coming out and vilifying them because they didn't do it.
 And I'll let Phyllis come back up. Thank you. Because what is the bank situation that they got put into? They have expanded the membership. Yeah. And so there's a lot more people coming in to the events. But then they all have cars, too. Well, that's true, too. Some mighty fine cars. They are some nice cars. So...
 I mean, I just don't get what you're saying. Well, I just don't want them to... Yes, I like the girls and all that. But down on our part of the street, we have people that are renting down there, too. That's true. So there's a lot of people that are renting. And then...
 Um, it's a residential neighborhood and it's not a parking lot for the university and for the sorority. And I'll tell you why. You better watch out at Wilson Park because a lot of the students go down and park there for the day and go to classes. I had to, you know, I called the police.
 on occasion down there at Wilson Park. I mean, I don't mind if they come down and use the facilities and swim at the park and play tennis and have a picnic and they hammock out there and everything, and it's fantastic. It's really great. But you know what? You don't park your car there for the whole day and go to class and walk. It's not that far. Walk, it's good exercise. You know, you get your exercise in. Come on.
 Let's get serious. And what's this paid parking in the residential neighborhood? Really? This is what we're talking about? Paid parking. Okay. Well, I guess to some degree a mixture of residential and paid. I missed a lot of the discussion before, but, you know, let's find a solution. I think you're on the right track. I really do. Does that answer your question? She's my neighbor. I think she's pretty darn right. Sarah. I feel it.
 I recognize that it's going to take us a while to develop a comprehensive solution, but one thing that we could quickly address would be the car storage by putting a 72-hour limit on parking. Now, I'm not sure what capabilities we would have to enforce something like that, but that's common in a lot of cities where your vehicle has to move every 72 hours or it could be towed. So that would be an action that we could, I feel like, address pretty quickly. I don't know, Justin, do we have an enforcement mechanism for that? Yeah.
 We'll get that in two weeks. No, that's not just, and that would have to be the police department. Okay. Oh, there you go. Here's where the police come in. But keep in mind, if we're going to have controlled parking here, it's going to be that issue, at least for this whole region, will be over. Well, I feel like this is something that the entire community could benefit for the whole city. I think there are quite a few abandoned vehicles. I know there's one down the street from me that's sitting in a public lot and has been there about two weeks already.
 and so this is something that you need to have tags on your vehicle and move it. It needs to be operable and move it every 72 hours. That could eliminate quite a lot of parking issues around the community. Thank you. Well, I suppose we can look at that one, too. That's on my list, by the way. Okay. So shall we leave it right here for two weeks? We're on the second reading, aren't we?
 uh whatever you want to do although i don't think we're going to have any kind of report we can give to you now what we what we said was that in two weeks mayor we would have some options possibly in an agenda if we just hold it right here right and don't go to the third reading we have two weeks right two weeks in order to prepare some material for further discussion that would then give kent the opportunity to bring some ordinance language he he's asking for at least the first week of october okay so so what do you what do you want to do tonight
 just gonna leave it on this reading and then we're gonna be trying to get information to them I was gonna make a motion to table for two meetings that would be good thank you mark I will second that appreciate that all right we have a motion and a second to table this for a month Sandra would you please call
 Actually, Sandra has become ill and so we have Lisa Branson here, our deputy city clerk. Oh, sorry. Lisa, would you call the roll? Kyle? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. I don't know about you, but I think that went well. I do too. I think it went real well. All right.
 Thank you all for coming out. Okay, number one on new business, a resolution to thank and congratulate the Federal Public School District for its substantial and effective efforts to reduce use of single-use expanded polystyrene foam products. Mr. Mayor, the Environmental Action Committee asked
 Everybody, hang on, Kit, just a minute. Let everybody circle. Mike, would you have a... All right, push them out. Thank you all. The Environmental Action Committee asked...
 City Council member Teresa Turk to sponsor this resolution, and I think it's a resolution that really should be read publicly So with your permission, I'm gonna go ahead and read the resolution Okay, whereas the Fayetteville school district has recognized the importance of reducing single-use expanded polystyrene foam products in its many school cafeterias for ecological health waste reduction and financial benefits and
 And whereas the Fayetteville Public School Director of Child Nutrition, Ali Ratchick, has taken responsible, careful, and vital steps to reduce and eventually eliminate single-use expanded polystyrene foam products
 by ending future purchases of expanded polystyrene foam and by replacing the single-use expanded polystyrene foam with reusable plastic trays or other less harmful products, which will immediately reduce solid waste generation and quickly pay for the increased cost of reusable trays.
 And whereas Allie has worked closely with Brian Pugh and Heather Elzey of the Fayetteville's Recycling and Trash Division to determine the actual lifetime costs of single-use expanded polystyrene foam and to find cost-effective and reusable substitutes for the single-use expanded polystyrene foam products. And whereas the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas has long worked jointly and cooperatively with the Fayetteville Public School Board to improve the quality of life
 the good health conditions for Fayetteville children and adults. Now therefore it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby thanks and congratulates the Fayetteville Public School District, its Board of Directors and its Director of Child Nutrition Ali Rachek
 for their outstanding work and accomplishment in phasing out the single, the use of single-use expanded polystyrene foam trays and other utensils which have significant long-term beneficial effect upon our hometown, its children, citizens, and visitors. Okay. Tracy, you want to add some comments?
 I wanted to thank the Environmental Action Committee for bringing all this to my attention. And also, there was a really wonderful NPR series.
 segment on I think it was Ozarks at large that really talked about all the wonderful things that Fayetteville Public Schools have been doing so I just thought it was important to recognize them publicly for Moving forward in this area to reduce single-use styrofoam products, so Thank you Kip for drafting the resolution and it was an outstanding NPR
 report and she was very complimentary to our recycling and trash division for all their help in working through this project and getting substitutes and replacements for the expanded polystyrene products council any public comment on this okay all right and so resolution move we approve the resolution
 second we have motion second to pass the resolution okay and final comments from the council thanks trees for bringing this forward i think everybody for working to protect the environment is very important in this time right now that we face in this country and the world so thank you all for taking this step the school taking this step in the resolution all right lisa would you please call
 Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. We have number two, an ordinance to amend 97.066, Hunting and Firearms, the Parks and Recreation Chapter of the Federal Code to Expressly Recognize
 Exceptions to the no firearms and parks prohibition. Before I read what was proposed at the agenda session, I sent everyone a memo explaining that I will follow the Attorney General's opinion. It's a very convoluted statutory scheme. Thank you.
 There's several different ways it could be interpreted but the Attorney General interpreted say that we can in fact continue to Prohibit firearms in the parks for all but you know law enforcement officers basically including concealed carry permits because of particular sections he said gives us that right and therefore I would rather be
 Do that and so I have prepared a substitute ordinance, which I handed out tonight Which I told you about my memo on Friday, so I would like someone to move to Substitute this item this one right here in front of you, and then I'll read it. Thank you Okay, thank you kit for doing the homework to to find that out That's a big difference and I wholeheartedly move to amend the resolution or ordinance. I
 Okay, so I'm second I'm having motion second to amend the ordinance to include Okay, good. All right, what comments do we have in the council? I just want to be I assume we'll actually read this out loud for the people in the audience after we vote for it Well, of course, I'll read the ordinance. I have to okay. Okay, just making sure All right
 What comments do we have from the public on the amendment? Everybody good? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. So we have a motion and a second to pass the amendment, correct? All right. Oh, Mark, do you have a comment? Okay. Sorry. So Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. So the body of the ordinance is as follows now. Whereas the state legislature has expressly overridden some portions of previous municipal regulations prohibiting firearms in city parks by exempting certain permittees, and whereas section 97.066 hunting and firearms of the Fayetteville code should be amended to conform with state law. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 97.066, Hunting and Firearms, of the Fayetteville Code, by placing all existing language in Subsection A and enacting a Subsection B as follows, quote, Subsection B, Subsection A shall not be interpreted to prohibit the possession of firearms in city parks by on-duty law enforcement officers or other persons if such prohibition would not be allowed by state law, unquote.
 This certainly protects the city because we had a little bit overbroad, just no firearms statement out there that is actually not 100% correct because
 We said police, but we didn't say state troopers and things like that. So this then clears that up, but it still gives us the right, if we want to, to post signs at all the entrances to a park. And they talk about roadways, but I would say a trail entrance into a park. We should also consider that. If you get into a very big park or a park that doesn't have road access, then you can still put signs up. You have to put one for every three acres. Okay.
 Of course, we have some parks that have more than one entrance. I mean, if you look at Wilson Park, you can access it many places, so we'll probably have to have several signs up there.
 Uh, same thing with Gully Park. Some of these parks that really are bordered by roads, and so there's lots of entrances in there. But if the city council, which I thought you would want to do, is maintain, uh, no firearms as much as we can, we will need to post signs. I'll take care of the signs. I'll make sure that occurs. Whatever distance we have to put them and whatever we have to pay to do that, I will make that call. So...
 What questions do we have in the council on this before I ask the public comment? Our comments. Teresa.
 So, Kit, just to clarify, or other persons, if such prohibitions would not be allowed by state law. So that's that second part of item B. So you're thinking state troopers or if there's any new law that's made by the General Assembly that we wouldn't have to go back and amend our regulation. It would just roll into whatever they decided? Yes, the state law does say we can't regulate more than state law.
 that's that's another statute and so I wanted to make it clear that we weren't trying to do that and if they change the law and put more prohibitions on us like it or not state law controls so that that's just to cover us in case something in the future happens okay right thank you okay what public comment do we have on this everybody good all right I'm gonna bring it back to the council Mark
 certainly support this and I move that we approve it I would need to go second yeah I'm we suspend the rules and go to the second reading well I'll second that we have the motion second to go to the second reading Lisa would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to amend section 97.066, Hunting and Firearms, of the Parks and Recreation Chapter of the Fable Code, to expressly recognize state law exceptions to the no firearms in the parks prohibition. Move to go to the third and final reading. Second that. We have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sorry, it's running slow. Okay.
 Smith? Yes. Tiras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Blanche? Yes. Yes. And ordinance to amend section 97.066, hunting and firearms of the Parks and Recreation Chapter of the Fayetteville Code to expressly recognize state law exceptions to the no firearms in the parks prohibition. Okay, what final comments do we have from council on this? Powell? Okay.
 i motion to amend because i think that this is a far better solution than what was proposed but i still can't in good faith put my vote on anything that adds guns to our parks in any way so i'm going to be a no vote on this and i'm going to count on everybody else to pass this and keep us in compliance okay well there you go okay well he had the final comments
 i will say this i think sarah i just want to say i'm really uncomfortable with expanding firearms in our community as well and i just want to make sure that the community is aware of the position that the legislature is putting us in um because i don't believe got more guns in our community are safer i think we need a lot fewer guns in our community um
 I was really fortunate to be a Fulbright scholar and got to live in Yemen during my architectural education in a place where men carry guns like women carry purses here. And I saw the violence that that wrought on that community, the gun accidents, the tribalism, the domestic violence, and the way that that kind of an armed society did not support the
 individual freedom. It really was horribly unhealthy. And that seems to be the way that our legislature wants to move us to is back to that developing nation status. So I'm going to vote for this because they're making us do it. But I want the community to know that this is your legislature at work and we need to do better for Arkansas and for Fayetteville. Thank you.
 i would like to add that i don't think there's been anyone that has not known my position on the open carry and concealed weapons i've made several speeches taking several positions against these laws but this is the time that we need to make changes in the state legislature and anyone that does not
 support I believe common-sense gun laws I don't mind who knows that as far as I am concerned but that being said this is the state law and I don't know how you can get around it right now other than
 We need to remember next year. Yes, Chief. I need to say something, Mayor, and I hate to throw a kink in this at the 11th hour. We thought we heard Kit say the word on duty, and so we pulled up the memo real quick. And at the bottom of his memo, he does talk about on duty police officers. By state law and federal law, police officers have the right to carry a gun all the time. So once again, I think we would be in conflict with state and federal law if we use that on duty language.
 I don't think so because I think my or other persons if such prohibition would not be allowed by state law So you got everybody's on duty plus everybody else that would be I'm just reading the quotes at the bottom of your memo It's what I'm reading it where I'm reading that at. Okay. Well then that's right here. Let me read this to you again subsection a shall not be interpreted to prohibit the possession of firearms in the city parks by on duty law enforcement officers or other persons as such prohibition will not be allowed by state law and
 Other persons is a broad term. So you look at state law, who's allowed to under state law? Just like you say, not even on duty, off duty. So in fact, we're not in violation of the state law. I wanted to say on duty there because I wish it was on duty because I think that it's much better. I mean, I can certainly see on duty officers being in our parks.
 And we have to bow to the legislature for every other prohibition they put on us. And that's what the second part does, including off-duty officers. But frankly, Chief, I really don't think that off-duty officers ought to be walking around the park either with guns. Well, I can tell you our off-duty officers carry a gun most all the time because you never know when they're going to be put in a situation and they have to act as a police officer. So that is very common that they carry a gun off-duty.
 But if you're comfortable with that language, you're the city attorney. This language will not make that illegal. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Anything else? All right. Any final comments? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Unch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 Hopefully we'll have a better day someday. All right, number three, a resolution to approve the conveyance of a utility easement to SELCO Partnership DBA Verizon Wireless for the sum of $39,020 for the installation of fiber infrastructure along...
 the Markham water tank access road. Who has an attempt? Thank you, Mayor and Council. Verizon operates a cell tower on a parcel just south of the Markham water tank off of North Sang Avenue, owned by Sassafras Hill Communications. They also own an access easement from that property up to the water tank's access roads.
 Verizon has requested for the city to convey an easement along the side of the access road to the water tank so they may install conduit and optic lines. Upon City Council approval, the conduit containing the fiber optic lines will run from the right-of-way on Sang along the side of the water tank's access road in a 15-foot by 266-foot long easement.
 This conduit will not affect water lines or any other utilities in the area. Verizon will pay the city of Fayetteville a sum of $39,020 for the conveyance of the fiber easement. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Tim? Hi, Tim. Thanks for being here. Have you heard any concerns about running that line by the Marking Hill water tank?
 Have not heard any concerns, no ma'am. Okay, thank you. I haven't either, but I wanted to make sure that because of the location that there was an opportunity for the residents to understand what was going on. Sure. Any other questions for Tim? Any public comment on this? Okay, going to bring it back to council. I move that we pass the resolution before us.
 Okay. Second. We have a motion to second the passed resolution. Please call the roll. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes.
 okay thank you all number four an ordinance to amend chapter 161 zone regulations with federal unified development code by moving sidewalk cafes from conditional uses to permitted uses in commercial and mixed use zones to align with the intent of ordinance 59 79 to allow administrative approval of sidewalk cafes
 whereas in 2017 the city council approved ordinance 5979 which was intended to amend the unified development code to allow city planning division to administer administratively approve sidewalk cafes and whereas the ordinance provided for an amendment to section 17802 sidewalk cafes but not chapter 161 zoning regulations which needed to be changed to move sidewalk cafes from conditional uses to permitted uses within the commercial and mixed use zoning districts
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hear by amends Section 161.18, NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited, 161.19, Neighborhood Services General, 161.21, Neighborhood Commercial, 161.22, Community Services.
 161.23 thoroughfare commercial 161.24 urban thoroughfare 161.25 central commercial 161.26 downtown core 161.27 main street center and 161.28 downtown general and favorable united unified development code by moving sidewalk cafes from conditional uses to permitted uses
 Yes, Mayor. Very quickly, this is cleaning up an ordinance that City Council passed in 2017. The intent of that ordinance was to make permitting sidewalk cafes easier by making it an administrative process.
 but we have a discretionary process elsewhere in the ordinance a conditional use permit which has to go to the planning commission so this is actually uh uh completing what council uh uh intended in 2017 be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have for garnering this okay what public comment do we have on this okay i'll bring it back to the council sir
 I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kinnian. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Munch. Yes. Turk. Yes.
 In order to amend Chapter 161, Zoning Regulations of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code by moving sidewalk cafes from conditional uses to permitted uses in commercial and mixed-use zones to align with the intent of Ordinance 5979 to allow administrative approval of sidewalk cafes. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Please call the vote.
 Smith? Yes. Tiras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turk? Yes. And in order to amend Chapter 161 Zoning Regulations of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code by moving sidewalk cafes from conditional uses to permitted uses in commercial and mixed-use zones to align with the intent of Ordinance 59-79 to allow administrative approval of sidewalk cafes.
 Final comments do we have in the council on this? Okay. It's ain't none, so Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay. Number five.
 A resolution to approve the contract with the Federal Advertising Promotion Commission in the amount of $35,000 to manage the development of various programming, marketing, and operations aspects of the Cultural Arts Corridor project and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. As you may know, we are nearing the completion of the design development of phase one of the Cultural Arts Corridor project, which includes the Fay Jones Woods and the West Avenue streetscape design portions. Construction of those portions of the project will be beginning in the spring of 2020. Design and construction on the Civic Plaza at Dixon Street and West Avenue will follow with construction anticipated in 2022.
 It's the goal of both the civic space and the Fay Jones Woods to be designed to support a wide variety of planned and structured events as well as be conducive to passive recreation. Prior to the completion of the final design for the project, it's of critical importance that we begin for the planning of marketing, programming, and operations of maintenance of these spaces.
 The forethought to how these spaces will be activated and utilized is of critical importance as part of the space design and layouts and the material selection pallets during the design decision processes. Examples of the planning in the design processes that would be included
 In the programming discussion include the location of electrical outlets for temporary lighting and for performance or art installations, the durability and long-term maintenance requirements of materials selected for the site for furnishings like benches, bike racks, and other structural elements, site considerations and locations for permanent or temporary artworks.
 performance space, site considerations such as size, location, ease of loading and unloading, and smart cities elements such as Wi-Fi, smart lighting, and video security.
 On June 18, 2019, Fayetteville City Council unanimously passed a resolution expressing the City's intent to work with the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotions Commission to develop a scope of work for programming, marketing, operations, and maintenance aspects of the Cultural Arts Corridor Project and to begin drafting a contract for the A&P for those services. Since the passage of that resolution of intent, City staff has been working with Advertising and Promotions Commission staff on developing a scope of work for the City of Fayetteville
 for overseeing these aspects of the Cultural Arts Corridor Project. That scope of work that's in your packet includes that the A&P will provide input on the design process of the Fay Jones Woods and the Civic Plaza so that the facilities can address the programmatic needs for the future, that the A&P will provide input on the development of the two buildings on either end of the Civic Plaza,
 That the AMP will work with stakeholders to lead the development of programming plans for the woods and the Civic Plaza. That the AMP will lead the development of branding and marketing for the Cultural Arts Corridor Project. That the AMP will work with stakeholders to develop a governance structure for these new spaces, including how they are to be managed, operated, and funded into the future. And the AMP will assist the city in developing operations and maintenance planning for the spaces within the Cultural Arts Corridor Project.
 some may be wondering why the amp has been selected to do this work and i would point to their history and involvement in this project from its near inception as one of the reasons why they have been selected for this work
 During the selection process in April of 2018 when city staff and councilmember petty were In the selection process for selecting Nelson Byrd waltz to be the lead designers on this project There were three non voting members as part of that selection committee And one of those members was Molly Ron who's the executive director of the advertising and promotions committee at the end of that selection process? The committee was at a deadlock
 trying to decide between two different firms to lead the design effort on the project. And so three of the selection committee members were selected to go on a field trip to visit two project sites, one in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and another one in St. Louis, Missouri, to look at works there.
 designed by two of these farms. Molly Ron volunteered to also attend that trip with us as a non-voting member to also understand and view the projects that have been designed by those two farms and ultimately aided in the selection process of Nelson Bird Waltz, who is the farm that we've been working with for the past year and a half on this design.
 And since that time, she and her team have been very involved in the process and the project, helping us even begin some of that programmatic discussion, leading a couple of stakeholder meetings with members of our community and helping us understand what the programmatic needs are for this project.
 artists in our community can be engaged in the process and the project development and aiding in our understanding of the design. So this contract with the advertising and promotions formalizes and memorializes that work and sets us on a path to officially execute and begin completing that very important work in parallel with the design on this project.
 The cost for the contract with advertising and promotions is $35,000. Funding for the contract is available in the Sustainability Department's Extra Services account. Included with this package is a budget adjustment needed to move that funding to the project budget and account. And with that, I'd like to invite Molly up here to say a few more words about what she envisions of this work entailing.
 Thank you, Peter. I think Peter has encapsulated it pretty well. I was also before you all in June when you voted Can you hear me? It's difficult to tell if I'm in the mic or not. When you all voted on the resolution of intent to work with the Advertising and Promotion Commission so I think
 We are excited about this project. My staff is excited about it. We've been working on it. We're also invested in it financially. The trip that Peter mentioned that I went on with he and Connie and Don Marr was a great trip. I learned a lot, and I feel like I had a lot of value to add to the process, into the selection process. That's also something that we did at the ANP's cost.
 and much of the work, or all of the work that I've done up until this point has been at the ANP's cost. And I think that's fine. I think that's appropriate. That's part of what we do as we look at tourism and destination development. But I think we've been transparent from the beginning of the resolution that at some point we would come to you with a financial ask. So that's what I'm doing today, and I'm happy to answer questions if you have them.
 Okay, what questions do we have? Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. No question, but I did want to extend what Peter and Molly had said with a couple of additional comments. One, I really appreciated that we started with the history of how the A&P has been involved, especially with respect to the decision that's before us.
 And I wanted to take a second to try to address some of the questions that were raised at the last agenda session.
 One is that there was a question raised about why we would do this work potentially with a contractor at the AMP rather than by the city hiring a full-time staffer. And there are a couple answers to that, number one being that the skill sets required to develop a plan for programming the space are just different than the skill sets required to implement that plan. So I think it's a real compelling idea that we would have a staffer like that.
 But I do think based on the time constraints and the different skill sets that that might be a good conversation to have whenever we have a programming plan in place for the cultural arts corridor. The other is that with respect to any contract the EMP might enter into with the contractor, this is essentially a two-to-one match for the city.
 The city's going to put in, if we vote on this, $35,000, and so will the AMP, roughly, with respect to the contract that's mentioned in the memo. But on top of that, we've got all the staff time that's already been contributed, and will continue to be contributed to manage that contract. So I think with respect to City Hall's budgets, it's a pretty darn good match to be able to take advantage of.
 and then with respect to well maybe I'll wait I might have a few other things to say based on what's brought up but I'm very excited that we might be able to do some do some of this work it's timely it's actually a little bit overdue and this is the kind of work that we need to get done if we're gonna proceed on the schedule that we have for the cultural arts corridor
 Thank you. I had a really productive conversation with Molly Ron earlier today, and I'm excited that the AAP is as invested that they are and look forward to working with them on this project. But I want to just raise the idea because we don't have a lot of opportunities to talk about this and and.
 Just like the entertainment district and the idea of the beverages that we've just been discussing, this cultural arts corridor is so much more complex than I think we've realized. In doing work on the Arts Council, in attending conferences by the U.S. Department of Arts and Culture,
 And in researching peer cities, we looked at a lot of the peer cities that we look at for our sustainability initiatives and such to examine, you know, what are they doing to have successful arts and culture programs? And absolutely every one of them has an arts and culture specialist on city staff and staff.
 As we move forward, can you please turn that off? Thank you. I think it is essential that we have a project manager on staff with specific expertise in this field. And that's not to diminish the contributions of the staff members that I know have been working very hard on it, but it is not their area of expertise. And
 And we are about to make a $35 million investment of public taxpayer dollars. And I think it would be irresponsible of us not to have a point person. You know, where does the buck stop on this project? Who is the project manager with specific expertise in this field? And right now we do not have that. In talking with Molly about...
 Subcontracting, one of the criticisms that I've heard frequently in the community is that local firms did not have an opportunity to be part of the selection process. And so I think it is absolutely vital that as we move forward, we have an opportunity for local firms to be engaged.
 and that we have a commitment to transparency and good public process in selecting firms, and that we actually use an RFQ, RFP process. And I have a lot of concerns about taking this out of the umbrella of the city where we don't have as many protections with the Freedom of Information Act and other,
 the strong public processes that we have established to protect the integrity of the taxpayers' investment in this project.
 And I think that Molly has addressed a lot of my concerns. I feel good about the commitments that she's making to do that. But in further, as we move forward, I think we missed a critical step in this project, and that was the citizen engagement in setting the overarching goals and objectives for this project.
 And so we have a lot of different ideas in our community about what this thing is. Is this a tourist destination, an event space, or is this a catalyst to reinvigorate our creative economy and really develop our rich culture and celebrate our artistic heritage?
 And I think that we would be making a mistake in short-changing ourselves if we just make it a public plaza with programmed events. This started as an economic development initiative, and I think that we need to keep that in mind, that this is about growing our creative economy, supporting our artists.
 and developing the Fayetteville brand. We have a rich artistic and cultural and architectural heritage here, and we need to make sure that Fayetteville and our residents and our creatives are driving this ship and that we don't lose control of it.
 So, you know, moving ahead, I do hope we look seriously at staffing, appropriate staff levels, that we develop a cultural policy that guides us. And just to describe, a cultural policy describes the guiding values, interventions, regulations, and other actions undertaken to develop, support, or regulate the cultural field or sector in a community.
 And the first step in any cultural policy is understanding how we define culture. And we have not done that. And that's a critical step. So as we move forward, I hope that we can all work together in concert with the community to really maximize the opportunity of this investment, to safeguard the public process, and to be good stewards of this investment. So I just...
 wanted to throw that on out on the table and look forward to any other comments thank you for the comments that we have from the counselor questions okay what public comment do you have on this mayor I'd like to say a few things if it's all right in response to Sarah's comments and Molly's comments Peter's introduction Matthew's comments I don't think that anyone on staff has underestimated
 absolutely use the words transformative potential of this project and I want to say that I do have the faith in Molly and her team to bring us all together through that collaborative work that's going to identify what we're talking about in that
 broad pictures there that you describe and um i i feel that the opportunity is now and i'm really happy that we're talking about this right now because once we get the movement going you know down the road that ultimately then leads to the development of the governance structure that possibly could include full-time dedicated staff but that there's so much work to be done right now i just am in support of getting on with it and i want to make sure that we
 embrace the opportunity I don't think anyone is being short-sighted about what the potential is thank you
 So I appreciate that Sarah's really wanting us to keep things transparent and we're asking these questions and there's a lot of excitement about the corridor. And I do think this is going in the right direction. And I think the opportunity that I see with there was a language in there about the formation of a nonprofit, I think that's where we can start to really hopefully see that strategy happen.
 have that kind of defined and really kind of bring that together. Because I think that's where we're all kind of wondering like kind of where it's going. And so I think like just goals, the values, the purpose, the mission, I think we'll start to really hopefully see that form. And so that's what I'm looking forward to in this process. And I think this is going in that direction.
 Sure. And just to clarify the language that you're referring to about the development of a nonprofit, it's really about identifying the appropriate entity, right? And maybe that's an existing nonprofit. Maybe that's a staff person. Maybe that's a new organization that hasn't yet been formed. And so I just want to make sure that we're not jumping in with the solution before we've investigated all the possible avenues. Teresa. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to clarify if I'm reading the contract correctly, and maybe I'm not. Wouldn't this still be subject to the Arkansas FOIA regulations? Yes. And as is the Advertising and Promotion Commission and all of our activities also fall under the scope of FOIA. Okay. Thank you. So what do you all want to do? I believe that we approve the resolution. Sarah? Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Okay.
 All right, here we go. All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. McFarland?
 Okay, thank you all. Number six, a resolution to authorize acceptance of the Arkansas State Drug Crime Enforcement and Prosecution Grant Fund for the state funding of the Fourth Judicial District Drug Task Force in the amount of $91,319 to authorize marriage or to sign all necessary documents to receive the grant funds and to approve a budget adjustment. Chief.
 Thanks, Mayor and Council. This is to accept a $91,000 grant from the state of Arkansas to help fund the drug task force. As you all know, the drug task force has partially been funding for the grant since its beginning in around 1989 or 1990. Like we talked about at agenda session, this is all state money. This is not federal money. The federal money has not been allocated yet.
 And this money is allocated from the state only for drug task forces. I won't bore you with any numbers. I'll probably beat you up enough with DTF numbers over the last few weeks. I'll be happy to answer any questions if you have any. What questions do we have, Matthew? I have one brief question, which is, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the intent and or restrictions of this money from the state.
 state's perspective and what kind of freedom you have to yeah so there there is a lot of restrictions that come with i don't think i can name them all off the top of my head um so i know you can't do any kind of out-of-state travel uh things like that there's other restrictions on um
 amount of overtime and types of things like that but that's really all off the top of my head I can name if there are restrictions on this money with respect I was asking more with respect to the activities are used for so the are these restricted specifically to enforcement activities could they be used for
 Prosecutor appropriate drug court or something else. I think that's the two things that this can be used for out of this one fund is law enforcement and prosecution grants are the two things. I think, you know, we talked a little bit about treatment and rehab type situations, and none of this money, this year it was $2.1 million, and that all went to drug task forces, and then the state has that $13 million grant that's used for prevention and rehab.
 Thank you. Other questions or comments do we have in the council? What kind of comment do we have on this? So you're not going to bring it back to the council. Senator. I move that we move to second it to go to the second reading. Move to approve the resolution. Yep. Tracy. I second that. Motion. Okay, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from residential office to community services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay.
 yeah mayor you get the map up here this request located at southwest corner of former ruble intersection with Mount Comfort as it's occupied presently by a 10,000 square foot building that was recently most recently used for storage and where we're housing the
 The two districts are very similar, except the community services district is farm based, meaning it establishes a build to line rather than a setback. They both allow offices, they both allow residential, and the community services allows, in addition, some retail and service uses. The surrounding zoning, the cemetery zone, RSF1, community services to the east, to the south, the creek is zoned RA,
 um the adopted plan designates this a city neighborhood area and this request is in conformance with the plan access is an issue i can show you where they plan to access it the bridge is disappearing i'm sorry the bridge is disappearing the access for both this parcel will be mount coffer and the
 vacated driveway which will be jointly shared with the parcel to the east and you will be seeing a vacation request to deal with the access later. The Planning Commission and staff recommend our approval. We did not receive any public comment. I believe Mr. Bourne, the applicant, is here if you have questions for him.
 Hey, my name's Jake Bourne. I just will say something briefly about this. Thank you for your time. The property to the, now that RUPL has been adjusted, the property directly to the east is already zoned CS. And we would share the same point of access. And so I'd really like the ability, well, my intentions for the property are to do an adaptive reuse with that structure, to my knowledge.
 In West Fayetteville there aren't a whole lot of older structures. And so it's really a dumpy looking place right now, but it's got a lot of potential. Some old loading docks and if that hamstring creek could get cleaned up, I'm sure you guys are aware that the city plans call for a jogging trail, a hike and bike trail right along there.
 I'd like the opportunity to not only share the same zoning as the property adjacent to me as the east as well as to the south, but also the opportunity to potentially do a coffee shop, a restaurant, something cool where families could run along the trail and hop on over and grab a bite to eat, grab coffee. So that's all I'll add. Thank you.
 What questions do we have? Kyle, I believe Kyle has a question. No, actually I have a question for your honor. Okay. The adaptive reuse idea is fantastic. I don't think we get to think about that while looking at zoning. But I'm looking at the terrain here, and it sits about 20 feet below the mountain comfort level.
 under the form-based zone what what kind of options would future development have as far as the way we interpret their setbacks to to maybe continue to address the trail like he's talking about as opposed to
 accessing the street. Right, right. It's about considering the weird terrain there. How does that get handled later on if there is redevelopment here? Depending the extent of the redevelopment, it may require a variance from the Planning Commission at the large-scale process. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Okay. Oh, Teresa, sorry. Okay.
 Hi. So I just want to be clear that right now that no new roads would be built, right? They would access using the existing roads. Is that correct? Yes. They're in the process of turning these into jointly shared private drives, which would access this parcel as well as this parcel.
 Okay, thank you. Kyle and I had this on the agenda for our Ward 4 meeting, and I don't recall that there was a lot of opposition to this, but there was certainly a lot of concern about traffic. So I just wanted to bring that up that –
 traffic is still the highest priority for the residents over there on Mount Comfort. So I like this idea. I like this project. But I just think we need to be thinking about infrastructure for the future. Thank you. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay.
 Okay, seeing none, bring it back to the council. Yeah, you're the ad. I got a call from Mr. and Mrs. Hazen who actually own all that acreage where the cows are, all the agricultural. And Mr. Hazen told me that the, I guess where it whys, the why that shoots off to the east is what the city's planning on keeping and then doing away with the why that goes off to the west.
 That sounds like a terrible idea from an access standpoint if you're ever trying to go west. It's a hard turn. Oh, it's almost, I mean, if you've got anything other than like a sedan, you're struggling. I did talk to the engineering staff this afternoon. Oh, you did? Yeah, and they're planning to keep both.
 Okay, they're going to keep both. They're planning to keep this and this. They looked at doing a T, but ended up thinking that maybe this works better. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 Okay. Sarah. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sloan. I'll second, but first I want to talk about traffic over there. Traffic along that area is just going to be absolutely terrible until we start getting places for people to go. Because right now it's just houses and we keep adding houses. No amount of freeway building, massive roads is going to fix that. It's got to be, we're going to have destinations over there.
 So, second. Okay. We have a motion to second to give the second reading. Please let the police call the roll. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Indian? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Merck? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 19-6750.
 for approximately 4.57 acres located at 2143 North Rupert Road from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Oh, oh, oh. Oh? Oh. Oh, again. It just keeps jumping around. I agree with what Sloan was saying about the mix of traffic with needing places to go so that you're not always running
 creating the traffic as you go somewhere else um and that's why i i'm gonna motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading the one other thing i wanted to say on it though is that um
 we've got an opportunity here to avoid some of the mistakes we've made in other parts of town over the year as we add these places to go and to be careful with kind of zoning we've put in and that's why i'm happy to have the the form based on here and and as we look at future things coming before us in this area i hope we will consider that just as carefully i'm going to second that uh
 Motion, but I also want to add that this is an opportunity that shows that we really need a trail-oriented development code because this is a site that's not well served due to the topography from the highway, but has a tremendous opportunity to be a trail-oriented business site. So I hope that as we move forward in our planning process.
 uh division that we start to develop trail oriented design guidelines to enable more trail oriented development thank you okay i have a motion to second go to the third and final lisa would you please call the row
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes. Any ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 19-6750 for approximately four and a half acres located at 2143 North Rupert Road from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Is there any final comments from council? I think we've heard a few comments already. Okay.
 All right. I agree with you all. I think we certainly need to be looking at the way this thing is getting zoned and what we're building out there. I didn't push to build that to pack it out again and have to build more. This wasn't exactly my game plan, but that is what it is. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Smith. Yes. Kateras. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Okay, number eight. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6747 for approximately 0.61 acres located at 1140 North College Avenue from C2 Thurford Commercial to CS Community Services. Kitt.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from C-2 Thoroughfare Commercial to CS Community Services, Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Yes, this request is located just north of North Street and on the east side of College Avenue. The request is to facilitate a residential use. It's now a motel and a restaurant. The surrounding zoning is C2 to the north and south, RSF4 to the east, and public P1 for the Veterans Hospital
 the west side the its designated city neighborhood area and the city 2030 plan and it's in conformance with that plan as well as the drafts everyone be quarter plan and no issues were identified no one appeared in opposition at Planning Commission and Planning Commission staff recommend approval and I'd be happy to answer any question
 and the applicant Angela Belford is here if you have questions for her evening mayor council this is our property that you guys read about since January we closed on it in April and then I've been working our way through the zone you need to identify yourself thank you kit I apologize hello my name is Angela Belford I'm the table housing authority executive director thank you
 i think i feel like i'm here so much that i forget to do that thank you uh we are asking for rezoning so instead of being commercial or c2 then it's community services and that is so that we can convert the motel into a 24 studio apartments primarily used for veterans it will be a mixed income use development so it will not just be for people with vouchers
 will not be people that are just below income. Lots of variety of veterans need housing, especially sometimes people need it when they just want to be close to the VA to be able to receive their services. We're working with the Veterans Administration
 homeless services department to be able to provide case management services for those folks that do have a voucher as part of our VASH program. So we feel like that this is going to really add to the beauty of College Avenue, as well as serve an important
 function that we have come many times and said, hey, council, we need to really work on homelessness, and we really need to work on low-income housing. And when you're able to bring 24 units online for about $1.5 million, then this is a win-win for everyone. Okay, Sarah. Thank you. First, I want to commend you for your work and how you've really transformed that organization. And this is a tremendous project to help us better serve an underserved community.
 Um, in thinking about this, I was actually digging through some boxes the other day and came across an old postcard of this motel. Um, and it had such beautiful mid-century modern architecture and these lovely large windows. Um, is there any...
 plan to restore the large windows? I mean, I know that daylight, there have been a lot of studies that daylight really positively contributes to mental health and the health and well-being of occupants in the spaces. What are the plans in terms of restoring those original windows?
 So the windows have already been replaced and they were they came with sorry they came with about a $40,000 asbestos tag as well. If you were to go and I'd be delighted to take you sometime to the property if you were to go and look all of those windows are encased in brick.
 so it dramatically increases the cost of that process. I'd be really curious to see the postcard because I can't figure out how that would happen. I mean there they were solidly bricked in and there was a ton of asbestos holding those windows in place and they didn't look like they've been they've been replaced. Well I'm super interested I would love to see that.
 When I drove by today, I noticed that it looked like they had put in single hung windows and then blocked out half of the window opening with what looked like wood siding.
 So you may be talking about there are two, so on the north tower, there is, and maybe if that's where you're talking about, then we can still talk about that a little bit, because that north tower or the north wing of it, those are probably the only ones that could possibly be changed out to larger units. And we did do two...
 two different windows in those. Those are much larger units. Those will probably likely be our ADA-accessible units that we'll add as part of that process, and so thank you for reminding me about those. Okay, well, I will be sure to get you that postcard because it was actually quite a pretty building in its younger life. I guess we all were when we were younger, but thank you, and again, thank you for all your hard work. You bet. Happy to have suggestions. Thank you.
 Any other questions? Ah, Sonia. Yes, I just want to reiterate what Sarah said and commend you on your work on this, and I'd love to see the continuation of that
 of affordable and mixed housing along the 71B corridor. That's a really incredible corridor that we have where people don't have to drive to places. We keep talking about parking issues and traffic issues, and so I feel like you're part of the solution, the big solution we're looking at overall. So thank you so much for your work on this, and I'm super excited about seeing it come to fruition. Okay, any other questions? Okay. Okay.
 a public comment that we have on this okay i'll bring it back to the council sarah i move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading um a second though okay we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading lisa would you please call the roll smith yes yes marsh yes kenya
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6747 for approximately .61 acres located at 1140 North College Avenue from C2 Third Affair Commercial to CS Community Services. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sonia? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sorry. It's not table. It's not table. Technology. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone your petition RZN 19-6747 for approximately .61 acres located at 1140 North College Avenue from C2 Thrift Fair Commercial to CS Community Services. And I want to thank Lisa for stepping into the breach and helping us out this evening. Thank you, Kit. Okay, any final comments from the council? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith? Smith?
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Thank you all. Number nine, a resolution to bend the master street plan by downgrading portions of the right-of-way located within the Sloanbrook subdivision from collector streets to local streets. Who has that? Mayor, I do. Okay. He's getting concerned there for a moment.
 I'm so used to Kit needing to read something. I'm not reading anything this time.
 this is following the ideas that are coming out of the mobility plan that are being translated into 2040 and the idea is that good residential areas good communities need connectivity but more smaller streets sometimes is better than a few large streets particularly if they don't go anywhere so
 The 2040 plan is proposing to not classify these two as collectors but as locals streets. The applicant noticed that and asked for this to be amended and staff said, well, if we're gonna do this, we oughta just do this and all of these. And this is an advance, of course, of the 2040 plan, which is coming to you, we hope, in October.
 So the question is, can we meet the city's connectivity goals without those collector streets? And I think when you look at the land that's already been platted
 and the requirements that we now implement with a subdivision process of 600 foot Maximum block lengths we are getting a connected grid and we indeed did get a current connected grid what this change will allow us the applicant to do is build a 28 foot Street rather than a 31 foot Street
 at this location and at this location, as well as later on when the rest of it is platted. But as you can see, the preliminary plat, which has already been approved by our planning commission,
 does provide a lot of connectivity. It provides for the stub outs to continue and a similar treatment would be done for the vacant land here. We still have the collector system here on the perimeter. It's called Dinsmore, I forget what it's called right here, but the rest of this is not built yet. So staff and planning commission do recommend approval of this master street plan.
 Amendment in advance of the 2040 plan Maybe we approve the resolution Smith
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Budget adjustment. This is a special. We now get to my favorite budget item of the day, whereas over the past year, three of the six thermal system mole units, which we further explain later on,
 used at the biosolids management site have experienced frame stress fractures that were repairable, which could indicate the risk of a more catastrophic or non-repairable failure. And whereas Parkson Corporation, which is currently the only national source of the mold units, is offering the units for 50 percent off of the original price. And whereas the normal lead time for a replacement unit is six months,
 And the failure of a unit without having a spare available would likely lead to the landfilling of 32 loads of biosolids, equating to a cost of $29,000, not including additional fuel and labor costs. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 If the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and accepts the quote in the amount of $47,500 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges from Parks and Corporation for the purchase of an electric tilling mole for the biosolids management site.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to this ordinance What is the mole? I brought pictures. There you go Okay So the wild solids management site utilizes a six a series of six solar houses and each one of these have one of these solar moles or electric moles inside it actually speeds up the drying process where we can get it over to the thermal dryer quicker and
 The drawing system is a trademark product of Thermosystems, GMBH out of Germany, and Parks and Corporation from Shawnee, Kansas has been the Thermosystems executive parts and services representative for U.S. customers. Recently we were informed by Parks that they will no longer be carrying the sole source rights of representation for this system.
 In announcing their change of representation status, they have offered the city discounted prices on several in-stock items, off-the-shelf items. The one that grabbed our attention was an extra solar mow. Pay no attention to that name on there. I think that's for somebody else.
 So we have had some frame Stress on this six moles that we have so we think it'd be a great idea to get this in half price of what it normally Cost we can put this in rotation and start Repairing and fixing up the six other moles so we're electric models And pretty much explain the rest in the ordinance. I'll be happy answering questions. I
 So what questions do we have from the council on the tilling loads? Mark.
 this was a show item right that has traveled the united states and that's why we're proud to have it the new mole is a as a showroom for a show and it was designed uh specifically for the city of fayetteville under his design and so it will look like these yeah it's a federal one it is and did you name this yourself or i don't know whose name that is it's got an old tiny temple that's clever
 you really don't want to stress frame mold what what questions do we have thank you mayor um tim i wanted you know we've discussed this in the water and sewer committee but i know that um we've learned a lot about it in that but can you let everyone know about the that it's helpful whenever it starts to get cooler and what's real important that we have it right so that it helps to drive quicker because the months get colder when you actually go out and do
 and look at these molds, you'll never see them moving because they move so slow, but they constantly go. And in the same fashion that a cleaner on a swimming pool chooses its own route when you turn it on, this does the same thing. It does tremendously speed up the drying in the solar houses, especially when it's cooler, and then when we take it to the thermal dryer, we'll actually use less energy to dry the biosolids.
 This is actually a pretty good deal for the city. I think you're wise. Looking at that picture there, was that a motion picture or was it moving really slowly? That's not a motion picture. We need to put a Cheetos cheetah driving with sunglasses. I think it would look cool. Okay.
 So, somebody going to suspend the rules? Well, I've got to take public comment on the motion. Do we have any public comment? Okay. Now then, Teresa. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I get enough junior high jokes at school in my day job, so I'll second that. So, the motion is second. To go to the second reading, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Smith yes, siris yes, Marsh. Yes, yeah, yes, Eddie. Yes, yes Yes, yes In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of forty seven thousand five hundred dollars plus Apple taxes and freight charges from parks and corporation for the purchase of an electric tilling mole For the biosolids management site and to approve a budget adjustment Please let's read that a third time
 that's my motion this has been the rules for the third week uh second the motion yeah the motion is saying to go to the third and final reason smith yes yes marsh yes kenya yes eddie yes yes yes
 in order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $47,500 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Parks Incorporation for the purchase of an electric tilling mole for the biosolids management site and to approve a budget adjustment. I do have one more question, Tim. How many of those do you have? We have six solar houses, so we have six moles, one in each house. So how long does it take for one to till up?
 Well, it constantly is kind of an endless cycle. It doesn't till it so much as it turns it to dry it. So it will go as long as you need it before you decide to take it to the dryer. And you said you had one that was solar? Well, no, I misspoke. They're solar houses, but they're electric models. That's actually pretty cool. All right. Any final comments from the council? Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Smith yes Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Inion yes Petty yes Scroggins yes Funch yes Turk yes okay thank you all
 In order to sway the requirements for competing bidding into approved cost share agreement with Bumpton and Lear LLC for the installation of a water main along a portion of Louisville Road with a estimated amount of $206,070 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville to approve the project, the tendency and the amount of $30,900 with budget adjustment kit.
 Whereas, Buffington Weir LLC received Planning Commission approval to develop property located along a portion of Rupert Road, and whereas an 8-inch water main would be sufficient to serve the development, but this portion of Rupert Road is shown in the Water Master Plan as a portion of a 12-inch grid to serve this area of the City.
 and whereas the city of Fayetteville would benefit from the cost share as it will provide an extension of the 12-inch grid, will provide ample future capacity which the city recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by this water main, and construction will be less expensive and less disruptive if done by the developer's contractor during the construction of the subdivision and Roof Hill Road.
 And whereas Section 51.112 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that, quote, the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size that is larger than required to serve subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the water system. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical
 therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a cost share agreement with Buffington we're LLC for the installation of a 12-inch water main along a portion of Rupert Road with the estimated amount of two hundred and six thousand and seventy dollars to be paid by the city of Fayetteville and further approves a project contingency in the amount of thirty thousand nine hundred dollars
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance. Thank you, Mayor and Council. This was a unique cost share for the fact that the city was paying 100% of the cost, but it was to enjoy the fact that it would be less expensive and less disruptive.
 But I'm here to tell you that we've run across a problem with this cost share because as it was stated This was the engineering engineers estimate for this cost the actual bid came in $25,000 more than the cost share plus the contingency So I'm gonna have to refer to kid I think my option is to pull this and bring it back in a modified form Well, do you have the numbers? It looks like the only thing we'll need to do is change the figures. I
 Yeah, the bid was $262,153, and our total cost share with contingency was $236,970. We'll have to bring it back then. Well, we can either just leave it on the first reading, and we can amend it and give you the amendment next time, or if that $213,000, you say, the new cost share would be $213,000 and what?
 The new cost share would be $262,154. Oh, well, that's a little different. Okay. 262? Yes, and that does not include a contingency, which we probably should put in the new cost share amount as well. We typically do cost shares based on the bid, but trying to stay ahead of this Rupert Road project is why we do the engineer's estimate. So what would the contingency? It would be 10%.
 Okay, and give me that's 262,000 what? 262,154. 154? I think that they've got a 15% on this one, so let's go 15% for contingency. All right. I could do 10%. Or else we can leave it on this reading. It's probably not an emergency. We'll just scoot it to the next meeting. I do think we've got time to do that, yes. Okay, let's just leave it on the first reading.
 Unless somebody else wants to figure out the 15% for me. Come on, it's after 9, man. So I guess it's on the first reading. All right, well, we'll just hold this one to 1-0. And we'll be having a Waters Tour meeting. On the 10th, yes. I'll bet you can. I have all the confidence in the world and all the capabilities.
 it will be one of those situations where we'll have the agenda session first to talk about it and then we'll have the waters here so we still talk about it everything's the same but the money will change slightly everything's the same except the money which is yeah which is everything but anyway all right don't sit down tim moving on number 12 an ordinance wage requirements
 bidding and approve a cost-share agreement with his own housing company for the installation of a sewer main line along a portion of South Curtis Avenue with the amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $18,327.50 and to approve the project is in the amount of $1,833. Mayor, I need to recuse myself, so I'm just going to step away. All right.
 Whereas, Three Valve Housing Company will be developing property located on South Curtis Avenue on parcel number 765-15071-001 and has requested the city share in the cost of constructing an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of South Curtis Avenue at distances of about 330 feet.
 And whereas the City of Fayetteville would benefit from the cost share, as it will provide for ample future capacity which the City recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by the sewer mains.
 And whereas section 51.113 of the fatal city code provides that quote, the city shall pay the excess material costs and facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system unquote. And whereas waving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contract who will be onsite and selling the line for the developer's project.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Revolve Housing Company for the installation of an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of South Curtis Avenue with the estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $18,327.50."
 further approves a project contingency an amount of one thousand eight hundred and thirty three dollars yeah Thank You mayor council as the ordinance stated three wall of housing has requested that the city share in the cost of extending the sewer line along portion of South Curtis 330 feet south of Huntsville Road the proposed sanitary sewer line would extend east from existing manhole on the west side of South Curtis Street costa road and run north along the east side of the street
 Constructing the sewer main will allow the development of the property located and owned by 3-volve housing, but will also allow for any future developments in the immediate area to obtain sewer service.
 A bid from Sweetshire Construction of Fayetteville has been determined to be the lowest qualified bid. Bates & Associates will provide the engineering and surveying services associated with this project. And the staff does recommend approval of a cost share agreement with Three Ball Housing for $18,327.50 with the contingency of $1,833. Be happy to answer any questions. Yes, what questions do we have in the council on this? What public comment do we have on this?
 OK. Bring it back to the council. Thank you. Mayor, I'll make a motion to second, but I did want to take the opportunity to suggest that at some point, maybe with respect to the 2040 plan or an implementation step afterwards, that we come up with a standard program for doing these kinds of cost sharing and a standard set of criteria. We basically do these on a case-by-case basis. I think we're doing an OK job of it.
 If we're going to see so many of them, it might be more efficient for staff and for applicants and for all of us if we had a standard set of guidelines for giving these a pass or fail. And it seems to me that that might be relevant to implementation of our next comp plan. With that, I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Do we have a second? Mark. I will second that. Good. Motion to second to go to the second reading. Please call the roll. Smith. Yes. It's your ask? Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In your honors, to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with 3Volv Housing Company for the installation of sewer mainline along a portion of South Curtis Avenue with the amounts to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $18,327.50 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,833. Org.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turf. Yes. Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal confetti bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Three Valve Housing Company for the installation of sewer mainline along a portion of South Curtis Avenue, with the amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $18,327.50, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,833. Any final comments from the council on this? He said would you please call the roll?
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you.
 Number 13, an ordinance in the way of the requirements for preventing and approving a cost share agreement with Spring Street Colleges LLC for the installation of a fire hydrant near the intersection of East Spring Street and North Washington Avenue with materials to be provided by the City of Federal in the amount of $3,682.29. Thank you.
 Brad, excuse me. Whereas Spring Street Colleges, LLC, will be developing property located at 132 and 144 North Washington Avenue and has requested that the city share in the cost of installing a fire hydrant near the intersection of East Spring Street and North Washington Avenue.
 And whereas installing a fire hydrant will improve fire service in the immediate area. And whereas waiving formal competitive bidding and providing materials for a fire hydrant installation to the developer will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the water main for the project. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1,
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby determined that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements for competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Spring Street Cottages, LLC, for the installation of a fire hydrant near the intersection of East Spring Street and North Washington Avenue with materials to be provided by the City of Fayetteville in the amount of $3,682.29. Thank you.
 yeah thank you mary on this cost share agreement uh when spring street cottages wanted to do a cost share for installing a fire hydrant uh the deal that we made with them is we would we would provide them the materials out of our warehouse which is the fire hydrant the valve and the six inch pipe that goes to the main line they would be responsible for installing the fire hydrant per city standard specs as well as repairing any street that needs to be done
 We have any answering questions? Questions we have for Tim on this. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding, I'd approve a cost-share agreement with Spring Street Cottages LLC for the installation of a fire hydrant near the intersection of East Spring Street and North Washington Avenue with materials to be provided by the City of Fayetteville in the amount of $3,682.29. Yes.
 mark i move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading second we have the motion statement to go to the third and final reading please which please call the road
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost-share agreement with Spring Street Cottages LLC for the installation of a fire hydrant near the intersection of East Spring Street and North Washington Avenue with materials to be provided by the City of Fayetteville in the amount of $3,682.29. Any final comments from the Council?
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number 14, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $134,588,625 to appropriate proceeds from the 2019 city sales and use tax bonds.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. As we've talked about this many times, the citizens approved the authorization, $214 million worth of face value in bonds.
 Subsequent to that, the council authorized the mayor to issue phase one of that bond issue. We issued that, and after setting aside money to refund the old bonds, which has in fact been done, this is to appropriate $130,533,958 worth of construction funds for the actual construction that's divided into the
 nine questions that we have. In its proportionate share, again, this is phase one. We issued the full amount of economic development, which can be decided at a point later. We've issued the full amount for the police facility.
 The rest of them are phase one and we will have subsequent issues when in fact we're ready to do that. Anticipated at this point three years. Theresa asked at the last meeting when does our timetable start where we have three years to expend that money. That was August 15th. We did the final closing on the bond so we have three years from there to spend the money and we're ready to go with the projects. Yes the clock is ticking my friends.
 We're going to move quickly. What questions do we have for Paul on this? All right. What public comment do we have on this? All right. Son. I move that we accept the resolution. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. I want to thank everybody's work on this bond issue, Paul, Kit, and Susan, Chief of Staff.
 style of staff that work on this your council members that helped push this thing through supported it worked on it i want to thank you all it's a really huge thing for us right now as we say it's one of those historic moments right now we'll have contracts to you in the next couple weeks on a few million dollars for you to look at and we're off and running um all right the final comments from the council
 Seeing none, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Ceres. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Thank you all. Notice how everything picked up after the mole. Yeah. Things got a lot lighter, didn't it? All right. Number 15. Number 15.
 A resolution to approve the purchase of 1.76 acres of property located on South School Avenue from Robert and Vicki Parker for the amount of $180,000 for the construction of a fire station to approve a project in Tennessee in the amount of $9,000 to cover all associated closing costs and to approve a budget adjustment. Chief? So this is where we pinpointed this one of the locations.
 It's going to help our response times in the south part of Maine. I can go into detail and tell you all about response times and all that, but I know everybody's tired. I'm tired. Do you have any questions? Questions we have for the Chief on this? Pretty straightforward stuff here. Alright. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Sarah. Thank you. I'm so excited to be getting a new fire station in Ward 1. And with that, I move that we approve the resolution.
 Sonia I second the excitement in the motion Smith yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, number 16, a resolution to approve the real estate agreement offering acceptance between the City of Arkansas and the Division of Agriculture of the University of Arkansas to purchase about 11.6 acres located north of Dean Street and east of Porter Road for the construction of a new
 a new federal fire station and police headquarters complex for $2,590,000, plus any associated closing costs and to approve a budget adjustment.
 now we're talking real money there we go oh yeah this uh this too is going is you know it's where the location indicated talk to the mic maybe please this uh was also pinpointed to be a good location whenever we were doing the analysis this will help out west yes it will out ward four it's going to get out ruble road out
 It helps really there all along Station 6's area, which is south, so they catch a lot of good stuff. So, any questions? No, but that's good. Yes, it is. All right. Talk about the police part for just a second. You'll probably remember a little over a year ago, we contracted with Dewberry and Associates to do a space needs study for us. It was actually an update of a 2005 study that we had done when we first started talking about a new police building. That seems like it's been forever ago.
 Basically, they said for a 20-year plan, we needed basically an 80,000 square foot facility of three different buildings, basically a 55,000 square foot police headquarters building, a 13,000 square foot support building for vehicles and those kind of things, and then 11,000 square foot range, indoor range.
 And the biggest thing they said we needed was 10 acres. So we started off trying to find 10 acres somewhere inside what I'm calling the loop, inside the interstate, 265, and let me just tell you, that's pretty hard to do. If it's 10 acres inside that loop worth building on, somebody's already building something on it.
 We thought we identified a piece of property that the university owned. They first told us they were interested in selling it, and we started going down that road. We actually met with the fire department because we knew they needed a location in that area too. They thought that would work for them, and then the university actually changed their mind and decided it wasn't for sale, but they had a deal for us. They had another piece they might be interested in selling us. So they took us over on the other side of the farm where we looked at that piece of property. We actually liked it better, and it was actually a better fit for the farm.
 fire department also was eleven point six acres so it was able to give them there one point five one point six that they needed in our ten acres so it's a a great spot we believe it's a river were talking about as a intersection of forty nine porter road we think it gives us good uh... accessibility dot forty nine good visibility good spot for the fire department gives us multiple points of entry and exit with the car growed there
 And we think doing it along with the fire department, hopefully we'll see a little bit of cost savings with some shared driveways and those kind of things. Then it also, something we didn't really think about early on, our radio tower is on top of what we call Densmore Trail, I think you guys call it Millsap Mountain. It actually has line of sight from that piece of property to our radio tower on Densmore, so that hopefully helps us along the cost when we move our dispatch center out there. So we believe it's a great piece of property and we have to answer any questions.
 How does it feel after 30 years? I wish I was going to be here long enough to see it built. It's the only regret I have. But at least maybe we're going to get started, first step. All right. Mayor, I'd like to thank Dr. Mark Cochran, who is the head of the Division of Agriculture of the University of Arkansas, for working with our police and fire department to...
 support this purchase. This purchase still has to be approved not only by you, but also by the University of Arkansas Board of Trustees, which meets September the 12th. And so we hope that we're going to be able to spend this money very quickly. I guess it kind of depends on both on you and the Board of Trustees. Paul, do you have something? We did want to bring to the attention of the council, there was a resolution passed.
 In 2005 at that point in time the council had said that we were going to look at a police facility downtown however It kits advice this overrides that resolution would allow us to build it out there. There's no members of the council of
 Currently, who were there at that time, Lionel was on the council at that point in time, but conditions have changed and the biggest issue was to build a courthouse where it's located. So I just wanted you to know that for your information in case that question comes up.
 Right, the chief remembered this. He goes back even farther than I do. He's way back there. And he remembered that, and that is true of what Paul said. It was mainly because we were interested in making sure that the courts building stayed here and then the police station would be close to them.
 Obviously, the police department has grown a lot in the last 14 years, and they've outgrown this space. There's nothing really we can do. We've added parking lots for them, but still, they've outgrown this space, and that's why the chief was looking at 10 acres and has found it. And yes, that resolution will be deemed overridden by this resolution, if you pass this resolution. Okay. Teresa.
 I just want to say that's fantastic news over there in that area. And I'm surprised that the U of A is selling any property. That's shocking.
 But I also found what was really interesting is that they retain half of the mineral rights. So that was kind of an interesting. That's state law. Is that right? They have to put that in state law. Okay, because that's true on Lewis Park too. The state law says that they will do that if they sell any property. So I think this is wonderful news and a great location. And, yeah, finding 10 acres inside the city limits is really difficult. So thank you.
 There was quite a few negotiations going on during, yes, there was. But anyway, it all is wonderful. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, Mark. I move we approve the resolution. Oh. Second. We have a motion second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? I'm thrilled. I mean, we worked a long time on this one. Anyway, Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Smith. Yes. Tiras. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Mutch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Thank you all. Okay, number 17.
 A resolution to approve the real estate agreement offer and acceptance between the city of Federal and the Federal Public School District jointly purchase about 27.5 acres known as Lewis Fields Park from the Division of Agriculture of the University of Arkansas in the amount of $3.5 million plus any associated closing costs and to approve a budget adjustment contract. Good evening. Can you all hear me?
 I'm very speechless to bring to you and excited. That's Lance Hill. We might need your microphone just a little closer. Well, she's got it about as close as she can, I think. She's been cheerleading for this for a long time. Yes, she has.
 I'll stand in for counting. City's recommending the approval of the land sale agreement with the University of Arkansas Division of Agriculture for the acquisition of Lewis Field, a portion of that. We would be paying half, $1,750,000.
 We'd be sharing that with Fayetteville Public School District. Lewis is located east of Asbell Elementary School where it serves as a community soccer park and has for over 25 years. The land's been used for soccer, ultimate frisbee, rugby, sport clinics and tournaments.
 The potential purchase of Lewis was proposed during the discussion of possible bond projects. Parks and Recreation Advisory Board also recommended this purchase. The attached budget adjustment covers the $1,750,000 you just appropriated plus $25,000 in potential closing costs that we'll have.
 Setter for agency fees and things of that nature, but I think we're all excited for this property again as kit Advisory on last piece property. This is contingent on the approval of the Board of Trustees or with that I'll try to answer any questions if you I've got just a little thing to add. I also want to thank dr Cochran again for this and in fact we were able to negotiate down the initial appraisal cost and
 And so we were able to save ourselves and the school district over $100,000 each on the price. We think this is the best use for this land, and we're going to do a lot split in the future with them. And I think that's pretty much agreed. But we can't go forward with the lot split until this agreement and the trustees' agreement are approved so that we then have the owner's permission to do the lot split. Here we go. Good work out here, everybody. Thank you.
 Again, it took a little bit of negotiating too. What public comment do we have? My name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bradstreet Lane. Mayor, City Council, I know it's late, so I'll keep it short. I'd just like to point out you saved the best for last. It's been a long two years since we first brought our concerns to you about saving Lewis Park. Understandably, there was some skepticism, but I want to personally thank the Mayor, City Council, staff, the Parks and Rec Board, and the Town & Gowns
 Committees for listening to our concerns, concerns like walkability, flood control, diversity, park coverage gaps, tax savings, and Fayetteville's future. I also want to thank all the thousands of people from Fayetteville that helped and volunteered their time, money, and signatures to save Lewis Park. So thank you for not canceling the lease early. Thank you for extending the lease. Thank you for finding a partnership with Fayetteville Public Schools. Thank you for putting Lewis Park on the bond issue. Thank you for negotiating with the Agricultural Division. Thank you for helping us.
 and thank you for approving this measure tonight so we can finalize a deal to keep lewis park a park that is a keystone to fayetteville's green infrastructure now and for decades and centuries to come please vote yes thanks will thank you for your work on this as well any other public comment okay kyle
 well this one's been a long time coming too because i remember sitting out there scratching my head when the first uh lease expiration came up and wondering how on earth that we could do that to a neighborhood with the demographics that surround this park and i'm glad that you all put in the time and effort to to make sure that we rescued it and kept it in the system so with that i have motion to approve the resolution
 Sarah. Second. Lisa, do you have some comments tonight? Yeah, I figured you would. I just wanted to take this moment to thank Will for spearheading all of those neighbors and citizens to bring it forward, to make it happen, to gain public support for saving this park. So thank you so much for all of your efforts, tireless efforts that you put in. Okay. Any other final comments? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sorry. Okay.
 Did you point to something? Did I miss something? Okay. I had cold fingers. Oh. Register. Would you please stop? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Well, that concludes our business. That was quick enough, wasn't it? Not bad. Any announcements? Yes.
 i do have a few mayor um so tomorrow uh the city will be hosting with the um ozarks i'm sorry the community blood center of the ozarks a blood drive on the fable square from 9 a.m to 3 p.m if you have an opportunity to give blood we appreciate it residents of the city would appreciate it
 uh friday's a big day for the flip the switch uh event at the west side uh treatment plant with our new solar array the festivities will begin at 10 a.m and council please note you've been invited to come early for some special photography and they just want to make sure you got that message because
 Today's Power, Inc. and Ozarks Electric are planning a big do, so we hope everyone can join. The public is welcome to please attend.
 And then finally, we have installed a couple of always, new always stop signs. Just want to bring that to people's attention. At West and Spring, downtown, and then also at South Washington and East 10th Street. And then unfortunately, we've had to close one of the ponds in the city near Bryce Davis Park, near Iams Dog Park in Bryce Davis Park due to the harmful algae blooms.
 staff will be testing again and we will be announcing as soon as we can and when that water clears up that's what I have for you thank you anything else he hasn't
 uh mayor keep the seat of i.t director for the city and after four and a half years we finally have paperless billing on our utility billing starting last friday so we'll have to be posting things on social media and the internet uh starting in the next day or two to kind of all the details with that so don't you just love this city all right got it done good work you all very much we're adjourned