I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of September 7, 2021. To order, Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Here. Jones? Jones. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Petty. Scroggen? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Bunch?
 Hertzberg here here Jordan here who's young in the pledge of allegiance I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all okay thank you all the the first order business we have tonight we do have the monthly finance report by Paul Becker and then we have a walk on
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'll be reporting on the month of July, so we're at period 7 for 2021. When we look at the general fund, the general fund sales tax, as we reported, is up 17.6% compared to the budget for this year.
 So it's very strong showing as you recall the last month was roughly 5% for the city. So we're starting to see that increase that we have seen earlier in the year decline a little bit as we're comparing to very large numbers last year. However, 5% was very strong and I was very happy to see that increase.
 Most of our revenue accounts are up. Alcoholic beverages are up. Franchise fees are up a bit. Building permits are down just a little bit, but they're down slightly. They're down maybe 4% so far compared to budget.
 Turn back's up a little bit. Charges for services are up. Court fees and fines are down. But all in all, we're up about 12% when compared to total budget for the general fund for the year. That's in excess of $3 million at this point in time.
 Remember, we added $2.5 million for salary increases that you approved at the mayor's recommendation earlier this year. So we're doing well, keeping where we need to be with revenue covering those decisions. As far as the street fund is concerned, the street fund is also very strong. Sales tax is up. Motor fuel tax allocation is up for the city.
 The tax on wholesale gas is also up, and a total revenue for the street fund at this point in time from the turn back is up roughly 18%, so that's a very, very strong showing so far this year. Parking funds.
 are 96% of the budget. So they're only lagging 4%. Remember last year, we were looking at 50% collections compared to budget and prior year. So parking fees are down a little bit compared to the budget.
 However, overall revenue exceeds expenditure, so the parking fund is doing well at this point in time, at least holding its own. As far as the parks development fund is up, remember that's HMR taxes for the parks maintenance.
 That's up 30% compared to budget. Remember, I pulled the budget back when I presented the budget two year for 2021, expecting some declines. However, that hasn't materialized. But anyway, the HMR taxes are up 30% at this point in time. So that's pretty strong. Restaurants and hotels are coming back pretty well so far for this year.
 Water insurance billings are up about 80%. Remember, we still do have a large outstanding receivable. However, that's being paid down as customers are working out pay plans with us. And we're working very hard to set up plans for them to be able to pay past due balances. Recycling and trash collection.
 The fees are essentially in line with the budget. They're almost exactly equal to the budget. Remember earlier this year, they were a little down compared to the budget.
 Commercial is down between 2 and 3 percent so far. Residential is up. So commercial is still a little weaker than we had expected, and residential recycling and trash collection is up. The buildings, airport, jet fuels up 44 percent compared to the budget.
 So that's very strong. Activity at the airport is very busy right now. And I'm happy to report fuel sales are up. With that, I'll conclude the report and I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Paul on the finance report? Thank you, Paul. The next order of business we have tonight, I have a walk-on. It is a resolution to authorize the acceptance of a Federal Aviation Administration grant
 in the amount of $6,135,840 to fund the design and construction of a runway, pavement, and lighting rehabilitation project at Drakefield Airport, and to authorize the acceptance of any additional grant funds awarded for this project.
 project I need to add this to the agenda is it correct yes there needs to be a motion in a second to suspend the rules and add this to the agenda and then we will explain it as we go along here I need a motion in second place and maybe spend the rules and move this to the agenda do we get a second out of it care okay we have motion second to add this to the agenda care which police called bro
 For recording purposes, I have the motion made by Councilmember Hertzberg and seconded by Councilmember Bunch. That works. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. All right. Thank you all. Now let's have some discussion. Ms. Paul, you want to talk about this?
 Or is it summer it has this one?
 Well, I can start it off and Summer can add because she knows the specifics about the project. But we brought this forward because we've got a deadline to file the application and to excuse me to accept the accept the award. File the application, accept the award by the Federal Aviation Association. And this is a award of six million dollars. It's very important. This is going to be to resurface
 runway at the airport, plus do lighting. This project was accelerated by the government this year. We had planned on it happening next year, but they accelerated it this year. However, we're happy to take the funds at this point in time.
 Again, it's a very large grant. It's very, very necessary, and we're happy to have it. And we believe that we would bring it forward because it was that important. One thing I will mention.
 that it is an extremely large grant. I may have to partially cash flow it with loans in case the expenditures are higher than balances that I have in the airport fund. But that's allowable pursuant to our ordinances. But it's a very important project. And Summer, I'm sure you have things you can add to this.
 Yes, thanks, Paul. And good evening, Mayor and Council. As Paul stated, this grant is for $6,135,840. The city match on this project is $1.44. This $1.44 covers the owner's protective insurance, which is not grant eligible. The last...
 overlay at the airport on the runway within 1986. So it is 100% necessary. This will also cover the construction of a new electrical vault and generator, adding LED lighting to the runway as well as pilot controlled lighting and updated signage.
 And also, as Paul stated, the this item is being presented in this manner due to the constraints that were put forth as far as the application deadline. And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you guys may have outside of that. What questions do we have in the city council? OK, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those here in person second who would like to address this by zoom no one is there anyone here wants to address this in person about the airport fund resolution okay seeing none i'll bring it back to the council
 What's the wishes of the council? We approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay, Chair, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. The next order of business we have is consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 6th, 2021 special city council meeting minutes and the August 17th, 2021 city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 21-47 to Rogers Iron and Metal Corporation for the removal and recycling of scrap metal items from the city of federal recycling and trash collection division
 any amount of $200 per ton for a term of one year with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms.
 Number three, a resolution to approve Amendment Number One to the Professional Services Design Contract with FTN Associates LTD pursuant to RFQ 20-01. Any amount of $9,600 for drainage improvement analysis of Linda Jo Place and Schuyler Place to help alleviate flooding associated with the middle fork of the Hamstring Creek.
 Number four, a resolution to authorize contract the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program for acceptance of a certified local government grant in the amount of $9,990 for the restoration of the Woolsey Cemetery and to approve budget adjustment. Number five, resolution to approve three year lease agreement with
 our co-ed aviation lc dba elite aircraft services for office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of 300 per month number six the resolution to award bid number 21-65 and authorized the purchase and installation of four tire and wheel assemblies from southern tire mart llc in the amount of 31 115 dollars and 20 cents plus political taxes
 Number seven, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $21,409.37 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the repair of a pump at the Broyles Avenue sewer lift station. Number eight, a resolution to approve Amendment No. 5 to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $312,000.00 for
 for engineering services related to the east federal water system improvements project number nine resolution to approve a 15-year contract for sanitary sewer service between the cities of elkins and federal in which federal will accept and treat sewage from elkins and federal's wastewater treatment facility number 10 resolution authorized payments ch2m hill engineers incorporated in the amount of three hundred and sixty two thousand five hundred and forty four dollars
 to reconcile the actual cost of wastewater treatment operations and maintenance in 2020 to the contract instrument and to approve budget adjustment. Number 11, a resolution to award bin number 21-60 and authorized contract Caldwell Tanks Corp. in the amount of $2,325,000 for the construction of new elevated tank storage
 Tank on Township Street and demolition of the existing tank to approve project Tendency in the amount of two hundred thirty two thousand five hundred dollars and to move budget adjustment number twelve resolution to approve an agreement with
 Rubbish Removal and Roll-Off Rentals LLC DBA Arkansas Waste Solutions for the Hauling and Disposals of Solid Waste and Recyclable Material in the City of Federal. And number 13, a resolution to approve an agreement with Ozark Compost and Swap LLC for the hauling of organic compostable and recyclable material in the City of Federal. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. I make a motion.
 I make a motion we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. We have a motion second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen would you please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk?
 Yes, Hertzberg. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's go to unfinished business an ordinance Tell me in chapter 173 building regulations of the federal unified development code to align the city's building regulations with building codes adopted by the state of Arkansas to authorize prosecution of violations of 173 point zero eight unsafe buildings and property nuisances and to adopt the international property maintenance act
 Now, at the agenda session, this was going to be left on the third reading. There's been a few changes made to it. It's on the third reading. I believe it's Dennis. Yes, Mayor. It's still on the third and final reading, and the only things that were changed is some additions to the exhibits that have been provided to the public. They've been available to the city clerk's office for a number of weeks.
 And so the only recognition that we need to have from the city council is to recognize that the exhibits have been filled in or slightly modified. The ordinance itself is exactly the same as it was what you need initially pass. So there will have to be another vote on the ordinance with the understanding that the exhibits have been slightly modified. OK, Dennis, do you have anything you want to add to that?
 uh good evening mayor and council um i do not have anything else to add it like kit said these are just amendments to the property maintenance code to clear up any confusions that may have come about and if you have any questions i'm here to answer them what questions do you have the council on this
 okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person after that who do we have on zoom okay is there anyone here in person like to address that please come to the microphone
 My name is Robert Williams and I live at 3949 West Mountain View Drive in Ward 4. I'm here tonight to both support these changes and bring before you some concerns I have about the regulations as adopted that are now in effect. Mr. Sanders has done a great job to identify several technical issues and bring this matter before you and I appreciate his work on this. I think the item before you tonight stems from the assumption that the International Property Maintenance Code is a direct replacement
 or the standard housing code. It is not. The standard housing code addresses a residential structure only. The IPMC addresses the residential structure and the property surrounding it, as well as commercial structures, government structures, and the property surrounding them. By adopting the IPMC without any significant changes, we may have adopted new standards that conflict with ordinances that exist in other areas of the City Code.
 Also, since this is new, it might be helpful to identify which version of the IPMC we are adopting. It wasn't noted in the ordinance, I made the mistake of assuming we were adopting the most recent version. Mr. Sanders cleared that up and the intent is to adopt the 2012 version. One of the changes in front of you is to Section 302.3. All private sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces, and similar areas
 shall be kept in a proper state of repair and maintained from hazardous conditions. Inserting the word private into the language seems to relieve the City from this standard. The City should be held to the same standard as everyone else. In addition to possible conflicts with the Unified Development Code, this new adopted code contains standards that may not be the intention of this Council to be enforced, but as adopted are now violations.
 Since the word shall is used in most instances, the building official does not have the same discretion as if the word may was used. I have a few examples for you. Section 302.2, Grading and Drainage. It reads, all premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon or within any structure located thereon. That seems like a reasonable standard.
 The problem language is the erosion of soil. Since erosion is not qualified, any erosion would be a violation. So if an older rent house does not have rain gutters and there is erosion around the drip line of the roof, a tenant could file a complaint with Code Enforcement who would then investigate the complaint and seeing any erosion would be obligated to issue a notice of violation to the property owner.
 At this point, the violation would have to be corrected by either installing gutters or a drip strip around the home and repairing the erosion. I don't think it is the intent of this council to force every structure and fable to have rain gutters or a drip strip, but that could be the unintended consequence since there is no discretion allowed. Section 304.1.1, unsafe conditions. It reads, the following conditions shall be determined as unsafe
 and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the International Building Code or the International Existing Building Code as required for existing buildings. Number 1. The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal loads, the load effects, or the required strength. This is also reinforced in Section 306.1.1 where there is excessive cutting or notching of wood.
 One common practice in residential construction is to slope cut the ends of LVL beams to match the pitch of the roof, even though the installation instructions clearly forbid it. This greatly reduces the carrying capacity of the beam. So if I'm a tenant and my garage ceiling is sagging and I look in the attic and see this condition, I could file a complaint with code enforcement. The investigation won't have to determine if the structural integrity of the beam has been compromised.
 I assume by paying a structural engineer to evaluate it and issue a notice of violation to the property owner to correct it if it is found to be compromised. If it was good enough to pass the building inspection process, it would be unfair to come back to a property owner later and issue a violation. This item applies to any structural member in a building, rafters, headers, columns, floor joists, beams, etc., and could potentially be the most expensive violation.
 I'm not aware of anything this specific in the existing code. 304.1.1, unsafe conditions number four, siding and masonry joints, including joints between the building and the... Okay, time, Mr. Weems. You have five minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. Okay.
 Mayor, if I could make a comment. First, I want to thank Mr. Williams for finding some of the errors and omissions that we had. I think that he helped us by doing that.
 On the other hand, there is a rule in interpretation of any kind of law or code that it must be a reasonable interpretation. So when he talked about erosion and then said, well, any possible tiny erosion is going to be a violation of code, I don't think that's actually correct. I think that there still is the common sense and reasonableness of the inspector.
 Obviously the kind of erosion that we would be trying to correct would be something that would be very extensive, potentially eroding so that the soil is being washed onto a neighbor or some other fairly major erosion. A tiny erosion because there's a drip line on the house I don't think would ever be cited. I'll yield to our inspector, Dennis Sanders, on that. But all of the provisions
 even if they say shall, you always have to read them with a condition of reasonableness.
 and so they should not be interpreted unreasonably where obviously they would be going beyond what the riders of the code would want. I think the same is true for some of the notches because obviously when houses are made, electricians come in, plumbers come in, and they put their pipes or wires sometimes through a supporting member,
 I don't think that's going to be something that building safety is going to come back and an attempt to say the whole building is unsafe. It's only, I think, for the much more dramatic sort of notching that might go on that should not go on that would in fact make the building dangerous. But I'll yield any other comments to our building safety inspector, Dennis Sanders.
 Yeah, excuse me. Yes, Kit, that's correct. It's for major erosion, things like that, not minor. The building components, when a home is built, we basically, we do all of our inspections
 per the building code that the year the home is built in. So the property maintenance code would not override and we would not show back up and go back through the house again and make you redo a bunch of the framing and everything. If it passed during the framing stages, when the home was built under the code it was adopted under, then that's what we would actually go back also and look at. When it talks about stuff like that, that's when you get in there and you get people that are removing walls
 um butchering up the house after you know a tenant comes in there and decides they want to cut a door in or something and they mess up the framing that's something completely different um when the home is built though it doesn't pass inspection until you know it's inspected several times and and looked at under the code that it were actually adopted at the time it's built so hopefully that kind of clears some of that up does anybody else have any other questions
 Yes, the council have any questions on this? I have a question. Dennis, Mr. Williams cited 302.3, all private sidewalks shall be kept and in good repair and so forth. Does that exclude city sidewalks? Could you address that question?
 So the reason why that was put in there just like that, that matches our city code, our UDC. That's a word for word what it says right now. The way we do our public streets and sidewalks, those are all complaint driven. The city is always being proactive and trying to repair sidewalks as they find them. And then they repair any that we get complaints throughout the year also. So that's the reason why that is in there like that.
 So that gives the city the ability to repair a private sidewalk or to deal with a complaint about a private sidewalk. Is that correct? Correct. Okay. And then the city sidewalks match this same requirement, correct? Yes. Okay. Thank you so much for clearing that up. Anything else? We're on third and final reading. Yeah. I know that there's some concern that we're going to have inspectors going to go rogue.
 They already can kind of do that. I mean, you've got city code, you've got state code, you've got international code. So if that was a real concern, I think it already would have happened. I usually tell anybody that's a developer or builder, you know, talk to the city. If you've got any questions before you do something, ask them. They'll let you know. They're pretty reasonable. But...
 They could already make life hard if they wanted to. And we, now, yeah, sometimes developers say that, but when you go look into it, it was not actually the case. So I trust staff here. I think they do a pretty good job. I don't see us going crazy and, you know, stopping every rental and,
 house in the city so I think this is reasonable and probably ready to move this forward any other comments from the council or we're about to vote on this okay there's not any other questions or comments care which please call the roll need to receive a first and a second mayor well we're on the third reading according to the city attorney thank you so much I appreciate that I'm sorry I'm I'm very distracted right now I may need to leave in a moment uh Gutierrez
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. And I just want to say one other thing, Mayor Jordan. I know that we have an ordinance here at the city for mask mandates, and I know you've said that we're not, we're going to allow people to stay. I have two young children at home.
 And I would like to take a moment to step away, please. Okay. If people are confused about this, we do have people in the chambers without masks, correct? We do. Okay. Why isn't the law being enforced? Well, they should have been kept at the door, but I don't know why they were not kept. I thought everybody had to have a mask on that came in through the door. They claimed that they talked to the prosecuting attorney.
 Who said that the mass ordinance would not be enforced. Is that correct chief? Yes mayor, that's correct. We had an individual I believe it was last week that walked into City Hall Demanded that a ticket be written to him The officers walked him over the prosecuting attorney's office and the prosecutor refused to prosecute in this situation and so that's what we have to deal with currently in the situation tonight and
 individuals came into chambers. I informed them of the mask ordinance. They refused to leave unless ticketed and asked to leave. And the mayor chose not to enforce the mask ordinance as far as a criminal trespass goes. And so that's what we've got to deal with tonight. And so what I wanted to be sure and to ask the individuals, and I did not have time because it was, the meeting was about to start. We've allowed people to come in if they have a medical condition,
 issue. And so I would ask the folks that are here without a mask on, do you have medical issues that will allow you to wear a mask inside the chambers? We all suffer from a condition called pulmonary hypoxia, low oxygen.
 levels in the lungs when we have a face cover. It's well documented that unacceptably high levels of CO2 are in the mouth when the mouth is covering the face that are unacceptable at ocean standards. So as a result of low oxygen levels in the bloodstream, we have a medical condition that requires us not to. So all of you have the same medical condition? Yeah, right.
 And you folks back here. We have multiple ways of submitting public comments without endangering others. We expect the laws as counsel passed to be enforced. Okay. Very well, y'all are going to have to... I'm going to have to ask y'all to leave. Everybody that doesn't have a mask on has to go. Mayor Jordan, I'm going to go ahead and move to my office, and I'll be right back on. Okay. The counsel has passed an ordinance. The only people we've allowed in here was people with a medical condition. And...
 y'all are going to have to vacate the premise. ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
 I move we take a five-minute recess while this gets straightened out. Yes, we can. We'll take ten minutes. We're recessed? Ten minutes. Okay. Let's start again. City Council's back in order. Okay, Council, we have enforced the mask mandate.
 All right, number one, resolution to request that Mayor Jordan require all city employees to submit weekly rapid PCR or antigen COVID-19 virus tests to human resources unless they have submitted proof of complete vaccination. Matthew, I believe this is yours. Yes, yes, thank you, Mayor. This is a simple resolution to establish our consensus among the council that this is a policy we believe should be implemented.
 I'm having some connection issues. I'm going to disable my video so that we can establish our consensus for this policy. The details for its implementation would be, of course, up to the mayor and his staff, although I expect we will hear a bit about that tonight and also field some questions. The motivation for this,
 There are a couple things, but of course, first off, it's simply that we're still in the middle of an emergency, and we need to take steps to break the surge and also to end the pandemic. And this is one of the things that I believe—
 And I hope you all will agree that we can do as a city to show leadership for other institutions and other companies and organizations for policies they might be able to implement themselves for their own workers.
 So this is to protect Fayetteville workers and their families who are unable to become vaccinated for whatever reason, or who may two or three degrees out may inadvertently expose someone, even though they themselves might be vaccinated.
 if they were to come in contact and have an asymptomatic breakthrough case. So this is really about taking an easy step to do everything we can that the science tells us we need to do. We believe this resolution, this policy would certainly be legal. And technically there's no step that the city council actually has to take because this could be an administrative policy, but this will establish
 to establish our consensus. I also want to take, I also want to very deliberately talk about the way the policy is requested to be structured, which is to require testing and not to require vaccinations.
 Given everything we know about the cultural and political dimensions of vaccine hesitancy and vaccine uptake, the intention here was simply to be focused on protecting our own workforce and their families and those close to them by requiring testing for all workers and giving a waiver to those who have been vaccinated.
 With that happy to field any any questions or refer those questions to the staff that may know best Okay, what questions do we have for councilman? I noticed that the Board of Health officers here Would she like to make some comments to the City Council kits you'd asked her to to Speak at this at the last health board meeting or do you still want she's here for questions? oh, I think she wanted to make some statements and also answer any questions City Council might have and
 Okay. Dr. Sharkey, would you like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes.
 I don't have any prepared statements. I understand was I was coming to answer questions this administrative policy Goal is to keep city staff and citizens as healthy and safe as possible The one thing that I think is going to be imperative in the logistics of this is making sure that we are using the correct testing instruments in the correct situations and
 So I think that that's going to be where the Board of Health and my expertise is going to come into into play I actually have a question for you. I the chiropractor said that it was dangerous to wear masks. Is that medically correct? That is incorrect Okay. Thank you That you will get your turn to speak Okay
 That is incorrect. Masks have been shown to be safe. While they are not a hundred percent effective in preventing COVID, we don't have anything that's a hundred percent. They do reduce the risk. Okay. Any other questions for Dr. Sharkey on this? If you have anything else you'd like to say Dr. Sharkey? Okay. All right. Thank you. All right. Any other questions from the council? No? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic. No rude behavior Please give us your name and address Those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person after that Do we have anyone that wants to address this by zoom Susan? Yes, they're Tim Nyander Go ahead
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. After this was talked about, the GINA session, I did kind of talk to about 50 or so of our 77 employees to see what their thoughts were. They came up with about four questions and one concern. One of the questions is, is there going to be any exemptions applied to this policy?
 Another question was, being the fact that it's known that vaccinated individuals can carry and spread the virus, would it be logical to have everybody test for COVID once a week rather than just the unvaccinated employees? Another question is, is there going to be a standardized course of action if an employee refuses to get COVID testing? No.
 And then the final question, is this going to impact the employee's health care costs?
 Also, in the utilities department, will this policy be applied to the roughly 50 contracted employees that operate the wastewater treatment facilities? One concern is the possibility of increasing the vacancy rate of our employees. It seems like, or does it seem like, it is a fact that during this pandemic, we don't have anybody applying for open positions, even when employees leave through traditional
 In the utilities division, we're currently two crews short to repair our system. That's 10 to 20 leaks a day that are not getting repaired because of our shortage. And it causes our existing employees to work long hours, which attributes to not only employee burnout, but when we use the heavy equipment, it could be a safety issue.
 What we have relegated to do is we have to prioritize our leaks and fix the biggest ones first, which does mean that some of our leaks may go days without being fixed. This does increase the amount of non-revenue water that's leaking into the ground rather than flowing through a meter and get some revenue for. That's the questions and the issue that when I talk to my employees, they want to address. Thank you very much.
 There are no more Zoom hands. Okay. All right. Let's take those that are here in person to speak on this topic. Yes, please. Remember, everybody gets the...
 Five minutes. Okay. Yep. My name is Jerry Etheridge. I live in Fayetteville. I just want to say since James was removed, he did a handout of paper with a lot of research regarding the vaccine. I highly recommend that you look at it. I should stop referring to it as vaccine as it's more of along the lines of a flu shot. I'm just here giving a personal experience. I work in a hospital here locally. We have been.
 given the shot since we're the first ones to get it. We've already seen breakthrough infections. We've had patients with breakthrough infections. We wear N95s at the hospital. When working with COVID patients, we do not wear these stupid masks because they're not for that COVID. I feel terrible for Ms. Garopp because she's been lied to about these masks.
 But I do think that the person that you just had on raised some good points. It should be required, if you're going to require everybody to be tested, that everybody be tested, not just the unvaccinated because as,
 As I've been at work with my healthcare employees, we've already had to quarantine people that have received the shot because they also can spread it. They're symptomatic. You name it, we've already had it at the hospital, and it's going through. So I think if we're going to do that there, we should be consistent with our public employees as well. I mean, they work for us.
 the city, the taxpayers, I think, and they are also taxpayers themselves. I don't think we need to discriminate against those that take a emergency authorized shot that's not really working versus those that choose not to for health reasons. So that's all I got. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Who else would like to address? My name is Eddie Tisnato.
 I live in Fayetteville. I'm a local business owner here. I own an SEO company. I've been watching past videos of council members as well as the Board of Health members getting to know you guys, getting to know how you think, getting to know your goals, getting to know your paradigms. I do research by profession. This is what I do. I'm not here to talk science this time. I'm just more on the
 road of just admonishing you really. I've already sent each of you an email. You all have my email from EDT912 at ProtonMail. Some of you have responded asking who I am. So I'm gonna tell you who I am a little bit more. I am an SEO expert
 I've been doing SEO for 10 years. I live in the realm of search engine optimization, information highways, the way that content and information moves on the internet, how to manipulate it, how to manipulate algorithms and all that kind of stuff. This is the world I live in, data mining, metrics, analysis, and it's never ending. And what's going on in the internet is completely something new.
 that hasn't gone on in a long time and I've been doing this for a long time. First of all, I want to firmly request scientific references and sources from all of you. I'm requesting it from the Board of Health as well that if you're going to be
 making decisions for our lives concerning COVID, then put the sources up so the public can see the sources. I want to see the sources. I want to see the original documentation, not third party, not preprints, not crap. I want to see the original sources because you guys are making some serious decisions. So put it up for the public so that we can see it. That's what I'm just, I'm asking that strongly to put it online.
 The emails that I've sent you has plenty of documentation. I've sent you from tons of research on everything concerning COVID with tons of videos from other doctors,
 All around the world, high-level doctors recognized by governments, recognized by agencies, recognized by their peers that have written articles for many, many, many years. And these people are being shut down. They're being taken down. They're not being allowed to speak on YouTube, on any of the platforms, Facebook or anywhere else. They're being attacked on news.
 media because they have an opposing voice because they're sharing their science and their experience behind COVID and what's really going on. I've supplied all this to you in emails. You guys have to decide whether you're going to view it or not. But remember that you work for me. I'm a paying tax person. You're an elected official. Do the work. Do your due diligence. So if I send you stuff that's original documentation, go through it.
 Don't have an indifferent attitude. Don't go to it and be lazy and say, no, I don't want to do this. I go to here and this is all I look at. Be scientific. Do your work. Look at all of it. Look at all sides. Then make a decision. But don't come back and say, well, no, I don't need your information. I just go here. No, you're not doing your due diligence at all. I'm here to talk about this.
 This resolution you guys want to pass now on your employees to work for the city, which is just plain nonsense. It wasn't enough that you have affected businesses and businesses have gone out of business. Now you want to go out to families this this BS about what.
 wanting to test and then see if they're vaccinated. It's all just a bunch of stuff that, and you know, you say, Matthew, as you say that, and you say, you know, we're trying to do this to protect and help families. No, you're not. You're destroying families because they're going to lose their jobs. How is that helping a family? You already shut down businesses because of this crud. And now you're going to impose this upon your own employees and say, you're helping them. You're doing it for their good. You're not. Right.
 you're just doing more damage than you've already done and you need to back off. Mayor Jordan, I was in the meeting in that board of health meeting when you leaned back and you said, and I quote, I need to be allowed to do more than just encourage folks to get vaccinated.
 There's only one other thing, force. So either you're going to encourage them like you guys have been doing with incentives and all this stuff, but what you're saying is that's not good enough. I need to be able to force it. And that's what your agenda is. I'm here to let you know. I'm here to let the city council know that I'm here for good. I'm here to oppose this. I'm here to speak up for all the citizens that do not agree. You're mistaken. You don't understand. Time. Time. Time.
 And that's it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thank you for the opportunity to come before you and speak. I've been researching this for well over 12, 14 months.
 The thing that I find troubling is the fact that I don't know how valid the PCR tests are. One thing that I am researching and finding is that the CDC has submitted to the FDA that as of the end of this year, they're no longer going to honor
 the PCR test because they want something that will give you better information about what the test shows. So based on that, that's kind of a red flag for me that what we are currently testing, we don't really know what we're testing for. We don't know what the results are showing us. So I just personally find it that it's an unnecessary step and I
 This is a very difficult time, I understand that, but when you're relying on a PCR test that we're not even sure what results we're showing are accurate, and that's from the CDC and the FDA talking about that. Also too, just wanted to point out, if you all haven't had a chance, go look at the VAERS information. There's, to date, I think there's well over 13,000 plus deaths.
 just from the vaccine that have been positively identified as results from the vaccine. And from my understanding in my research, that is more than any vaccine we've ever had in the last
 of our history that I know of from what I've been told and read. So there are some legitimate concerns about taking this injection. So I would just encourage you to just do your due diligence as was stated earlier because there's a lot more information out there than what we are getting from mainstream media. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Robert Williams and I live at 3949 West Mountain View Drive.
 I'm here tonight to voice my opposition to this resolution. This resolution is not about protecting city employees. It is obvious that this is nothing more than grandstanding, which is made clear in the email traffic included in your packet. If this was really about protecting city employees, there would be no exemptions for the weekly testing. Vaccinated people can become infected with COVID-19 and spread it to others. That's why vaccinated people have to wear a mask again.
 If we are so concerned for the city employees health that we need to institute weekly testing, nobody should be exempt as anybody can spread it. This rule should be applied equitably to each employee to ensure everyone's safety. We have a mask mandate in Fayetteville. Even though it is not really heated or enforced, well except for tonight, I assume on city properties it is enforced. So if all employees are wearing a mask and are socially distanced aren't they safe already?
 I thought that was the justification to bring back the mask mandate. Do we need a testing policy because we are forcing city employees to work in an unsafe environment? This is going to come at great cost to the city. Each week, every employee will have to travel to a testing site, wait for the test results, then drive the results to human resources, then back to work. There's nobody to take up this slack. Those services will be lost to taxpayers every week.
 Also, testing schedules will have to be created in each department to spread out that lost work time and try to maintain coverage. The level of service to the taxpayer should not be lowered, so overtime hours are probable to keep the city business running at the same level. No, this is not about protecting city employees' science or anything else rational. This is a thinly-veiled attempt to bully city employees into getting vaccinated.
 This is about a City Council that desires to exert more control over the lives of others, as the original plan was to make this an ordinance. I'm not sure that the example we want to set is our local government inserting itself into the private decision between the City's employees and their doctors. If this Council approves the resolution, I would hope the Mayor has the good sense to ignore it, since it's only an ask.
 If the mayor adopts such a policy, I would urge every city employee to tell the administration their vaccination status is none of the city's business and participate in the weekly testing since it will be on the clock. It will not take long for the administration to abandon this costly and useless policy. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Hello everyone. Thank you for having me. My name is Quint Childress.
 Ms. Hania Gutierrez, Mr. DeAndre Jones, Mr. Mark Kenyon, Mr. Matt Pappetti, Mr. Sloan Scrogan, Ms. Sarah Bunch, Ms. Teresa Cherk, and Ms. Holly Hertzberg, Mayor Lionel Jordan, thank you all. I just want to express that I'm constantly in the underserved community.
 And, you know, I hear, you know, this resolution that's about to pass. And I just want to express, you know, in the underserved community that people are living by the second. And, you know, you hear about the minority community who is majority are unvaccinated. And and so I just wanted to to share about the city employees and this resolution and what it would do as far as the segregation that it would create.
 And so I just want to propose, just let you all know that I think that it should be a poll for the city employees to vote on this because, you know, that's a huge, that's a huge decision. And I think that we have all this information that's presented to all of us, and it's really hard to decipher between what's true and what's false. And so, you know, I just would like to just express that, you know,
 Express to all that just just understand that if you decide to vote for this, you know, the cause and effect and what it would do to families and and yeah, I just want to share with all that. I think that I'll be curious to know how much it would cost per week and how long this would be as far as how long this testing would go. People are not vaccinated and.
 for religious reasons, for whatever reasons they decide not to be vaccinated for.
 um how long that's going to be and the reason why i ask that is because you know if you continually force this and how long is this pandemic going to last how much money we're going to spend towards this versus like the struggle that's going on in the community of fayetteville that i'm i'm in right now so um i would just like to ask the city council to just to propose to you know put this in the hands of the city employees make a poll and allow them to make the decision so
 Thank you guys. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'll bring it back to the city council. Well, questions, comments, what have we got? I have some questions here. Sure. Go ahead. Okay, I have some circular logic here, but ultimately I'm gonna vote against this. I just think it's a logistics issue.
 You know, since school has started, you know, my kids are going to school. I've had four COVID tests between my family and we just got back the bill, even though we went and we have good insurance and we had symptoms. I think I think my kids actually had the flu and they had fevers. They had they had reasons to go get checked. They're charging us seventy five dollars every time we go. And then also, again,
 There's been times we wanted to go because, you know, my kid had a fever. And I can't go because nobody has tests, at least a place that can get it back in any reasonable time. So there's a logistics issue with this. And that's really the only reason I'm against this. Every email I got actually brought me further to wanting to vote on this because it was just full of misinformation. Just every single email just...
 Crazy stuff. Mask work. You can't I'm just from a physical standpoint. You can't send stuff as far. You're wearing a mask like that. That's all it needs to understand that masks will be better. The vaccine is safe. We knew that a billion vaccines ago. Like we're talking about just the largest sample size.
 The only reason this is difficult is because people have misinformation and people are spreading misinformation. It's it's somewhat coming internally, somewhat coming from other countries. But mass work vaccines work.
 I don't know what we're going to do. I have no idea what the answer is. And I thank you, Matthew, for bringing something forward because we've got to figure something out. But I don't know how to compete against the misinformation. I did read the articles people sent to me. I teach statistics at the university. Those articles are hogwash at best.
 And then, you know, somebody mentioned, you know, pre-print. Well, the articles that were sent to us were actually collections of pre-print
 If you actually read through their methodology, they didn't have a methodology. It was just, I'm looking at all these papers and ranking them and which ones say, you know, this dewormer is good and which ones say it's not. So we, I don't know what the answer is for the misinformation. I really don't. We've heard just misinformation tonight. We've been emailed misinformation. Unfortunately, I think a lot of people and staff,
 The only reason they're not getting the vaccine is really misinformation, and I don't know how to compete against that. But the logistics of this resolution have actually implemented. I don't know how it works. You know, if you go get a test, it takes sometimes two or three days to get back. Does that mean those people can't work those two or three days? Yeah.
 My back of the envelope math is if we actually pay for all these tests, and either we're going to pay for it or insurance is going to pay for it, and if insurance pays for it, then we're going to get a call pretty soon because we're spending hundreds of thousands of dollars a month on tests. I figured this to implement would cost somewhere between $200,000 and $300,000 a month.
 And I think that we have uses for $200,000 to $400,000 a month that would be so much more useful to our citizens than this. And I hate it because the only reason this is difficult and the only reason we can't do it is people have misinformation. And they have the right to make decisions based on misinformation.
 So I'll ultimately be against this, but hopefully we come up with something. I just don't think this is it. Thank you. What else? So I just had a couple of questions about how this would actually be implemented if we did vote on this and you did clear this to go into policy. So I was wondering if you have a number for me for an actual cost to the city
 I'm not saying I have the actual cost, but I have a preliminary cost of about $164,000 a month. Now, that's a rough number. Now, that's the reason why if this is passed by the council, then we would have to work out the logistics of how this was all be put together, and then you all would have to look at some sort of budget adjustment, which in visiting with the finance director today did say it could be taken out of the emergency room.
 fund, right? Right, Paul? American Rescue, a point. Yeah, as an analysis, I would say that it could be taken out of rescue funds, however,
 Again, that's like any other fund available to the city, so it could be used on other projects But it could come out of the rescue fund. That's correct And what if the council decides to go this route and then I would have to be the one Implementing it and making the final decisions on it. That's not going to be done like tomorrow morning I'm gonna have to look at what you all do past tonight or not past so I need to know What you all are?
 want to do but that's a rough number but that's a very rough number. Okay. I've only had a week to work on this so it's not like I've got exact numbers for you today. Yeah I understand I appreciate it. The other questions I have might be more for if this were to be implemented so if you don't have the answers just let me know. Do you know if there would be a policy end date or would we work that out later?
 I'm sorry. Do you know if there would be a policy end date or would we work that out later? Well, that's another reason I wanted the council to decide how long they wanted to do this and then we can estimate the cost better. But I got to have an end date from y'all or I'll just come up with an end date myself if I decide to do it. Okay. I'll probably go through the Board of Health and get their opinion on it. Okay.
 I did have a question for Chief Reynolds, if you're available, Chief. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. So I had a question last week about whether or not we would have onsite testing for night police officers. So I know that that might be a hindrance to them. I was also wondering if you believe a policy like this, if it were to be implemented, would this affect recruitment or retention of police officers? Well, I think, excuse me, Ms. Hartsburg.
 Certainly the council's heard me talk about the challenges and the evolving crisis with not only recruitment, but with retention. So yes, on my personal opinion, based upon what I've heard from my rank and file, yes, ma'am, I certainly do believe that this would hurt us.
 not only with recruitment, but certainly certainly my most concerned about retention. As of today, we've lost 16 officers this year, one more officer and that'll be the most officers that we've lost or tied the most that we've lost since the year 2000. So we are certainly in a pinch and you've heard me talk about the capacity that we don't have currently to deal with the call volume that we have and the increased
 population that's come into Fayetteville based upon our census being the second city. And I know you hear me talk about officers per thousand and I know that some council members would like to have more data than that. I can sure provide more data than that, but the short answer is yes, I'm very concerned about that. Okay. Thank you, Chief. Mayor, I'd like to propose an amendment if I could to the resolution. Okay.
 I'd like to propose that the city conducts a survey of every Fayetteville employee who wants to participate to determine if they are in favor or against mandatory COVID testing for the unvaccinated and that the mayor's office gives due consideration to the results of the survey before implementing any new HR policy concerning mandatory COVID testing and that the results of the survey be made available to all city employees. So you're talking about a city, I mean a city staff survey?
 okay all right that's the amendment do we have a second to that amendment there's no second so the amendment does you have anything else that's all I have thank you okay thank you councilmember Petty has his hand up yes go ahead thank you yeah I wanted to take a second to respond to some of the
 The questions that were fielded by Mr. Nyander, I really appreciated those being, the feedback being solicited from employees and the good faith relaying of these questions. The first question was, would there be any exemptions for the testing protocol? I don't have any in mind for the testing protocol, but I would imagine that there are some of the exemptions implemented for,
 for vaccine requirements if we ever get to that point, although that's not what this is about. But I do, and this might be a theme, I do wanna say that
 Personally, I don't feel qualified to make these decisions. And I bet most of us probably feel that way, but that is the purpose of the Board of Health. So I think with respect to potential exemptions, that's something I would hope and would expect the mayor and his team to seek advice from the Board of Health on. The second question was what about breakthrough cases?
 Should vaccinated people also be required for testing? I'll share my own thoughts. I'm personally, this comes down to a money thing for me, and I would prefer to test everybody given the standard, the status of breakthrough cases. So I have a two-part answer. Given that this is a request for an administrative policy, I would hope that the policy is flexible and can be amended without having to come back to counsel over time.
 And this might be an instance where the policy should be different than what we're talking about tonight. So here's where I'm going to repeat myself. I would hope and would expect the mayor and the team would seek out the advice of the Board of Health in crafting that policy and making any future amendments. The third question was, would there be a standard action if an employee refuses testing?
 I've certainly, I think we've all anticipated that there may be some employees which refuse a vaccination despite the incentive and despite potentially having a testing requirement. I confess I haven't really anticipated what we should do if an employee refuses to become tested. I feel personally that we are at near crisis standards today.
 And this has become very important. So I would hope and expect that if an employee refuses to be tested and there's not a acceptable exemption that we would pursue those the same as we would any other disciplinary action for any other refusal to take action. I don't think this should be treated any differently personally.
 Let's see, and the fourth question was about what about contracted employees. Again, because this is an administrative policy, I think they should be answered by the administration. But if they're working in close proximity, to me that feels like it's the standard. I feel if they're not working in close proximity to our employees, maybe we can be a little more lax. And maybe that highlights a way to an exemption for testing if an employee is working from home. Maybe perhaps they don't need to submit to weekly testing.
 The concern about this potentially increasing the vacancy rate, and of course, we just had that question also of Chief Reynolds. So I appreciate that this is a concern. I think this is a real concern for all of us.
 And this is one of the reasons why the suggestion for this policy is crafted as a testing requirement and not a vaccine requirement. Because we, at least in making this suggestion, I personally wanted to do everything we could in making a public health policy that was going to do good for the community and do good for our workers, but also not be so heavy handed.
 that we have some unintended consequences, including rapid resignations. I think that's an elephant in the room for all of us, and not just for the city, but for industry across the country. There's mass, mass resignations across all sectors happening right now. The latest polling shows that almost 50 percent, no kidding, almost 50 percent of office workers right now are considering resigning.
 That's countrywide. And if we think our city hall is any different, I think we've got to wake up. And I think there are just as many employees that are worried about coming into work and about spreading the cases, breakthrough or otherwise, as we have that are worried about needing to submit to testing. So I think this is a question that we need to consider very carefully. And there's another question from the audience about what type of tests. And then Council Member Sprague also mentioned that this was one of his concerns.
 I mean, I had originally suggested that this policy request be limited to PCR tests because of their increased accuracy. But on advice of our city health officer, Dr. Sharkey, she suggested that due to the timing of the test results and other factors that we also allow over-the-counter antigen tests.
 And so I'd like to at this time ask Dr. Sharkey to come back to the stand and give us some information and educate the council a little bit about what the status is of logistics for test access and how antigen tests could be used to eliminate some of the logistical challenges associated with the policy.
 thank you councilman petty um just to clarify i recommended not over-the-counter antigen tests but just antigen tests and they're they're interesting thank you so because of timing um you know most of the pcr tests are taking anywhere from one to three days to get results so what
 would the fallout be if we had an employee that had a PCR test that came back positive three days later, but it didn't work. So that kind of goes against the spirit of this. So for somebody who is asymptomatic, an antigen test would be sufficient. If you had an employee that is symptomatic, you would need to do a PCR.
 And then you would have to do some follow-up testing. This is what I was talking about earlier about some of the logistics. We really have to look at doing the right test for the right employee or patient at the time, given the symptoms. It also takes into consideration the percentage of Delta, how prevalent it is at that moment, what test is correct.
 So I can really get down to these percentages, but you need to be making sure you're doing the right tests at the right time for the right person.
 We could use antigen testing and that would be financially better for the city, however the over the counter test, I think their sensitivity is too low that we get a lot of false negatives with that in asymptomatic individuals, the medically performed CLIA compliant, CLIA waived
 office antigen tests are superior and that's what is what I would recommend as a starting point for testing. I'm getting way into the weeds so I'll stop right there and see if you have anything. No, it's good because at the end of the day I'll be deciding what is going to be what here in the next few days.
 So, so you're saying the antigen test would work if you have, you don't have symptoms? You do not have symptoms, that's correct. But I do not recommend that at home test, the ones that are. Okay, yeah, I kind of. But if it's somebody symptomatic, they should have a PCR test. And if somebody is asymptomatic and has a positive antigen test, they should have a follow-up PCR test to confirm that.
 Dr. Sharkey, I had a question for you. One of our public commenters mentioned something about the PCR not being as reliable. Can you kind of speak to that? The PCR is the gold standard for testing, and it actually detects.
 the RNA of the virus being present. I do not know what she was referring to, quite honestly. Okay, thank you. How quickly can you get the test back from a PCR? Isn't it a day or two for that one? PCR, ideally it's back in 24 hours. If the lab is unindated, we saw last summer,
 Yeah, seven to 10 days. But our capacity is up. Right now, kind of the standard is 24 hours, but sometimes it is longer. Okay, but the antigen's fast. The antigen is back with, depending on the situation, as quickly as 15 minutes, but the same day. Okay, anything else, Matthew? Yeah, a few other things. Thank you, Dr. Sharkey.
 So I wanted to ask that question because we did anticipate some logistical issues with implementing this, but it seems that they're solvable. In my opinion, that they're worth solving, that the money is worth spending. And the point about the money being worth spending, I think this goes to the last question about when would it end that we heard today. And again, I have to...
 I would hope and expect that the mayor and the team would consult with the Board of Health and take the board's advice on when to end this. But I would expect it's sometime in early 2022 based on the modeling that I've been reading. Now, I'm not an expert. I don't want anybody to take my word for it. I want people to consult with the Board of Health and take...
 and take their advice. And I guess this is really my strongly held belief that no matter what we vote tonight and no matter what the text of this resolution is, this is still just a request on the mayor. And I would hope that...
 No matter what this resolution says or the vote looks like, the mayor will just go straight to the Board of Health and ask them how he can implement a policy like this in the best and most effective manner. So we've been in this pandemic for so long. In some ways, it feels like, you know, when these items come up, that they're coming up and we're trying to do them quickly and at the last minute and figure everything out all at once.
 But we've known for months now about the Delta variant and that this is coming. And we've known for longer than that that the vaccines work and they've been made widely available. We've had plenty of time to think about whether or not we should implement policies like this and how we can. It feels like it's time to me. I hope we'll do it. Okay. Council Member Gutierrez has her hand up. Yes. Go ahead. Thank you, Susan. Thank you, Susan.
 Yes, I just want to say thank you to the Board of Health for being here to answer our medical related questions and Dr. Sharkey's time and energy. I know she's put quite a bit of work to help guide us.
 So I'm looking forward to that. I'm definitely going to be supporting this. We, you know, we're talking about people's lives and you can't put a price tag on that. And when you have people who have taken the responsibility to get their vaccine and, and, and, you know, follow the data, follow the information.
 And then they're in a situation when they're at work that causes them health and safety issues for their potential family that cannot get vaccinated. That's when it becomes our business. People's private decisions that affect the health and safety of our employees is our business.
 And speaking of business, you know, the gentleman, Mr. Tisnotto, made the point that we're shutting down businesses. That's absolutely not true. All for economy. And, you know, as our sales tax of numbers, again, we're going to lean on the numbers.
 We had a great report of our sales tax going up. That's because we're leaving it up to the businesses to either decide how they want to implement their mask policy. We are also making a decision how we want to implement to be effective for our employees. And so, you know, that sales tax number says it all. We're businesses are doing great in Fayetteville. And then I guess the last thing I want to say is,
 You know, we, I think that we need to be thinking about, again, people who really cannot get
 vaccinated and really have ruled medical issues. And I do want to stand behind those people. But you know that there's a few of that really cannot do this, and I think people who are trying to come up with reasons to not wear a mask or claim data, that's not correct. You know that it's just not helping the situation. 90% of the people that are in hospitals right now are people who are not vaccinated. That's data.
 Okay, so if we can reach herd immunity and vaccinate more people, then everyone's going to be more healthy. And I don't know, you know, the breakthrough infections, it's going to happen, but it's a tiny, tiny percentage of the overall. So if we're all healthier, we're all going to get less, there's less chance of us getting sick. So I'll definitely be supporting this. And Matthew, thank you so much for bringing it forward.
 Welcome. Councilmember Barnes has her hand up. Okay, go ahead. Yes, I want to thank Matthew for bringing this forward. You know, I feel like we should be doing something more, but I'm not sure if this is the thing that we should be doing or not. And
 You know, I agree with Sloan about some of the challenges with this. And, you know, even though in, you know, if I think with my heart or I think with my head, I have I have concerns. And I want I would love for everybody to get vaccinated. But I think our our elected officials at a national level.
 kind of state level, should have done a better job 18 months ago when they were telling people that this was fake.
 And I think the genie's already out of the bottle and the people that are going to get vaccinated aren't going to get vaccinated. They're already vaccinated. And the people that aren't just probably aren't. And I don't know what to do to incur other than give encouragement and, you know, to get people vaccinated. So we've talked a lot about vaccinations with this testing possibility here.
 I just don't know if this is the thing to do, though. I mean, I'm not completely sure about this. I'm on the fence for it right now. I appreciate Tim Nyander bringing in the questions that he did on behalf of his department. I think because, you know, I think those are probably some of the people that work in that department may be, you know, not as...
 readily available to come to the meetings and that sort of thing. And I'm concerned about what the chief of police has said about, you know, we're already short-staffed.
 I don't know, you know, I'm trying to weigh this out. And on one hand, we could be short staffed, but on the other hand, do you want people walking around with COVID exposing their coworkers? I'm not completely sure how I'm going to vote on this, but I'm going to make my indecision at this point. I want to make it clear that I'm indecisive right now. Thank you. Council Member Kirk has her hand up. Yes, go ahead.
 Thank you. And thank you, Matthew, for bringing this forward and really making us all consider and think about the challenges of implementing something like this. I'm a bit on the fence just because of the logistics, and I don't want to lose employees, critical city employees. So I'm really wondering if we couldn't modify this proposal that you have before us.
 and really ask the mayor to investigate with the Board of Health and to come back with us with maybe a way to implement this or a policy instead of really just sort of dictating exactly what we would like him to do through this. I guess it's through this resolution. So I would like to give the mayor and maybe the HR people a...
 and the Board of Health a little bit more time to maybe find a solution rather than what we have before us tonight. So I don't know if you would be open to a friendly amendment like that.
 Thank you, Councilmember Turk. I'm completely and 100% open to an amendment like that. At the end of the day, this resolution is a suggestion no matter what it reads. And I would say the only thing I disagree with that you said there was that I would hope that if we amend the resolution in the manner you suggested, that the mayor wouldn't come back to the council for approval to implement the policy, but that he would simply go forward with what he worked out with the Board of Health and report to us.
 Okay, thank you for, I agree with that. Thank you. I really kind of misspoke, but yes, I agree with that. I'm sorry.
 Sorry, would you like to I have something written, but I'm sure it could be done a lot better. Would would you like to have your own version or should we wait till the end of maybe there are other council members that want to comment? But my my motion would be that we would ask the mayor to investigate with all the respectful, respectful parties and figure out a solution to this that work for our city.
 I got it. We've got Councilmember Kenyon has his hand up. Go ahead, Mark. Well, I tell you what, I don't know who knows this or not, but I was with SmithKline Biologicals, the vaccine division of SmithKline for 23 years, and I retired as a senior executive from that division. So I know a little bit about virology.
 vaccinations, immunology, from a very practical standpoint, supported by valid years and years of valid research. First of all, the scientific data that I support has to be based on scientific method. It needs to be replicated. It needs to have a double-blind study, et cetera, et cetera. And a lot of what we were passed
 uh through emails was not valid scientific studies and so i have to go with what i know and i'd have to go with what i believe is good logic so i do think that we must somehow implement uh with our city employees um a program that protects other employees
 Anyone who is immunocompromised is walking around like that right now with a great deal of fear. If you know anyone that's in chemotherapy, if you know someone that has an immune deficiency disorder, they are walking around in terror right now. And we have to be empathetic with what they need for protection also.
 I was actually going to suggest an amendment also, although I think Council Member Turk has it right on the button. And we do need to offer support for a resolution that some type of program is implemented to protect the safety of those that are affected.
 for some reason are more likely to have consequences of being infected and impacted by COVID.
 The logic of allowing more discussion with medical professionals, with our Board of Health that we reinstituted just in case we had situations like this, I do think that we have to take their opinion seriously. Also as a manager of a corporation, I know how important it is to allow the employees to have choice.
 The corporation that I work in right now, where I have management responsibilities, it's been very tough because I do want to respect a person's right to choose. But I also have to look at the protection of coworkers. The tough balance.
 I think that one of the things that you must enforce is masks and social distancing, regardless what you feel. It might help the other people, if you have any respect for humanity, to feel better about being protected. I also personally know from data that our vaccines are safe. Are they infallible? Is someone not going to have an allergic reaction? People have allergic reactions to food.
 but we still have food we need it and the data that was passed to us regarding the deaths associated with a vaccine is not valid so that's a real concern the efficacy also has been established through scientific method yes ninety-some percent of the individuals will have some type of response to offer protection with the vaccines
 Some people won't, but that's the people who won't and won't be protected are very, very minuscule compared to those that have a immune response that offers some protection, albeit may not be perfect. As we know with our hospitalization data, that those that are in ICU and that have the most severe cases of COVID are not vaccinated.
 When you're talking about millions of people that have been impacted by this virus, a coronavirus that has the capacity to replicate, then there's going to be anomalies. And someone can take an anomaly, put it on the Internet, and it gets all sorts of attention.
 of interest from those who do not support a scientifically valid point of view. And that is their right, just as I have a right to look at scientific methodology. So I'm saying all this to support the fact that I think that it is a responsibility of
 protections the best they can without totally impacting an opportunity for choice with some of the employees. I think that the Mayor and his staff have the capacity to evaluate a further
 information, looking at other municipalities, looking at other corporations, and doing some research and allowing our Board of Health to have input that we can come up with a solution. But I do think that it is of interest and good faith that we have to move forward with some type of plan. We have to offer protection. At the same time, we do have to worry about...
 keeping our positions staffed, especially our public safety positions. And I don't know what the answer is. Like I said, it's been real tough at our corporation because we do have a lot of employees that are anti-vaxxers. That's their right. But they cannot come into the plant without any protection or without any concern of safety saying,
 to put our whole workforce in peril. So I think we must move forward on this. I think Council Member Petty for stepping up to the plate and presenting something for us to consider. I think that Council Member Scroggins had all sorts of valid points that I endorse. I think that Council Member
 Council Member Bunch also has the same concerns that we're all faced with. I think that Council Member Gonzalez has adequately expressed the importance to her of offering protection to other people. And she probably personally has a reason to feel this way. None of my business, but I've seen her. Congratulations. And anyway, we must...
 We must take a responsible action and have some type of resolution to offer a meaningful way to help protect the employees that we employ. So that's my point of view. I will be supporting this, but I will expect an amendment. There you go. There you have it. All right. Who else? Teresa, you were about to do an amendment, I believe.
 Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. My motion would be motion to ask the mayor to investigate the best way, a most practical way to keep employees safe through either implementation of more encouragement of vaccination or testing. But I'm also open to some modifications or better wording than that. That was just on the fly.
 I would, you didn't mention the health. Yeah, I should add health and, sorry, health and welfare of. No, working together with our. Y'all, y'all, I'm going to take it to the health board probably tomorrow night. So everybody, whatever is done here, everybody take a chill pill. It will go to the health board and we will get their input.
 And Mayor, also, and I'm sure you would include the HR, too, in all of this. Oh, yes, I can assure you HR is very involved right now. And seek legal workforce counsel to ensure that we're within Arkansas law. Well, that's, well, I don't know. Obviously, we're going to look at it very closely. I've been working with the city attorney's office and other, you know,
 I did analyze what Councilmember Petty had suggested in the original resolution and that I believe is within our rights under Arkansas law. Just like the mask mandate was once the Arkansas law that prohibit them was enjoined by the court in Pulaski County and as long as it remains enjoined then the mask mandate that the City Council passed is effective and is not in violation of the law.
 Keep in mind that city policy for employees is going to be something that will be finally decided by Mayor Jordan. You certainly can make recommendations to the mayor. I think he welcomes that.
 And I explained that to Councilmember Petty on why it needed to say this was a recommendation to the mayor. But the mayor does have many policies for the employees. He's a chief executive officer and the employees are really his responsibility and he will be the one to make the final decision. That is what is going to occur.
 If I might, I might make a simple language suggestion and get your feedback on this, Councilmember Turk. In the spirit of your suggestion, two changes. One change to the resolution title where it now reads, to request that Mayor Jordan require all city employees, it would instead read to request that Mayor Jordan
 investigate a requirement for all city employees and then remaining the same after that for the rest of the paragraph. And a second change down in section one, in the second line at the end of the second line, it says Mayor Jordan establishes city policy. Instead, it would say Mayor Jordan explore establishing a city policy. Just those two changes.
 I would support that. I think those are good changes. Thank you. Well, in that case, I'll make that a motion or second the motion, whichever is appropriate. You can make the motion and I'll second it. How's that? Great. So moved. Okay. So that's the amendment. One discussion. Any other discussion on the amendment? No.
 let me make sure i have the second part of that right in your the second part was in section one if i'm not mistaken where you want to insert should before establish is that is that your amendment or did i get it wrong uh it's a little wrong kit it should say mayor jordan explores establishing a city policy okay thanks thank you
 So once I'm done exploring, I'm going to implement a policy unless somebody wants to see
 that. I would go into the Board of Health and talk into legal services. And I know Missy's on this line right now. I've been working with her the last week. I did not have a lot of time to respond on a lot of this because we didn't see this. I didn't see the resolution until last Tuesday. So we've been working diligently to
 come up with something. We haven't got it all pulled together. It would involve the Board of Health and the HR department for sure. And I will leave it up to you whether you want to see the policy again or not. Mayor? Yes? I would like to see the policy once you come up with the final policy. You want to see it? Yes, sir.
 Well, Mayor, I want to report, but I don't want you to come back and ask for permission from the council. And if that's something you need to get a vote on, let's take a vote on it. But this is your policy and this is your purview. And everybody just keep in mind that the mayor's in charge of the staff and that's state law. So I want you all to be comfortable, but...
 at the end of the day, I'm going to make the call here. I'm going to make the decision because that's state law. And I will get plenty of input from the finance director on the funding and that sort of thing. And then I will have, as they say, the ball and away we go. We'll see where it takes us.
 And I might add one thing on that, you know, state law and that being the right thing, the way we should do it. This is also a state of emergency and a pandemic. And how many cases are announced in Washington County every single day?
 Waiting two weeks to come back to ask the council for another round of permission is just, I think, really on the pale. Matthew, I agree with you. I mean, I will move on something here pretty quick. Thank you, Mayor. Well, thank you. So we have a motion and a second. Is that...
 Are we? We have an amendment to what we already have to the resolution. OK, right now we've got right now we've got an amendment. So OK, thank you. Let's vote. All right. Care. Are you with us? I am. Can you hear me, Mayor? Yes, ma'am. There's nothing else. Then we'll vote on the amendment first. OK, everybody good. All right, let's go. Care which police call the roll.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Okay, now we have the amended resolution. May I move we pass the resolution? Okay. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Ertzford? No. 62. Okay. Okie doke. All right, thank you all. Let's move along to number two.
 enact Article 32 commissioned to preserve, oh sorry, an ordinance to enact Article 32 commissioned to preserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create black historical markers. Whereas on August 17th, 2021, the City Council unanimously passed Resolution Number 210-21,
 to establish a commission to preserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create a black historical markers in Fayetteville. And whereas the establishment of this commission as membership duties and purposes should be enacted into the Fayetteville Code. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby enacts Article 32 into the Fayetteville Code as set forth below,
 Article 32, Commission to Preserve Historical Black Structures and Cemeteries and to Create Black Historical Markers, Section 33.440, Establishment. This commission to preserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create black historical structures was established by resolution 13.
 20-21-21 which was passed unanimously on August 17, 2021. Such establishment is confirmed by this article. Section 33.441 purposes. A. A purpose of this commission is to recognize, acknowledge, protect, and preserve historical black structures and cemeteries
 honor of the vision accomplishment and perseverance of Fayetteville's early black families and individuals and the churches and other structures they built subsection B another purpose of this commission is a creation of black historical markers to recognize the struggles and achievements of our black citizens to promote diversity and equality for all Fayetteville residents and to oppose discrimination against any person in Fayetteville
 Section 33.442 Membership and Composition. Subsection A, Membership. This commission shall have seven members, which includes a city council member appointed by the mayor. The commission shall include a member that is very familiar with an historic black church in Fayetteville. The other five commissioners shall be selected at large. Subsection B, Terms. The city council member appointed by the mayor shall serve a term commensurate with the mayor who appoints the council member.
 The Mayor may reappoint the Councilmember to additional terms. Subsection 2, all other Commissioners will have three-year terms, except two at-large Commissioners will initially serve for two years and one at-large member will initially serve for one year. Subsection 33.443, Duties. Subsection A, Preservation and Protection.
 The Commission may work with and coordinate its preservation goals with the Historic District Commission. The Commission may recommend protection or preservation measures for particular historic black churches, structures, and cemeteries to the City Council and the Historic District Commission. Subsection B, Black Historical Markers.
 The Commission should research and investigate sites of important struggles and achievements of our Black residents and their supporters to promote diversity and equality and to oppose discrimination in Fayetteville. The Commission may recommend to the City Council that a Black historical marker memorializing such important site be created and installed at such location.
 subsection 33.444 meetings the commission shall meet at least quarterly to conduct its regular meeting and meet more often if desired by the commission the chair of the commission may call a special meeting upon two days notice to the commissioners this was a ordinance that i drafted for council member jones and i'm sure he might have some comments mayor okay deandre do you have some comments to make
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan and City Council, and thank you, Kit. At this point in time, I don't have any comments or questions. Again, I really appreciate Kit's work on this, and I'm looking forward to this commission passing and doing some amazing work to continue to move Fayetteville forward. Thank you.
 Okay, I gotta tell the council that I have a typo in this unfortunately under the terms Under terms be to it should read that all other commissioners will have three-year terms except two at-large Commissioners will initially sure for two years and two at-large members will initially serve for a one-year term This is basically how we do the Planning Commission. So every three years you'll have a couple members up and
 I put one there. I don't know why I did. That's not good math. So it should be two members at large will initially serve in one year term. Okay, so I pick one of them? Yeah, you will pick the council member, and the council member will serve along with your term because a new mayor might select someone else. But if you're reelected, then you can appoint the same council member if you want to or another council member.
 Okay, and then the nominating committee picks the other six? That's right. They will pick six, and the member that is very familiar with the historic black church and family will serve three years and another at large three years. Okay. Two of them two years, two of them one year. Okay. Okay.
 And, Kit, I'm sorry, I did spoke, I spoke with Tara Paxton's office concerning moving forward in, I guess, getting individuals to apply. Moving forward, I guess, as quickly as we can so we can get this commission up and moving. And so I didn't know if the nominating committee, what their thoughts were on this. Oh, okay.
 And I just wanted to say I really appreciate Councilmember Jones reaching out to our office to find out how that would affect the application and the process since we just ended applications on people applying.
 the third. As I've mentioned in a previous email to everyone, Lisa and I have gone back for several years, our deputy, excuse me, our deputy city clerk to find out circumstances where we have advertised outside of the normal period. There has been only one other circumstance and it was
 in a time period where that aligned extremely closely with that term. It was within a two week period. So that is the circumstance we're in right now. And we're prepared as long as, you know, council would like us to move forward on that as well and votes is in to go ahead and open up that application process for this board. Okay. Does that answer your question, DeAndre? Yes, it does. It does. Thank you so much, Kara. Yes, it answers my question.
 So I have a question. So you're talking, Kara, you're talking about opening it, excuse me, I can't even speak now, opening it up for the next term. Is that the next go-round? Is that correct? It would actually be a special opening, Sarah, and it would only be in the circumstance that this aligns with the current one. So depending on how long the advertisement goes.
 It would just depend if it aligns with, you know, the current applications y'all have already received or how you decide to go forward on voting. With that, there's only been one other circumstance that I mentioned that it's been done and it's been within a two week period so.
 Because of that, Lisa and I let Councilmember Jones know that that is something that we can take on now. When it's something like we've had in the past where members leave and come back on, where it's months and months and months out, that's extremely hard for our office. We only have two people here that can run the new application so far, and we're in the process of training additional individuals.
 Okay. Okay. Yeah. So, so you're saying that we would run it and kind of try and coincide it as closely as possible to our regular nominating committee meeting. Okay.
 I would have no problem with doing that, although I do not want to get in the habit of always having a special nominating committee meeting because it throws everything out of balance for the clerk's office and also the members of the nominating committee. But in rare instances, very rare, I would be in favor of that.
 Also, we do have, we just got a packet of the existing applicants for this upcoming nominating committee. And there's always a good possibility that there might be some very well-suited people in there that might not get the position they're asking for, because sometimes there's only one opening and we have five applicants, so we might look at it that way, too. Okay.
 What other questions do we have from the council? Well, I have my hand up, so I guess I'll go ahead and speak. I've been on the nominating committee ever since I have been on city council, and I'm trying to figure out, is there an urgency that I'm missing here that would require us to go ahead and make some changes
 Some some changes since we already have our applications in we're already looking at them. We already know what we're doing Can it not wait till the next court? I guess I'm trying to figure out what the matter of urgency is because it it isn't easy for those of us that are on the nominating committee to you know look at all the applications that come in and validate them and put them in perspective of the current members and who he's leaving and
 So I don't know. I guess I need someone to help me understand what the urgency is. There's no urgency. Initially, we were hoping to there was a going a original black family event.
 or black resident native Fayetteville reunion that was going to be held on September the 4th, but due to COVID that was canceled. So at this point, since that's happened, I don't think that there's anything urgent. I really don't. And I appreciate that question. And as far as I'm concerned, as far as I can see, there's no urgency. If we have to move it,
 But if we have to wait until the next go around or the next time, I'm completely open to that. Thank you. That's kind of what I was wanting to know.
 Okay. Council Member Bunch has her hand up. I'm in support of that as well. If there's no great sense of urgency. And DeAndre, the longer you have to advertise, there's the more time that you have to drum up the best people to be on this. And once we get it established, what it will be.
 we can as members of the council we can all try and encourage people to apply for it that would be You know the best people possible too. So I think it's better not to rush it and I'm glad mark His expertise to the discussion as well. Thank you. Thank you Could you have any other questions? Well, let's take some public comment. I
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Nobody. Nobody? All right. Who would like to address us tonight that's here on this topic? Okay.
 Okay, then I'm gonna bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. It is on the second reading. So what's the wishes of the council? It's on the first reading, I guess. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hurdsburg? Yes. An ordinance to enact Article 32 Commission to preserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create black historical markers. And I will assume unless the city council indicates otherwise that the scrivener's error I made that's on the ordinance right now will be corrected without the need of a formal amendment.
 So if that's not correct, I need a council member to tell me they want to make a formal amendment. Thank you. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Say again. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon?
 Well, I was wanting a little more time because it's so broad and encompassing with so many different sections, but I will vote yes because I certainly support the intent. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In order to enact Article 32 Commission to preserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create black historical markers. Any final comments from the council?
 I just want to thank Councilmember Jones for bringing this forward. I think it's incredibly important for us to take the time and the effort and the energy to acknowledge and honor the past and celebrate where we're going to go. And I think it communicates a lot to our community and what we value, especially the black community. So I just want to commend Councilmember Jones for all his work to bring this forward.
 Sonia, thank you so very much. And I've been meeting with a group of African American residents who've lived here forever. And they've been very vocal about feeling
 feeling as if our history has been left out. And there's a lot of rich history, a lot of history that I know nothing about. And I believe as a council member that I'm standing on their shoulders of a lot of African-Americans who've made some amazing accomplishments here in
 their history is now being told, that it's going to be told, and it's going to be told in a manner of accuracy and in a manner that's going to move Fayetteville forward. So thank you so very much. Okay, anybody else? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon?
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number three. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve a quote from Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC for refurbishment of the ozone disinfection system
 at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $19,224.75 plus applicable taxes and freight charges.
 Whereas the 2014 Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility upgraded to ozone disinfectant systems, which includes specialized equipment that the manufacturer must provide and service. And whereas Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC is the sole manufacturer and service provider for the brand of ozone generators that are installed at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility.
 now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a quote from Pinnacle Ozone Solutions, LLC, for refurbishment of the ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $19,224.75 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges.
 Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor. The Nolan plant was upgraded from multivitamin disinfection to ozone disinfection in 2014 as an alternative to chlorine disinfection.
 In addition to removing pathogens and micro constituents, ozone is proven effective in removing pharmaceuticals and endocrine disrupting compounds found in personal care products. These conventional treatment plants are not specifically designed to remove these constituents.
 The ozone disinfection system has several ozone generators that disinfect the wastewater as part of the process. Ozone is produced whenever the O2 molecules are split apart and recombined to form an O3 molecule, which is the ozone.
 Pinnacle Ozone Solutions is the sole manufacturer and service provider of our brand of ozone generators that's installed at SILC. They've submitted a quote for refurbishment of two generators and all 46 heat sink fans in the disinfection system. They will also provide a replacement solenoid valve. They will replace one solenoid valve and give us four spares.
 staff does recommend approval and refurbishment services to properly maintain the ozone dish infection system they have submitted a quote for 19 224.75 cents freight at 719 and 40 cents at tax their estimated 1944.56 for a total cost of 21 888.71 cents
 Funds are available in the plant pumps equipment account with an water certified Decided was presented to the water and sewer committee along some teams. We got four to nothing but to forward to the council for consideration to Okay, what questions do we have for Tim from the council Let's take some public comment
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chambers will be allowed to speak second who do you have on zoom susan nobody mayor okay do we have anybody in person like to speak on this topic
 Okay, I'm going to bring you back to the council. This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. What discussion or action would the council like to take? I would suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 And norm that's to waive competitive bidding and approve a quote from Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC for refurbishment of the ozone disinfectant system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $19,224.75 plus AFPOL taxes and freight charges. Move that we submit the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Do you hear us? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve a quote from Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC for refurbishment of the ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $19,224.75 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-056, located at 2699 West Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. for approximately 0.43 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and RA Residential Agricultural to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map and the legal description both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and RA to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Reflected zoning change provided in section 1. Okay, Jonathan Thank you mayor. This property is located in southwest Fayetteville it's about a fifth of a mile from interstate 49 interchange with partner for King Boulevard and
 It's on the more specifically southeast corner of East Farmers Drive and MLK. The northern half of the property is developed with a small non-residential building and a parking lot associated with it. The southern half of the property is under quite a bit of tree canopy and the location of a culvert. Mirroring this development pattern is the zoning on the property.
 It's currently zone C2 along Martin Luther King, and it's zone which is thoroughfare commercial and RA residential agricultural along the southern half of the property.
 The entirety of the property is pretty singular in the sense that it is fully within either FEMA floodplain or floodway. The request before the council tonight is to rezone the property in its entirety to C2 thoroughfare commercial and to effectively rezone the balance of that property that's currently a residential agricultural property.
 Zoning is fairly bifurcated in the area with very intense commercial uses and allowances along MLK, abutting some very low density residential uses to the south of the Farmers Drive area. With this, staff finds the applicant's request to be fairly incompatible from a land use perspective.
 The C2 zoning districts creates an incompatibility given many of the intense uses that it allows, although heavy commercial activity is not uncommon along Parkway St. King Jr. where C2 abuts quite a bit of low density residential in the area.
 Staff does find that to be, finds that to be more of a product of early zoning in Fayetteville rather than our current zoning palette, which has quite a bit of a finer grain that allows for transitions from our more intense corridors into our lower intensity and lower density residential areas.
 From a long range planning perspective, on the other hand, the request does appear to be consistent with some aspects of the city's adopted plans. Firstly, in terms of our future land use map, it designates the property as an urban center area, which is the highest anticipated density and intensity in the city. These are located among our major connecting corridors and our highest activity centers.
 This is also reflected in the growth concept map that's found in city plan 2040. The interchange of I-49 and MLK as a tier two center there, which is second only to the tier one centers that you can find in downtown and the uptown or North Fayetteville
 Similarly, the property includes many attributes of the infill matrix, totaling eight to nine, depending where you stand on the property. This is for its access to water and sewer, prompt fire response, park, transit, and a number of other amenities. As the request relates to 2040, City Plan 2040 and its goals, staff doesn't quite find the consistency with long-range plans to hold up.
 As a Euclidean purely non-residential zoning district, C2 does not permit any housing, either standalone or mixed. And as a result, a rezoning there will not allow for any residential infill or the potential for attainable housing.
 Other city plan 2040 goals that affected staff's consideration includes the last but certainly not least goal of that plan. And again, as earlier mentioned, that the property is fully within floodplain and floodway. This is reflected in the property's designation within the Enduring Green Network.
 While some development can be appropriate and sensitive to the enduring green network, staff finds that the auto-oriented developments allowed in C2 do not generally accommodate this. Given the ... Oh, sorry, here's an image just to kind of give you a general idea of what you're looking at when it comes to the existing zoning as opposed to the existing FEMA floodplain
 If you're not familiar with the FEMA floodplain maps, the orangish color generally aligns with a 500 year floodplain, which means any given year there's a 0.2% chance it'll experience flooding. The light blue is a 100 year floodplain, which of course corresponds with a 1% chance of flood any given year. And the hatched or, yeah, the hatched area is considered a regulatory floodway, where there's almost, there's a very high degree of certainty that there will be flooding.
 If in a large rain event, given the land use compatibility and the general land use plan and consistency staff does recommend that denial of the request. The Planning Commission saw this proposal somewhat differently. Commissioners found the C2 zoning district to the full depth of the property from MLK down to its other property line to align with existing conditions along with the King and its status as a fairly major thoroughfare.
 In response to some discussion about the floodway and floodplain concerns that staff in particular had, commissioners felt confident that our existing development codes would protect against any adverse impacts that could result from trying to develop the overall property. Accordingly, the commission unanimously forwarded the request recommending approval
 And to date, staff has not received any public comment. I'm happy to take any questions the commission has. And I believe Jillian Aponte is the applicant who, but she did share that she might not be able to be here tonight. And if the council does not have a favorable consideration of her request, she asked to potentially be considered to be left on one of the earlier readings so that she may try to attend another meeting. Thanks. So the applicant is not here.
 She does not appear to be mayor. Okay. Well... Unless she's there in person. Is the applicant here in the chamber? Nope. Okay. What questions does City Council have for the staff?
 I have a question for Mr. Kurz. Jonathan, it concerns me that this isn't a floodway. And I wondered if you could comment if there are any existing restrictions or prohibitions such as, you know, concrete impermeable, impervious surfaces that we have in our code right now that would take that sensitive area into consideration.
 Unfortunately, I'm not familiar with any that speak specifically to impervious surfaces. Most of the standards either in our ordinance or federal ordinances are about water displacement. FEMA has standards in the flood plain, which again is that 100-year flood area or the light blue on the map, where properties have to be above a certain base flood elevation to be constructed. Okay.
 and projects being developed in floodway have to demonstrate that they're not displacing water in such a way that it firstly affects development downstream within our ordinances. We have, I think what I've described before as a kind of municipal no rise certificate, and that would apply to the larger floodplain areas that light blue that covers the entire property and effectively the property owner would have to demonstrate again there that they're not having a
 adverse impact displacing water, whether it's a result of fill or perhaps due to impervious surfaces. But that one I'm not as familiar with. I'm not sure if we have any engineering staff on who could speak more to that, though. Just a follow-up to that, the applicant or the developer actually hires the engineer to do the drainage study under our current code. Is that accurate?
 Correct. Our ordinances require them to be a licensed engineer with the state of Arkansas. But not a disinterested third party, only a licensed engineer? That is not enforced by our ordinance. The state licenses engineers. They have a board of ethics that's responsible for addressing any concerns about whether an engineer may be interested or disinterested in a project. Okay. Thank you. What other questions do we have in the council?
 I don't have any questions but I would like to table this so the applicant can be here. Well you can leave it right here on the first reading if you'd like to, Sonya, and then we'll just hold it for two weeks and then it'll be on the second reading. Yeah that would be great. Okay.
 Now let's take some public comments or maybe hear somebody wants to speak on this. Everybody gets one turn at the mic, you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Zoom, those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person will be allowed to speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody.
 Okay, is there anyone here would like to speak on this? It's going to be held for two weeks. Okay. All right. So, Council, we will hold it right here. All right, let's move along to number five. An ordinance to approve Vacation 21-0022 for property located at 1548 North Leverett Avenue to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit.
 whereas the city council has the authority under aca 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the following described portion of general utility easements is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas 1
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a general utility easement as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo section two a copy of this ordinance newly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk and section three this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one any relocation of
 or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. And number two, a 20-foot access and utility easement centered on the existing overhead line shall be dedicated as indicated in Exhibit C. Okay. John?
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is just shy of a mile north of the main University of Arkansas campus. It's on the east side of Leverett Avenue, a little bit south of Sycamore. It's currently developed with some attached residential housing and an informal parking lot. The property is currently encumbered by utility easement, which as you can see in the aerial here encroaches on the existing building on the property.
 It's a bit more clear demonstration of how that easement has limited the ability to pull building permits and otherwise use the property given the city's responsibility for protecting easements for our utilities. Staff does not have any issues with the request. The applicant has provided all the necessary franchise utility sign-offs, and we are recommending approval of that tonight.
 There's two conditions. Mr. Williams noted those, but one is dedication of a new easement centered on the existing overhead power line that is south of the building on the property. And the second, which the council's familiar with seeing on all easement vacations, is that any damage or relocation of the facilities in that easement are at the applicant's expense.
 And I'm happy to take any questions you have. And staff has not heard any public comment on this item. And I believe Blake Jorgensen is available, I think virtually to take questions on this item. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening, Mayor and council. Can you hear me? Yep. Yep. All right, yeah, I have absolutely nothing to add. It's a very straightforward request.
 Hopefully this is pretty easy. Last time I came through with the vacation, it was a bit more complicated and I got zero response from the council, but hopefully this time it'd be more receptive and thank you for your comments. If I have anything, I'll add it to it and let's go. Okay, what questions do we have for the council, for the applicant or the staff?
 Okay, let's take some public comments. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes duration and broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Okay, is there anyone...
 here in person who'd like to speak for the council. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What council action or discussion would you all like to have? Move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion in the second to go to the second reading. Carrie, did you get that one? Second.
 I did, Mayor Jordan. For reporting purposes, I heard Councilmember Gutierrez as the first and Councilmember Turk as the second. Okay, thank you. All right, we have a motion to second, go to the second reading. Kerwood, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 21-0022 for a property located at 1548 North Leverett Avenue to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. We suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Karen would you please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Bunch. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. And orders to approve VAC 21-0022 for property located at 1548 North Ledbert Avenue to vacate a portion of a general utility easement.
 What final comments do we have in the council? Carrie, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Tert? Yes. Herzberg? Yes.
 okay thank you all number six an ordinance to amend chapter 72 parking regulations of the federal city code to increase certain parking rates to reflect the operational cost of updated parking equipment and technology and to create a residential parking permit program an employee discount program for the downtown business district parking zone kit
 Whereas, staff recommends upgrading the single-space on-street parking meters in the downtown square business district by replacing approximately 250 coin-operated mechanical meters with quote smart unquote meters at each on-street parking location.
 And whereas to ensure consistent methods of payment with the on-street smart meters, staff recommends replacing the approximately 275 single-space meters in the five municipal surface parking lots with seven pay stations to allow for payment and permitting by license plate.
 And whereas to cover the operational costs associated with cellular modem connectivity, credit card transaction fees, sensor technology, and affiliated reporting software for the meters, staff recommends increasing the rates for on-street parking and long-term parking lots.
 And whereas staff recommends establishing a residential parking permit program for them and an employee discount program for the downtown business district. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 that the city council the city of favor arcs are here by next section 72.21 residential parking permit program for the downtown business parking district as shown on exhibit one attached here to and made a part hereof section two that the city council the city of favor arcs are hereby repeals the definition of electronic payment stations in section 72.50 definitions
 and enacts a new definition as follows, quote, electronic payment stations, a place where a person who has parked his or her vehicle in a downtown business district or entertainment district parking zone, paid parking space, or lot, may pay the appropriate fee for the paid parking space, unquote. Section 3.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, the City of Fayetteville are to hereby amend Section 72.57, Parking Meter Zones of the Code of Fayetteville, by enacting a new subsection E3 as follows. Subsection 3, the mayor or mayor's designee is hereby authorized to establish grace periods within the entertainment and downtown parking district zones where the parking rate may be waived for a limited amount of time upon the arrival of a vehicle into a paid parking space.
 Section 4. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Oxford are hereby repeal Subsection F, deposit of coin in Section 72.58, Off-Street Parking Facilities Rules and Rates, and an actual replacement. Subsection F as follows. Subsection F, payment required.
 Subsection 1. Except in a period of emergency determined by an officer of the fire or police departments, or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control signal or sign, when any vehicle is parked in any parking space alongside or next to which a parking meter is located in accord with this section, the operator of such vehicle shall, upon entering the parking meter space,
 Immediately make payment for the APCO parking rate.
 If paying by coin, the operator of such vehicle shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the meter such proper coin of the United States as is required for such parking meter and is designated by proper directions on the meter. And when required by the directions on the meter, the operator of such vehicle, after the deposit of the proper coins, shall also set in operation the timing mechanism on such meter in accordance with directions properly appearing thereon.
 Failure to deposit such proper coin or to set the timing mechanism in operation, when so required, shall constitute a violation of this section.
 Upon proper payment and the setting of the timing mechanism and operation when so required, the parking space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle during the period of time which has been prescribed, provided that any person placing a vehicle in a parking meter space adjacent to a meter, which indicates that unused time has been left on the meter by the previous occupant of the space,
 shall not be required to deposit coins so long as his occupancy of space does not exceed the indicated unused parking time. Subsection 2, that this section shall apply between the hours of 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. from Monday through Friday, except city holidays. Section 5, the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Larkshire, hereby repeals subsection G and section 72.58, off-street parking facilities, rules and rates.
 and enacts replacement G as follows. Subsection G, parking lots and parking meters within the downtown business district parking zone. For all parking lots identified in subsection A and all parking meters, the following parking fees are established and shall be required to be paid by the owner or operator of any vehicle parked in those spaces or parking lots. Number one, long-term spaces, 25 cents per hour.
 All other parking meters, 50 cents per hour. Gated lot per space, $30 per month. Four long-term parking permits, hang tags, for use only at the long-term spaces, $30 per month. Subsection 5, the town center parking lot deck. Fees shall be set by the Fayetteville Advertising Promotion Commission pursuant to the terms of this contract with the City of Fayetteville for the operation and maintenance of the town center parking deck.
 If the contract expires or is terminated, fees shall be set at not more than $70 per month nor more than $4 per day if space is available. 6. Discounted parking rates for employees. Employees, parking cards, or coupons.
 In order to assist employees working in the downtown business district parking zone, the mayor is authorized to sell and issue employee parking cards or codes that can be used for certain more distant parking spaces at a highly discounted rate of up to 90% off the normal parking rate. In subsection 6, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals subsection H-4,
 in section 7258 off-street parking facilities rules and rates and enacts a new subsection H4 as follows subsection 4 discounted parking rates for employees
 employees parking cards or coupons in order to assist employees working in the entertainment district parking zone The mayor is authorized to sell and issue Employee parking cards or codes that can be used for certain more distant parking spaces at a highly discounted rate of up to 90% Off the normal parking rate. Okay Thank you Justin I believe you have this
 Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Thank you, Kit, for reading that. I'm going to try to briefly explain what all of that means. This is the first step in what we see as a project to
 and improve the parking equipment and associated technologies in our downtown business district. We have a funding source through the dissolvement of the off street parking development district that took place last year when they transferred their assets to the city and their remaining funds. The funds that we received can only be used for parking related purposes within the boundary
 boundaries of that district this is a map of the downtown parking district so this is the downtown square Dixon Street to the north College Avenue coming up West Avenue Center Street
 Then meandering back along Block Street as part of the western boundary. The green on-street spaces are our current metered on-street spaces. These yellow lots with the points are the five surface parking lots throughout this downtown business district that we'll be talking about.
 So the proposal in a nutshell is to upgrade approximately 250 on street meters to smart meters.
 to replace the approximately 275 single space meters throughout those five surface parking lots with pay stations to create a residential permit program and an employee discount program, similar to what we have in the entertainment district for this downtown business district as well, and to implement mobile app and payment and way finding.
 abilities within this district. So when we talk about on-street smart meters, our current on-street meters are mechanical meters that have been around for decades. They only accept coins. What we're recommending is we replace each of those with what's referred to as a smart meter, which has the ability to take credit card, contactless payment, payment via mobile app, and they're also outfitted with sensor technology
 which shows in real time when parking spaces on street are available when there's a vehicle parked in it or when they're vacant, which can allow for a grace period and a friendlier approach to enforcement as well as providing real time parking availability to the public, which I think we see as a real benefit.
 For the off street parking solution, we're recommending we look at moving towards pay stations, so the majority of Parkers in our off street surface lots or our permit holders. So we feel like the most.
 We feel like pay stations are the most cost effective way to provide these same services in the lots that we're going to be providing on street. And it also provides an opportunity to transition to a pay by plate service.
 pay-by-license plates method of management that allows those permit holders to register via their license plate, so no more physical permits would be required. It allows people to prepay for their parking because you're tying your parking session to your license plate, not a specific spot, and it allows you to move from one space to another, you know, so long as you continue to have an active parking session.
 So that's the capital outlay that would be funded by the funds that we received from some of the funds that we received from the off street parking district. There will be new ongoing operational costs if we were to upgrade these services and these technologies. And so we're recommending that we change the rates on street from 25 cents an hour to 50 cents an hour.
 And that we change the rates in the surface parking lots from 15 cents an hour to 25 cents an hour. We're not recommending any changes to the free parking around the square. We're not recommending any changes to the dates and times that these regulations are enforced. It would stay Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. All right.
 In addition to the equipment, we're recommending that we streamline some of our permitting options. Like I mentioned, we have a residential permit program and an employee discount permit program in the entertainment district. We think those should be expanded and offered to this downtown parking district as well.
 And so what we're envisioning there is that the residential and employee discount permits would be made available in some combination of these green surface parking lots that are typically more remote, more underutilized and maybe right outside of the main core of the premium spaces.
 So that's where your permits and discounts would be available. So we really feel like these are hopefully one step in a larger goal of identifying common sense services and solutions to our parking system and being able to scale those over time as the need arises for.
 replacement of equipment or if you know as our downtown it continues to expand will hopefully be able to offer the same types of services throughout all of our parking districts so to recap the specific code changes that we're looking at
 allow for additional types of payment on street. Our current code restricts it to coin only.
 It allows for different types of equipment to be used, such as pay stations. Our current code is restrictive in that it only calls for single space meters. So that's those are two code changes that, of course, the rate changes and the authorization to implement these permit programs within this district.
 We've identified some vendors that offer these services and are in talks with them in formalizing a contract, but we see this as a first and very necessary step.
 before we move forward with any formal agreements with the vendor, particularly with the rate changes. We really have to identify a way to pay for the ongoing operational costs before moving forward with any next steps. We talked about this at the Transportation Committee back in June. These items were unanimously approved for consideration.
 to the city council. I would note that there was some conversation around the rate structure and some interest in moving away from codifying specific rates within the code which is what we're proposing and move towards giving some flexibility for staff to administratively move
 set pricing based on desired utilization levels. If you recall, that's how we set up the Wilson Park neighborhood back in 2019 with that variable pricing and that's worked without issue, but that's not what's being proposed for you. We're calling for a specific rate of 50 cents and 25 cents. And then the last thing I'll mention is there's one
 additional code change that's kind of separate and apart from from the parking equipment proposal and that has to do with the town center parking deck. So currently there.
 entry rate for that parking deck is set at $4 per entry, and that's set in the code. And so they've asked for the flexibility to set their own rates in a separate contract that we have with them for services. And so that code change is also outlined in this proposed ordinance.
 So that's a brief explanation and I will just stop there and be happy to take any questions. What questions do we have in the council?
 So I have some questions. Justin, can you go back to your presentation where you have that meter, that little picture of that meter? I just want to make sure I kind of understand what we're proposing here tonight. And there's also a huge amount of changes that is wrapped in this ordinance.
 So the meter that you're showing right here, this would be the new meter that would replace the old coin operated ones, correct? Correct. All we're really replacing is the meter head. So the pole and the base would stay the same and we would just come in on top with the new meter head. But yes, there would be, this would remain at each on street parking space where they currently exist.
 And you can still pay by coin. So you've got a huge amount of options on your payment method, right? Exactly. We're not trying to take any options away. We're trying to expand options. Okay. You know, in the text, it would be nice if you could say, you know, expanding options or adding payment options rather than just, say, replacing options.
 the 250 point operated mechanical meters so if you know i just want to be very clear to the citizens because i know many of them like the coin operated and the way the text reads right now it looks like you're getting rid of that option so i i just try to make this very clear that this is additional payment options and you're not taking away from the coin operated version um
 The other thing is that, you know, I read in the paper the other day, but I don't see it here in your presentation, that it would cost about $166,000, if I remember the numbers correctly, to make this upgrade. And so that's why the rates were going up. Do I have that correct, or is my memory wrong? No.
 The ongoing operational cost for the technology associated with the new equipment, we estimate at around $60,000 annually. So that's what's justifying the rate change. So it's not really going to the parking fund, it's just maintenance.
 As you know, parking can be quite a controversial issue and changing the rates might impact a few things. So thank you, I'm glad it was just 60,000 and that I had that wrong. Okay, I think that's all my questions, thanks. Okay, what are the questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address everyone's participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are here in person in the chambers will be allowed to speak after that who would like to address this on zoom both counts okay go ahead
 All right, can you guys hear me all right? Yep. All right, well, hey guys, my name is Beau Counts. You may know me from being all over the place, but I also am a local business owner downtown. So, you know, I'm there all the time.
 and before everybody kind of gets their shields out and thinking I'm going to pull a torch and a pitchfork out and go, boo, parking changes, I'm actually in pretty support of this. Justin and I have talked in length about this program. And, you know, like most people, I think there's going to be a little bit of growing pains when they hear price increase. But this system, I kind of want to throw my support behind it. It does offer a lot of really cool options for customers to –
 not only pay with coins because a lot of people down there love their coins. I'm one of them. But you can also pay by card, pay by permit, pay by touch, app. It's a lot of really cool things that I think is going to move us up to the 21st century. My only hesitation, and I think Justin has sort of addressed some of these, but there are still a little bit of verbiage in the code. And that's just kind of how city things work. There's always this sort of backdoor like...
 if we decide to change our mind in a little bit and take it out on the city. And I just kind of want to make sure that that's addressed. You know, in item number three where it says rate changes, the very last paragraph says staff notes that the Transportation Committee Chair recommends giving staff flexibility to set administratively set pricing within certain parameters. This approach would allow for the ability to periodically adjust pricing based on recent
 And if anybody have looked at the housing market and the rental market and commercial renter, things that just move periodically based on demand can sometimes be incredibly dangerous. So I would kind of maybe have the council think about, before we do a price change, like have a meeting about it and not just make it something that's just completely like, eh, well, it's already built into the code. We can change it if we want to. And all of a sudden something that was 50 cents
 becomes, you know, a dollar to match the entertainment district parking all over the entertainment district, which I know is cohesion is a part of this plan. But I think it's cohesion in terms of ability to pay and ability to get that information, not necessarily price all over. And Justin, I've talked about that at length and we're in agreement. But but again, I just want to say I support the system. I think it's great. But just make sure
 as a business owner and a person who uses these things absolutely every single day of the week, that when I hear 50 cents, I want that to be 50 cents for a long time and not 50 cents for six months, then you decide you change your mind and then it's a dollar. So that's all I really have to say about it. I think Justin's worked really hard on this and I really appreciate all his hard work and I am excited to see some pretty cool changes downtown. Who else would like to address this? Okay, is anyone in the council chambers like to address this on this issue?
 okay seeing none i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes council what discussion or action items would you all like to take um mayor i i would like to hold this um there's a whole lot of things in in this ordinance um
 that I think that should be thought about and the public better aware of, just to make sure that they're on board, they're notified, they don't have any hesitation or reservations about this, because there are many elements in here. And I'd also like for us to think about what Mr. Counts just said about having the, allowing the administrative ability to change the, to change the,
 the amounts the parking amounts per hour, so That's what I would like to offer my City Council colleagues if they could hold it for for another two weeks Good councilmember bunch has her hand up Yes, I think I you know, I think I read over this enough and and I'm really pretty ready to vote on this issue of
 Justin, when were the last raises we had on these parking, you know, like it's going from 25 to 50 and from 15 to 25, is that correct? I believe in the 90s, it went to a quarter, if I'm not mistaken. There may be some better institutional knowledge there in the room, but I believe that's when the last rate change took place.
 I'm really in favor of the changes. I think it gives us a pretty good solution to upgrading our parking. People can still use coins if they want to. They can use their phones. And I think doesn't the meter also tell you where the smart meters can tell you where there are parking spaces? Is that correct too?
 So I think that alleviates a lot of problems that people may be having because if they can't find a parking space, they can look at the meter and they can tell where there are parking spaces, if I'm understanding it correctly. So I'm really in support of voting on this tonight. Now, Justin, do we have to have the suggestion of the chair of the Transportation Committee,
 in here or was that just a suggestion? That was only mentioned because there was conversation in the Transportation Committee about that approach to a rate structure. That is not what's being proposed in the ordinance. The ordinance sets the rate hard and fast at 50 cents an hour for on street, 25 cents an hour. Gives no authority to, yeah.
 That was the way I remembered the Transportation Committee meeting, so I just wanted to make sure about that. But I'm really ready to go ahead and vote on this. This went through the Transportation Committee, is that correct Matthew? Yes, Mayor, that's correct. Okay. And you all voted on it, I'm sure. I believe we did, Mayor, and I think Justin probably has any other details from those meetings that you might... Okay.
 yeah that's right it was unanimously um forwarded to the city council for um for your consideration okay i i do i do want to i think that those point is very valid about you know um if if we go from a real drastic change um you know
 in the parking that we should probably bring it back to council, but I'm not sure exactly how much that is. He mentioned from 50 cents to a dollar, so maybe 100% rate increase might be an amendment that I would consider. So as we, it sounds like we're gonna hold it
 I'm going to think about that and see what, see kind of where that falls. So I think that's fair. You know, if it's 10 cents or 15 cents, I agree. I don't think that's a big deal. But if we go, if we double the rate, then we probably should be able to bring that back to council to talk about it and vote on it. So that's all I've got right now.
 Okay, so what's the council want to do? You want to hold it? You want to, what do y'all want to do? Do what? What's there? I'm ready to vote on this. Teresa wants to hold it, so I'm ready to vote on it, though. And that's fine, too. I just need to know what y'all want to do.
 So, yeah, I guess we're at, yeah, I'd like to hold it. But so I don't know if we need to have a vote on that or- No, you don't. I just need to know where y'all wanna go. If you want to vote on this tonight, somebody needs to make a motion to go to the second reading. If you want to hold it, we'll hold it two weeks, but need a little direction here.
 Why don't we just make a motion to go to the second reading and then if it fails then it's held automatically, isn't it, at the second reading? Yeah, if it fails, it'll be held right here until the next meeting. I'll second the motion. So we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. All right. Let's vote. Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes.
 In order to amend section, amend chapter 72 parking regulations of the Fayetteville City Code to increase certain parking rates to reflect the operational costs of updated parking equipment and technology and to create a residential parking permit program and employee discount program for the downtown business district parking zone.
 Justin, can you just recap the $4 on the other deck piece real quick, just to make sure I understand that piece? Sure. So the Town Center parking deck is a gated deck. So you pull up, you pay your $4 entry rate, and the gate arm rises and you go into the deck. That $4 entry rate is set in code.
 It was set by ordinance and the town center has requested some flexibility in setting the pricing for their deck. You know, outside of having to bring in ordinance before you all to consider any time that they might want to do that. We have a separate contract for services with experience Fayetteville.
 um and that rate or rate structure would be outlined in that contract as opposed to the city code so so this ordinance takes the um the set rate out of the code and allows it to be put in that other that contract so but the deck is belongs to the art of the city or to the
 to the town center, to the Experience Fayetteville? Or how does that, what's that relationship? It's technically owned by the city, leased to Experience Fayetteville. So they receive the revenues off of it. We manage it for them in exchange for, we get 50 some odd parking spaces to be able to park city employees in there and as a contract to manage and clean the deck for them.
 But that's in a separate contract. And then our other decks, what do our other decks run for? They're similarly priced. The graduate, I'm sorry, the Meadow Street deck behind the graduate hotel is $3 per entry on the first level, $4 per entry on the top level. And then it's $50 permit parking on the second level.
 And that's the only other deck that has a per-entry rate associated with it. So the one on Spring is just about an hour? That's right. It's just like any other entertainment district parking. Okay. That's all I have. Okay.
 Justin, I have a question. So in this relationship with Experience Fayetteville, do they pay? So you mentioned cleaning the deck. Is the city's responsibility? Does Experience Fayetteville pay for anything else than the upkeep of the deck or anything like that? In exchange for those services that are provided by the city, Experience Fayetteville,
 gives the city access to 55 parking spaces at no cost. And then we take care of everything else, lights, the bars, the machinery, all that stuff. Painting. Right, right.
 I don't have any more questions on the deck, but I would, since it seems like maybe it sounds like people want to move this forward, I would like to propose an amendment that if we have a 100% rate increase, that we bring that back to council on the on-street parking. Okay.
 Councilmember Gutierrez, the way that Justin has proposed the code changes, it locks in the rate already. So what was discussed as possibly having flexibility is not actually before you tonight. Okay. Okay. So it's just flat 50 cents or 25 cents, and then that's it. Okay. That sounds good.
 Well, I move that we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Do you hear us? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay.
 in order to amend chapter 72 parking regulations of the fable city code to increase certain parking rates to reflect the operational costs of updated parking equipment and technology and to create a residential parking permit program and employee discount program for the downtown business district parking zone what final comments we have in the council all right karen would you please call the rooms gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Clutch? Yes. Terk? Yes. Ertzraut? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number seven. An ordinance to amend 111.07 outdoor refreshment area by adopting a revised downtown outdoor refreshment area boundary map in removing the exploration fission.
 Whereas on June 4th, 2020, the City Council approved Ordinance 6322 pursuant to Act 112 of 2019, which established the city's first entertainment district permitting alcohol possession in outdoor public play spaces.
 And whereas on January 19th, 2021, the City Council approved Ordinance 6408, which enacted an expiration date of April 30th, 2024, to encourage larger investments into the program and give businesses and property owners assurance that the program will be active in Fayetteville as long as it continues to perform at high level.
 and whereas based on the success of the downtown outdoor refreshment area staff in the city council transportation committee recommend amending the ordinance to remove the sunset provision and to adjust the boundary of the downtown outdoor refreshment area to include portions of the cultural arts corridor and the south yard development now therefore it be ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one
 that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby men subsection b1 of section 111 07 outdoor freshman area of the fatal city code by adopting a revised downtown outdoor freshman area boundary map as shown on the attached exhibit one and section two that the city council of the city of fable arcs are here by men's section 111 07 outdoor freshman area of the fatal city code
 by repealing subsection one, which removes the expiration provision. Okay, Devin. Mayor, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you.
 Good evening, Council. Devon Howland, Director of Economic Vitality, City of Fayetteville. It's good to be here tonight. I'm excited to have this item back for you tonight. We're proposing a few changes that we sent to the Transportation Committee and I have even more research that we've done on these. These districts have exploded in popularity across the country given the COVID-19 pandemic and the recognition of these tools being useful.
 I wanted to really quickly re-familiarize ourselves with what this district is and what it's not. And so I wanted to review the three primary legs. The open consumption district is kind of what everybody thinks about when they hear the word ORA. It's the program where you can buy from one of the 60 businesses, walk around downtown, leave the establishment, stay on the approved routes.
 however war is a lot bigger than that and that is um while it's a strong part of the program the others are equally as important these special events provision we've talked about that two weeks ago with centennial park thank you for the passage of that and we've also got to see even more events and most recently last week the first first thursday with the outdoor freshman area and it was wonderful sidewalk cafes and parklets are also a part of this because there's no path for possession and consumption of alcohol in them without this program
 Now, we cannot regulate serving. That's going to take state change action on that, but we can allow possession and consumption. And this is the current boundary. Fourteen months ago, when we first brought this to you, we stated that West Avenue, south of Mountain Street and in between South Street, was intentionally left out. We knew a lot of construction was coming, the library expansion, the Fay Jones Woods, the first phase of the ramble.
 Et cetera. And so now what we're wanting to do is this time we're not in a rush. So we're going to look at this item and plan the logistics of it so that any of the signage or waste receptacles needed, et cetera, match the aesthetics of the library, match the aesthetics of the cultural arts corridor and the ramble, et cetera. But there's two provisions here I wanted to point out.
 First is green, that's the approved. But the black line that borders the district is actually the Outlaw Freshman Area. Inside of that boundary is where special events can take place. And things like sidewalk cafes,
 What staff's proposing here, the new western edge of ORA is actually Gregg Avenue. And I wanted to, I felt it was really important to talk about this on the next slide, but to reiterate, staff is not proposing that Gregg Avenue be in part of the open consumption district. The road does not have sidewalks. We are proposing the trail be added, though. We'll talk more about that in a moment. You can already visit Prairie Street Live or Sega's at the Mill District and travel down West Avenue south of South...
 And so this adds about 300 yards stretch right there, and it adds the trail from South Yard to Dexter. I'm going to zoom in a little bit. Oh, I just wanted to note, too, you will see a pullback right in the top left corner here. We had some public comment at Transportation Committee. The University of Arkansas just bought these buildings, and so pulling it back just out of recognition that those were added, and this is not needed there.
 Close to look, again, we're not heading in Greg Avenue, but we are proposing to add the trail, and it's an incredibly important link. It's an important link because it's the only path that we have access south, you know, because, you know, Cays is a state-owned road, and the trail going underneath Martin Luther King Jr. there. But it's bigger than that. Adding in the trail proposes the absolute most safe possible route for a patron to walk the entirety of the ramble from the Mill District.
 And so, again, we are not proposing to add in the trail right now or South Yonge. We need construction to get completed in these areas. We need the Fay Jones Woods to be completed and the park to be lit up, et cetera. Program metrics, not going to camp here very long. We talked about them at the meeting, and they're in your memo. They haven't changed. The program has slowed a lot, and we won't talk about that. But, again, litter has not posed an issue for this program. We're really proud of that because it was proactivity that did that.
 Another thing we're really proud of that I just wanted to say thank you on, because Fayetteville is making a difference here. We are not the only entertainment district in Arkansas now that has a compostable cup requirement. So we see other communities adopt that, which is absolutely awesome. Program volume. So this was in Potsdam and Pittsburgh, and it requested some data in here. We wanted to build upon that and make sure we had this in here. And so when we talk about forage-ranked soils,
 What I think a lot of people don't realize is the open consumption district is just one path. Oral drinks mean lots of things. They mean special events. They mean on-site property usage like what Georgia's did. And early on during the pandemic, it means sidewalk cafes, parklets, and even at sales at Evelyn Hills. And again, we had to create that district across the sidewalk.
 But I thought it was really important as we go to these next slides to just call out, it's not just the open consumption district. There are so many other avenues that sales get made using this program. So program volumes, these are staff estimates. If they seem high, it's because they are. And we had a very unique year the past year. Not all of the utilizations that we saw with the open consumption district were around walking. Georgia used it to fuel comms service weeks before ABC approved their permit expansions.
 And it was a lot busier than you'd think. I reloaded the cups for them near the beginning. The program was also heavily used during Startup Week. We've seen really unique adaptations of places like Maxine's and other places as well during Pride. Sales by businesses have also varied a great deal. We had businesses where this was 90% of their revenue. And I have businesses that are still on their first case of cups, a thousand cups that we provided to them over a year ago.
 And so again, it varies. The key with sales is seating. Some parklets and sidewalk cafes, you'll notice are much more busier than others. West Mountain Brewing is a great example. It's got that great awning from the chamber there. It's just a perfect spot. Estimates for the future. While this is a hard question to predict, I think that we have a really good direction here.
 2020-1 has slowed the program a great deal. And it was designed to do that. Again, we did not want this to be special. We wanted this to be a very calm district. And we wrote this with our businesses and our partners. We didn't ever want an intensity like what you hear at Beeler Bourbon Street. I think we've accomplished that.
 If I had to do an estimate, just judging by what I'm seeing now that we're back at this very unique time, especially with restaurant sales as a city as a whole, have returned to pre-pandemic levels. 150,000 to 200,000 in the open consumption district. I think we can expect we're doing a new measurement poll. But now that one of these other cups that we've provided be depleted, we'll be able to work with Food Loops to measure that even more closely.
 And again, this district was designed to be calm, and the 10 p.m. shutoff is another facet of this that's key. We're also requesting the council consider the sunset provision and removing such that stems from, and the reason for that is there's multiple. First, the district's performance. We as the department are not managing this program. Our businesses are managing this program, and they're doing an incredible job. But we also do want continued investments in the program, specifically in the realm of outdoor seating.
 For a long time, I've gotten to visit some unique downtowns and see unique downtowns in my career that were really energized by outside activity. And I want to see more of that here. I think it's telling that during one of the most challenging economic times of our lifetime, we watched our downtown transform in ways that we never would have imagined. And it had a new energy and feel to it. And this program was part of the business's utilization of this program.
 And in the city attorney's memo that is attached to this agenda item that was redistributed today, one of the questions that was posed is, you know, what has changed to us in the past eight months since this was added? Nothing's really changed, and that's kind of my point. Staff's request is for the council to consider returning the ordinance as it was originally presented back in January. The night that the provision was added and passed, the ordinance had to pass that night to keep the program going.
 We didn't have time, and I'm very fortunate now that that's a different case. We're not rushed with this, but I want to thank you for keeping it going. I had a lot of inquiries from businesses saying, did we talk about that? Was that mentioned? Because, again, we've tried to be really transparent with this program that it's not ours. It's our business's, too.
 Research in Arkansas. So looking at sunset provisions, two come to mind. Eureka Springs had a sunset provision and so did we. Eureka Springs was a very unique situation if you watch what's happened in that community. The city council did pass an entertainment district but forwarded it to their residents for a vote and it failed.
 Some supervisions, they're uncommon, but we've continued to research after Councilmember Turk's request on last Tuesday, and I found out a few things. First of which, Michigan state law requires that all of their districts end in December of 2024. Alabama has a few others, and so does Teflon, Ohio and Wyoming, Ohio.
 and going back, make sure I didn't miss anything. Ah, Montgomery, that was a district in October of 2019 we presented to you, and it was actually the one that I said that had closed. It has now been reopened. It reopened last month, actually. Here's a list of the other entertainment districts we were able to find. I'm gonna post this presentation to our website at the top of the page for folks. Thank you so much for your time, and thank you for your consideration of this. Happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have on this from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Zoom, those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those who are in person in the council chambers will be allowed to speak after that. Who would like to address this by Zoom?
 Brad Amerine. Hey, go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes. All right. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Brad Amerine, Managing Director with Startup Junkie here. We are here to express our support for the expansion of the outdoor freshman area and the removal of its sunset clause. We must continue to maximize the utilization of the outdoor freshman area initiative as it is a vital economic catalyst for the city.
 Beyond the increased vibrance and quality of life improvement that the aura brings to the city, it helps to provide existential support to the local businesses that we all love. By removing the sunset clause and making the aura permanent, we will give local small businesses significant confidence in their planned and existing aura investments and enable this program to continue to positively impact our city. Thank you. That's all. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Vote counts. Go ahead. There we go. You got me? Yeah. It's me again. And I spoke at the very initial reading of this back when we were first proposing it. And it's been a wonderful program. I'm showing my support into this program. And I kind of want to take a little bit of time, just a small second, to remember the first 30 minutes of this city council meeting.
 that whole thing and how fun that was for everybody and how it really set the tone for the rest of the evening. I kind of want everybody that's
 you know, maybe tuning in to realize that people in the hospitality industry and entertainment industry that has been there every single day for the past year. And the ORA has helped create a sort of buffer program to go, Oh, we've got one of these people. Well, here's your product and you can go over there now. And, you know, it, it, just like Devin said, it's,
 We've used this in creative ways that aren't just having people drinking alcohol out on the sidewalk. It's, you know, capturing business from a long line, say out in front of Hugo's, because they're reduced capacity, not just for COVID reasons, but for also lack of staff. So there are people just waiting around and either going home or, you know what, I'll stay and patron this business while I have a beverage in my hand and then wait for my place. You know, there are things, you know, like you mentioned in Evelyn Hill's,
 different restaurants using these things outside of the box and just like the startup junkie guys just said you know with a sunset provision there it makes business owners like me wonder if the investment that I'm going to have to make because no one's gonna do it for me is going to be worth it or not you know and as a business owner and as one of these people that makes this entertainment district something unique you know I like having the confidence that my city
 has got my back on my personal investment to developing this area. And, you know, I truly believe that Devin has been that person throughout this whole project, and, you know, I have full support with keeping this thing going and even expanding it. As we've seen, it's not rowdy, it's not crazy. People have loved it. They've been very respectful. There's no trash. I have nothing but great things to say about this program, and I'll continue to show my support.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Steve Clark. Go ahead, Steve. Can you hear me? Yes. All right. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, I'm Steve Clark. I'm president of the Fayetteville Chamber. I'm here to support not only the continuation of ORA, I tell you the business community believes in that, but also for the elimination of the sunset clause.
 for the very simple reason for these businesses, they're in hospitality. They can change plans overnight, but that's not the best way to run a business. There are some who didn't participate who are now deciding whether they make the investment
 of time, talent, and their money to do this. And to do it for a 23 month period or something else always makes that questionable. Secondly, there are new businesses looking to come to our community. And this is one of the reason, and if there's certainty, they're gonna be more likely to say, this is another factor that weighs the decision of mine in favor of the city of Fayetteville than someplace else.
 On the whole, the business community feels this event, one of the most positive actions that's been taken during this COVID period, with one of the most impactful result
 And it seems like a small effort in the beginning, but the effort has had far outreached what small would define to become a most positive issue, both at the register and therefore in the bank account for the business to stay open. But secondly, in the perception of who and what we are as a community, and that's one that is going to react and respond in times of difficulty with novel ideas.
 clever, intelligent, and ideas that work. And so from my standpoint, I compliment you for adopting this. I compliment you for wanting to take the sunset provision away. I believe that's good judgment and will serve us well. And I hope you will do just that and eliminate that sunset loss. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Zane Chenault. Go ahead, Zane.
 Good evening. My name is Zane Chenault, 2894 East Picasso Place. I'm also an employee of the Chamber of Commerce. And on behalf of the Chamber and myself as a resident, I want to express support for the removal of the exploration provision of the outdoor refreshment area port nets.
 This program has been very successful since its passing. There have been no indications that alcohol-related problems have increased. It has not only helped participating businesses during the pandemic, but it has revitalized the area and the well-savable. Removing the expiration would give local businesses the confidence to not only continue offering customers options, but it would encourage more investments.
 Entertainment districts are being planned or are operating throughout Arkansas and the United States. These types of districts are very popularly young professionals and old professionals like myself and are essential in keeping Fayetteville a city that provides a place to live, work, and play. These districts also increase the city's work-life balance. It's time to make these entertainment districts permanent. Thank you for your consideration. Ed Levy. Go ahead. Ed.
 can you hear me yes yeah my name is ed lee levi i live at 301 southwest avenue uh i'd like to make a few points and i asked the council to con and i asked the council to consider them and i thank the council for allowing my comments i don't dislike the program and support the continuation of aura but there seems to be two questions on the table for this issue
 Both are submitted as having binary possibilities. But actually the council, as you know, can decide to put different stipulations on their decisions. One question is redrawing the open refreshment area.
 That option is being requested, that is being requested includes a lot of residential area, part of the Razorback Greenway and the woodland that the city has built as a natural urban woodland. As a citizen, I voted for a natural urban forest. I question all three of these extensions for different reasons.
 First of all, there is a stretch of both West Avenue and in Grey Avenue that the extension goes right up to that is is a residential zone in virtually no businesses exist between Prairie Street and Meadow.
 I question that economic vitality is served by allowing or promoting alcoholic drinks in residential zones. I also question if those living there feel a need for people consuming in their neighborhoods, but it seems that without Ward 2 meetings, we really don't know what the residents want. Second, I live on a property that borders the Greenway and every week I pick up trash along much of that section that is in question.
 While I haven't seen any aura containers, every week I pick up beer cans and other alcoholic containers. Today, between Prairie and Mountain, there were six beers, beer containers, and one vodka bottle. That doesn't count all the things that were on the other side of the construction fences. Apparently, the law enforcement has not been able to control this. That brings into question the wisdom of promoting drinking in an area where illegal drinking is already a problem.
 Also on that point, during the planning of the Cultural Arts Corridor, a point that was brought up often was the feeling of safety in the wooded areas of the trail. Having the underbrush cleared helped that problem before it grew back, but more drinking in that area will bring more problems with it, and it doesn't serve economic vitality.
 Thirdly, drinking in the woodland of Fay Jones is again going to need increasing policing, also along the Tanglewood Branch. This serves no purpose for the businesses. Selling drinks, encouraging drinking other than our containers will again cause fear to those using the trail system and noise in residential zones.
 Lastly, alcohol is not what was billed as a natural urban forest and it's not what was billed when the citizens approved the corridor. The second question that is before you on this item concerns doing away with the sunset clause and making that permanent.
 The aura originally grew out of the pandemic and the pandemic continues. Maybe it doesn't need a sunset, but it could continue as a provisional to be reviewed. We all know that taking away something that has been given as permanent is more difficult if for any reason in the future the council were to decide that it needs to be modified or even withdrawn. Again, this is being presented as a binary question, but you can do more than choose between yay and nay.
 Lastly, I'd like to mention that compostable cups need sunlight. Once those things are in the trash, they don't compost. It's still plastic. Even though it's got cornstarch in it, it needs sunlight to compost. I thank you for your consideration and remind you that these are not binary questions before you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back.
 the chambers like to speak on this issue good evening mayor and mostly disembodied voices of the city council i appreciate you all taking advantage of zoom at this point and but but this issue seemed like as good an occasion as any to go out and enjoy the evening and make a stop by city hall in person to speak on this since i knew that we would all be diligently masked in the audience
 Tonight I want to tell you how much I love this city because I'm doing three of my favorite things right now. I've got my electric car plugged in at the city's charger. I've been walking around downtown streaming local government meetings on my phone and I've been enjoying drinking a pizza out in a parklet. I did promise Devin I would put down a coaster before my aura cup.
 You all have recognized repeatedly the value of remote work, masks, vaccines, and testing to keep our community healthy and alive during this pandemic. And earlier it was referenced that some of those measures may have harmed businesses.
 I think the aura has been the one that we can point to and say this has been a lifeline to businesses just like those other things have been to the citizens. And the fact that it is still going and still going strong is testament to that. But as several speakers have mentioned tonight, the sunset clause does pose a measure of uncertainty.
 And as I walked down towards Theater Squared for my drinking pizza tonight, I noticed that two of my favorite outdoor patio cafes were no longer there. I don't know why they've closed up, but...
 I would think that they would be much more likely to become permanent if they knew that an investment they make will last. So I hope you will support this, remove the sunset clause, and as we see development that y'all have approved, rezonings and other things here recently, I think the broader boundaries are going to be very useful as well. Thank you. Thank you, Kyle. Who else would like to address this? Anyone? Okay, I'm going to bring this back to the council.
 what actions or conversations do we have with council on this? I just want to commend, you know, Devin and his team for bringing such a great, you know, thing to the city. I think it's really helped us go to the next level and I think it's helping us prepare for the Cultural Arts Corridor and the Ramble. You know, as we as we grow as a city, as we expand our offerings for the creative economy expansion,
 This is exactly in line with what we need to be doing. So trying to figure out how to handle this first, I think that was a really good, smart move. And then COVID kind of made it all speed up and proved the concept. So that's pretty exciting.
 I want to acknowledge Mr. Levi's concerns. If there becomes an issue, I want Mr. Levi to know that I hope that staff will bring it back to us. I hope that the police will bring it back to us and I will absolutely reconsider that. Safety is very important to me. But so far the program has proven to work. And so I'd love to test it.
 first and then see and if we do have some issues, then let's revisit. But I'm definitely going to be supporting this for all the great reasons that all of our speakers mentioned. So I have some comments. As Councilmember Gutierrez just talked about, we're growing. We haven't completed the ramble.
 And I would question that we are at pre-pandemic levels. I don't think we're there yet. I don't think we have seen what Aura will be. I do commend everybody for the rollout and implementation of Aura, and I'm glad it's been so successful and such a safety line for our businesses in town. I think that's been wonderful. But I think we should still continue to go slow.
 Right now, all these businesses can function under ORA. They've got till 2024. And I think by 2024, we will have seen the ramble will be completed.
 We will kind of see what that's actually looking like. And I think last week, Devin said there was a 96% participation rate. I mean, that's extremely high. I don't see that the sunset clause is reducing or limiting participation.
 It sounds like it's just been a great success. So I don't see the urgency of eliminating the sunset clause. I see that as a little insurance for Fayetteville so that if we do start to have problems, we can make those modifications. We can make those changes
 and it's not permanent because if it becomes permanent, then that could be used as a taking and we could have some challenges there. But having this slow rollout period where the aura is fully invoked right now, I think is really, really smart for our city. And I don't see it prohibiting or limiting businesses. We are not to pre-pandemic levels.
 Nobody can actually tell me that we're at that level. We might have it this weekend with the Texas football game, maybe.
 But I think that's just a snapshot. We'll see what the following games show up to be, especially if the Razorbacks have a, well, depending on the outcome of the game. But I don't think we're there yet. I would really caution us to go slow and certainly to not expand it yet. That South Yard's not even built out yet. Again, we need to see how things work within the Ramble before we expand it further out.
 Thanks. What other discussion questions do we have in the council? This is an ordinance, it's on the first reading. Yeah, I'd just like to, you know, throw my two cents in here. I really feel very comfortable with this proposal the way it is.
 And I think, you know, I'm taking into consideration what I know that I have seen with my own eyes when I've been out and I've enjoyed using the aura myself. But I'm also thinking about like what Bo Counts said that, you know,
 if he invests in this and, you know, or even once we have a new business that wants to open up and they open up a year and a half from now or something and they invest in Aura and then
 you know, would they want to invest in Aura if they know there's a sunset clause that could, you know, possibly pull that out from under them? And, you know, I do think that we have the ability, I've read Kit's memo and, you know, where it talks about the taking and everything like that. But I think
 I think that this has been a lifeline for so many businesses and I agree with Teresa that you know, if you put the 2024 sunset on it, it doesn't really, you know, change a lot. But if you're a business, it can change quite a bit. And I think that we have the ability to monitor this and I would prefer to have this in place
 and have the sunset clause removed as the ramble gets up and running or rambling or whatever it's going to do, instead of having a sunset clause on it there, because I think that's going to, it's going to all kind of fit together as far as I'm concerned. And I think it's really important that we, you know, we, I'm feeling we need to remove that sunset clause. I think it's fine to do it. I don't think we've had problems with it.
 And I just don't think that there's this, if people were outside more drinking now and using restaurants and stuff like that, it's helped, if anything. It hasn't hurt having the pandemic. It's helped with the pandemic because it's given businesses an option that they didn't have before. And I think that's really important that we allow them to have that. So I'm all in favor for it and removing the sunset clause as well.
 Okay, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What other discussion do we have? I'm ready to move this forward too. There, I don't think, I understand the taking issue and what if this falls apart. I don't see it like every bar, like just all of a sudden overnight just becoming a problem.
 I see individual bars becoming a problem. I was a bouncer at a bar. We actually had alcohol removed for a weekend. There were things that happened. There are things the city can do. There are things the ABC can do. Individual bars start causing problems. I just don't see...
 just overnight, all of them just being terrible from here on out. I see individual ones in it and I don't think that we should remove all of them because of, you know, a couple individual ones. So I'm ready to move this forward. I understand some of these bars are making investments that are our salaries for years.
 And, you know, they're sitting on the sideline going, you know, do we go ahead and put more money in this or not? And they may not even have investors to put the money in until we remove this because remove the sunset clause, because most people want to know that the investment is going to last for a while. So I'm ready to move this forward. I haven't seen anything that's.
 given me a scare and if an individual bar to start causing problems, I'm I believe our city staff can take care of that or ABC and the state level can take care of that. So with that, I move to go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Tiaras? Yes. Jones? Jones? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. And in order to amend Section 11107, Outdoor Refreshment Area, by adopting a revised Downtown Outdoor Refreshment Area boundary map and removing the exploration provision. I move to go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading.
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Tanyan? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance amends section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area by adopting a revised downtown outdoor refreshment area boundary map and removing the expiration provision.
 Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Mayor, I have a final comment. Sure. I want to make it really clear that I support the aura. I think this has been a wonderful thing that the city has done for the past year and a half, and it's been implemented really well. My concerns are that removal of the sunset clause is premature because we don't have the level
 participation from citizens that we will post pandemic and also because the ramble is not built out and we have and South Yard is not done so I just want to make it extremely clear about why I'm voting against this thank you okay any other final comments from the council well I will say I will say this one thing I hear from businesses over and over and over again Mary we need more predictability
 This aura has been a lifeline for the businesses in this city, and I think this will give them a great deal of predictability on what we're going to do in the future. So thank you all. I hope you'll support this. So with that, Kara, would you please call the roll? New Tiaras? Yes. Jones? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Sir? No. Arts Park. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number eight.
 A resolution grant the appeal of Million Miracles Surveying PLLC for variance application VAR 21-0034 and allow a third driveway for the development at 203, 205, and 207 Southwest Avenue. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Apologies. Let me get my presentation pulled up.
 All right. Yes, thank you. Peter Nearingarden and I will be doing our best to share staff's 10 minutes for this item with me leading off right now. The property is in downtown. It includes three parcels on the west side of West Avenue. That's between Mountain Street to the north and South Street to the south. The property is bookended, as you can see on the aerial here, by the Fayetteville Public Library expansion to the east and the Cultural Arts Corridor slash Ramble to the west.
 As a bit of history, up until 2017, the parcels were developed with two single-family dwellings. That year, the developer, Mark Rouse, acquired the land.
 In 2018, Mr. Rouse successfully petitioned the city to rezone the property from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Following this, an access management variance was submitted for three driveways into three duplexes with front-loaded garages.
 as a little bit of ordinance background for attached residential housing on low volume streets like West Avenue there is a minimum standard for 50 feet of separation between any driveways staff recommended denial of the request finding that it was not necessary to develop the property and could have potentially negative impacts on the streetscape
 The Planning Commission ended up tabling the item three times or twice at the applicant's request before ultimately it was rescinded and not heard from again. Later in 2018, a building permit was approved for the first duplex at 205 Southwest Avenue, which you can see the footers being poured in the second image from the left here.
 Over the next two years, a second building permit was approved for 203 Southwest, and the units of the first duplex, which you can see roofed now in the third image, were sold to individual buyers. With that sale, the duplex was split into townhouses, with each unit being put on its own fee-simple piece of property. At that time, right-of-way was required and dedicated by the developer.
 Most recently in 2021, what you see before you tonight is the developers brought forward a new access management ordinance to allow three driveways again, one for each of the three duplexes still intended with this project.
 Beginning with what was approved in 2018, the 2018 building permit, you can see the layout here of the site. This is what came in with the building permit in 2018. You can see here about the red arrows where the two driveways were approved for that layout to meet the access management standards.
 This was followed by the aforementioned lot split that came through in 2020 that resulted in the sale of each of the two built units. With this was dedication of right-of-way, which you can see here on the right in the blue, and an access easement in orange intended to facilitate the use of a shared driveway.
 Lastly, what you see here is the developer's current request. This includes three 14-foot driveways in neon blue or cyan, whichever you prefer, one driveway for each building.
 Moving on to the issues at hand in this request, an initially cited issue with having developed the property was the topography on the site. For anyone who's been on West Avenue and has been on the Frisco Trail, you do know there is some topography going from the trail up to the street. Staff, similar to 2018, did not find this to be a valid hindrance to developing the property without having driveways fronting or garages fronting the street.
 Not more than 10 lots north of this. Anyone who's been on West Avenue can see four townhomes that were built on similar terrain that did allow or that was laid out to have a single driveway serving all four units with rear-loaded garages. So staff did not feel like that was the required direction that this property forced the development to go. A second issue.
 is the assertion that the city performed a taking in acquiring the right-of-way last year when the properties were split. This is a known standard for subdivision in Fayetteville, and it was not protested at the time. It's not clear to staff why the developer chose to wait a year to point out the burden that this dedication posed, rather than perhaps petitioning the council at the time for a lesser amount of right-of-way dedication.
 Stepping back and from a broader zoning standpoint, staff does not find the request to align with the intent of either the RU zoning district on the property or the access management ordinance. Both are very explicitly crafted to encourage walkability. The phrase or the term walkability is in the purpose section of both ordinances. And we feel that granting an additional curb cut where code does not allow it would potentially compromise this.
 Lastly, and as I believe you've seen either in the applicant's correspondence or their appeal, the developer has requested that this request be considered based on the facts present today, not the decisions that the applicant or developer made between 2018 and 2020.
 While I do not advise that the council disregard the developers' choices made to this point, staff feels that even taking that short-term consideration elicits a negative recommendation on our part. The city is currently investing significant amounts of public money in this area to promote walkability explicitly, including longest properties frontage.
 Adding another driveway can diminish pedestrian safety by adding yet another point of interaction in a space of just under 150 feet. All told, staff is recommending denial of the request. The Planning Commission did hear the item twice. Commissioners initially tabled the item at the first hearing.
 to afford the developer time to bring forward a proposal that better interacted with West Avenue. Some of the elements proposed by the commissioners interested in seeing an alternative included narrow driveways and then the inclusion of permeable pavers or a permeable concrete system to mitigate the large areas of imperviousness between the buildings and the street.
 While the applicant did respond with a side plan showing three 14-foot driveways, it did not appear to respond to many of the other commissioners' requests. At least that was their perspective. And at the August 9th meeting, the request was unanimously denied. The general consensus among the commissioners was that this was a self-imposed hardship, albeit one that began many, many years ago.
 Public comment to date includes some opposition from a member of the Cultural Arts Corridor's design team, which is in your packet. That member of the Cultural Arts Corridor team also sat on the planning commission, interestingly, in 2018 when this variance was first heard. And so it brings a fairly holistic perspective to the proposal.
 Public comment was also received in favor of the request from one of the current townhouse owners on the property. They do feel that backing onto West is more dangerous for drivers and pedestrians, but the layout as it is currently required or as was approved and proposed by the applicant in 2018.
 With that, I'd like to hand off to Peter Nearingarden, the city's project manager for the Cultural Arts Quarter, with Eric Heller as the applicant available virtually after that. Thank you. Very much, Jonathan. Peter Nearingarden,
 project manager for the Cultural Arts Corridor project. As was mentioned, the Ramble corridor is directly adjacent to this variance request. The Ramble is a $32 million Fayetteville bond project that was approved by the citizens of Fayetteville in April of 2019.
 Among other elements, the Rainbow project includes substantial improvements to the West Avenue corridor, connecting the library, the Fay Jones Woods area, to the entertainment district venues near Dixon Street. The streetscape improvements are currently under construction in the first block between South Street and Mountain Street, which is where the experience request is located.
 When completed, these streetscape improvements really are going to set a new bar for pedestrian safety and friendly streets in Fayetteville. The Ramble design team has worked extensively with all the property owners along West Avenue since 2019 to coordinate and confirm that new driveway and sidewalk configurations along the streetscape will work not only for the existing conditions, but also for future development plans.
 As part of that property owner outreach that the project team did, we worked to try and coordinate for two years with this particular developer on the driveway locations for these duplexes. Instead of working with our design team on our streetscape design and driveway locations, the developer has sought this driveway separation variance. I did want to share with you what our proposed layout for West Avenue in this location looks like.
 So different from Jonathan's image, north is actually to the right on your screen. You can see this is West Avenue located here. We've got the library improvements on the east side of the street at this location. We've got the Fay Jones Woods located here. You can see a couple of the trails running into the woods. We've got sidewalk running on both the west side of the street.
 And on the east side of the street, we've got low impact development planter strips located in several locations that will take the storm water along the street and infiltrate it. We've got some reorganization of street parking in several locations along the street. Peter, I think you had to... Susan, what's the time here? Okay, yeah, time's up. They'll have to give you more time if you get to continue with your presentation.
 Yes, if we could give Peter a little bit more time. How much is a little bit more time? Couple more minutes. Just need two minutes, Mayor. Okay, you have two minutes unless someone objects. Go ahead, Peter. All right, sounds good. So we've got streetlights located along the street. And then as was mentioned, these are the three duplexes.
 The middle duplex is the one that has been constructed. The southern duplex has not been constructed yet, and the northern duplex is currently under construction. This is the proposed driveway location for the southernmost duplex, and this is the shared driveway location for the middle duplex and the northern duplex.
 i do want to point out the right-of-way line located right here at this location one of the things we have been working on and been offering to the developer is a use of a portion of the back side of that right-of-way located in this area right here for extension of the driveway to allow for greater ease of ingress and egress to this middle duplex the southern unit of that duplex
 The remainder of that right-of-way is proposed to be landscaping to screen the garage doors and large driveways from the sidewalk.
 So in a few moments, you're going to see a video that the developer's team is going to share with you that shows difficulty accessing in and out of this duplex garage right here. And we believe that this allowance for additional use of the right way and driveway construction will alleviate that issue that you're going to see in this video.
 This may make that video may generate a few more questions for the council members. So if you want me to show this drawing again, so you can look at this after you see the video, but you know, we're glad to come back. In summary real quick, mayor. No, I think the two minutes is up, isn't it? Yes. Unless the council wishes to give you more time. Okay. All right. What questions do we, the applicant now has 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mayor. My name is Bob Honey. I represent the applicant. Is it okay for me to take my mask off? It is. While you're speaking. Yes. The source of the problem we're dealing with here today is the fact that the middle building was built and after it was built to a 25 foot build to line, the right of way of West Avenue was moved.
 So that metal building is now 17 feet from the right of way. And we've got a shared driveway for two of these units, and we don't have enough space to make that work. That's the nut of the problem we have today. My client's solution to that problem is three, you know, three driveways, one for each unit,
 14 foot driveways. As matters now stand, we have 218 to 18 feet driveway, so we're talking the difference of six feet of driveway. Staff suggests that.
 We need to stick to this two driveway model because the code says you got to have 50 feet between driveways. That same code in subsection four says, hey, if literal enforcement is causing problems, make a common sense allowance to address the issue, which is exactly what we have here.
 You know the the staff comments of which weren't really addressed in the presentation about pedestrian vehicle interaction. You know you're going to have the same number of vehicle pedestrian interactions, whether you have two drives or four drives.
 if you have, or two drives or three drives, if you have three drives, the drivers are focused on going straight in and straight out. If you have two drives, you have the drivers focusing part of their attention on maneuvering in very tight quarters, which on balance is probably more likely to result in problems rather than less likely.
 Again, the problem is that we got the cart in front of the horse and built that middle building to 25 feet and then decreased the distance between the building and the road to 12 to 17 feet. And now we're trying to share driveways with not enough room. I understand there is a video that you can play that shows... You have 10 minutes, however you want to spend it. Yes, where am I on the 10 minutes?
 That's a good question. What time? Where's he at in 10 minutes? He started at 9.7. Okay. All right. Well, that's great. I don't think we'll need all that to make the points we want to make, but I do want to play at least some of this video. Sure. You've got seven minutes, any way you want to spend it. Pardon me? You've got about seven minutes, any way you want to spend it. If you don't mind playing, starting the video and playing a little bit of it.
 And this is a view from the building in the middle lot showing how little space you have between the building and the right of way to maneuver vehicles in and out. I think that's good enough to give the council a feel for how tight the corridors are, if
 This was going to be a tight fit with the building 25 feet from the right-of-way. Now that we've got that building 17 feet from the right-of-way, a shared driveway is just, it just doesn't work. And it's not, you know, it's nobody's fault that it happened in that order. It just did. And now we have to deal with it. In my client's view, the way to deal with it that makes the most sense is to have three driveways, one for each unit.
 14 feet wide with drivers backing in and out, going straight in and out, instead of trying to maneuver in tight quarters in a manner which takes driver attention away from potential pedestrian interaction. And I also note on the visual aspects, as I said earlier, you know, you're going to have the same amount of concrete, the same visual impact, whether you have three driveways or two driveways. You're going to have the same...
 basically off the same width of driveways whether you do two or three it just seems to make common sense to go with three driveways rather than two but that's unless the uh oh eric keller is available for technical questions uh on zoom that's if the council has any okay thank you okay what questions does the council have for staff and the applicant okay well let's take some public comment then
 everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chambers will be allowed to speak after that who do we have on zoom eric heller okay go ahead you have five minutes
 He lowered his hand. Allie Quinlan. Okay, go ahead.
 Hello, Mayor and Council members. My name's Ali Quinlan. I'm a streetscape designer for the Ramble, and it happened since 2019. During that time, we've extensively coordinated with homeowners along the project to confirm that new driveway and sidewalk configurations work not only for existing conditions but future development plans as well. We've coordinated for two years with these homeowners on their driveway locations. And during that time, we received direction from the development team only to coordinate with the permit plans that had been submitted to the city for the homes.
 only now that curbs have been poured in front of the property and the street is about to be paved as the variance has been sought. I was also on the Planning Commission in 2018 when this project came through initially. It was made very clear to the applicant during the meeting that a majority of Planning Commissioners did not support the variances or the site plan proposed and actively recommended against pursuing the site plan as it would create a pedestrian unfriendly environment and be difficult to maneuver by car.
 the applicant chose to permit the site with two driveways to meet current code requirements against that clear direction that there would not be support for variances to allow the proposed site plan configuration the middle pair of homes which is currently occupied has the closest set back to the right-of-way as the developer appeared to be unaware that the master street plan right of way dedication would be required as part of their lot split reducing the depth of the front drive between five feet and eight feet and providing a driveway depth of only around 17 feet
 That Master Street Plane right-of-way dimension was not affected by the Cultural Arts Corner project and is consistent with standard lot split requirements throughout the city. The north and south pairs have been pulled back from the road in the latest permit plans the city has received to allow more maneuvering space. The current proposed Cultural Arts Corner streetscape and driveway plans for West Avenue follow access management standards on the building permit plans that were designed and submitted by the developer to the city. After working on site with the homeowners,
 The city's contractors and city staff to test vehicle entry to the existing middle unit garages. We've proposed shifting the entry drive slightly from the developers designed to the south to allow these tightest two units to utilize the drive through for additional maneuvering space. We're proposing some additional paved area for these two owners in the public right of way. The only homes along West Avenue to be provided with this ability. This allows us to provide the clear depth measure on site to be reasonable to maneuver a car in and out of these two little garages as tested by this homeowner in his vehicle.
 This design utilizes the remaining master street plan right-of-way dedication required by the lot split as a protective planting buffer for the sidewalks and to mitigate the significant grade changes between the sidewalks and large driveways. Our proposed configuration meets code, protects pedestrians, and works with the existing constructed homes and garages.
 This project site plan was designed intentionally by the developer and while I have sympathy for the initial homeowners that they, apparently it was not disclosed that they had a shared driveway design, providing a variance now is indeed proven as cumbersome as the planning commission said it would in 2018, sets an unfortunate precedent that developers may ask for forgiveness rather than permission. I can answer any further questions you may have about the coordination of this project with the Ramble project. Thanks.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Next up is Mike Whitaker. Go ahead.
 Hello, Mr. Mayor and City Council. Mike Whittaker, 365 North Olive Avenue, and I appreciate your affording me this opportunity. I simply wanted to address the applicants' submittal to council in which they suggest that perhaps the Planning Commission was confused or unclear in its deliberations on this project.
 And I just want to assure council that the commission very well understood the request. They understood the site restrictions and limitations and understood the city ordinances. From my perspective on the commission, I think the concern in addition that I brought to this project was that...
 Just like city council, you don't want every single potential project coming before you needing variances or exemptions. And we want applicants and staff to work together with each other to iron out these kinds of issues. And it was evident to the commission that staff had afforded that opportunity.
 had in fact attempted to solicit coordination from the applicant. And so I think to reverse this decision or to go against staff's recommendation, the commission felt would in essence undercut staff
 and demotivate applicants from negotiating and resolving these kinds of issues in the field without coming to bodies for discretionary decisions.
 And so I just want to assure you that the Commission understood very clearly when we voted unanimously to deny this variance originally. And thank you for your time tonight. I deeply appreciate your service. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Telephone number that ends in 361. Okay. But they just disappeared. Wait a minute. Another there? Okay.
 Okay, go ahead, 361. So 361 is not available for- 361 needs to unmute. There we go. They're trying. Okay. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, hey, Eric Teller here, how are you? I was, obviously I did a technical part of this. I was wondering if you could continue that video that was there kind of where we shut it off, please. And I'll narrate a couple things there.
 Well, you have five minutes. I guess we can use it any way you want to. Well, that video is... Yep, you can just continue that video where we got shut off. Hang on. Hang on. What, Susan? The video was at the request of the applicant's attorney, not... The video must be shown during the applicant's presentation. Okay. Thank you, Kip.
 So the video will not be shown. So what else do you have? Okay, I also submitted a couple of PDFs. Could they be turned in or opened up? I also was part of the application. Sorry, about to run up there and come in person. I'm sorry, I'm having a really hard time understanding anything. When I submitted the application, I had some PDFs showing cars. Are they available from Johnson?
 Is this somebody with the applicant or is this somebody that is here to speak? I would like to be, I am with the applicant, but I would like those PDFs to be shown if you can. I don't know what PDFs you refer to and the applicant's presentation is now over. So right now we're taking. Okay. I'm sure it's in the packet that everybody has in front of them.
 where it shows different colored cars what i'm asking for is that if you look at the different colored cars in your pdf applications if we only have the one driveway everybody's going to be forced to back out into the road and you know that's less safe than if we get two driveways
 they can do a three-point turn and exit from either driveway going forward and where the current driveway is right now if you back out with a truck back into them two cars that are parked on the other side of the road so all i want to do is do the right thing safety wise and i'm hopeful that staff can take a look at their pdfs or council sorry can take a look at those pdfs and visualize back and cross that driveway into two cars so thank you
 thank you who else would like to address this eric heller go ahead how that was that was me i'm done okay okay who else do you have nobody nobody all right is there anyone in the chambers that would like to address this it's here in person on this topic okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution um
 Was there any lot line or anything changed by the city from like 2017 to now? I guess that'd be a question for staff. Yeah, it would be. That they caused this difficulty.
 The only actions that have occurred on these properties were at the applicant's request when they split the existing townhome into two, or the existing duplex into two townhomes. And that's when the right-of-way dedication was triggered last year. Okay. So there's errors in admissions insurance for surveyors.
 and engineers, if they miss stuff that causes them trouble, that is not the city's job to make them whole. We really,
 A lot of people in the city don't like developers in general. I don't think we should bend over backwards when they ignore the rules. If I ever teach anybody in development, I tell them, buy stuff that works for you the way it's zoned and the rules you have now, and then maybe if you can get something else, do that. But you sure do that before you start building.
 So I feel like this is an issue between the builder and the engineer that drew up the plans and is supposed to understand code. And I don't think it's our job to make somebody whole. I think that the city has incredible plans for the Arts Corridor and Crandall. Yeah.
 I think we need to stick with those. I think having more curb cuts is more dangerous for bikers and walkers right around the library. And we need to stick with our plans and we sure don't need
 to set a precedent that if you don't like what staff is telling you, just do whatever you want. I think staff does an excellent job. I'm sure that they were told many times along this process that they don't have the right to do what they're doing and they should seek it now or figure something else out. So I hope we don't grant the variance. I don't plan on granting the variance.
 like developers asking for rules to change after they've done something. And if their surveyors, engineers don't understand the code, they should vote somewhere else. So thank you. Anybody else? There's not anybody else that we vote on the resolution. Okay. Somebody's going to have to make a motion in a second to approve, and then you would vote no or yes. So...
 but somebody's got to make a motion to approve and we approve the resolution okay second okay we have a motion second to approve the resolution which is an appeal so i'm voting a no vote is against the appeal yeah a no vote will defeat the appeal and a yes vote supports so i want to be sure everybody's got that before we start all right any final comments from the council
 Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? No. Scroggen? No. Bunch? No. Turk? No. Hertzberg? No. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number nine.
 An appeal, a resolution to grant the appeal of council members Sarah Bunch, Holly Hershberg, and DeAndre Jones, and approve an amendment to the Conditional Use Permit CUP 08-2908 to authorize bond recycling to legally expand its recycling activities to 1236 South School Avenue. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is south of downtown Fayetteville. It includes two parcels on the east side of School Avenue, just northeast of School and 13th Street and south of City Lumber, if that helps orient you a little bit closer. Prior to the 2000s, the property and the building on it were used as an auto parts store.
 The request tonight is an appeal to the Planning Commission decision to not expand the Vaughan Recycling Conditional Use Permit to the northern of the two properties in question, which is the properties he outlined here in the aerial. To provide some context, a Conditional Use Permit for Vaughan Recycling was approved on the southern parcel in 2008. This was amended a few months later to allow more flexibility for sorting in particular.
 There were many conditions of the permits approval, but the most pertinent today are that the business would be subject to the city's development standards. In this instance, they needed to submit a small site improvement plan that the business would not expand without planning commission consideration of the conditional use permit and that the business keep materials out of view from the right of way.
 These conditions were observed initially and a small site improvement plan was submitted and approved which you can see the site plan for on the right hand side of the screen here.
 Unfortunately, the scope of the Condition of Use Permit and Development approval were exceeded. A complaint was filed in early 2021 about trailers being left out full of materials along School Avenue, wrecked vehicles onsite, and mud track out onto the public street.
 Staff's investigation validated this. As you can see in the aerial imagery here, the business, the property was not used by Vaughan Recycling in 2008 until the Conditional Use Permit was granted.
 The business fairly quickly exceeded the permits allowances. You can see in 2009 where there's some additional imperviousness that's put down. Within five years, a significant amount of recycling materials were stored on the northern parcel. And by winter of this year, there was a very significant amount of material, recycled goods being stored and sorted on the northern of the two parcels where
 the conditional use permit was did not permit it to be done um the sorry there we go um this was corroborated by an on-site visit showing trailers that were stored at the street uh damaged and possibly inoperable vehicles and the spread of storage and recycling materials northward
 You can see some examples here. These were taken over the course of about two months at the beginning of this year, starting in February and into April. Most of these shops are taken either right on school or towards the front of the business's property.
 uh in evaluating the conditional use or in response to the violation letter being issued the applicant requested or preferred to keep the business's current scope so they submitted a amendment to that 2008 conditional use permit to formally expand their operations to the northern parcel which you can see here of the larger of the two shown in red
 Included in their request and subsequent appeal were assertions that the pandemic-related events and activity had seen an enormous increase in material drop-offs, which led to a particularly acute need for storage space, which is where many of the trailers came from out towards the street.
 And evaluating the conditional use permit when the staff's first stops with this one as any condition is permit is compatibility. This request is not different in that regard. That's where we started. And while we did not wholly disagree that the use is incompatible.
 We did feel that there was some precedent for it in this part of South School. Of course, there is Walker Park to the west, which is a major community park with a lot of activity. To the north, there's a lumber yard. To the south, there are car sales, repair and storage businesses. To the west is a mix of retail, salvage and auto repair. So again, we did not feel that it was wholly incompatible to allow the use as a community
 that regardless of the violation at play, the use itself we felt was perhaps appropriate. That said, the complaints received by staff and the pattern of noncompliance that we've observed through historical aerial imagery and in person recently indicate that the request to expand it may not align with the public interest.
 With more than 10 years of that aerial photography, it's apparent that the business exceeded the scope of its permit within years of it being granted. And as a result, staff is not able to support the request without first seeing an establishment that the business can function within the scope that it was granted about 13 years ago.
 At the July 26th Planning Commission meeting, a motion was made to approve the request, but granting it only a one-year period initially.
 This vote failed by a split vote of four to four. The Planning Commissioner requires five affirmative votes to approve a conditional use permit. Those in favor of the one-year approval felt it was a reasonable transition and probationary time for the business to bring things into line. The Commissioners opposing the proposal felt that it was completely inappropriate to consider expanding the permit while it was in active violation.
 And with that, I've not received any public comments, and I do want to share. The applicant may want to speak to these more. They did provide some pictures of the northern parcel, which you can see here today. I've not had an opportunity to visit it, but it does look like a...
 A substantial amount of what was on that property has been removed. So to the applicant's credit, they are making efforts to bring their conditional use permit or the scope of the business back in the line with the conditional use permit granted in 2013. And with that, I'll defer to the three council members who have supported the appeal or afforded the opportunity for the appeal to be heard by the council. And I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you.
 Okay, then we have an applicant here, I'm sure. Yes, I'm sorry, Mayor. I believe it should be Charles Tripp-Howbert, I believe, is in person there, perhaps. Okay, the applicant has 10 minutes. Mayor, Council Members, thank you.
 Thank you so much for this time. My name is Trip Halbert. On behalf of Knight Law Firm, I represent Vaughn Recycling. I know that I've been in contact with several of you over the last few weeks. I want to stress Vaughn Recycling's gratitude and appreciation for this opportunity to be heard on ABM 21-045. A little factual background.
 Bond Recycling has served this city for nearly 13 years in its current location on South School Avenue, while providing valuable service to the city and its residents. But beginning back in March of 2020, Bond Recycling received an unexpected influx of recycled goods connected to the COVID-19 pandemic. This influx was connected to the fact that over the last 18 months or so, prices of recycled metals have nearly gone up 300%.
 During this period, these prices drove massive amounts of recycled goods to my client's doorstep with no means to process or transport them due to the lack of commercial drivers connected directly with the COVID-19 pandemic. Unfortunately, Vaughan Recycling was forced to utilize that neighboring property to the north on 1236 South School Avenue to store this massive influx of inventory.
 uh on april 28 2021 a notice was sent from the commission advising my client that it was in violation of its conditional use permit and also citing tracking of mud and dirt into the public right away shortly thereafter my client applied for an amendment to their conditioning department on june 1 2021 related to the commission's concerns on the july 26 hearing
 The commission really took note of three major concerns, one being the continued trackage of mud and dirt into the public right of way on South School Avenue. Two, they mentioned the incompatibility with the expansion, noting the surrounding areas were not compatible. And then lastly, Vaughn's Recycling's ability to comply with its initial and original terms of its conditional use permit.
 The mud and dirt trackage on the public right-of-way bond recycling acknowledges that there was trackage on this right-of-way on or around February 1st, 2021 caused by customers and commercial vehicles leaving their property. This mud and dirt was instigated by uncommonly wet springs that we had this past year and then this drastic uptick in commercial and customer traffic.
 Bond Recycling immediately remedied this issue, taking proactive steps to pour tons, numerous tons of gravel in their back loading areas on 1236 and 1246. And this prohibited any mud from being tracked on the South School Avenue. Again, this is the first time Bond Recycling has been cited for an offense of tracking, and they shouldn't weigh in the balance on their livelihood or businesses at stake.
 Second, the Commission mentioned this incompatibility with the expansion around the surrounding areas. It is our position that that position is misplaced. These properties around Vaughan Recycling are all commercial retail, north, south, and west. The only property not being used commercially is Walker Park, located directly to the east of Vaughan Recycling.
 And on top of that, there's 50 to 75 yard wide timber line between Walker Park and Vaughn Recycling, preventing any and all of you from the park to see these neighboring commercial retail properties. Specifically, we cite that this expansion is compatible, seen as the property on 1246 is compatible,
 zone downtown general with all the other neighboring commercial retail properties, that it would be hard for this not to be compatible, seeing as the neighboring property is, in fact, zoned accordingly for a recycling center. And any environmental concerns that
 any council member might have bond recycling has spent ample time and resources ensuring that it's compliant with all epa requirements and regulations and we'll supplement this information at the request of the council and third and lastly vaughn i guess the commission mentioned bond's ability to comply with its original terms of cup
 At the time we sent this appeal, I mentioned that my client would need ample time, quite a bit more time actually to comply with its terms of its CUP and remedy the violation on 1236. This is an oversight on my part. I underestimate the hard work and dedication of my clients to their business. Mary, if we could pull those pictures up again, that would be okay. Okay, how much time does he have? We're at five minutes left. Okay, you have five minutes. Thank you.
 And citing the pictures prior, I think the last images of 2021 were noted earlier this year and this was as of early last week. Since then my clients have poured more gravel in that area to prevent any tracking from being pulled out into South School Avenue. Additionally they have completely cleaned that 1236 property.
 And then coming back to the amendment to the original CUP back in 2008, ADM 08-3128, just a quick, quick language of it is that indoor processing and long-term storage of all materials shall be required. However, customer drop-off and preliminary sorting of materials and storage processing shall be shipped.
 And permitted outside provided that a wood fence has been extended Once this this request was made my clients provided the wood fencing to encompass their business facilities, there's no now that all the debris or Inventory has been sorted and moved off the 1236 property. There's no visibility from the public right away into bond bond recycling facilities that would allow a
 people driving by to see that that storage of goods. And bond recycling also conceived that it did have to store goods outside longer than planned. And however, we hope with some normalizing of this transportation logistics nightmare that we're in, that they will be in compliance with the original terms of the CUP.
 And with approval of this amendment, 21-045, Vaughn Recycle will be able to continue to store trailers on that back 1236 property. Load and process inventory as it's received contingent on some commercial trucking to kind of normalize. And this process will eliminate any and all storage of materials outside or on the ground. And signing back to the public interest aspect of it,
 Bond Recycling employs 10 or so blue collar workers throughout the year, pays local taxes, that provides the city's, allows the city's improvements on roads, schools, and other green area spaces such as Walker Park. 20% of its customer base is what we consider walk-in clients. And these are customers generally, individuals who typically struggle to maintain regular
 They can collect recyclable goods on the side of the street or at their home, bring it in to Vaughan Recycling to earn a livelihood. The other 80-so percent of Vaughan Recycling businesses ranges from local to large-scale business. And furthermore, by utilizing Vaughan Recycling, the city is saving valuable raw materials, minimizing the area's carbon footprint, and helping businesses satisfy these escalating industry standards in recycling.
 um bomber cycling prays that this council approves adm 21 0 45 in its entirety given any and all relief that it might be entitled to unfortunately if this amendment does not pass bond recycling may be forced to shut facilities down by eliminating nearly 50 percent of storage capacity and also its ability to process goods moving forward in the future thank you thank you
 Okay, what questions? Oh with the three council members that filed the appeal like you yes, I'd like to say something mayor Sure
 I just wanted to briefly explain kind of why I brought this forward. It was a 4-4 split at planning, and so I wanted to bring it back to the council to hear the applicants' arguments and then also kind of break the tie because I know it was 50-50. So I wanted to hear everything, and I think that it's a reasonable request considering that this was due to an influx of recycling from COVID-19. So I will be in support of this.
 Thank you. Okay. I also felt like that since it was a split with the planning commission, that, you know, that was one of the reasons I was going to support bringing it forward. However, I, you know, always reserve the right to listen to both sides if I do allow something to appeal and, you know, make my decision based on what I hear. So, yeah.
 Okay. And then there was DeAndre. Yes, sir. And I felt the same way. I wanted to be fair and I wanted the opportunity to give them another chance to be heard. And I do, after hearing them tonight, I will reserve my right to vote.
 I'm not bringing them forward to, I didn't make this decision in order to vote for them, but I wanted to just hear what they had to say, particularly due to the tie. Okay. Now, is there any questions for the applicant or the staff before I give public comment? I've got a question for staff. If we were to table this,
 What would happen to them in the meantime? That's a good question. And I may have to lean on Mr. Williams as well, but I believe there is an exception in the Unified Development Code that allows a business to continue in operation if it does not represent a hazard or danger to health and safety while it's under deliberation. But I'll have to double check that language exactly in the meantime.
 Well, we've got time to look at that before we actually vote. I hope we table this conditional use permits.
 have a lot of power we can shape a lot um i i think we should look at this a little better if they're having violations why are they having violations or they they say they're going to try to fix them but are they you know i would like to drive by um you know before we we vote on this and make sure that it does look um better and you know so i if it doesn't affect their business
 then I think we should table and look at this closer. I think eventually the city council will have to make a decision on this, but also if the city council wants the business to be able to continue in operation,
 for a period of time while you look at them, see if they're doing much better like they have been. They certainly made a lot of big improvements. And so if you want to give that a little more time, I keep looking for you, Sloan over here and you're not, you're on camera, sorry.
 I know that's why I can't see you when I look over there. But anyway, I think you can, if you want to table this, I would have a table to a definite time for the city council to review this and then determine what you want to do. Then I think that they would be able to remain in operation as this appeal is pending. Okay, well, I'm looking at like two weeks. Okay.
 More time to look at the code and look at the conditional use permit make sure that we don't need to change anything that we've codified Not really to test them. So I Definitely didn't want this opening But you know, I'm only one vote and maybe y'all are ready to go I would be willing to table it for two weeks also to our next regular meeting so I
 So we have time to go by and maybe look at it. And Theresa, are you gonna request a tour
 I usually do, don't I? But I'm very familiar with Vaughn Recycling because I usually take a lot of metal recycling down there. I have some more questions before we decide to table it or move on. Okay. I have one question, though, for the applicant. And I don't know if I – maybe I'm just getting old and hard of hearing, but I couldn't hear –
 everything very clearly that he was saying. Some of it was a little muffled. But it looks like they've cleaned the site up. But if it was, I believe you referred to it as a logistics nightmare, getting things distributed and getting them hauled off and getting them sold from the site. If it was such a nightmare, how were you able to clean it up so quickly? And where did the products go that were there? Right.
 I'm sorry. Yeah, speak into the microphone. Yeah, I'm sorry for any mumbling that I did before. I'm notorious for it. So they, as I mentioned, hard work and dedication, but mostly cleverness. They found other ways to move metal, to find other avenues to store. So yes, it is a logistical nightmare. And in about six to eight weeks, they were able to get it cleared up.
 Along with that, they were turning away numerous orders, hindering their business, trying to be compliant with this violation or getting compliance. And so, yeah, cleverness at the end of the day. What other questions do we have?
 I have a couple of questions. Jonathan, could you – I'm really kind of stuck on this thing about the CUP that was approved in 2008. And am I understanding it correctly that it was clearly explained as part of that CUP that the applicant had to come back and request use of the north side of that property? Yes.
 that is correct it was laid out as a condition of approval and even further the site improvement plan that was submitted initially in line with that cp only included the southern parcel okay thank you my next question um well comment is that you know i do i've been down to bond recycling and recycled a lot of metal down there so i do feel like they provide a really really good asset uh to our community and to our city
 and that we don't have metal, usable, recyclable metal going into the landfill. However, I'm concerned that they have violated that term. Do we ever fine people for that? Do we ever fine businesses for, I mean, it seems kind of egregious that,
 They were using that a lot sooner than when the pandemic happened, judging from your aerial photographs. So I'm just wondering how that works.
 how that shakes out if we find businesses in this way for egregious violations. The remedy for that is you revoke their conditional use so they can no longer operate their property if they have violated the conditional use but that's a civil action rather than a criminal problem
 It's possible that they might have violated some criminal law, but I doubt it. It's probably still a civil action and your remedy would be to revoke or change the conditional use, which I guarantee you is a much stronger weapon than a $250 fine. Thank you, Kit. I thought that was probably the answer, but I just wanted to make sure about that.
 Yeah, I'm fine with tabling it for two weeks. I drive by there all the time, so I don't have to have a tour, but maybe it would be great for the other city council members to go down there. I'm very familiar with it. I've been down there before, and in fact, when this came up on our agenda, I drove by there, and people were backed out on the street to...
 unload things. I think there were two or three cars just in the right lane waiting to get in the driveway. So I know it's used a lot. But anyway. Mayor, I have a couple of questions and comment. Sure. First, I wanted to double check a couple of things with our development services director.
 just to make sure I understood everything exactly right. Firstly, Jonathan, did I read this correctly, that you didn't find the expansion incompatible? You found that it could be compatible in theory? Yes.
 That is correct. Okay, great. That was the first thing. The second thing, I wanted to make sure I read the numbers right because I heard the representative of the applicant say that they did this expansion because of increased volumes during the pandemic, but I saw in your aerial imagery that it looked like the expansion had taken place in 2012. That is correct. I think that's the crux of why staff, I think, was unable to support this. I think if this was truly a recent event that could be readily remediated, that would be
 remedial action easily taken we have been more amenable to supporting it as staff but the fact that they the business violated its conditional use permit within a handful of years of having granted continued to do so over the intervening decade gave us significant pause and demonstrated to us that there was a fairly lengthy trail of a pattern of non-compliance
 Yeah, I see your point. I take it very well. And the third thing I wanted to ask was about the site improvement plan review or the condition that they needed to submit a site improvement plan in the original 2008 permit. Let's say that it hadn't happened this way and they had filed to expand the permit through the normal way of doing things and everything was in order. What are the things that you would expect to review...
 that site improvement plan that could result in development components that would be for the public interest that we usually review with other site improvement plans. This one as far as a typical development review would be subject to any tree preservation standards if they removed any trees when they expanded
 any imperviousness they put down i think i heard the applicant say they replaced some large areas of dirt with gravel which compacted gravel can have a comparable impact to impervious services like asphalt or concrete so there's storm water considerations tree preservation considerations
 BEYOND THAT, POTENTIALLY MORE UNIQUE TO THIS PROPOSAL AND TO COUNCILMEMBER BUNCH'S EXPERIENCE IS A PROJECT LIKE THIS HAS SERIOUSLY HEIGHTENED CONSIDERATIONS FOR SITE CIRCULATION. THERE'S A LOT OF ATYPICAL TRAFFIC AND IT SOUNDS LIKE THE BUSINESS DOESN'T NECESSARILY HAVE ANY CONTROL OVER WHEN THAT MAY BE COMING. I HAVE NOT RECYCLED ANYTHING AT BOND, BUT IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT YOU DON'T DO IT BY APPOINTMENT. I THINK PEOPLE SHOW UP WHEN
 And it is a concern when traffic spills out into a street. It's a concern when 18 wheelers are parked on top of sidewalks. So again, I think site circulation and the capacity to handle that traffic and additional materials is important. And then lastly, a screening. Some of the commentary I've heard from the complaints we got and I've experienced as I've used Walker Park.
 It's very visible from the park. And a lot of people consider that a nuisance. So it's perhaps appropriate that they have a heightened standard for screening, whether that's vegetative screen or a wood board fence.
 Thank you. I appreciate that. I also appreciate the anecdote that it can be seen from Walker Park. I don't feel that we've been reminded enough that this parcel abuts Walker Park to the west and abuts one of our important creek systems, which makes the drainage and tree preservation review all the more important to me personally. So I guess I need to take a second and just call it like I see it. We issued a permit in 2008. It was flouted.
 It was flaunted. It was ignored. Their expansion happened. And let's say, okay, it wasn't flaunted. It wasn't ignored. It was an honest mistake. Okay, that's fine. Let's call it an honest mistake. We're now eight years later since our first evidence of aerial imagery shows that they expanded it without a permit. And their applicant today is telling us they only expanded it in 2020 because of COVID. Give me a break. I feel like we're being lied to.
 And I feel like the actions that have been taken recently, just in the past couple of weeks, are what they are. They're a scramble to generate goodwill with this council so that they can get this expansion to be run through. Maybe it's the case that this business would be more at home in a more industrial area where these kinds of concerns wouldn't be such high concern.
 You know, this conditional use permit, we talk about revoking it and hurting the business, but the conditional use permit is about the land. And this is important land. And we try to protect our ecosystem services when we have very important land. I think there's a lot of cause for concern in the way this item has been presented by the applicant and in the history going back almost a decade. If it were me, I'd be looking for another place to locate in our industrial park. Anyone else?
 Okay, so what's the wishes of the council? We have an appeal. I understand a couple of y'all are talking about tabling it for two weeks. Do we have a motion here? Yes, there would need to be a motion to table if that's what the city council wants to do. I move we revoke the permit at the end of the year. I'm sorry, repeat that motion. The motion is to revoke the conditional use permit at the end of the calendar year to give them plenty of time to find a new site.
 That would, you're doing a motion to approve the appeal and then change it so that the conditional use is good for one year. Is that what your motion is? However you need to rephrase it as a parliamentarian. That's fine with me. Is there a second for that motion? Is it at the end of the year or a year? Let's call it, I'll take advice. Okay, is there another motion? I move we table.
 Two weeks. Second on the table. Okay. Have we heard public comment yet? Also. Well, you know, that's a good question. I don't believe I have. That's a good catch. What public comment do we have on this? And all the hubbub of all the conversation, I guess I left it out and then everybody was going to table it. So I haven't got the public comments yet.
 We shall do that. Everybody's got one turn the mic. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please give us your name and address. No rude behavior. So those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. Then those that are in the council chambers after that. So who do we have on Zoom, Susan?
 Nobody. Okay. Who would like to address this in the council chamber? I move the table for two weeks or second whatever table may have already been on it. Yeah, I think that motion's already been made and seconded. Yes, the motion's been made to table. I guess, Mr. Sloan, you would be the second of the motion. Okay, we have a motion to second the table for two weeks. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Tiaras? Yes. Jones?
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. All right, that concludes our action-packed evening.
 What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have one announcement. I'd like to draw the public's attention to the Fayetteville vaccination incentive program that was launched yesterday.
 last week. Um, the details of the vaccination incentive program are that the vaccination program offers a one time payment for individuals living or working in Fayetteville who become fully vaccinated against COVID-19 beginning August 17th through October 15th. And to be fully vaccinated, persons must have received a second dose of Pfizer or Moderna or one dose of Johnson and Johnson within the eligibility period.
 And the last day to apply for the $1,800 incentive is November 1st. All the details are on the website. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any other announcements? Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned.