I'm going to call the City Council meeting of September the 1st, 2015 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Tenant. Shopmar. Latour. Rosen. Long. Here. Gray. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Here.
 mayor jordan here what you call again would you can it here here we go okay
 First order of business we have tonight is the quarterly financial report, second quarter 2015, Paul Becker, Chief Financial Officer. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is the report on the end of the second quarter of the fiscal year, so it's through June. That's the first half of the year.
 I'm very happy to report, as we've discussed several times, that sales tax is doing very well in the general fund. It's up about 5% over budget at this point in time. As I look at the general fund, besides sales tax, the permitting fees for building permits are rising also. I would hope to see at the end of the year approximately $1 million over budget at that point in time now,
 When I look at that, and as we recall back at the end of the first quarter based on the recommendation made by Mayor Jordan, you approved a salary increase for all employees. If we get a million-dollar gain, that means we don't have to go into reserves at all for the year. And so we're coming forward with revenue, catching up with expenditures, which has been what our goal has been for the last several years. So I'm very pleased about that.
 Going into next year now. There's a chance that sales tax is going to level off It can't continue forever, but so far we've seen a lot of strength, and I'm very happy with that HMR taxes have been up also so that is also supporting that growth as far as water and sewer revenues The sewer revenues up about 5% this year waters up about 3% and
 So that's just about in keeping what we had expected, a little over that. Expenditures are about where we had planned. Again, we do have a lot of capital expenditures going on in that particular fund, and we certainly have the finances going forward to make those capital improvements based on the revenues we have now. Again, HMR taxes have been strong this year.
 HMR taxes for the year are up about 10% so far, so that's exceedingly strong again. We're looking at capital improvements in the future out at the regional park, many of which has been funded and I'm pretty confident at this point in time that we'll be able to complete what we had talked about in phase one and also have the lights on the soccer field that although was not in the contract,
 we uh... committed to fund so i'm pretty confident we're going to be able to do that so everything i'm looking at is pretty positive for the year uh... so far uh... there's no major declines in revenue that i see and expenditures are just about where i would expect them to be at this point in time i will be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have for paul on the finance report anything
 Mayor, may I add one other thing while I'm on it? We just got word from the Internal Revenue Service, as many of you will recall, we were subjected to an audit of the 2007 audit.
 bond issue for sales tax bonds that we used for the completion that particular issue was for the completion of the west side sewer treatment plant I'm happy to report to you that we got our results back with no findings I've been in this business many many years
 And all I can say is in over 30 years, this is the second IRS audit on bond issues I've ever seen in both of them here at the city. Both of them, there were no findings when it was done. So I feel very good about that, and I wanted to inform you of that because, if you remember, we retained legal counsel to be our conduit and our contact. So I thought you would be interested in that. Okay. Okay.
 All right. Before I get into the consent, I would ask the council to pull an item off the consent tonight, number seven, the resolution on the Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA risk map phase two. We have citizens who would like to address us on this tonight. So it is just with your request, it is off. All right. Because the consent item is by unanimous consent, so if anybody wants any single item off, it is off. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you all. All right, now for the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 18, 2015 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $39,089 representing donation revenue to the animal services for the first and second quarters of 2015. Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of two 2015 T590T4 Bobcat compact tract loaders from Williams Tractor.
 of Federal Arkansas in the total amount of $101,189.02 pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance cooperative purchasing agreement for use by transportation services. Number four, a resolution authorizes the purchase of a 2015 Ford F-250 4x4 from Lewis Ford of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $23,075 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by Parks and Recreation.
 Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $147,170, recognizing parkland dedication fees from the northwest and northeast quadrants to be used for lighting at Bryce Davis Park and improvements to Lake Fed Bull. Number six, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the contract, Fed Bull Advertising Promotion Commission.
 for the city to provide operational and maintenance services for the town center parking deck in exchange for the use of 55 parking spaces for a period of one year with five additional one-year automatic renewals. Move we accept the consent agenda. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 One put item 7 there which is a resolution of rice sees participation in phase 2 of the risk map program with the federal emergency management agencies and the Arkansas natural resources Commission to update the Washington County flood insurance study and flood insurance rate maps at a cost of up to $43,658 which staffer has this. Good evening Chris getting mayor City Council.
 This is a proposal to participate in some updated mapping that FTN, the consultant that's been selected by ANRC to do this mapping, has put together a package essentially countywide to redo floodplain mapping throughout the county.
 that mapping is proposed to be approximately forty three thousand six hundred and fifty eight dollars It will update about 29 miles of zone a streams about five miles of Converting zone a to zone a e and I'll talk about what those are in a minute and then re delineating about 47 miles of current zone a e streams in the city and
 So the benefit of this that the city receives, the zone A streams which have the least information, we have a floodplain shown on the maps but they really haven't been modeled. They're just kind of lines on paper. We actually will receive a model and we'll have a much more accurate delineation of what those streams are. We won't have
 The fully detailed model that the Zone AE streams, they have a little bit more information. So we are converting some of the Zone A streams to Zone AE. Includes floodway, includes much more detailed information. And so we're getting better modeling on all of our streams, much better modeling on some of our streams. And then the last part, we do have some current Zone AE streams.
 that we do have the floodway information and models. Those will be re-delineated using new topographic information, new drainage information as development has occurred. So we'll get better mapping, more accurate maps. Many times we have folks who come in who are in the flood plane, they'd like to know what elevation
 The floodplain is on their particular property, but all of those Zone A streams that don't have the modeling behind it, we don't really have much of any information we can provide them. They have to hire an engineer, go out and develop that elevation certificate and tell them what that floodplain is. This will give us much better information. We can provide information to property owners in a much better, more detailed manner so that they have better information.
 where they are in the floodplain. It also will identify areas that should be protected, that are in floodplain areas where we should not be building, and so we can protect those areas, reserve those areas in accordance with our ordinance. The last thing that we didn't talk about at the agenda session, but we are receiving some additional information from
 Topographic information, the LIDAR information that we're receiving is all being done at the cost of
 Essentially, it's a grant, a FEMA grant, that's providing the new topographic information. So we're essentially getting the city reflown, getting new topo information. Again, as we have development occur and things change throughout the city with grading and that sort of thing, this updated mapping is going to be very beneficial to the city. So with that, I'll take any questions. Okay.
 Chris, in the management of stormwater, we have monitoring for velocity and for levels of water. Is this going to give us good additional information that maybe we could use
 Yeah, the stations that we have out there for both, we have water quantity monitoring to measure elevations and we also have water quality information. This is kind of a supplement and it all works together. This is more mapping level, the FEMA mapping, the flood insurance rate maps that are used to develop, to determine where flood insurance is needed and what the flood insurance costs
 So this is mapping level information. Some of those monitoring stations that we have are a little more fine-grained information and more detailed information just on particular streams. This really is a citywide project, countywide actually, so all of the floodplains will be re-delineated and looked at again. Anything else? Chuck? Okay.
 Chris, for $43,638, exactly how are they going to give us this more data? Are they going to walk through the stream themselves taking camera shots or angles? What's happening? Give me the practical outworking of this spending. Right. There will be some field work. Most of it is computer modeling. This topographic information that I talked about is used to develop cross sections and to figure out what the lay of the land is.
 And then the computer modeling, you run the computer modeling and that topographic information, the hydraulic information, you know, how much water is flowing through, is analyzed by the computer that sets floodplain elevations and determines where the flooding levels are going to be. So it's mostly a computer exercise.
 So in this computer exercise, could the system be manipulated in some way to deter development, to say the floodplain is a little further out than it actually is? Is there some standard deviation of error or is it subject to some sort of error rate?
 Well, essentially there are standard practices on the way you model things. You know, for instance, in areas where you have lots of trees, then obviously the water is slowed down and doesn't flow through quite as quickly. So you have adjustment factors that you put into the computer model. But again, there are standard practices and best practices that are used.
 It's a computer model, so it is subject to error, but this will give us much more accurate data than we have now. Even though there may be some areas that we determine later that the computer model needs further adjustment, this will be a better model than what we have now. You mentioned also that by us spending this money that would give us more accurate data that consumers or property owners could use when they have a building project to see where their property is in relation to the floodplain.
 Would there be a charge for that data or would be providing this at no charge? If it is available and it is information that we have that we can provide to the citizens, we have a stormwater engineer, Alan Pugh, is here and he can maybe speak to more detail about what kind of information he would provide in a specific instance, but if we have that information available, we provide it at no charge as a service to our citizens.
 If we don't have that information available, they do sometimes have to hire a consultant, hire an engineer, do that investigation, and determine where the floodplain is on their property. I would hate to think that we, as the city council, are going to spend $43,000-plus of citizens' money and then charge them again for the same data. Right. We do not do that. Good. Thank you. Anything else? Okay, now we're going to open it up to public comment.
 Please give us your name and address. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Unless council member wants to bring you back to ask questions, keep comments to the mayor, don't engage the public or city council. Hi, my name is Cora Lanphier. My address is 1215 Ellis Avenue.
 I do live in the flood plain and I've been in contact with Allen Pew. We've had quite a few back and forths over this issue. I have been there for almost 16 years, so I have a lot of historical data to offer about the flooding situation there.
 I have been concerned that the flooding might be worse and I initially contacted Mr. Pugh because I felt that it might be related to some of the development in this part of town. It's a rapidly developing watershed, as you know. It's around campus, of course. And one of the goals of the city is to promote infill, which is a goal that we're
 I support and I'm glad that we're looking to do that. The problem is that there are people who are, I guess, the collateral damage of that infill. As you infill, you know, you create more impermeable surfaces.
 you take out trees. I understand we have a tree ordinance as well as a low impact development ordinance. But my concern is that perhaps we are interpreting them in a very narrow way.
 There's a lot of older trees that have been pulled out for a lot of different developments, a lot of parking lots paved over, and land paved over. And it does concern me the rate at which
 the area is developing, and that the water is rising much faster than it used to. College Branch, otherwise known as Mullins Creek, which is a tributary to Town Branch, which is in the Beaver Watershed, runs through my backyard. I see it when it rises. I have to keep an eye on it.
 And I have to say that, you know, from what I can tell, it does seem to be rising faster. And it worries me. So that's the context of why I contacted Alan. And we went, we had quite a few back and forths over the last, I believe, six months, five
 From what I can tell this FEMA risk map phase two is their solution for helping people that live in this area. As you probably all know, people who live in flood plains are generally lower income people because that's the land that they can afford.
 I recognize that it is a goal of the city also to maintain low income home ownership, which is something that I also support. But I would like to remind you that there are currently many low income homeowners and a lot of us live in the flood plain. And we are being negatively impacted by some of this development. You can't stop development, as much I know.
 My issue with the FEMA risk map phase two, well there's a couple of them. One of them is that, well I asked Alan Pugh specifically what would the flood mitigation benefits be? Because this is after all the reason why I contacted him. How can we mitigate the flooding? How can we slow this down? And his first
 item was that there would be flood mitigation grants that could possibly be available, should the zoning support it. However, upon further discussion, he recognized that it was extremely unlikely that we would receive any of these grants because it
 For my neighborhood in particular, this might not be so for some of the other neighborhoods. But for my neighborhood in particular, it would be extremely unlikely to receive them because we do not have a recorded history of repetitive loss. The second thing that he said that this phase two risk map would accomplish would be the possible widening of the culverts at 11th and 15th Street.
 um there are there is a history of debris piling up in this area and the water back back filling and so i questioned him about this and we talked about it and he eventually recognized that those those uh projects were also
 Fairly unlikely to happen because the possible damage that it could do to people downstream Would you tell me where the culvert widening was in 11th and 15th? and the land around the 15th culvert to the west of it is currently for sale and
 We talked about different things that we could do, but he seemed to firmly believe that it was unlikely that we would be able to purchase any of it, to do any kind of mitigation efforts.
 The last thing that Mr. Pugh said would be a benefit of this FEMA risk map phase two, which I would like to clarify. The city's cost of $43,000 is only 10% of the actual cost. The actual cost to the state and other levels of government is over $430,000.
 And this is an update to the FEMA zones that were updated as recently as 2008. So unless we really believe that the topography and the hydrology has changed considerably just in the last few years, it seems to be that we might be duplicating some efforts here.
 I am aware that some of the computer modeling might not have taken place with the previous rezoning, because when it was rezoned, then these zones got bigger. More people were placed into the floodplain, myself included. But the third possible flood mitigation benefit that Alan Pugh said might be made available after this Phase 2 was, let's see, how about here?
 Base flood elevation certificates. Base flood elevation certificates will be available at no cost, as you pointed out, Mr. Latour. However, for most of the people who already live in the flood plain, there's very little need for a base flood elevation certificate. This would mostly just benefit people who wish to develop in the area and do not want to hire an engineer to do this for them.
 So after long conversation with Mr. Pugh, he concurred that indeed there is no real flood mitigation benefit to this almost half a million dollar authorization. He recommended that if I wanted some flood mitigation efforts, that I approach the city council about the...
 enforcement and interpretation of our tree ordinance, our low impact development ordinance, and our open spaces plan. And I know that these things can be interpreted in a wide variety of ways, and there's lots of ifs, ands, or buts.
 And I guess I would request that we take a broader view of some of these ordinances and plans, especially as it pertains to particular watersheds that are undergoing rapid development and experience a great deal of flooding. I love that Fayetteville has these things. I think it's great. I think it would be even better if we tried a little bit harder to enforce them in a more meaningful way.
 Not meaningful now, but I feel like the rate of development, I mean, just drive around the area, a lot of these student housing developments, I mean, they're taking off, they're clear-cutting. They're taking off tops of mountains. And not only is this having a surface water drainage impact, we have a lot of underground streams in the area.
 and they also come down to the same areas that have surface water issues. So, and a lot of the mitigation efforts required by the developers are forcing this water underground. And so I would like to point out that a lot of these surface water issues which are supposedly being remedied by funneling this water into underground streams, they're still going to the same place. And I guess
 I understand the conflicting interests of development and the environment because again,
 you know, our drinking water watershed. And so when we pave over these meadows and fields and take out all these older trees and replace them with saplings, we are having a direct impact on our water quality. It's not just about those of us who live in a flood plain and who are negatively impacted. This actually has a direct impact on the drinking water quality for this whole area.
 But I do understand that economic development is necessary. You have to keep moving forward. But I would just really like it if we could maybe approach some of these ordinances with a broader perspective, a broader interpretation. Cuz I see a lot of 100 year old trees being taken out for parking lots and student housing, and
 i guess that's it thank you do we have any questions miss claire cora cora excuse me i take it you want us to vote for spending this money um if the only benefit of spending almost a half a million dollars is to update a six-year-old fema maps the only benefit is to provide developers with free base flood elevation certificates no i don't think it's worth it
 um perhaps there's something that i am missing but i've had long conversations with mr pew and i don't think there is anything that i'm missing he basically agreed with me that there is no flood mitigation tied to this i just need to get a read for exactly how you want us to vote on this thank you welcome anyone else thank you
 We've talked about this specific area a lot in water, sewer, solid waste, because we know the increase of the velocity and we had a lot of development with the View, the Hill Street Apartments, the Fayetteville High School, and it all ran right down into College Creek. Yes. And so I guess what I, the reason I asked Chris this is because we are upgrading our monitoring because we have to protect, as you said,
 our storm water runoff in order to protect our drinking water. And whenever it starts at the highest elevation, which is around the university and the high school and comes down through your neighborhood and then it heads down to Town Branch, Town Branch directly into the West Fork of the White River, we need good information. And it is expensive to get information that will help us quantify what we need to do for mitigation.
 And so I understand your concern about spending the money on it, but if the federal dollars are gonna come in,
 It might be worth it, I'm trying to think, to have this additional information so we can better understand how to manage, especially the velocity. I think that that's what you're probably alluding to as well as what we know about on the erosion of the side of the streams. And of course, the more velocity, the more erosion, the more sediment, and the harder it is for us to manage the storm water runoff.
 With this opportunity to get federal money, I might, well not, I hardly respect your point of view. I really do, and if I lived there, I would be equally as concerned, and I'm pretty equally concerned, because we have discussed this area so much. We just, we're looking at ways to mitigate it, to handle it, and like I mentioned to Chris, I guess I think,
 If we can get a half a million dollars worth of data for $45,000, maybe there's a trade-off where we can utilize this data to better manage and mitigate the erosion of the stream, especially right where you're talking about. Because as you know, the university is going to develop more about the high school and that's going to put this directly into this tributary and so,
 Having more information to me might be very valuable. Like I say, if we can get a half a million dollars worth of valid information on topography, then it would help us better understand what we need to develop, what we need to fine tune as far as low impact development. You do have very strong advocates for low impact development on Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee, as well as on the...
 City Council and it's a delicate balance because we don't want to inhibit the growth and development as you mentioned so I guess I hope you'll understand if I vote to support this that is in no way trying to devalue the information that you've given us today in fact it's very valuable and the fact that you brought it to the attention of the complete City Council is extremely valuable so thank you. May I just respond?
 Pardon? May I respond? Yes. Yeah. I am in favor of more data.
 I was actually wondering if we could have stream gauges installed because they would measure the velocity. I don't think that the topography has changed very much since FEMA has already done its studies. So the fact that we were talking about spending a half a million dollars and that we're getting 90% of it for free, I don't know that that necessarily means
 that we're getting a half a million dollars worth of data. I think that there might be other ways and there might even be other grants where we still might only have to pay for 10% of it. And I would just like to point out that this is still a half a million dollars with no effective mitigation.
 It is, and the stream gauges, you know, as Alan pointed out, they take approximately 30 years of data to really effectuate some sort of reliable, you know,
 So, yes, it's a half a million dollar study. I don't know if that's necessary for the data, and I don't know if this is a good analogy, but like they say, garbage in, garbage out. I don't know that the topography has changed in the last six years, but I am in favor of collecting more data. If we have the topography and we understand the hydrology, then we can better understand the way that the velocity is going to impact the...
 the activity, and so through engineering standards, then we can better interpret what we would expect as the growth increases in the area. So I guess that's how I have to look at it from a scientific point of view in that level. And I don't see it as garbage, I just see it as one more element to help us justify the fact that we might need to go and get more federal money, because the more data that we have,
 the more data we have to take to the us geological survey who is a very big partner with us in managing this and very important for us to go to them we have got new metering and we're we're already discussing you know what we need to do to improve that we certainly need the partnership with the u.s geological survey and so i that's another element that that i'm considering as we move forward
 Yes, sir. I do think that even though the topography probably hasn't changed significantly, mapping tools have evolved, and we do have better, more precise technologies to understand that topography. So I do see some value in this, but—
 I also live in the floodplain, and these elevation certificates are serious. My house, it was actually used to sit where the Hill Place apartments are, and they moved it to its current location, and they thought that they were elevating it up so that the level of the floor would be above the floodplain. But you step down into the bathroom, and ta-da, the bathroom is in the floodplain, and I have to have flood insurance on it, and it's a six-inch difference.
 So, you know, having, knowing exactly where these things fall is really important and I think having this better technology to understand the lay of the land, I think can be very helpful for us. Mayor respond? I think we've covered everything. Does anybody have any more questions? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, yes, Peter, please. Mr. Mayor, Peter Tonneson. I live in Ward 3. I'm just curious.
 This says, it mentions the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission, but it says to update a flood insurance study and flood insurance rate maps. So I have two questions that are related. Why isn't this paid for by whomever it is who collects flood insurance data
 premiums and administers the flood insurance program because I would think they have actuaries who calculate risk and are most interested in doing this. And then the corollary to that is if the city does pay for it, does the city get to make this decision as to what is or is not a flood zone? I mean, why don't the people who manage the risk pay for the study, either through federal funds or premiums? But I mean, I have...
 That's the only question I have. Well, that's a pretty good question. I want to be sure I got that right. So really what you're saying is why isn't the insurance companies basically paying for the study? Basically, which as I understand, I've never had to buy flood insurance, but it's advertised on TV warning people that if you live in a flood zone, you need to pay for it. Well, why aren't, why isn't the cost of making this determination factored into that program
 But if you do want to pay for it, I'm not saying the city has no legitimate reason to pay for it. I don't know. If you do pay for it, do you get to make a decision that helps the citizens? Chris, do you have any? Yeah, Council. Alan Pugh with staff.
 I think what we're seeing here is kind of a shift in FEMA funding. Historically what FEMA had done was come into communities periodically and pay for all of the risk map updates. The latest conversations we've had with FEMA is they no longer have the funding to do that. But in this particular instance, we are seeing the lion's share of the funding coming from federal and state government.
 rather than municipal government. We're just recognizing the benefit here locally that we could receive from updated mapping. And all FEMA and ANRC are really asking us to do is to participate at some rate in that update. Okay. Yes, John. So Peter's question is still very relevant. I mean who decides where that flood plain lies? Is it just a mathematical equation or is there some human element in there saying this is where the flood plain is?
 There is some human element. I mean, there is some engineering judgment and when that line is set, you know, I believe, and Chris and I have discussed the fact that in this particular manner, hopefully the city will have more control over how that is set. If we do have questions about certain things that are assumed or placed into the model, certainly we will be engaged in that process and being able to review those, comment on those before they ever get to the FEMA level. So,
 So will we have final authority as a city, say, in Fayetteville, Arkansas? This is where we recognize the floodplain. FEMA has the ultimate final authority on all floodplains throughout the nation. So I guess the answer to that question is probably no. With this process, will we have more ability to input on that? I think that we will. So we have the ability to influence where FEMA places that line? To a certain degree, yes. Understanding that from an engineering standpoint,
 There's only so many things that you can influence. I mean, without getting into some ethical issues there, certainly we will try to map it as accurately as we can map it. We certainly don't want to bring people into the floodplain that don't necessarily need to be, but in the same tone as Chris pointed out, we don't want to leave properties out that we should be regulating just to limit that risk. It's kind of like when you deal with the highway department, you make recommendations at the end of the day, they'll make it. They decide. Yeah, they really do. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? I'm going to go to the next one.
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Any final discussion on it? I'm going to need a... Move we pass the resolution. Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number one on unfinished business. New business. Yes.
 I'm sorry, new business. Excuse me. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5134. Approximately 15 acres located at 1285 East Millsap Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to P1 institutional. Kip. Kip.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of all indescribed property from residential single family, four units per acre, to P1 institutional, as shown on exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof.
 section two that the city council of the city of favor arcs i hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one chairman this is a 15-acre parcel end of milsap road it's an rsf4 zoning district which is a single-family zoning district it's been that way for approximately 30 years the request in this particular application is to rezone the property p1 allows for cultural and recreational facilities which includes churches as a
 We believe this zoning would be compatible with the surrounding mixture of single-family, residential, commercial, and institutional land uses in the Tennessee neighborhood area for 2030. Staff is recommending approval of the rezoning as did the Planning Commission for the vote of 7-2. Any questions for Jeremy on this? Okay. Any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council.
 I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Ms. Sonder, would you please call the roll? Tenet. Yes. LaTour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property is granted in rezoning petition RZN 15-5130 for approximately 15 acres located at 1285 East Millsap Road from our residential single family, four units per acre to institutional.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call? Tenant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5130 for approximately 15 acres located at 1285 East Millsap Road from residential single family four units per acre to institutional. Okay.
 Any final comments from the council on this? Anybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Loutere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. Number two. An ordinance to approve vacation 15-5127 submitted by Allen Baker for property located at 19 North Palmer Avenue to vacate an existing blanket water and sewer easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described water and sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates and abandons the following water and sewer easement described in Exhibit B attached.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached and labeled as Jupiter A, shall be filed in the Office of Recorder of the County and recorded in the deed records of the county. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition of approval. Number 1, the vacation shall not be valid until a 20-foot water and sewer easement has been dedicated to the city of Fayetteville by the property owner.
 This is a property located at 19 North Palmer Avenue, it's west of Razorback Road around the University campus, about three blocks west of Razorback Road. It's in the HOTS subdivision. It's currently developed with a single family home, developed and then constructed in the 1950s. Around that time, the city acquired water and sewer easements throughout this neighborhood as part of a major infrastructure project. We're still in the process of building that. We're still in the process of building that.
 However, those easements were not obtained based on the location of the water and sewer lines being installed, but rather were dedicated using the entire parcel description. Therefore, the entire lot became a utility easement, which certainly is an impediment to future development. We recognize this as an issue in the last few years. We've actually—the City of Fayetteville brought forward seven of these blanket easements in 2012. However, there are a few situations that still exist where property owners either didn't
 when we signed the letters that we sent out. This came up as part of a permit request by the property owner, and so we were requesting that the existing blanket easement be vacated and rather it be replaced with a 20-foot easement centered on the existing sewer line that services this area. Planning Commission voted 6-0 in favor of this request, and staff is also supportive. Any questions? Anything good over there? Good. I move we pass it.
 Second. Give me just a second. That takes a public comment. Is there any other questions for Jeremy on this? Okay. Is there any public comment on this? All right. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Now, John. All right. I want to pass it. I move we pass it. Well, we've got to go to the second reading. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Tenant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. The motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading is approved. An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5127 submitted by Alan Baker, property located at 19 North Palmer Avenue, to vacate an existing blanket water and sewer easement.
 We go third and final reading second and most insane go to third and final reading Sunday, would you please call the row? Yes, mature. Yes long. Yes gray. Yes Marsh. Yes Kenyon Yes, and orange approved the AC 15-50 127 submitted by Alan Baker for property located at 19 North Palmer Avenue To vacate an existing blanket water and sewer easement any final comments from the council on this I?
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay, number three. An ordinance amending a residential planned zoning district titled R-PZD 04-1154. Timber trails contain approximately 26 acres to modify the zoning of lots 70 through 77, 98, and 99 to allow for use unit eight single family dwellings. Kitts.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the change to RPZD 04-1154, Timber Trails, to modify the zoning of Lots 70 through 77, Lots 98 and 99, to allow for use of Unit 8, Single Family Dwellings, as shown in Exhibit A, attached here to and made a part hereof, is hereby approved.
 Section 2 that the planned zoning district ordinance and official zoning map the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for our PCD 4-11 54 timber trails as passed and approved by the City Council on December 7 2004 with ordinance number 46 47 shall be modified with revisions as described in section 1 above I
 The timber trails planned zoning district was approved several years ago. It is primarily developed. It's west of Happy Hollow School, east of Happy Hollow Road. It was approved for 15 single family homes and 48 two family homes for a total of 111 total residential units.
 There were specific lots approved for single family development and other lots approved for two family development. This particular request is to amend the plan zoning district to allow for single family homes to also be constructed on lots 70 through 77, lot 98 and lot 99. This would not prohibit two family construction on those lots, but it would allow for the ability flexibility for single family homes to also be constructed within the neighborhood. Planning Commission voted 6-0 and staff is also supportive of the request.
 any questions anybody good all right do we have any public comment on this okay so none will bring it back to the council if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have motion second to go to the second reading sondra would you please call the road tannin yes luther yes long yes gray yes marsh yes canyon yes
 An ordinance amending a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 4-1154, Timber Trails, containing approximately 26 acres to modify the zoning on lots 70 through 77, 98, and 99 to allow for use unit 8, single-family dwellings. May we go to the third and final reading? Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Tenet. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. An ordinance amending a residential plan zoning district entitled RPZD 4-1154, Timber Trails, containing approximately 26 acres to modify the zoning of lots 70 through 77, 98, and 99 to allow for use unit 8, single family dwellings. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Okay.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay, number four. An ordinance to amend section 172.05 of the Unified Development Code to remove minimum parking standards for non-residential uses. Kipp.
 Whereas removing minimum parking standards for non-residential uses will advance City Plan 2030 goals of reducing sprawl, prioritizing infill development, and promoting traditional town form. And whereas minimum parking standards were primarily developed based upon parking surveys that measure peak demand,
 And whereas requiring a minimum number of parking spaces based upon a limited number of times a year when a parking lot will be completely full is a wasteful use of valuable land. And whereas landowners and developers are periodically denied the ability to adaptively reuse their property due to parking minimum requirements tied to specific land use categories,
 And rest potential economic development opportunity and streamlining of our city code is a benefit to the city's development climate Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 At the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 172 05 standards for the number of spaces by use of the unified development code by repealing and replacing it with exhibit a Okay, Jeremy
 minimum parking requirements are common throughout many cities particularly larger cities and they have an enormous impact on many aspects of our built environment as we've discussed through city plan 2025 and city plan 2030. however there's a very limited research justifying the numbers behind oftentimes parking ratios minimum parking ratios are typically based on the institute of transportation engineers recommendations which are in turn based on surveys performed to measure peak demand of a certain use
 Peak demand is generally the one to five days a year, like Black Friday or Christmas, holidays, where parking lots are at their fullest. More than half of the 101 published parking rates within the nation are based on four or fewer surveys of parking occupancy, and 22% of those are actually based on a single survey. How that applies in Fayetteville, several times each year,
 Planning staff has to deny a business license or discourage a prospective business owner from moving into an existing building because that location cannot meet the minimum parking requirements laid out in chapter 172. How our parking requirements work are that it's based on a specific use of a property, the size of that use, so the number of square feet within a building, for instance, and that we basically have a criteria that you have to meet that minimum parking requirement.
 As an example, a restaurant has to have one parking space for every 100 square feet of restaurant space. A professional office has to have one space for 300 square feet. A medical office, a little bit different, is one space for 250 square feet. So we have a number of those differences within our current ratios.
 Because of those minimum parking ratios, we oftentimes have difficulty with older office or retail centers that can't easily adapt to changing real estate market conditions and prospective tenants are limited to their originally anticipated uses. There's a relatively new one, for instance, at Nelson Crossing that there are empty tenant spaces because the parking spots there aren't enough to allow for future tenants because they already exceed the amount that they're allowed.
 We also meet with different developers about the same properties over and over again, particularly downtown and along our older developed corridors such as MLK and College Avenue, where new potential infill development proposals are either impossible or too costly to develop because of our minimum parking requirements.
 It is our intent with this particular proposal to remove those minimum parking ratios for non-residential uses. The first intent of this code amendment is to encourage appropriate infill development and revitalization, which is the first goal of City Plan 2030. We believe this will allow business owners and developers to determine the minimum parking needs for their intended uses.
 We feel like also there's a more accurate assessment of those needs for non-residential uses from the business owner or developer as a proposal to the staff. Maximum parking ratios and residential parking ratios are not affected by this proposed code amendment. It's not something we reviewed in our research. There are numerous cities that we included as part of your packet that have either partially or totally removed minimum parking ratios for non-residential uses with positive results.
 Our research and observation in Fayetteville has been that if a non-residential use does not have enough parking, a couple things will happen. One, the use will go out of business. It will move to a new location that meets the customer's needs to succeed. Or customers will simply find a different mode of transportation to that site or to that business.
 We very rarely, if ever, receive complaints about a lack of non-residential parking or adverse impacts to surrounding property because of lack of non-residential parking, even in the downtown business community. We do receive a number of comments, of our complaints, weekly about residential parking. We are a university town, so it's a nuance that we have that some other cities don't have. And so that's something we're simply not ready to look at in a great depth at this point in time.
 We believe this code change is an economic development tool that'll allow turnover and revitalization of our existing building stock for a variety of new and startup businesses. We believe underused parcels represent a costly missed opportunity in many cases and we hope to be able to incentivize and encourage redevelopment in a lot of those areas such as College Avenue where we're providing new sidewalks, street lights, making it a much safer pedestrian environment and this is one additional way in order to encourage redevelopment along those areas.
 It also simplifies our development procedures. It opens up infill development to be more functionally viable. It hopefully activates underperforming vacant or derelict lots, enables more opportunities for sustainable or green development principles. We believe all those are potential positive outcomes of this proposal.
 We also wanted to note, we did this at the Planning Commission as well, that eliminating the non-residential minimum parking requirement does not mean that all developments start providing no parking. We don't believe that's a viable model in many places within our city. Rather, it allows and encourages folks to share their parking, particularly with off-peak demand uses where you have residential and commercial in close proximity, much like is what happens in our downtown on a daily basis.
 We do believe it provides more flexibility to provide the parking that's truly needed for a development to succeed rather than peak hour requirements.
 The Planning Commission agreed with that assessment and recommended to you all in favor of this ordinance. We do request that, while we welcome questions, we do would like to hold it on the first or second reading tonight to allow the community to certainly give input. We've had letters for and against this proposal submitted to you all as council members, and so we wanna take our time. It is a big change in our codes, and so we certainly want to take our time and be diligent about that process. Okay.
 What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Anything? Yes, Adele. Jeremy, is there ever a case where a builder, I'm thinking of a medical office, and he wanted more parking places? He said the city would not, so explain that to us. We have a maximum parking ratio in our ordinance. There is an ability to ask the Planning Commission for more parking, and so that's certainly built into the code currently.
 So there is a maximum, but had he wanted to, he could have come and asked for more. That's correct. Yes. Yes. So what the change we're proposing here is to do away with the minimums, but we're not eliminating the maximums. That's correct. We've not found a community that went to that extent to eliminate maximums, at least in our research. But we were very targeted and focused research, obviously. We were looking at communities who specifically.
 did away with their minimum standards, which is generally what is the concern. Maximum standards generally deal with more environmental issues, providing, it's usually more wasteful of space, because as user groups turn over a building, for instance, over time, they may or may not need that amount of parking. So you see many properties within the city that
 that now have much more parking than would ever be needed for the businesses that occupy this space. And so it's certainly something we have an ability, a mechanism to request that, and we see that from time to time. Okay, well I applaud our efforts to deregulate our businesses to this extent. Of course I'd like to see the maximum removed as well. I think a business is perfectly capable of projecting its needs, and they have the strongest economic incentives to do so accurately.
 No one's crystal ball works perfectly. I'll be the first to admit that. But our crystal balls don't work perfectly either as city staff and we, those of us who are setting policy. This is a perfect example where the marketplace will allocate the parking spaces needed. If a business were to open a retail shop with no parking places, they would go out of business very quickly.
 and the owner or the proprietor or the corporation operating that business would stand to lose the most. So they have the strongest economic incentive to make sure they guess accurately and correctly. I like that a lot.
 Okay. Anything else? Yes, Al? Jeremy, would an example of the maximum be something like we see on college? There are a couple shopping centers that have just expansive parking lots. We wouldn't allow something like that to happen now. Fiesta Square, for example, an expansive parking lot that is never full. Right. Basically just a large area of blacktop that's unused, not creating tax dollars for the city. Right. That's a perfect example of...
 A property that is almost 100% paved, probably,
 hundreds of parking spots more than is ever used even on the busiest day of the year and we believe a great redevelopment opportunity and and we've spoken to property owners in situations such as fiesta square and other places where they now believe that there's a better investment than these expansive parking lots they can put more retail square footage and use the exact same amount of parking that's already there so that's a good example thank you okay any public comment on this
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We'll leave it right here for two weeks, or you want to... Let's leave it here. Okay. All right. Mayor, I want to make sure that the city council has at least taken a look at my memo. Because of the Personal Property Protection Act that was enacted, this is kind of like a one-way street. If you remove the minimum requirements as recommended by the planning department and you run into problems...
 where if commercial land is developed in our mixed-use areas, like Walker Park, where a lot of the mixed-use areas are in low residential areas, a developer could decide, I'm just going to put my business in here, my office in here, my restaurant in here, and provide no parking, and I'll just use the parking that the neighborhood has been using. Now that makes good financial sense to that business owner, because he doesn't have to pay for parking.
 Now, if that's a problem for his neighbors, well, that's just kind of tough on them because most of his customers aren't going to be the neighbors. It's going to be other people coming in. So his employees and his customers could park in the neighborhood and cause, you know, a little bit of unhappiness in the neighborhood. My proposal that I'm recommending to you would grant to the planning staff a variance procedure that they do themselves. It doesn't have to go to the planning commission. They could vary the amount all the way from...
 100% of the minimum that it is right now or all the way down to 0% they could also do things They could say well, we'll allow your reduction in your parking, but give us some bike Racks or give us some scooter parking or give us some disabled parking But what it does it would give the planning staff complete discretion all the way down to zero and you could kind of have a test run for a few years and see if a
 When no parking is allowed in these particular areas, is that okay? Is that absorbed by the neighborhood, no problems? Or does it cause problems? If it caused problems, then you could always do away with the variance procedure or make it more difficult if you did encounter problems in the future. But if you simply do away with the minimum standards, because of the Personal Property Protection Act, you will never again be able to require minimum standards. So it is a closed door, a locked door,
 Because if you do then you're putting on a new regulation and the regulation is going to impact more than 20% of the landowners Value and therefore that would be a taking under that law. And so we would be ending up and paying the developer To build a parking lot for his customers
 which I don't think anybody would like to see. So I think we need to be very careful. These minimum parking standards have been in place in Fayetteville for decades. There have been many boards of directors and city councils that approve them. And so I think before they're just totally thrown away, we ought to try to look maybe at a transition to see if the planning staff can look at the parking situation and say, sure, in that area, there's plenty of parking. That's not gonna be an adverse effect on the neighborhood. So you don't have to do any parking.
 or somewhere in between but i don't recommend just an immediate discarding of all the minimum parking standards because i just don't think anybody's crystal ball is that good as alderman latour said uh i don't have a crystal ball to see if that's going to work uh i would rather have some real world experience and see if it works okay sarah i'd like to respond to that um
 Typically how that is handled in other cities where, especially in historic areas where the commercial districts don't have parking by today's standards, is then you would form a residential parking district with generally two hour parking during the day and then residential by permit at night.
 So I think that that's an easy thing to overcome, as lots of other cities around the country have done that. And as far as handicapped accessible spaces, Jeremy, correct me if I'm wrong, but that is not under our code. That's actually an American with Disabilities Act mandated. So this will not affect ADA spaces. A business will still be required to have a certain number of handicapped accessible spaces. And then also, you know, you mentioned the ADA.
 these parking standards have been in effect for many decades and if you look at the development that's occurred within these last few decades it's exactly the kind of development that is a lot of its contrary to our 2030 city plan goals where we have large expanses of parking lots separating businesses from the street and it's really created some unhealthy urban conditions that i think that eliminating this
 could do a lot to help. But then there's also the economic impact of this, and as we try to encourage infill development in our downtown area, if you think about the cost of building a structured parking deck in a parking garage, it runs between 20 to $40,000 a space.
 And when you're talking about affordable retail space, affordable housing space, you know, affordable business space, that is a huge barrier to creating that type of affordability that we need to see our city thrive. So I think that it's in the best economic interest, it's in the best urban planning interest to go ahead and remove these parking minimums.
 And I think that we have some good mechanisms that we can fall back on should we inadvertently create friction in some of our areas. Yes, Alan. So I have a question about the residential parking district. I know we have some of those in the city of Fayetteville, but we also have people that monitor those. And expanding those districts costs money and staff and equipment, cars, to do that with.
 That would give me some concern to say that we could do that all over the city of Fayetteville, outside the entertainment or downtown district.
 Well, I think, you know, in terms of like Walker Park area, that's where we've got a commercial district in close proximity to a residential district. You know, I think that if that became an issue, that's a tool we could use. And if they're monitoring it and they're finding violators, then, you know, that's we're collecting revenue from those violations. So I think that it has the potential to pay for itself in that area.
 but you know i just look at what it's costing us in terms of land values in terms of water quality because every one of these parking spaces that's impervious surface area that we're dealing with runoff um that you know right now we don't have a storm water utility so we're paying to treat all that water
 So I think that also when you talk about being able to increase the density of properties for sale or rent, you look at increased tax base. So I think that economically, while that might be a bump to create the residential parking districts, if we had to do that, I think that in the long term we would come out ahead financially. Okay. Okay.
 We were going to leave it on the first reading, but go ahead, Adam. I have another question. Do you think that we could study the effects of having those residential parking districts before going forward with this and maybe looking at Kit's idea as a more cautious approach to achieving the same goal? Because as Kit said, this is a closed door if we do it, but we could accomplish the same thing through staff being able to review these requests and give businesses the same opportunity
 amount of parking requirements that the staff presented ordinance would do but you know, there's a lot of startup cost in Creating new expanding the residential parking districts a lot talking millions probably If the districts were to be expanded all across the city of Fayetteville cars fleet expenses I'm just yes I don't really
 I think that we're going to run into that many residential parking districts, and especially not in any time in the near future.
 I would also question the millions of dollars to expand that. But what concerns me about putting it in the hands of a staff member is it gives the appearance of impropriety or impartiality rather than having set standards that you can guide by because, you know, what happens when developer A comes and talks to planning department and they get a reduction that they like but then developer B doesn't?
 I feel like that puts too much power in the hand of that one individual and instead we should have a straight standard across the board. Mayor? Yeah, John, go ahead. Let the record show I agree with all of Wilma Marsh. We'll be sure they get this in a minute. Please. Yes, Mark. Whenever I first heard this, I would say immediately because parking is such a big issue in a lot of board too.
 I was weary and I have taken the time like I try to do with issues especially those that are emotional as well as impacting economic development. And there is a lot of data, a lot of data regarding parking districts. And they are in very specific commercial and very specific areas where there's commercial issues.
 or institutional and residential overlap. That's really the only area that would be considered for a parking district. So that's something that we do need to probably discuss, especially since we're a college town and we know that there is this overlap. So there's a lot of data out there. Because initially I thought, man, this is crazy. I'm not good with this, but.
 I like it a lot now that I've looked at what other cities have done. I really, especially in Ward 2 where we have College Avenue and we've got to do something to encourage the development and some properties that simply do not have the room to meet the current standards.
 Yeah, Alan, go ahead. I'll just say my last, I'm glad we're holding it. I just want to throw some ideas out there for people to think about. Right. But with Ward 4 being the largest ward with neighborhoods, we have more contiguous neighborhoods to the university than any other area of the city of Fayetteville. We deal with a lot of parking in our neighborhoods. So that's one of the things that I hear as one of the largest number of complaints I get.
 So just think about that as we're going through this process. And to put it out there again, I don't think holding off for six months as a trial even would be a bad thing in going with Kit's idea. But I'll consider all the points that you made. You made some good points, too. I will not be here next city council meeting because I'll be attending the destination downtown. Well, I will tell you this is a major shift, and I don't, unless the council just suddenly wants to.
 Mayor, the staff would like for you to do this on three individual meetings. I'd like to get a little more familiar with it. No worry on this one. Great, thank you. Anything else on that? Okay. All right, what announcements do we have? Several announcements, Mayor. First, this...
 Thursday, September the 3rd, is the Fayetteville Community Resource Division invites all of our citizens and visitors coming to town for the fifth annual festival. It's in coordination with First Thursday this week, and it's between 5.30 and 7.30 PM this Thursday. Also want to remind our city of Fayetteville businesses that renewing business licenses have begun.
 and you have until October the 31st to do so. Information can be found on the city's website as well as local media sites that you might interact with. The, I wanna remind the council that tomorrow is the, and invite the public to the groundbreaking ceremony for Ruple Road
 It would be at 11 a.m. at the southernmost end of the existing North Ruppel Road near Owl Creek School, and the address for that is 375 North Ruppel. We hope you'll come out. This is the largest single bond project that was approved by the citizens that we are getting on the way, and I hope you'll enjoy us in that celebration of starting that project. Thank you.
 We also want to welcome all of our fans and visitors to our first home football game this Saturday. Hopefully we'll have a victory and a lot of happy visitors. And then lastly, the city offices are closed on Monday, September 7th in observance of Labor Day.
 Right now we have a special election happening coming up on Tuesday, but early voting is underway. You can vote at the Washington County Courthouse from 8 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. any day through Friday, or voters can cast their vote at any polling location next Tuesday from 7.30 a.m. to 7.30 p.m., and the election is for a uniform civil rights protection ordinance. Mayor, I've got two kind of legal announcements. One is maybe more happy than the other.
 About five months ago I told you that one of the decisions where we had won when we had been sued by a property owner who claimed we were responsible for some flooding problems. We had won that case in summary judgment, prevailed on both of their counts against the city, but they filed a notice of appeal. They have not followed through. They've not ordered the record and so evidently our victory is going to remain and not be overturned on appeal.
 Secondly, I think I told the City Council I was going on vacation this Friday and be gone for a few weeks, depending on how long my wife will be away from her bloodhounds, either two or three weeks, depending if she gets too homesick.
 I'm going to leave a little bit later. Friday at 9 o'clock there will be a hearing on a temporary restraining order that is motion for temporary restraining order that was filed late yesterday afternoon. I did not even receive the petition until like 5.30 yesterday afternoon. I will be defending the city council's position on this.
 I believe that the election will continue. I will certainly do everything I can to make sure people have the right to vote, their constitutional right to vote, according to Amendment 7. And so I do not think that the election will be ended, despite the efforts of the plaintiffs to have the judge enjoin the election. There will probably be more litigation after the election, and I'll keep you informed on that.
 Okay. Anything else? Mayor? Yes. The Washington County Fair is going on right now. Invite everyone to go out and have a fun time. All right. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.