I would like to call to order the City Council meeting for September 5, 2017. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. We're here. Present. Present. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, good evening everyone. First order of business that we have tonight under presentations, the 2017 second quarter financial update. Paul, I believe you have that for us. You're a mayor. Good evening, mayor and council. Through the second quarter of 2017, that's through June, first six months, it's been very positive financially for the city. The general fund is up about $900,000 compared to budget as of that date. So we're looking pretty well on track, certainly, to meet the salary increases granted in April. Compared to this, the budget is just about on track where I would expect it to be. We still have some capital expenditures to make. So far we've spent about 43% of the expenditure budget and still have some commitments outstanding. So that's right around where I would expect it to be at this point in time. As far as the street fund is concerned, the street fund's up roughly 4% revenue-wise. Compared to last year, a half cent sales tax on gallonage from the state that's remitted to us is up this year. So that looks like it's up. and is running above budget for this time, at this time in the year. Expenditures are about on track. Again, we've got some capital expenditures coming up out there. Parking fees up 3% compared to last year, so they're doing well. We've got some major capital projects coming forward there too, especially on the Meadows Street deck. Parking development is up 3%, almost 4% actually. And there again, we've got capital expenditures coming up in some of our parks, but expenditures are just about on track where I would expect them at this point in time. Water and sewer fund, revenues are up roughly 6% for this year. Don't forget we had a 3%. 3% increase in rates. Also, water consumption especially has been up this year on the commercial side. Expenditures, again, we haven't got a lot of capital programs going on that will be completed this year, but expenditures are on track. Recycling, revenues up about 4% there. So that's looking pretty positive for us. And airport gasoline sales so far through June were up almost 10%. That, again, is very, very volatile, but that's also a positive sign for us. So all in all, we're having a good year financially, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the finance report? Okay. Thank you, Paul. All right. Before we get into the consent agenda, I've been asked to pull— 11 and 12 from the consent. Do we need a motion to take it from the consent and move it to first, before we get into old business? No, you don't need to do that. You can just remove it unilaterally. It was on the request of our city engineer. Okay. So, all right, on the consent agenda, number one, approval of the August 15, 2017 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 17-45 and to approve the purchase... of a trailer-mounted ring-o-matic hydro excavation unit from UCO Equipment LLC, DBA Utility One Source of Cabot, Arkansas, in the amount of $64,575 plus taxes for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number three. A resolution to authorize the purchase of a Kubota backhoe from Kubota of Northwest Arkansas Incorporated DBA Springdale Tractor Company in the amount of $48,090.34 pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative Purchasing Agreement for use by the Parks and Recreation Department. Number four, a resolution to authorize acceptance... of the 2017-2018 State Drug Crime Enforcement and Prosecution Grant for state funding of the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force in the amount of $122,436.75 and to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive the grant funds. Number five, a resolution to authorize acceptance... of a non-matching supplemental grant from the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program in the amount of $1,724 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to authorize the purchase of body-worn cameras in the Officer Safety Plan and software licenses from Axon Enterprise, Inc. for a five-year program cost in the total amount of $762,679.59. pursuant to a National Intergovernmental Purchasing Alliance cooperative purchasing agreement for the police department and to approve a budget adjustment. Number seven, a resolution to award RFP 17-05 and to authorize a five-year contract with Cox Communications for telecommunications services with the automatic renewals for up to five additional one-year terms and an estimated cost of $295,546, including taxes and fees for the first year. Number eight, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $10,000, recognizing public access television fee revenue to be used for promotional activities. Number nine. a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of $39,950 for design, bidding, and construction phase services related to the Meadow Street Parking Deck Rehabilitation Project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $38,150. Number 10, a resolution to approve the conveyance of a permanent access easement and temporary construction easement to the University of Arkansas across the south portion of the fire station. Number 6, property located at 900 South Hollywood Avenue. Items 11 and 12 have been pulled. Number 13... A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $948 to reconcile the amount of funding received from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Community Development Block Grant Program. Number 14. Thank you. A resolution to sell about .77 acres of land along North Frontage Road to the links at Federal, a limited partnership in exchange for right-of-way and easements necessary for the construction of North Ripple Road between West Starry Night View and West Mount Comfort Road. And number 15, a resolution to authorize a settlement agreement with James L. and Jude A. Hazen concerning the acquisition of right-of-way and easements necessary for the construction of North Ruppel Road between West Starry Night View and West Mount Comfort Road. Sarah? I move we accept the consent agenda as read. We have a second. Okay. John, I see you up. I second the motion, Mayor. Thank you, John. All right, we have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Marsh? Yes. Hinton? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kinnett? Yes. Okay, now let's go to the two items that, before we get on into unfinished business and new business. Okay. Number 11, a resolution to approve a contract with AEP Swepco for utility relocations on North College Avenue between Davidson Street and Rebecca Street with the total amount to be paid by the city of Edville not to exceed $33,430.07. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. The reason I requested these to be pulled from the consent agenda is I was contacted by Swepco today And they let us know that there was an opportunity to get an exemption from taxes for this particular project, for both of these. In the case of this item, it's about a $3,800 savings, but they requested some specific language in the resolution. Okay. That specifically mentions aesthetics and safety. That's what triggers the tax exempt status. So just to make sure that there was no issue with that exemption, they requested that we revise the resolution, and I believe you've, It's been handed out. You have the revised resolution. Yes, you have the agenda item 11 on one side and 12 on the other. Both resolutions have been revised according to what SWEPCO wanted and suggested and recommended by our city engineer. So I would request that the first one be amended to what has been handed out to you tonight. Sarah. Move we amend the resolution to what has been handed out by the city attorney. Mark. I'll second that. Okay. What discussion do we have on the amendment? Anything? All right. Is there any public comment on the amendment? Okay. We're going to bring it back to the council. We have an amendment. Any final comments from the council? All right. Shall the amendment pass? Fetch? Yes. Latere? Yes. Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kingin? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Now we have the resolution as a whole. Well, yes. Do you want to read the amended title to that? Probably be it. Do you want me to do that, or do you have that there? I don't. Okay. Yeah, I've got it here somewhere. Yes, carefully disguised as Amendment 11. A resolution to approve a contract with AEP Swebco for utility relocations necessary for public safety and aesthetics on North College Avenue between Davidson Street and Rebecca Street, with the total amount to be paid by the city of Pebble not to exceed $33,430.70. Okay. So we've taken public. Is there any questions from the city council on this? Any public comment as a resolution as a whole? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move we pass the resolution. Mark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Furnish? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hennant? Yes. Okay, we have number 12, which I'm sure will be the same thing. A resolution to approve the contract with AEP Swebco for utility relocations on North O'Wire Road between North Mission Boulevard and East Ash Street with the total amount to be paid by the city of Federal not to exceed $72,075.02, and the amendment would be to pass what has been handed out. Sarah I move we Amend to the proposed language by the city attorney. Okay, mark. I'll second that okay Chris you gonna yes, I'm sorry. I guess I should have had you give some support That's okay. Just just to make sure you all know what the number is. This is very similar to the other one approximate savings on this item is $8,200 And, again, both of these are for placing lines underground on the various projects, some of the crossing locations. So I'd just like to take the opportunity to thank AEP, SWEPCO. They contacted us today, and they saved our citizens about $12,000. So I do want to publicly thank them for calling that to our attention. Okay. That's all. All right. We have a motion and a second. Correct? Any final comments from the council? Yes. Motion to amend, yes. Yes, motion to amend. Did I get public comment on this, folks? All right, do you have any? Okay, we have a motion to amend. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Mr. Chair? Yes. Yes. MARSHA WARDEN BUSH. Yes. KEN HENRY. Yes. PETTY. Yes. KEN HENRY. Yes. OK. Now the resolution as a whole. A resolution to approve a contract with AEP SWEBCO for utility relocations necessary for public safety and aesthetics on North O'Wire Road between North Mission Boulevard and East Ash Street with the total amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $72,075.02. Council got any questions or anything or okay? Is there any public comment on this? See, no, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we pass the resolution. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Okay. Sandra, would you please call her up? Fetch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Betty. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you, Council, very much. Under unfinished business, we have none. Thank you, Council. Under new business, number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 17-58-62 for approximately .84 acres located at 41 East North Street from RSF 4. Residential single family, 40 units per acre and RO residential office to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 Units per Acre and RO Residential Office to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Andrew. This property is at the intersection of North Street and Pollard Avenue. It's at the northern borders of the Wilson Park neighborhood. The overall site has .84 acres. They're proposing to rezone the bottom about a third of an acre from RO, Residential Office Neighborhood Conservation. The applicant stated intent is to develop the site for single-family homes. Staff recommends that the proposal is compatible with the single-family land uses in Wilson Park and provide appropriate transition from some of the busier areas on College Avenue and Pollard to the east back into the neighborhood and The future land use plan shows this as a city neighborhood area, which is really one of our widest varieties of neighborhood types. And so we do feel like it's compatible with that land use designation. On July 24th, the Planning Commission forwarded this to the council with a recommendation for approval, the vote of 9-0. Thank you. Okay. Is the applicant here? Okay. I'm Andrea Fournay, 1214 Shady Lane in Fayetteville. So I'm here. Do you have anything you want to address to the council? No, I think it's a great project, and I was really happy to see the Planning Commission pass it at 9-0. Do we have any questions for the applicant? All right, thank you. All right, do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tinnit. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5862 for approximately .84 acres, located at 41 East North Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, and RO, residential office, to NC, neighborhood conservation. Okay. Sarah? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? French. Yes. Luture. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Cannon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Cannon. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 17-5862 for approximately .84 acres located at 41 East North Street from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre and RO residential office to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Lynch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kinnan. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kinnan. Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance to approve the application of Michael David Jordan on behalf of the vault. Federal incorporated for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of federal at 112 West Center Street suite B100 kit well, I think This is the one that we need to probably amend It was called to our attention that The definition of private club was changed back in 2003 I emailed that to you, but it got late, but you gotta have it there in front of you and The definition of private club was changed to remove the requirement not only to have 100 members, but they'd be dues-paying members. So the state law changed back in 2003. Since the city council's never been involved before tonight of actually being in the approval process— That change in state law went unnoticed because it wasn't necessary. Well, tonight it has been noticed that the application that we have for a private club does not have dues-paying members, so we need to change our definition in our city code to remove the dues-paying members requirement, which is no longer required under state law. So we have added that to the particular ordinance that was already handed out to approve this petition, and it's now in front of you here. And so I would request that the ordinance be amended to this so that when we read it, we can read it as it should be. Okay. Matthew. I'll make that motion, Mayor.
 Sarah.
 Second. And that is to amend to... What it does, it adds a new section, and the new section will amend the definition of private club in the city code so it matches the state law. Okay. Is there any discussion from the council on this, on the amendment? Is there any public comment on the amendment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. And we have a motion and a second to pass the amendment. Adela. I move that we move... Go to the second reading. Well, it's an amendment. We've got to vote on it. Oh, excuse me. Okay. Sorry about that. That's okay. I move that we pass it. We have a motion and a second to pass the amendment. Correct? Okay. All right. Do we have any final comments from the council on the amendment? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. yes marsh yes yes eddie yes yes yes okay now we have the ordinance as a whole did you want me to read the whole thing as a man i think we should okay an ordinance to amend section 11102 definitions of the fayetteville city code and approve the application of michael david jordan on behalf of the vault fayetteville inc for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 112 West Center Street, Suite B100. Whereas the Arkansas State Code definition of private club was amended to delete, quote, regularly paying annual dues of not less than $5 per member, unquote, from the requirement that a private club, quote, must have not fewer than 100 members, unquote. And whereas the Fayetteville City Code should be amended to conform with the state's definition, and whereas Act 111 or 1112 of 2017, which amended the permitting procedure, set forth in Arkansas Code Annotated 3-9-222 for private clubs in the state of Arkansas, requires the City Council to, quote, approve by ordinance an application for permit to operate as a private club, unquote, before the applicant can submit the application to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Division. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 111.02 definitions of the Fayetteville City Code by repealing the language, quote, regularly paying annual dues of not less than $5 per member from the definition of private club. Section 2. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the application of Michael David Jordan on behalf of the Vault Fayetteville, Inc., a copy of which is attached to the agenda request form for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 112 West Center Street, Suite B-100. Okay. Matthew? Thank you, Mayor. So this is before us tonight because it's a new requirement in state law, as our city attorney explained, and it's really his office that did the bulk of the work in discovering this and putting this together. The only reason I sponsored it was because this was something discovered a little bit late in the application process, being a new requirement, and the applicant asked me to get this on the agenda a little bit quicker than usual. Next time I think this would just go through the normal channels. The applicant won't say anything or? You good or okay? I'm actually Chris Barabo, my partner. Michael David Jordan is here, but happy to answer any questions about this application. Do we have any questions for the app? John. Hello, Mr. Barabo. Hello. As you know, I occupied that very building for 37 years, so I'm glad to see it being developed and utilized in a useful manner. I'm a little concerned, of course, with this use. You'll be serving alcoholic beverages, Okay, and I don't I don't see anything wrong with that Morally or socially, but I do find very objectionable Drunken driving if someone is driving drunk They might as well be shooting at me and my family on the side of the road with a shotgun They have just as good as chance of killings So I'd like your assurances that you'll do all in your power to prohibit your patrons from leaving your establishment in an automobile Or some other vehicle where they can enter someone in a drunken state. Would you do that for me? I? Everything within our means. Absolutely. Good. I just want your unequivocal assurance. That makes sense. Thank you. All right. Anybody else? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. John. Okay. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Sarah. Sarah Bunch. I second that. Okay. We have a motion in the second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ingan. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Ennard. Yes. Yes. An ordinance amends section 11102 definitions of the Fayetteville City Code and approve the application of Michael David Jordan on behalf of the Vault Fayetteville Incorporated for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 112 West Center Street, Suite B100. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sarah Bunch. Second that. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Ennard. Yes. And the ordinance demands section 11102 definitions of the Fayetteville City Code and approve the application of Michael David Jordan on behalf of the Vault Fayetteville Incorporated for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 112 West Center Street, suite B100. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ingan. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. All right. Number three. An order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5872 for approximately 1.17 acres located south of Gulf Farm Road and Spyglass Hill from RA Residential Agricultural to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to N.C. Neighborhood Conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Okay. Andrew. This property is on the south side of Goff Farm Road. It is within the Stonebridge Meadows Golf Course and within that neighborhood. There's approximately 1.17 acres. It's zoned RA, residential agricultural, which is the zoning of the golf course. The applicant is requesting to rezone it to NC Neighborhood Conservation, which is a single-family zoning district, which is the same request from the previous one we just heard. Staff recommends that the zoning is compatible with the surrounding single-family uses in the neighborhood. The NC zoning does allow smaller parcels of land, however it does only allow single-family homes. In this particular application you can see the property here will not be directly fronting onto the same streets as the surrounding single-family homes so we think that it is a good spot to have a transition of parcel size and transition to the neighborhood and the golf course appropriately the land use plan does show this as a civic and private open space parks area that was Reflective of the existing golf course that was there at the time the land-use plan was adopted in staff's opinion that designation does not preclude it from being rezoned or being developed at some point in the future was really recognizing that what the land-use was at the time the land-use plan was adopted and This was discussed at the August 14th Planning Commission meeting. There were many residents there opposed to the rezoning of the property, and we have quite a bit of that documented in writing as well via e-mails that are in the packets. The Planning Commission did forward the request with a recommendation for approval by a vote of 7-2. Thank you. Okay. Is the applicant here? Good evening. Blake Jorgensen, Jorgensen Associates. I don't have much to add to Mr. Garner's report and we're here to answer some questions if you all have them. Thanks a lot. Okay. All right. Council, what questions do we have? No questions. All right. Sarah. Yes, I was wondering if Andrew could tell us what the objections of the two planning commissioners that voted against this proposal were and what their rationale was. I think the commissioners probably that voted against the request probably felt similar to what some they were they agree with the neighbors that maybe having smaller parcels of land for single family homes here would not be compatible as far as just the lot size and the resulting development pattern would be different than what's there thank you John this is another question for Andrew when we're saying we're going to allow smaller lot sizes how much smaller can you give me the Minimum lot size under the current zoning compared to minimum lot size under the proposed zoning. So the surrounding zoning of the surrounding homes in the neighborhood is RSF4, residential single-family four units per acre. That has a minimum lot width of 70 feet and 8,000 square foot minimum size. The proposed zoning would allow lots of 40 foot width with 4,000 square foot lot minimum. So it's about half as small size. Are we doing this anywhere else in the city? Are we zoning these smaller lots? We have. We have, you know, the city policy for the last five to ten years has been really to integrate a more variety of housing types and not just the same lot size over and over and over. So we have done that in many places on the west side of Fayetteville in particular. There's Cobblestone Neighborhood, which is mixed in with a lot of different lot sizes. Along Raven Lane, which is kind of west of the elementary and the middle school, there's also some of this mixed in. So it's becoming more and more common. Thank you. So from your experience or our experience as a city in mixing the lot sizes, like in West Fayetteville, if you were to grade the results, A, B, C, D, or F, how would you grade it? I think overall it's probably B. B? Yeah, I'd say it's probably been good. And the primary benefit is you can have just a variety. There's more choices for the consumer out there. There's a lot of RSF4, a lot of the same product type, and this is just another option for the consumer, which I think is a good thing. I agree with you. Thank you. Okay. Council Member Bunch. I also have a question for Andrew. Some of the comments that I've heard have dealt with the flooding and drainage issues in Stonebridge Meadows. How do you think this will affect that or exacerbate the problem or maybe improve it? Or do you have any suggestions on that? Thank you. Yeah, there have been documented flooding and drainage issues. It's further upstream than this, so I think this project in particular, if it happens and is developed, won't exacerbate some of the existing issues. We certainly do, and the mayor and the chief of staff can speak to that. They've had lots of conversations with the neighbors in this area. We are aware of the issues that have been ongoing out there. I don't think adding this one acre of neighborhood conservation zoning will make it worse. Okay, any other questions? Okay, here's where we open it up for public comment. Now, everybody, let me lay the rules out here before everybody jumps up. Everybody gets one turn at the mic, one turn. Unless a council member asks you questions or brings you back up to ask you a question, I would like for you to give us your name and address. Okay. There is a five-minute time limit. So if you give us your name and address, your time begins. So don't engage anybody on the council. Keep your remarks directly to me. Don't engage anybody in the public. Let's all be courteous and have a nice round of discussion. All right. Who would like to be first? Good evening. I'm Jerry Daly, and I live at 1721 River Meadows Drive, immediately adjacent to the parcel of land in question. My neighbors and I are here tonight to ask you to deny this zoning proposal. The neighborhood already has severe drainage issues, which was Commissioner Brown's objection. The proposed development is not in accord with the precepts of city plan 2030, specifically in regards to conservation design for subdivisions. It would harm the surrounding property owners with little benefit to the community or city at large. And it is inconsistent, as noted, with all of the surrounding zoning. My family moved into our home just shy of a year ago. We frequently joke about how there is nothing wrong with our house because of how perfectly it meets our needs. However, the first significant rainfall showed this to be a little bit of an exaggeration. The side of our home towards Gough Farm frequently becomes a river, and little springs or geysers actually pop up in our backyard on occasion during heavy rain. Gough Farm Road floods, and standing water remains for hours on end. Ike provided a picture. Others have their entryways threatened by rising water, and since the underlying rock is so non-porous, the low spots remain saturated for weeks. That this area is subject to flooding is no secret. Council members Gray and Marsh have assisted the city in getting the city engineers out to perform in-depth research studies on possible causes and solutions for fixing these issues, yet they remain. the proposal before you would take 1.17 acres of land situated at a local high point currently consisting of vegetation that aids in soaking up rain water and let it be developed conceivably in a fashion that would cover it nearly entirely in concrete pavement and roofing it would make a bad situation worse it would not alleviate it i say conceivably because that is what the design plan that was sent to us as part of the hearing notification showed i take it at face value that this is what the proposal will result in but even if it merely is a concept it shows what the zoning designation would allow it is possible if not probable as an outcome and as such needs to be considered indeed it is the only justification for the request that the applicant provided on the form Nothing else speaks to a rationale or need. More water will drain into the yards of mine and my neighbors. But more water will also drain right onto Gar Farm Road, a busy connector that already floods. The existing risk to property and to safety will be worsened. It's my opinion that the proposed rezoning is out of step with city plan 2030. This parcel is designated civic and private open spaces and parks, permanently enjoined from development per the future land use map. Granted, you can change that, but consider, it doesn't fit with the precepts of conservation design for subdivisions, which is part of the framework of the city plan. Don't take my word for it. Take the word of the very man referenced in City Plan 2030, Russell Arendt. He's an approachable guy and I mailed him. He wrote, I failed to see any connection with the proposal and the principles of conservation subdivision design, which is always about using a small part of a property for development with the larger part protected by easements. This appears to be a simple high density proposal devoid of any open space within its boundaries. The vegetation that is currently there It helps to reduce stormwater runoff and the potential damage it may create, but it also helps shield the surrounding home's yards, all of which are obligated to be open to the golf course from noise and visual light pollution from Goff Farm Road. Now, houses obviously would provide such buffering, but the type of rezoning would facilitate development that would extend Spyglass Hill Drive as a private road and put garages and driveways on the side of the fairway, thereby introducing considerable noise and light pollution to the comings and goings of everybody in those homes to the surrounding yards, with no relief possible from privacy fencing. You have one minute. hopefully you can see how this would harm the property value of the surrounding homes it would take away views it would introduce noise and light pollution and it would worsen existing drainage problem then there's a matter of wide neighborhood conservation why is that designation justified over say rsf4 to which every single home in the surrounding community to the north southeast and west is zoned in closing i ask you to consider Since there are problems with drainage in the area that are known, why make them worse? What justification, other than to build six homes, was given by the applicant for the rezoning? If conservation design for subdivisions is a precept of the city plan, how can it hold water when the first time it is challenged... to have open space filled in densely. Time. Thank you. Is there any questions for the council? Thank you. All right, who would like to address us next? Good evening, Mr. Mayor, Council. My name is Brooke Cluck. I live at 3982 East Spyglass Hill Drive. That's directly across the proposed rezoning across Goff Run Road. I'm here to speak on behalf of the Stonebridge Meadows community concerning the loss and destruction mainly of the vegetation and green space within our community. I do want to start by saying that we all understand that we're not here to discuss the projects or further development being proposed. We're here to talk about the rezoning of the area. However, I feel that it is pertinent to address the fact of the potential effects of the approval of this rezoning of this green space. Those facts paired with valid concerns are key elements in helping you all to make the most sound and informed decision. If the proposed rezoning was passed, our community feels that the green space in our area, as a whole in northwest Arkansas already, as we develop, is being lost. That's just part of economic growth. It's a cost that we all understand. However, a space at the size of 1.17 acres doesn't justify this potential loss. We feel like as people who live with their families and children in an area surrounded by other families, it is our responsibility to protect all of the vegetation, amazing wildlife within our community and our state. Living in a community that incorporates so many beautiful views and home into a natural-type setting is a key factor in what gives Fayetteville the best place to live in northwest Arkansas a great reputation. I mean, it's the reason I relocated my family there. If the proposed rezoning was passed, we are worried about destruction and disruption to the area. A large construction project would permanently disrupt and destroy some of this green space, taking with it some of the beauty to our neighborhood and the serenity of some of the golf course. Although the affected area is small in size, damage to it could potentially disrupt other ecosystem traits within our area. In fact, we have flocks of geese that lay eggs and nest within this wasteland. It's not ideal. However, those little families of geese give our kids nowadays a little bit of a genuine comfort. I don't know exposure to nature that they I mean I have kids I know you all probably you don't get that very much with So much screen time so that would be a huge loss in my opinion Also, if the proposed rezoning was passed our concerns also focused toward the stone bridge It's the namesake of the course and the neighborhood we realize that there are already weight and load restrictions in place however, they're not marked and not clearly distributed toward developers and the proposed rezoning will increase traffics of all types not just construction traffic just residential traffic in general mr melton drafted a letter to you and it actually gives you the identification number of this the bridge on the historic registry i think we can all agree that we'd be devastated to see this damage or possibly destroyed if the proposed rezoning is passed We're concerned is the diminishment of the natural state golf trail and the addition that Stonebridge Meadows gives to it. Stonebridge Meadows holds multiple tournaments benefiting local and national businesses and charities. And the course along with others on the trail bring recognition and business to our state and area. Developing and eliminating portions of this course that give it the natural state feel would begin to diminish the integrity and the point of our course being on that trail. In closing, behind me I would like the people of Stonebridge Meadows that oppose to please stand. We are simply looking to preserve the traits and vegetation that make our state and our homes beautiful. We are so fortunate to live in one of the fastest and most successful growing areas of the state and country. So it would be ideal that our children and grandchildren will have the same opportunities as we did. The opportunity to grow up with scenery, beauty, and live within nature that we have all been able to enjoy. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mark. I have a question for Andrew. I'm sorry, did you all have any questions for Brooke? I'm sorry, I forgot to do that. Go ahead, Mark. Andrew, when I'm looking at this and I look at the topography, it's a gentle slope, but it is the high end of the slope if you look at the topographical map. And so... I guess my valid concern is the velocity of the runoff into the street and into the properties on the lower edge of this. And I just wanted to be sure that I was looking at that topographical map properly where I see this is at the high end of the property on that side of the road at the golf course. I can pull up the topography here as we speak. I'm not exactly sure. Okay, when I looked at it, that's what I thought I saw. Okay, pull that up. I mean, if you drive by, it's pretty evident because you're looking over the golf course. And with that gentle slope, it really does prevent the velocity of washing into the... adjacent property and into the street. I think there's certainly a lot of water issues in this area and the soils are holding in the water. And so water that flows into these areas sit. And so this is at the bottom of the mountain as well. So you do have a lot of water running through here. Let's see here if we can pull up a topography map. I went under the U.S. Geological Survey map to look at it. yeah let me pull up a different one that one doesn't have the topography on it but just in the efforts of uh efficiency here i'm not i don't want to keep just browsing browsing around here you can kind of see i think what the uh the member of the public talked about there is a little bit of a high spot it appears here well it's a gentle slope down into that it goes kind of down into the course and it also is a gentle slope into the street up on the edge there so I mean, I know it holds water, but I think that that is not necessarily a bad thing because it is at the bottom of a much steeper ridge that's coming down to kind of rest in that area before it goes down into that pond. And like I say, if you drive by and I went and looked, it's evident. And it doesn't seem—one acre does not seem like a lot, but when you have one acre of vegetation— Um, and especially the way that it's the topography of it. I think that it could very well help in alleviating the velocity and the volume of water that's going on down into the neighborhood. And that was my concern. And I think that that was also, uh, commissioner Brown's concern whenever he was, and he is an engineer. So I kind of take his, I think that he had a good point of view, um, Certainly, I will go ahead and say I do, from a philosophical point of view, I like mixed housing in a neighborhood, all sizes, so that you can have a diverse type of development. And so I'm not going to support this based on the observation of the value of that acreage in... controlling the runoff. But I do think that there is value and diversity and density, but this is just simply not the right location. Thank you. Okay. Council Member Marsh. Thank you. I cannot support the proposal. In looking at our 2030 city plan goals, this development does not forward us towards any of them. If we look in terms of appropriate infill, this falls well outside the mayor's box, which we have designated as our urban growth boundary. In terms of discouraging suburban sprawl, we already have significant traffic issues out that way. It is not... In traditional town form, it would be very difficult for us to serve additional development out here with transit in terms of our livable transportation network. If we look at it from a green network perspective, this development is a nightmare from a drainage perspective. The drainage issues out here are significant. and this development would exacerbate them. And then if you look at it from a health safety perspective, included in our packet is an estimated fire response time of six minutes. And I know our target fire response time is five. And every one of these developments we approve with a longer fire response time that that etches up our community average for being able to respond to emergencies. You know, I think that the two commissioners who voted against this, you know, their concerns about drainage are well-founded. And as such, I will be voting against this rezoning. All right. Who else? John. Well, Mr. Mayor, it's hard for me to leave a good argument on the table. Let's talk about it. Let's have a debate. Andrew told us earlier that the proposed development is downstream from where we have documented drainage problems. So in his opinion, there was no way this development could exacerbate those problems. Now we're hearing conflicting, like this is a nightmare. It seems inconsistent to me, those arguments. There's some question here for a reasonable person to say, really, what's happening? I know this. We're underpaying our city staff. We're doing our best to pay them what the consultants say they're worth, but we don't have the money. When we say no to development... We're saying no to growing our economy. We're telling our city staff, sorry, you're going to be underpaid. I don't like that. I'd like to see us grow, and of course I'd like to see us do it smartly. When we say that we're going to change the zoning to allow smaller lot sizes development, I don't think anyone's going to take a complete concrete approach to their yard. I think everyone's going to have green space in their yard. In my place, I have a concrete drive. But I like grass, and I like trees, and I like flowers, and I plant all three of those in my yard. I think most people, well, in that regard, are like me. I think that we're not going to have a complete concreting of this area. There will still be green space, which allows for some absorption. But if there's no absorption, maybe it's all bedrock. It's at the base of a mountain. Maybe it can't absorb anything. No. In sixth grade, we learned about good conservation practices. We didn't learn that farmers who formed on a sloping land couldn't form their land. You simply had to put your contours in contrary to the contour, so that you'd slow down the velocity of the water. I think there are good construction practices that we can employ here that would give us some of those same advantages. Instead of saying, don't build at all, let's keep it in green space, Why don't we allow good practices to slow down velocity of water and try to minimize that? I guess as a conservative, it just throws me wrong when we tell a private landowner, sorry, we like the way your land looks as raw land, and we like our geese laying their eggs there. So if the land's worth a million dollars, too bad. You can't develop it. I mean, we should all be concerned about that because one day it might be your land that the rest of your neighbors decide, well, you can't do what you want to do. And I realize we live in a community, we have zoning regulations. I don't think anyone should be able to put a junkyard next door to your house or a nuclear waste dump. But I believe in broad zoning regulations instead of specific, very restrictive regulations. So I may be the only one, but I'm going to vote for it. Thank you. Okay. Adele. Adele. Yes, Mayor. Of course, everyone knows that I usually am very supportive of development. But as Mr. Daly said, Ms. Marsh and I spent a good long evening out in that area talking with the residents about their drainage problems. And until... we can do something very big to help take care of the drainage problems. I will not agree to have... uh... any further development in that area i have faith that we are going to just like i told the residents that we are going to do something about it within within the year of twenty eighteen but i don't think uh... to approval this project at this time is the thing to do i agree that I like diverse lots. I like different size lots within a subdivision. But I think that there are lots of places we can do it, but I don't think this is the appropriate place. I also have great concerns about the historic bridge, and I like to preserve our wonderful items of historic value. Also, I think we need to think about Houston, and we've heard it mentioned many times. What's a part of their problem is too much concrete. And, you know, we're not going to be a Houston, but as Alderman Latour says, we want to grow, but we want to grow very carefully and correctly. And I think we have to be very... very cognizant of our topography and our tremendous drainage problems, so I will not be supporting this rezoning. Okay. Anybody else? Justin. Okay. Well, I agree really with several of the comments that have been made from everybody, including Alderman Latour. I have a lot of respect for Jorgensen Associates and what they do. This has nothing really to do with them. If we were looking at a development, which I know we're not, I would be looking at whether this was what I call a more of a shove-in type situation where you've got a piece of land and you want to put something on it, even though it may not fit, it may not match or whatever. And sometimes that makes sense to me, especially in a downtown area and an urban area. But out there, it's a totally different situation. When I first heard that there was going to be a possible development out there, I thought that the rezoning might be for some of the land out further away from, the golf course itself, I thought maybe somebody's going to develop the driving range or something. I didn't know, and I thought, well, that might make sense to rezone something there, do something there. But when I drove by this spot, it... Have to value not the development But I have to develop I have to take the value of what any development might be there if we rezone it compared to what you may lose and I agree with Some of what's been set up here about I think we may lose more in this situation than we gain by gaining Some sort of development in the future. So I do I do I do think there's some potential for growth out there, but in this particular case, I think there's more harm than good. So I would be voting against it. Okay. All right. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I read through all the comments, and I was a little bit surprised by some of them. I don't really think there's all that much difference between what's proposed and what's out there now. Sure, maybe some of the houses will be smaller, but... If this was 1.25 acres zoned to RSF4, we'd be talking about five houses instead of we're talking about six houses. I don't think that's a big difference. The biggest concern for me is the fact that this is out there, so far out there. The infrastructure that's out there at this point is already a liability for the city. Adding additional burden to the infrastructure that's already there, and I'm talking water and sewer lines and roads, increases that liability for us. I don't think we're getting enough tax revenue out there to support the long-term maintenance needs of that infrastructure. I think we're going to be subsidizing the maintenance in this neighborhood from other parts of the city where we get more tax revenue. So that's the reason I would vote against it. But I do have to say some of what I read in the written comments were a little troubling. This proposal was called a perversion of what's already out there. I think that's hyperbolic in the extreme. I don't think that helps us maintain a healthy and civil dialogue. I don't think it's actually accurate either. But nonetheless, I'll be voting against it because I think it's in the wrong place. Okay. Anybody else? No, unless somebody brings you back. John. I'd like to bring you back. All right. I certainly understand everyone's comments. I understand the neighborhood comments. I simply want to point out that by right, they can put in some RA lots that have no detention. It could be a 6,000 square foot home. We could do RSF4 with four lots and no detention, no stormwater quality, yet we have designed this thing out of 30 acres, we've carved out one acre. This is a overall mass of land, and by going this route, We are creating one shared drive off Gulf Farm Road, not four or five RSF4 driveways that have no detention. Because once you get to four lots, there is nothing that plenty is gonna do. There is not detention. There is no water quality requirements. We went to pursue a development that will achieve water quality and detention requirements. So I understand voting no, that's fine. But the other option on the table is either estate lots or four RSF4 lots with no detention requirements. And I simply want to make sure that everyone understands that we did think this through. We're not trying to skirt any issues. We have a lot of developments in town that... We've talked about in the past that let's just go with the duplex so you don't have to abide by certain rules. And so here we are trying to make the best case for creating a diverse option out where we did a sewer analysis for a separate project in this area. There's 650 lots in the area. We're adding less than 1% of lots that are just slightly different. The only difference is that they'd have one shared driveway, and they'd have water quality and attention. And I'm not trying to say you should vote for it. I understand why people have concerns with it. I just want to point out that a no vote doesn't mean, and I want the public to know this, that doesn't mean that something won't go in there. And I just want them to understand that. You get your options, and that's life. And we're not trying to be the bad guys. We're simply explaining that there was a reason. I mean, we could easily get... We have no boundaries on this lot. It's 30 acres. We created those lots by certain widths. We could easily stretch those out and call it RSF4. And then we'd be in the same boat, but everyone would still have a problem with RSF4. So I just want to simply... spell that out. I understand where everyone's at. It's a hard spot, but we are trying to grow carefully in this town, and we aren't talking about development. We are talking about zoning, and that's why it's tough. I can't give you a presentation on zoning that references a plan that may not go through, but I had to at least explain that if we went through with this, you would have a drainage study. If you don't, I'm not saying it's a free-for-all, but it is homes that just get thrown in, and there you go. And that's not to say that you should change your vote. I just had to explain that because that is the process that sometimes we live with. So I appreciate everyone's thoughts and concerns. Certainly appreciate all the citizens, but I just want to make sure everyone understands where we're at. So thanks a lot. All right, Matthew. I have a question for you, Blake. Yes, sir. Yeah, so I don't want to talk about RSF4 because that would require another rezoning. that you may or may not get if you went that route. But I do want to talk about RA, because that's what it's zoned now, and you've got 30 acres zoned RA. So even after this rezoning, you come and develop that at a house for half acre, right, by right. And so whenever you talk about, you did this for a certain reason, and you compare that with the rest of the RA and the development potential, are you offering some kind of bargain where if you get this your your client isn't going to pursue development of the rest of it is there an actual trade there or is it or or is that just something that we're throwing up as kind of a straw man right now and it's going to come back down the pike later i would say that we had a strategic plan to offer up a alternate product out there and if It felt right given the location. If you go to any golf course and you know around the area you have alternate products and this was we the one thing we get in our office constantly is people who want a retirement home. They want less yard. They want less maintenance. This is a POA maintained structure for this particular deal. It's it's not intended to be an estate home and so Whether this location or elsewhere, that is something that is not available in this town readily right now. Is that people want to live into a single level structure. They want a POA to maintain the lawn. They want to move up here because they got their kids with grandkids. And that's... pretty much what our client asked for and so yeah that's where we're at but i wanted to you know is it a trade-off i can't i can't say if the zoning goes through i mean nothing's guaranteed in life but it to me so so i'll tell you um you you've got a right to build 60 homes today on on 30 acres actually uh andrew what is the zoning requirement for ra It is one house for every two acres. Oh, God. And then 15 then? Yeah, and then, yes. And you have to have 200 feet of road frontage? Yes. So in any case, whatever the number is, you've got a right to build more homes than you're proposing today. That's correct. I tell you, it's not changing my mind, but if you brought back a proposal for the whole thing that clustered what you were allowed to build in one spot, I would be much more inclined to support it. But to consider this in isolation from the rest of it and to use that, what could happen later as an argument to support something today, unless they're linked together, I can't consider the rest of it. But if you brought it back linked together, I'd think about it a lot differently. I understand that. Thanks for your comments. Okay. We are at the second reading. I mean, what's wishes the council here? You want to hold it or what do you all want to do? Well, we need... Mark? Well, we're saying, I'm sorry, we're on the. Second reading. Yes. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Is there a second? Second. Second. Okay, we have a motion to say to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Fletcher. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Heddy. Yes. Ennett. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 17-5872 for approximately 1.17 acres located south of Gulf Farm Road and Spyglass Hill from RA Residential Agricultural to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Adela. Mayor, I move we go to the third and final reading. Mr. Member Marsh. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? So moved. Yes. LaTour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Cannon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 17-5872 for approximately 1.17 acres located south of Gulf Farm Road and Spyglass Hill from RA Residential Agricultural to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Any final comments from the council on this? Sandra, would you please call the roll? No. McHarris? Yes. Yes. No. No. Eddie? No. Bennett? No. I withdrew my vote. My vote should have been no. Okay. Okay. All right. So that failed on a six to one vote. All right. Thank you. All right. Number four. In ordinance the way the requirements form a competitive bidding and approved cost share agreement with Cost share agreement with Garden District Town Homes LLC for the installation of Water Main along a portion of 9th Street between South College Avenue and South Washington Avenue with the estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fedville not to exceed $16,327.50 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,632.75. Whereas Garden District Townhomes LLC will be developing property located at the corner of 9th Street and South Washington Avenue and has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing a 6-inch sewer main along a portion of 9th Street between South College Avenue and South Washington Avenue, a distance of approximately 340 feet. And whereas the city of Fayetteville would benefit from the cost share as it would upgrade infrastructure in the core of the city, Improved service and fire protection for residents and businesses in the area, allow for a secondary water loop to help prevent the possibility of residents losing water service in the event of a water leak in the area, and provide ample future capacity which will facilitate future development. And whereas section 51.112 of the Fable Code provides that the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system. and whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the line for the developer's project. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Garden District Townhomes, LLC, for the installation of a six-inch water main along a portion of 9th Street between South College Avenue and South Washington Street with an estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $16,327.50 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $1,632.75. Tim. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think Kit said it very well. The... Unity did come to the city and request a cost share One of the objectives of city plan 2030 is to direct our capital improvements towards infrastructure that encourages infill which this does that but also creates a secondary water loop as kit said to help prevent the possibility of residents looming losing water service in the event of a big water leak and And the city would benefit from this cost share because it will upgrade the infrastructure in the core of the city and provide improved service and fire protection for residents and businesses in the area. talked about at the water and sewer committee over a year ago, August the 9th. But it was such a preliminary thing that there's no vote was taken and it's only been the last three weeks this project has justified a cost share consideration. That is why it hadn't been to the water and sewer committee as of late. I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Okay, what questions we have for Tim? Okay, Mark. I want to reiterate what Tim said. This specific project has not been through the committee. The plan for the loop has been discussed a lot. So this fits into what our goals are. So it's not like it's something that's been drawn out of someone's imagination. So I just wanted to mention that. I think that it fits. We've talked a lot about that area. We've already done cost shares in that area, so it goes along with what we're doing to try to prevent the infrastructure problems that we already know exist down there. Just wanted to mention that. Okay. Thank you, Mark. Any other questions from the council? Any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Council Member Mars. Yes, I just wanted to note that I have met with this applicant in Walk the Site, and this is a great infill project that is replacing what were two empty lots in a derelict home with some... diversity of housing type right next to where the exit will be the primary entrance and exit to willow bend So I think it's really beneficial to see the infill happening there and currently that street does not have a sewer line And there's a water line kind of going haphazardly through people's yards So it's definitely an area that we need to to fix so I'm glad to see us Taking this on and I will be supporting it Okay, and with that I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading I second that motion Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes In ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Garden District Townhomes LLC for the installation of a water main along a portion of 9th Street between South College Avenue and South Washington Avenue, with an estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville of not to exceed $16,327.50, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,632.75. Thank you. Council Member Marsh. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Kennedy. Yes. Hinnant. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with Garden District Townhomes LLC for the installation of a water main along a portion of 9th Street between South College Avenue and South Washington Avenue, with the estimated amount to be paid by the city not to exceed $16,327.50. and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,632.75. And I note in the first whereas clause, it talks about the cost of constructing a six-inch sewer main, and I think that's supposed to be water main. Is that correct? So that will be corrected on the final ordinance. Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. All right. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I've got several announcements for tonight. The first is for citizens who are planning neighborhood cleanups or if your area of town would like to know about the bulky waste cleanup dates for this coming fall. We've set those dates. Ward 3 locations will be on Saturday, September the 30th. All of these are from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. The locations for Ward 3 will be Vandergriff Elementary School, enter from the Mission and exit from Township, and the Recycling and Trash Collection Facility If September 30th doesn't work for you, then October 7th will be Ward 1's Shaver Foods parking lot, 1367 South Beachwood, and the Recycling and Trash Collection Center. Or October 14th will be Ward 4's Owl Creek School at 375 North Ruppel Road and the Recycling and Trash Center Center. That will also be a paper shredding event offered at the Happy Hollow location from 11 to 2 p.m. for citizens who need to dispose of confidential documents. And then the final one will be October 28th. That's Ward 2's Woodland Junior High School, 1 East Poplar Street. So those are set. They're on the city's website. Many neighborhoods like to know those dates so they can plan cleanups and those are available today. Don, I have one question on electronics. Are they accepted at the center, the recycling center? They are accepted at the recycling and trash collection facility. One item, free of charge. Do others for a fee? The City of Fayetteville is also asking for opinions and potential strategies for welcoming Our Fayetteville Welcoming Plan, it's a focus on inclusion and integration of new Americans in our community. We currently have a survey available to seek feedback. It's on the city's website. There will also be workshops planned September the 9th, the 27th, October the 3rd, and the 10th throughout the city. We're seeking feedback from individuals on how to make sure that we welcome new Americans to our community. Okay. And lastly, the Fayetteville Arts Council is currently seeking qualified artists, designers, and craft persons to create public art mural for College Avenue. Due to this particular project and the difficulty of having a vault underneath the west side of the street for our project, we're going to be... Selecting an artist to do a mural on North College Avenue for the retaining wall on the west side between Prospect and Cleburne Streets. The surface area is 1,654 feet. The plan of the locations can be found on Google Maps imaging, and we're in the process of taking requests for qualifications. The deadline is September the 12th at 7 p.m., so we encourage all artists and creative minds who are interested to input your idea. Any other announcements or anything? All right. Thank you all. Very good work. Rejected.