Good afternoon. This is the workshop for the City Council ARPA funding. So, Paul, go ahead and take it away. You have some opening statements to make. As we talked last time, you know, the council wanted to look at the actual submissions by subgrantees and actual submissions by some of our non-for-profits that were requesting revenue reimbursement for losses.
 So during that point in time, we gave the council time to look through those submissions, let you ask us some comments when we had some quick responses on that. But I want to set the stage a little bit. Let's first think about some key dates. Remember the deadline to obligate ARPA funds is not until 2020.
 until December 2024. We must liquidate all of the ARPA funds or spend them all by 2026. So we still have time. There's no necessity at this point in time to allocate or spend all of the ARPA award.
 What we want to talk about or really consider is we don't know what 2023 is going to be like. We don't know if we're looking at potential recession. We don't know if we're looking at things back to normal, or we don't know if things are going to get dramatically better. We just don't know.
 at this point in time. So those are a couple of things I'd like to consider about you might want to hold some funding back in case those conditions change or become worse for some of the nonprofits or some of our citizens here in Fayetteville. Remember the Mayor's general recommendation general guidelines
 to address with ARPA funds that we suggested were social needs, environmental needs, and economic needs. And we kind of centered around that as we presented this to you. Another thing I want to make very clear is
 there's an alternate method to addressing needs that the council may wish to address than strictly looking at what submissions we've seen thus far. If the council wishes to earmark or look at a specific need to address, they can indicate that to us and we could actually go for a RFQ or an RFP
 out on how do we address that and who is willing to submit a program for us that we can look at and analyze and get a contract with those particular people. So, just because
 needs been addressed or suggested a project's been suggested by the Non-for-profits doesn't mean that that's the only alternative to meeting that need we could in fact design an RFP or an RFQ and go out to vendors for proposals and look at that so Just what's been submitted is not the full solution. We can look at other things at that point of time and
 I'm going to pass it on to Stephen. He's going to talk about some suggested allocations and where we are financially. Now, tonight we're not looking for, since it's a work session, we're not going to make definite decisions at this point in time. What we'd like to do is suggest how we'd like to move forward. And certainly, here are some comments for you and suggestions of what you might like to see. So Stephen's going to talk about some specifics at this point in time. Stephen, would you like to take over?
 yeah thanks paul i presented a similar slide at the august 6 meeting i just wanted to provide a quick summary of where we're at with the arpa funding currently as a reminder the city received a little over 17.9 million dollars in total american rescue plan awards for the april council discussion a standard revenue loss of 10 million was taken
 and those funds are to be allocated to general governmental expenses, leaving approximately $7.9 million to be allocated to basic ARPA projects. After our previously authorized expenses and commitments, the remaining balances so far are around $7.97 million for general governmental expenses and $7.6 for the basic ARPA projects. Now during the August 6th meeting, I brought forth a suggested
 package of items for funding just as a starting point, which were approximately $7.97 million for general governmental expenses and $7.5 million for the basic ARPA projects. Now once again, I had only brought that forth as a suggested starting place to kind of get the discussion rolling. As you can see, it's kind of sometimes with the numbers it's a little easier to see things in terms of charts.
 What we have here is the total suggestions that were brought forth for the remainder of the ARPA funds. It's roughly equivalent between the ARPA projects and the general governmental expenses or the infrastructure projects that we've currently discussed so far. At this point, as Paul mentioned,
 We'd like to suggest bringing a few projects forward again for your consideration as possible funding solutions. These were all items that we had discussed at the last meeting and they appeared to receive support. So I just wanted to kind of bring these up again. First is the Community Resources Child Care Voucher Program for about half a million dollars. And along with that we have a Child Care Expansion Support for Head Start Education Facilities.
 The third project would be the Fayetteville Public Library Workforce Training Proposal and the Washington County Ambulance Authority Central EMS Proposal. I think we discussed both of those quite a bit at the last meeting and especially the Ambulance Authority in terms of you know the request for kind of a to evaluate that one as soon as we can.
 And the final two proposals that I just wanted to bring back forth were the over 5,000 and under 5,000 assistance requests. Those were items, if you recall, that we had set up in April per council's request to provide more immediate support to nonprofits that had experienced negative economic loss due to the pandemic. I think the key takeaway from this chart is,
 After considering the previously authorized expenses and commitments, as well as the projects that I just mentioned, that would still leave the bulk of the suggested ARPA funding available for sub-grantee nonprofit organizations or however Council chose to allocate those funds. As I mentioned a minute ago,
 During that April meeting, Council had requested that we create these additional programs to reimburse those nonprofits for documented economic losses. Those proposals demonstrated an immediate need, so we would suggest that current discussions include this funding category. We are actually receiving phone calls and emails to request information on where we're at in the process as far as these funding requests are concerned.
 I also wanted to remind you all that those economic assistance requests they can only be funded up to the amount of the documented economic loss and that's based on qualifying operating expense documentation one key thing that we have to keep in mind here is the city's economic response under ARPA has to be reasonable and proportional to the sustained loss so this wouldn't be a case where
 our response could be outsized based on the loss that they actually sustained. That's one of the reasons why we've been so diligent in going through all the documentation that we received in terms of those applications. Another way to look at this is to talk about the total funding that I'm suggesting here. And I think during the August 6th slideshow presentation,
 I could have summarized the totals better. I think maybe looking at a total dollar amount kind of helps out in terms of seeing where we're at here. And the projects that I'm proposing or that you all kind of discuss further, the total amount would be about $3.26 million. So once again, the bulk of the ARPA funding would remain in this category for allocation to nonprofit organizations under the subrecipient model.
 I kind of kept it brief tonight, kind of hitting those numbers, but I think at this point, Paul, did you have any other? Now, let's go back to the last two slides. Requests for economic assistance and current considerations.
 The reason we're suggesting we bring that forward, what we would do is check the documentation. We haven't checked all the documentation submitted to make sure that they qualify for the amount requested. But the thrust of those, those are non-for-profits that sustained an economic loss.
 Think that was the major thrust of why not-for-profits were included in the in the ARPA funding to make sure that they could sustain Their activities going forward. So that's why we're suggesting that we fund those again We would come back as soon as we get them we would come through and come forward to the council with a with a request for a certain amount none of this is
 uh has been appropriated at this point of time to that degree so we'd come forward with an appropriation request at that point of time but that's one of the reasons that we suggested that let's go to the next one let's talk a little bit about why we're suggesting that we come forward with the other ones
 The Community Resource and the Child Voucher Program. We thought there was an immediate need we would carry out. That would be a city program run under our Community Resources Division.
 We're suggesting $500,000 to that, and that's to help meet the immediate need of families who have children that also must go to work and allow them that ability. And we thought that would be a very, very good use of the funds at this point in time. The other one was child care expansion and care.
 support for expanded heads head start educational facilities again this would be a community resource program through our through our community resource division for a hundred thousand dollars this would again meet a social need and something that we could address quickly going forward
 the fayetteville public library one of the things we talked about economic and and the mayor did in his particular program one thing we wanted to address was workforce development how we're going to get some workforce development to
 give some of the people who don't have the economic opportunity the rest of us do for training to move forward. We thought that the library's proposal was very good. Again, we would contract them as a sub-grantee just like we would any other sub-grantee and would bring that separately to the council. When it comes to the Washington County Ambulance Authority,
 To be quite frank, the mayor could speak to this really because he's on their executive committee. But this was a request by them for funding. A portion of it would have to do with
 with payments for premium pay to some of their employees, a small portion. But the other is for equipment. Now, we're a partner in the Washington Community County Ambulance Authority. Excuse me. So we either pay this through ARPA funds now and address this need immediately, or in the long term, we're going to end up having to pay for it anyway to keep the program going.
 This is a good use of the ARPA funds to address it right now.
 so they can continue to operate because they're struggling. Their revenues are not coming in like they had. A lot of people can't afford to pay, so they've got a lot of their bills are not being paid by the public. And we'll talk about more of that when we get into the budget, too, because we're going to have to also talk about additional operating funding. But this is something that we felt was important at this point in time.
 We've already talked about the assistance programs. We thought that would come forward and that would be something that we should consider right away because we're addressing actual losses that may impinge the ability of some of these nonprofits to continue to operate. So that's why we're suggesting that we come forward for those for your consideration and
 we kind of get a consensus that those are some of the things that the council would like to look at. We'll be prepared to bring those forward to a council meeting where there will be some open discussion on them. So that's where we are right now. But the basis reason for this meeting was to discuss if you had any other issues, especially with the council, and you wish to give us direction on what we may like to consider
 and work with those submissions for sub grantee or sub recipient funding going forward through the non profile for profits if you could give us some guidance and what we'd like to look at we'd like to discuss that at this point in time so we're going to open it up for questions and considerations and we're going to handle those to the best of our ability
 Well, first, can I ask, is there a consensus? Is the council, do you concur with us bringing those programs that we talked about forward for your consideration at this point in time?
 I have some questions. I just want to talk about my process that I've gone through and why I'm at my desk and not there in the council meeting physically. I went through all of these again today, all of these different projects, and I have some questions about the Workforce One through the library.
 And I'd really, my concern is I'd like to see some background information and some results on workforce development that's been funded in the past. This is quite a significant amount. And I'd like to see some background information and some results on workforce development that's been funded in the past.
 And so I do have some, I do have a lot of questions about that and would appreciate some background information and data on how successful these other programs have been that we funded, what they were focused on, and how we've determined that this is the right focus for the library's workforce development.
 I guess that's probably in your court, Devin, but I just need more background information on that. Devin Larson Absolutely. Thank you for your question, Councilmember Turk. To go after the first part of the question in regards to the metrics and the background of these successful programs, I'm very close with the Department of Labor's Workforce Innovation Opportunity Act because before I came to serve the City of Fayetteville, workforce development training in central Arkansas for populations with barriers was my entire career.
 And so we based this model, specifically the metrics, and specifically
 the targeted industry sectors that we know have lead to a quality job that pays a living wage based on the same principles that the federal government uses through their Department of Labor program called WIOA. I can get you a lot of data and we can provide copious amounts of data from the Workforce Center's work here in the city of Fayetteville that is located on the MLK and the outputs they do and that organization runs out of funding every single year.
 Because as counties become more economically prosperous, the federal ceiling on those workforce dollars gets lower because it's obviously better off. Yet we know that need is still very high. And so the in-demand industry sectors that were chosen were based off of real-time job opening data that we use with our partners in the region to actually analyze the actual listings of what career pathways are actually there.
 And so, I'm happy to provide that some of those responses, some of that data is referenced in our responses to council, but I'd be happy to follow up with some really robust data on the outputs of these. But also, the final note that I'd like to point out is the Workforce Innovation Opportunity Act tracks these residents and participants in these programs for four years after they complete training.
 And so there's really good retention data on the benefit of actual job skill training. And as I know you're aware, but for the public that may be listening, this proposal only funds populations with barriers. You have to have a demonstrated barrier. So this is not just for general. They have to have faced a barrier, whether that be dislocated, laid off, underemployed, generational poverty, et cetera. But I'd be happy to follow up. I just don't have that data on me right now, Councilmember.
 Thank you so much, Devin. Hey, so am I correct? Didn't we have bond money that also went into workforce development? And was that a different sector? And what were those kind of outcomes?
 We still have bond capital question six funds that have not been expended. We have only allocated $550,000 of question six. That was for the EDA Commerce Park Road. And so, yes, there is funding that is available for capital infrastructure, though. And so bond funds are greatly limited. We cannot fund expanded personnel for training with bond funds. There are certain subsets that we couldn't.
 We could potentially do some equipment, but that would have to, we would have to consult with bond counsel on what exactly we could do with that.
 But unlike ARPA with bond, we cannot fund personnel, we cannot fund staffing, curriculum development, we can't do scholarships, put people through. So that's really the big difference here. Mainly the infrastructure and workforce is what the Q6 question is remaining there. And so an example would be a technical education facility. We could step in and help with that. We could help run utilities or infrastructure for that. But that's the difference between the two.
 Thank you so much. I think you've told me that before, and I've just forgotten about it. So I really appreciate that distinction. Yes, if you have some information you can provide in the future, that would be really helpful. Thank you, Devin. We'll have it to you this week. Thank you.
 So I still have outstanding issues. I'll jump in because it seems like city staff wants some guidance. Paul, could you put that slide back up that had the questions or the items that you were kind of addressing so I can see it on my screen? Thank you. Um,
 As I mentioned, I went through all of these again today. Just to remind myself, I definitely support the ambulance authority, the ambulance service, without a doubt. I don't want us to end up like Benton County and have to scramble. This is a key important service to all of our citizens, all of our residents. So in my ranking, that would be at the top of the list.
 I went back over through all the assistance requests, both the over and the under 5000. I found some of the paperwork really lacking. So I'm glad to hear that
 And so, you know, that would be more thoroughly reviewed and documented that some of those expenditures would qualify because it seemed like there were some applicants that just estimated the cost rather than actually identifying specific costs.
 So I'm glad to hear about that. I would support us approving these requests right now or at the next council meeting, whenever we could get it scheduled with the understanding that staff would go through and ensure that they qualify.
 I both think those are great programs and would support those. And I'd like to just, as you heard earlier, hold off about the workforce training proposal being until I had additional information. But the other features, the other projects under consideration, I think, you know, the other features that I would like to see, I think,
 Those are really valid and worthy, and especially the assistance request. That's basically from back pay. Those are from revenue that's been lost. They've been waiting on us for quite a while to make a decision, and so I would really support us trying to move forward quickly on those requests. And I'll stop right there. Thanks for listening to me.
 I'll go next guys, if that's okay. On this page, when we look at the over 5,000 assistance requests, 641,480, that's your current
 recommended over 5,000 assistance list that you're proposing that starts with the Clinton House Museum and ended with the Fayetteville Public Library Foundation list correct? That's the sum total of what applicants have requested from us. Now once again what they've requested and the documentation they've provided doesn't necessarily always match up and I can tell you that
 the total payout on this program will likely be a lot less than what we have presented here. We are still working with these applicants requesting information from them. So until a final decision is made, we've been giving people the benefit of the doubt to get the information to us that we need in order to process their requests. Well, thank you. I want to start by thanking you for all the effort that went into this.
 and I've provided my fair share of written feedback back to you, which hopefully you took as a sign of respect that I had read your hard and diligent work. The over 5,000 assistance request that I struggle with is the Clinton House Museum, primarily because that's a University of Arkansas property.
 And my inclination is that the state ought to be stepping up through the university on that one. And that would, in my way of thinking, be one of my lowest priorities. I had originally expressed significant questions about the library's workforce training proposal.
 But the staff response to my questions was so unbelievably thorough and helpful that I'm now a cheerleader for that particular application and view it as an extremely valuable investment to make in our community. And so I offer that to you also as a compliment that whoever worked on that response did a remarkable job.
 The ambulance service, I would agree with Teresa, is basically a no-brainer. It's one of those that you hate to do it, but you know,
 God help you if you dial 911 and we don't have a local immediate ambulance service available. So knowing that the only question I had was that that simply represents Fayetteville's fair share percentage in keeping that provider solvent
 It relieved whatever cautions or care I had about that and that completely persuaded me that others, especially the county, are stepping up to do their part and that's completely appropriate for us.
 I know that for Arkansas families, their costs, while we talk about affordable attainable housing a great deal and rightfully so, for an Arkansas family with two young children, their costs in rank order are transportation, childcare, medical insurance premiums, and housing fourth. It's fourth on the list.
 in my own mind, use that to offer my own support for the two initiatives to assist with that. I feel like that women have been set back and burdened in the COVID atmosphere from a job
 perspective and being able to return to employment having lost either school for their children or having lost their own childcare. So I think that is an extremely worthwhile investment as well. So those would be my initial comments. Thank you. I'll jump in.
 So yes, thanks again for all the hard work from everyone. I really just, I'm going to recap what I sent to you Stephen earlier so there's not really any new information that I wanted to share with the council.
 So really I want to confirm the city's choices that have been made for the suggested projects and the ones that are on the nonprofit list. The reasoning on the nonprofit list, which was incredibly difficult, I read through the ones that were suggested, not the ones that had problems. So I didn't read every single application. The main concern I have there that I wanted to address.
 The reason for that is I want us to make sure we're following requirements and so I wanted to leave to staff that we're, these are applications that are solid and that follow the requirements and follow the paper trails that we need to provide to the federal government.
 So, now, as far as the topics of them, I did have some questions about them, but in the end I decided not to include those, but I did want to say that the ones that really stood out to me were the ones that involved an equity, had an equity approach.
 part to them because when I went back to the 44 page document of the ARPA requirements and things like that, pretty early on they said you know we want to make sure that equity is a big part of distributing the funds and so that some of those stood out more than others in terms of the yeah so I'll stop with that.
 So then I want to keep in mind how COVID-19 has specifically impacted Fayetteville, and that was a really huge thing, so that's why I asked for the sales tax data. I guess I'm talking about my process a little bit. So I went back to that, and obviously, hospitality, HMR, all of that. But as we're talking about nonprofits, I kind of went to that segment. And then what we saw in that from the data, thank you, Devin, provided about
 about the arts and entertainment sector having been greatly impacted, performing arts having been greatly impacted. On a percentage basis largest reduction was seen in performing arts institutions, and it was sports and performing arts, the reduction of 72%. So we didn't really have any sports nonprofits. We didn't have, but we did have performing arts nonprofits. And so even though I did ask for you to change the
 I just wanted us to keep that in mind if it comes up and if we have discussions and things kind of get switched. But the main point to me is that I want a very strong application that we can defend for the requirements. And then the last thing is that
 There are a lot of amazing projects that are better and in the mayor's recommendations that I think follow fall that are very amazing the environmental projects. Social environmental economic and I want to speak specifically to the environmental ones. And so with that one it was kind of like the thing of we have the power but do we use the power and so.
 the COVID you know we're when we talk about ARPA funds being used to help people out of COVID-19 I'm just kind of questioning like do we do water quality projects with this because we can or do we do it do we provide more funding to people who are impacted by COVID-19 so it's kind of a it's that that's I'm having a hard time with that because I want to help people impacted by COVID-19 so even though again I didn't ask for
 for the application ranking to be changed by the staff, it was something that I was thinking about. And so that's kind of my process. Those are my four comments. And happy to answer any questions. Could I make a couple of comments based on that, if I may? One of the things when we talk about the nonprofits, and you talked specifically about entertainment, entertainment being impacted.
 That is what we looked for when we talked about the economic loss and bringing forward those for an economic loss. If you want to address that, what we might want to consider is holding back some of the funding right now to see what 2023 is and see if there's a definite economic loss.
 That's, I think, what we were looking for essentially out of the nonprofit. Some of the other things are, remember, our new programs, they are things that we might or might not do, but if your interest is in making sure that these people can go on as a going concern, we might want to reserve some of this money and see what 2023 brings.
 The period of time that we looked at for economic loss was March 2021 to March 2022. We could again look at that next year through March of 2023 and see if some of these not-for-profits were impacted and have some available ARPA funding to address that at that point of time.
 And a lot of your other comments I understand were well taken. And what we did try to do, remember as we ranked, excuse me, as the group ranked it, I wasn't on the ranking committee because I didn't want to skew anything. When we ranked, we ranked based on what was there. That doesn't mean that we thought they were the best type of program to address a need in the city.
 That's why when I originally started, I threw out a couple of comments and said, you know, if there's a specific need that we don't think any of these are meaning or addressing, we can actually reach out to vendors to see if we have a better proposal to meet that need. And that's something we may want to think about, that the council may want to think about in the future. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'd also like to thank staff for their work on this. I know we've had people reach out. I think there's some that feel if we're not supporting their applications somehow that we don't think their organization is important. And that's not true. There's definitely some incredible organizations in the list that aren't receiving funding from the current suggestion.
 that has to do with the application and not the work that the organization does so I know I'll mention that again when we actually get to the full council and vote because I think some people took that almost as like a slide against what they're doing which is not the case the applications and the requirements have have to be met and I think that staff has done a pretty good job of picking the
 the ones that can do that that would cause the least amount of trouble as we go forward. Some of the over 5,000 assistants, I agree, their paperwork wasn't great. I wish it had been better. You know, follow-up questions probably will still have to continue, but I do hope we can vote on that one pretty soon.
 so that those organizations can receive funding and get back to the things that they were doing pre-pandemic. So, I just want to say thanks to the staff and I agree with all the things. I also agree with the workforce training. I think that's really important that with the great, I think the name is now, the great reshuffle.
 which is I guess better than the great quit that happened. People are seeking new employment that gives them meaning and we need to make sure that they can get the training to do that well. So thank you. Yes, I'd also like to thank staff.
 In talking to staff, I've got just a little glimpse into all the work that you've gone through, and it's really been impressive to me. When I first sat down with these, I went through all the applications, and I had to, you know, I've gone through them a couple of times now, and I had to really kind of set aside what I felt like in my heart versus what I saw on paper. And, you know, sometimes there were certain projects and requests that I felt very strongly about personally,
 But I maybe felt like it was not quite supported as well as it should have been. There were some applications that after I went back through and looked at them, well, the first time I looked at them, I realized there just wasn't enough there to make a decision on. And I know that some people or some organizations, their applications didn't come in until the very last minute.
 So I'm kind of one of those people myself sometimes, you know, get it in just under the wire. But sometimes when you do that, you are lacking things. So there were a lot of applications that I just did not feel could be supported. But I feel pretty solid with the list that we have after going back through it a couple of times. Now, I'm not an expert on these things, but I do have a greater understanding of it now after the second time I've gone through it.
 And I really do support the workforce training with the library. I think that's a very important, I know it's a big request, but I feel very strongly about it. And obviously, you know, I've stated before, the ambulance authority needs our help as much as possible. But I'm feeling pretty solid on these requests here. Thank you. I had a question on one of the, oh sorry.
 I had a question on one of the over 5,000 requests. It was from the Fayetteville Public Library Foundation. Under their expenses to be reimbursed, there was a revenue loss to suspended fines. Do you guys have a specific number for that?
 for the suspended fines I don't have a specific number on that with me okay my only concern with that is if it's suspended not canceled are they still able to collect on that that would be something that we wouldn't want to fund under ARPA okay that would be my only concern otherwise it looks great unfortunately we have fines penalties
 Invoices that have gone out to collections things like that that have been submitted to us for reimbursement and unfortunately These are things we just can't support so we would they wouldn't be part of what we bring forward to council Okay, would that affect their total requested then how would we make that adjustment? I'm sorry, what was that? How would we make the the adjustment for their total requested amount? Yeah, so basically what we'd end up doing is subtracting out all
 those allowable costs from the total. I have a few comments. First of all, this is a federal program with a lot of guidelines and there was a lot of ways to interpret a lot of the information that we got at original. I think that the city staff did a very good job looking at these in a very pragmatic way. The
 The overall evaluation based on information that we received, I think, does support the allocations as they are suggested. Thank you, Council Member Turk, for asking some clarification. I do appreciate that. I think that the biggest question was the library workforce activity and
 both on a pragmatic level and on an emotional level. And I think on the impact of the community, I do support that wholeheartedly. And initially I was thinking that it was too much of the percentage of the funds that were available. So all in all, I really felt good from a pragmatic point of view about the way that it is suggested.
 As the other council members, when you go through the applications, it pulls your heartstrings. You know these organizations have a need, but if you looked at the applications, a lot of their need was not eligible or was not supported with enough information to give it points if you were looking at a matrix. Right.
 that was the toughest part. And I think all of us on city council were faced with that, no doubt. So in the end, I support the suggested activity. I think that the people who reviewed these applications did it from a very logical point of view and one that took careful consideration of the value of the programs. So,
 Anyway, it is unfortunate that every organization can't be afforded the opportunity to get some dollars to help them. But these programs, by supporting them at a level that makes them valid and valuable, such as the workforce training program, in the long run, the investment will pay off with economic development and also human capital as far as a –
 you know, a population that has some more skills and the opportunity to get jobs based on this additional training. The childcare, I think everyone agrees is a good thing. And I certainly wholeheartedly support the EMC as we have to have emergency response and we,
 We know that that during, especially during COVID, was pressed very tight. They were, you can only imagine the increase of demand that they had. So I do think that if other people bring things forward and there's a compelling argument to move some money into a specific situation, I'm certainly open to that. And, you know, I appreciate that.
 I will say we are a city of the arts, and I'm not sure that we looked at the impact of COVID on the arts community broadly. But at the same time, we didn't have a lot of applications for that. We did have Theater Squared, and I do support that because they did have a good application and it's something we need to look at because that is a...
 a large arts program that did, that was certainly impacted and still continue to be active and impacted this season. They had to cancel so many shows because of COVID. So it's a direct impact on their programming and it's a direct expenditure and a direct loss that can easily be measured. So I do, I think that we do have to, if we have the opportunity, look at the arts community.
 I'll go ahead and go again then, kind of the next round. I know that staff has framed this to look at our City ARPA requests and then other projects and then the over 5,000 assistance projects and that's one context for looking at this.
 I would be remiss if I didn't share that there are two projects, actually three, but two small projects that I wanted to advocate for in particular, and not because their applications were outstanding, and there still may be technicalities that preclude us, but I would be remiss if I didn't say that the Trinity United Methodist Church food pantry
 was one that, it's kind of like the library when I had a lot of questions and staff wrote a brilliant reply. I went and spent an afternoon there at the food pantry and while I'm reading their application was
 perhaps not as crisp as it might have been. The population that they were serving was absolutely food insecure and they were absolutely the major food source for that population they served. And I know that they convoluted their application by including some books and other materials for children that are preschoolers
 And I came up with the amount of $29,040 that was purely simply food and one new refrigerator for them. And I've supplied that in writing to you and that if there were some way to do that, you know, I hate to debate you, but you know, I'll write the check for the refrigerator if we can fund the food because they're doing the real work.
 The second one that was small was that I felt the Washington County Historic Society's application was a combination of both lost income and attempting to remodel the Ridge House. And I completely understood staff's challenge on not recommending for
 the rehab of that particular house. It's historic, yes, it's the oldest in Fayetteville, yes. But I felt that the portion of their application which was lost revenue, given that their primary tenants are local counselors, and that when I see us supplementing other counseling services through ARPA, I felt like, okay, they cut their rent in half, they ought to be able to document that, and that's one.
 And then the final one is that I appreciated Mark's comments about the arts, and I know that all of us are sympathetic of that. And I feel that the Theatre Squared application is in fact a challenging one because of its size.
 But I tried to look at it the way that I think our economic development office would look at it. You know, there were weaknesses in the application in the sense of saying, what do you get? Well, we're going to do some discounted tickets. But the whole premise of the arts being an economic engine is that people come to the show and expend resources. And so if I'm
 living hand to mouth and you give me a ticket to a show, I enjoy the show, but I'm not able to then contribute the $27 to $37 per person that attends theater, expending in the community. While that was a weakness, I feel that the strength is that they've got a payroll that represents a gender diverse population in the city of Fayetteville and that
 Those dollars will be expended in our local economy through their payroll. And I shouldn't offer a problem without at least some potential solution. And when I look at both of the child care oriented applications, which I wholeheartedly support, it does seem to me as one council person that I would be willing to fund those as city projects out of,
 our own 10 million loss revenue. And that would mean I would have to subtract money from somewhere. And the somewhere for me would be our Walker Park Activity Center, where I would be willing to take a portion of that funding
 up to half a million of that and utilize that for additional supplement to the arts, keeping the balance total intact and making that horse trade of that particular half a million dollars. That may or may not appeal to anyone else, but I felt like that that money would be an investment in an identity entity in Fayetteville
 that I see us being written up in in the New York Times. And I'm certainly not getting this written up in the New York Times. And so I would be very happy to support that kind of a horse trade on funding.
 Nothing else that you've done gives me heartburn. I just really think that you've done a yeoman's job and I just offer these to my fellow council members for their consideration and staff's qualification. Thank you guys. Council Member Whitaker, I appreciate your sentiment and we've got to do some horse trading somewhere. I guess in my thought, so I think that we can spread out what we would need.
 amongst a broader number of organizations or projects. The Walker Park Activity Center does certainly support, especially the older population through activities and through programs. I think the, can't remember the name of the organization on aging, but they use a lot of that,
 the center for programs that are in addition to what we would typically think about in an activity center in a park. And so I would want to look at that closer also to be sure that we're going to get the maximum return on the programs that are supported in that center generally by federal funds. I haven't worked with the center in a few years, but back whenever I was volunteering
 the federal funds that came in were so important. And they also depended on the city to step up and do part of the job too. I don't think that was reflected well in their application. And maybe it's not the same as it was four or five years ago. But I do like, I mean, what we're faced with is if we're going to put some money somewhere, we have to take it from somewhere. Right.
 It's not going to make me popular, but I do think that we can look at the city allocation a little bit too. And, okay, this is my thought. And, Paul, please don't think that I'm being ridiculous or anything. If you look at the cities, the impact of the city, we certainly had an impact.
 We also need to invest the capital to prevent other expenses that will go back to the general population. And so that's an important investment also. On the other hand, the city right now is recovering well because we do have
 a little surplus now listen i'm always one for saving for the future and everyone knows that i'm always wanting to turn a penny into a dime if we can but in this case with funding that i believe should help out the most critical parts of our city that were impacted by covid
 With with the city's recovery. And I would I would certainly hear compelling arguments on the other side. Maybe we could afford to take some of that and put it in some other programming, if at all possible. Well, one thing I want to I want to say is remember, once it gets.
 Once it's transferred, once it's in the city's revenue source, that's got to be spent on something that's statutorily allowable for the city to spend money on. Now, we can contract with people for services, but we can't specifically support individuals. For example, we can't take money that we say...
 we have a surplus or money we transfer into the general fund for reimbursements. We can't take that and then give that out as vouchers. That's not something that the city really can do as a general governmental services. We can do that with ARPA funds when we classify it as ARPA funds. So we've got to be very careful for doing that.
 If we're going to look at some of the things that I wanted to say, I thought we would see more
 organizations coming forward to demonstrate losses that's the clearest and easiest way to see somebody is struggling that's why when I first said maybe we want to save some of this money and put it back to reimburse for losses incurred in a period to keep to keep those organizations going in the future that that may be a good option for us however some of them
 said that they had not incurred losses in the period, so they can sustain themselves according to that. We just have to be careful, Mark. We can sign contracts for services, for service delivery, once it's in the city's domain. But we can't necessarily do everything
 that ARPA would allow us to. ARPA's expanding, expands our ability to do things with those particular grant funds that we couldn't do otherwise with city funds. Am I being clear on that? Well, Paul, I understand what you're saying, but I want to go up to, up front to the funds. This 10 million dollars has not been transferred to the city yet, right? That's correct. And so why can't we take
 a smaller allocation to send to the city and redistribute what we're saving into programs. And listen, we, as city council, we are responsible for managing a city along with the administration and the best way we can. But if you look at our city budget, and this is very hard for me to say because I like profit, but we have been doing well, especially when you look at the, uh,
 the recovery we've had in our taxes. And so would it not be possible before the money is sent to the city, I'm not saying spend city money, I'm saying maybe not send so much to this city, but maybe put a few more thousand dollars over into the community services side of these allocations. And if I'm wrong from what I've read and tried to understand
 I'm all for being corrected. But how can we not? Okay.
 Okay, maybe I did misunderstand. I think where you're going, if I understand correctly, Marcus, you're saying of the $10 million that we previously authorized being transferred to the city as a reimbursement, we could change that number. If that's where you were going, and we did get questions from the councils, could we in fact change that? That's right.
 So it would take the motion of the council to read, to look at that allocation and adjust it appropriately if we can find a compelling reason. So because we did authorize that to move over, but we didn't have all of this other requests. And again, it's...
 It's terribly emotional whenever you go through these and you personally know people that have been impacted by the programs. You personally know how the small organization or smaller organization has struggled. You personally know that they did not have the staff or the time to put together the most complete application, but we know.
 we know and if we do know and we can share that and make a compelling argument for that then i think that that is also valid apart from the matrix although i do think the pragmatic approach was absolutely important uh all along and it certainly helped uh put in front of the line those organizations that that met the criteria to be higher up on the matrix um
 So I just want us to consider that as city council. I, you know, sometimes as a personal, you know, all of us have been faced with we're going to put our money in a charitable organization. And we, you know, I would love to help every organization personally, but I have to think about that. And sometimes I'll have to take some money from one organization that I have supported a long time to the other because of the need.
 And I guess I feel like this pocketbook of the city is very same to my pocketbook. Maybe the city can be, you know, tighten up a little bit, use the money they need it. It's important. It's important in the long run to be sure our infrastructure is supported over water, to be sure that the impact on rates is less. And that helps the city as a whole.
 But in the short run, if we could take just a little bit of that and put it back over to programs, then the impact on those, the programs that it has is, well, it's big impact for that smaller organization. So that's the way I'm thinking. And I changed my thoughts a lot whenever I was going through this. But the thing that most impacted me, one, was we are not organized.
 supporting the arts and it doesn't have to be Theater Squared, but Theater Squared did have an application. And I do think that if they had a little coaching, they would have been able to better show their losses. What I admire about Theater Squared is when they show you their financials over the past, is they did manage very well with what they had.
 But what they didn't mention so much is what they lost in programming and in opportunities to invest money into programming and plays and such to bring in more money. So that's just an example, by the way. There's many programs that had turned into applications that I think their application wasn't, did not reveal opportunity.
 like we said earlier, the loss and the impact of the loss. Just my opinion. Paul, I have a follow-up question, kind of in the line where Mark was going, because...
 There is going to be a lot of horse trading going on here. And I reviewed the public comments. There were several public comments about the funding for Illinois River Watershed Partnership and Beaver Watershed Association. And could those services not be contracted out from the city so that those could actually –
 be removed or funded by that $10 million or the estimated $10 million that the city is in city services now. So I wonder if that's a possibility or if we would be prevented from doing that. No, you're okay. You're talking about the water quality issues that have been put forward. Those would be something that the city could fund.
 So yes, that would be possible that you could fund those from the revenue reimbursement. I'd like to make a couple of comments going back to what Mark brought up. And I know you asked the question too, Teresa. Once we brought forward to the council and asked for a commitment on whether or not the
 request entire ten million dollars worth of allotment as reimbursements that was done back in April at that point in time the federal government and the regulation set as one time decision had to be made then before the end of April
 subsequently that's been revised apparently and said that you can relook at that so we could relook at that again I think that's where what mark was referring to and we could revisit that if that's the council's wishes essentially we have spent some revenue lost money already last year if you remember for the recognition pay
 and a couple of other projects. I would suggest that if we like, if we wanna review that, which is what Mark was suggesting,
 We could look at that, but I would suggest that we either have the option, we take the 10 million, which is the maximum we can, or we revisit that and we stay consistent with what our calculation, our last calculation in the loss for the period was, and that calculation was $6.9 million.
 We could revise it to the six point nine million dollars. Now the thing is once you have that you have to demonstrate that loss And we can demonstrate that loss so we could change that formula If that's what the City Council wishes to do and mark that would give an additional roughly three million dollars more
 for the City Council to consider as far as assistance to the organizations that you're talking about. So if that's the consensus of the City Council, I can bring that back under those parameters. As far as the...
 Issue that you talked about Teresa. Yes, that could be that could be funded with the with the city's portion of the reimbursement rather than other things we talked about now one of the things we talked about one of the administration did talk about was Taking that reimbursement amount and allocating it in a place that could address some needs of the citizens And that's why we were suggesting we look at water and sewer projects because if those projects aren't addressed and
 some of this funding it's going to end up being increased rates moving forward and the lowest income earners are the ones that are affected most most distressed by those rates if they go up so that's why we're suggesting that we could however look at a couple of those water quality programs that you
 that you did sir that you did suggest theresa for reimbursement with with the city's portion of the reimbursement uh does that um does does that kind of answer both of the questions kind of provide maybe a solution mark to what you would uh wish to visit i'll thank you for that uh
 that insight, I appreciate it. It's a lot for us to consider. And those of us that have been on the water sewer committee and that we know what the rate study is showing
 Anything we can do to help manage that expense with water and sewer, not now, but also impact it in the long run. It is a good investment and it does impact everyone, including anyone that had an impact from the pandemic and that we are still having an impact from the pandemic. So I think whenever we looked at it initially, it certainly was valid and I still think it's valid. I just think that there are new opportunities.
 I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me.
 We know in the future we have some big expenses. We still have a big expense currently with the dryer and managing the costs associated with the failure of the dryer. We also know that the Nolan Treatment Plant has and is going to have more issues just simply because of the age of the facility.
 So overall in the budget over there, and that is an enterprise fund, it's got to support itself. And the only way it can support itself is with rates. And so we are faced with a rate increase. And like I said, maybe Council Member Kirk has some insight on this.
 well i completely agree with you council member kenyon and we've got a recent example here with jackson mississippi i know none of us ever want to end up in that situation that's a terrible situation they did not make investments into their water and sewer system and now they're at a real serious crisis
 So, yes, I do think that those are reasonable things for the city to spend the money on, the ARPA money. We all benefit from having good, clean water and a functional sewer and making those significant repairs. And we are in the midst of a rate study. So, yes, those are really important valid considerations and expenditures. Thank you.
 So one of the things I wanted to suggest, if we can maybe structure some of our comments or maybe partition some of this tonight for the future, and I don't want to cut anybody off. So I'm just throwing out some suggestions that at our next council meeting or whenever, whenever we can have the next council meeting to discuss these is to really talk is to go ahead and,
 talk about funding the ambulance service and talking about funding the assistant request.
 So, if we could agree to move those to the next meeting, for sure, and kind of partition some of that out. And also, maybe have a discussion at the next council meeting about the potential for the reallocation that Paul just clarified, made the clarification for us. Because the final funds that what we're really struggling with are the nonprofit subrecipient portal.
 that's what we're really struggling with and it would be so helpful to be able to figure out and identify exactly how much money if we do the reallocation exactly how much money we have to go through and reassess so we have five different types and and it makes it very very difficult to um
 go through and be able to get all of that apportioned out with so many different types. So if we could take a couple of those off, I think, or decide on a couple of those, the assistance request and some of the other important projects, I think it would help us and maybe help the public too. So those are just some suggestions about how we move forward. I'm definitely good with dividing the question that way. I don't think it needs a motion. I guess that'd be something staff would do.
 Could you repeat that Sloan? I didn't understand what you said. I said I would be good dividing the question that way. We're not really making motions here. Is staff able to do that if the other council members seem okay with that? Yeah, I don't think any of us would be opposed. I wanna go back though to the city taking the 10 million in lost revenue. It just resonates with me
 that to undo that creates work that I don't view as necessary, to be perfectly honest with you. If, in fact, it's more economical from a labor perspective to identify projects on the list that would be appropriate for the city to cover out of the city's 10 million that we took. That that would be a much more efficient way to do it. And whether it was,
 you know, the Beaver Watershed Alliance and the Watershed Conservation, or whether it's childcare, if those could logistically be legally assessed as city projects, and we've listed it as city projects for the childcare ones, then let's not unwind the 10 million, which I feel strongly was an appropriate thing for us to do.
 it still frees up monies that are allocated in the non-city portion of the ARPA funding. It also still leaves us needing to have the discussion because it is a zero-sum game on where do you find that money and I particularly like the water and sewer repair project
 Mark, you had commented on the Walker Park activity area, and my understanding is that the $3.5 million is 100% capital improvement, that it's new facilities being constructed at the park. It's not programmatic work. And in that way, I'm thinking that, okay, if you move $1 million up, that would be a project to subtract $1 million out of.
 Make that capital improvement investment in the park. It's simply a smaller one It does this at least the staff does that sound like a rational thing to do hold on to the 10 million and see if there's Eligible projects to bill against that instead of trying to reduce the 10 million to free up funds. What's your reaction? Well, they'll only be a certain number of them that would be eligible one of the ones you mentioned was child care child care cannot be
 vouchers for childcare cannot be done once it's in the city coffers. I thought I mentioned that earlier. You could look at stuff such as the water quality and you could consider that and doing that out of that funding if you wish. That you could do, but you might, by doing that would take certain projects that you wouldn't do otherwise, okay? Maybe certain of those projects you wouldn't wish to fund, you go ahead and fund them.
 with the city reimbursement, that gives them an advantage of being funded and then you have decisions on the other one. I don't know if that makes sense to you or not, but in other words, if they're eligible or something that the city could do, that automatically puts them in a different reference point than if you left them in for consideration for the ARPA funding. That's my only comment on that.
 We're much better. When we look at this, I guess to me, if I'm looking at efficiency, if we can take it out of the more controlled expenditure budget, which is what the city has, and put it over in the nonprofit program area, then the city really doesn't have to be involved in contracting and finding services.
 So if it's over in the other area, then there's more opportunity to use it for more programming and more projects that would not be possible to fund if it were city money. And whenever I talked about the Walker, the Walker Park Center, what I know is we've got to have the facilities in order to house and manage programs, federal programs, and that facility
 we do need more capital expense into developing the new project. And in the long run, that will offer support to the programs that are already in force in that very crowded and small center that they have right now. So that's just my point of view. Everyone's point of view is valid. And that's just from working down there as a volunteer and
 seeing the important, listen, that facility is bursting, it seems just managing the programs that they have through, I think it's EEOC, it's out of, I know the main office is in Harrison, but there's a lot of programming associated with that.
 So let me just kind of summarize what I'm thinking to me a simple change and the allocation to the city it takes a motion from the council and we would be able to get a valid amount that can be transferred over without a major impact on the city activity and then once it gets over into the other side of the basket then
 We can use the same matrix and criteria that we've used so far. We would just have more money to spend on those. And I think that that's how I look at it, and I hope that that makes sense. This does get complicated. If you're asking my opinion, I believe we're better changing the allocation, and it's a safer way to do it. Then...
 Someone has to write a staff report, make a recommendation, come up with some dollar amount to reduce, and do we want to discuss that tonight, or do we want to have it be an open-ended discussion live on the floor? Paul, did you not already mention an amount and have an idea of where that amount would be able to come from? Earlier he said... Well, it allows you a couple of...
 Couple of options number one you can you can request ten million dollars, and there's no questions asked They automatically will approve ten million dollar flat other than that You've got to demonstrate what your loss is we can demonstrate a loss for the period at six point nine million dollars Okay, so what I would suggest we either keep the amount of ten million dollars or
 We adjust it to ten point nine million dollars then we need to pick and I need to make a transfer into the general fund What's it? Excuse me into the city funds Then we take it and use it as the City Council decides. Okay, so Basically, there are two options You know your request the ten million dollars with no questions asked or you have to file a demonstration That you have lost
 certain amount for the period and we can demonstrate that we lost six point nine million dollars. So from my perspective It's one of those two numbers But once we take the ten million dollars, we're restricted on you are restricted on some of the things you could do In comparison that if you kept it in the ARPA fund, okay. Well then the challenging thing is I
 If we don't take the 10 million, you're at 6.9. We've already spent 2.2. That's correct. So now you're looking at 4.7 being available. I'm looking at a list of 7.9. So in 4.7, that would give you 4 million for the water, and then you've got the 400,000 for the SCADA wireless network, and that leaves 300,000 for the park project. So that's the consequence of not taking the 10 million.
 in my way of thinking. Does that sound accurate? That's true. That's accurate. But we'll look at the other side. If we take that and we take an ARPA project, for example, water quality, and take it out of it, you've got less money to spend for those projects, too. Any way we look at it, we're going to have to make some hard decisions. And I understand it's hard for all of us.
 But I would say that's supportable from my perspective of what we report for a revenue loss for the city. We either do the 10 million or do what we can demonstrate. We have to demonstrate. If we don't take the 10 million with no questions asked, we have to demonstrate it. We can't just pick a number in between. Is that correct?
 That's correct. You've got to either do the revenue loss calculation or take the 10 million as one or the other. And that revenue loss calculation is going to need to be performed at the end of every year for the next three years as well as the 6.9 million. So we don't necessarily know what that final number is going to be and we have to report correct numbers. And I'd like to make another point as well. So we've been talking about these water quality initiatives and just to clarify Paul, those were three initiatives that were
 the sub recipient portal the Illinois River watershed partnership the Beaver watershed Alliance and WCR see at this point. I'm not willing to confirm that those are allowable as general governmental expenses. We really need to take another look at those right. I thought so. I think if I understand that if it's the if the money went over to the other side the programs that we may have
 So we're not going to be able to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that. And so we're going to have to do that.
 So what I'm saying, the money, just because it goes to the other side, doesn't mean that we cannot support what we're losing for the 10 million. I guess I'd say that, I mean, there is distinct rules on what you can do with the 10 million versus what you can do with the general ARPA funds. So to come out and say, I wouldn't be able to just confirm that, no, we're not losing anything by going one way or the other, if that makes sense.
 I personally think that it seems a lot clearer to me to take the 10,000. It just seems easier to document. That may be an unpopular opinion, but that's my opinion.
 Yeah, I agree with that as well. I think taking the 10 million seems like the right direction and then being able to do the infrastructure list to me is very strong. The recommendations, there's a lot there. I'm reading back through the, there's a page on the website that I had really looked at very closely, but it's very well, kind of lists all of the potential projects.
 And the Walker Park, which I will advocate for, is in my ward. It is a park that needs a lot of work. But that would be a potential project, right, that would go on the $10 million side. Is that correct, Paul? Yeah. Well, I think that would be the safest place to look at it because that's something we can do anyway. So the infrastructure projects that have been listed, I wish I could...
 share this but it's it's it's infrastructure projects that will be review by City Council to receive funding and then it's got data transparency fiber master plan water sewer and on and on
 So those are okay to be used with the 10 million, the standard deduction, correct? Is that correct? Yeah, that's correct. And we had brought forth some suggested infrastructure programs at the last meeting. And I think you also at that time mentioned a few things that you were interested in as well. Right, so I mean, I don't know that we've, I don't know if everybody's looked at that very closely or not, but there are some very worthy good things in the infrastructure category.
 and i'll tell you i don't know i've been trying to push a stroller around walker park and it's it's a challenge um so um there's a lot of great worthy projects in that list for the 10 million um and i think we will help a lot of people in the whole city
 And potentially, again, looking at the equity piece, Walker Park serves a very low income area. And so I want to still kind of bring that back and bring it back to COVID. And if you guys haven't been to Walker Park lately, essentially it's a spillover for the Salvation Army. It's a spillover for Seven Hills.
 and new beginnings and on and on. And so I don't know what we need to do in there, but something needs some help for these people that have been taken off their track, lost their job, kicked out of their homes. I don't know what's happening, but we,
 There's some potential work there, and I like the idea of the design of project, RFP potentially, to think about that and look at that and how do we balance serving the community that lives around the park and uses the park with how it's actually being utilized right now. Because a lot of the pavilions, you know, I just don't go to a lot of the pavilions.
 It's just it doesn't have a very safe place for me to push a stroller. So there's a lot of things there that I think we can look at besides all the other lists of infrastructure projects. But I guess what I'm saying is we have a lot we could potentially do with the 10 million just taking the standard deduction.
 Okay, I want to go back to my standard argument in the beginning. We can take the easy way with the $10 million and we can put it in to the city. And I'm not saying any of those projects are invalid. What I am saying is we are recovering with the sales tax dollars. When we're talking about our budget next year from the city in general, and I'm not going to be popular with everyone, but it's the way I see it,
 Those projects may actually fit into the budget because of what we can project of the growth of the taxes wherever we have recovered. You know, at the time that we did that $10 million, we didn't really know how the recovery was going to be with our taxation. So the way I'm thinking, and that's just me, is that this money was put together.
 out to the public for those projects and organizations that had a direct impact or directly impacted by the pandemic. And so even if we just took, like I say, I think, and I'm not sure, I don't know all of it, but I think that a lot of, we could still fund some of the projects out of the other side and not lose all of them.
 and have some more to use with less restrictions on the other side, and then have faith in the growth of our taxation and our city budget that we will have some dollars to spend on these projects that you're mentioning. We're getting ready to do our budget, finalize it, and as you look at what we have so far,
 And, you know, I would project that we're going to have a surplus at the end of the year for the city in the city budget, more than what we anticipated. And you don't hear me say that very often, but I'm trying to look at the values that I have of what this money was to do. And that was to help those organizations and programs that were directly impacted by,
 COVID. So, and I don't think we have to look at it as losing programs in the city, if the city, the city is going to have a budget to cover a lot of that either now or in the long run anyway. So that's the reason I brought it up this way. I don't want to lose any of those things that the city needs, but at the same time, with the current situation of our, we,
 We have a lot more than what we projected already. We're recovering. And with that recovery, then I think that it is valid to offer some assistance to the general organizations and programs. Otherwise, I think it makes us look like we're kind of selfish. I hate even to say that. I'm maybe selfish as a word, but self-serving. And that's not what I see this money for. I have an idea.
 I think a lot of these city projects are meant to help a large majority of people so I don't technically see this as selfish. I think that this is more, it's not city money to just be spent for us. It's for the entire population of Fayetteville. So that's how I'm seeing, that's why I think that we should take the 10 million because that's what's going to be used to impact the largest amount of people.
 At this point, I'm kind of sharing that same belief that when we consider all these projects and we look at who they're going to help and how they're going to help people the most, I believe that to take the funds would be the best thing for us to do as a city. That's just where I'm leaning right now. That needle for me has not moved.
 What I've heard so far, and correct me if I'm wrong, what I believe we do have consensus on is the, well actually a lot of other things have been discussed so maybe this isn't correct, but I'll say it anyways. The voucher program, the Head Start program, not the library project because I think that has been on hold because I think Teresa has some more questions on it.
 and the ambulance. So those three at this moment, I feel like we're not, no one is saying to remove those. Could we allocate that just for now some way, somehow
 from not the 10 million from the other suggested ARPA project considerations and just go ahead and start maybe chipping away at it that way I don't know if that would be helpful for you all because I feel like if we can start agreeing finding the projects that we agree on then we can start kind of see that that dwindle away
 absolutely absolutely think that if we have consensus that we can agree on that so you are right on I agree too so that was 1.3 million that I did the numbers on the voucher the child care expansion and the ambulance I mean I'm holding on the library because of Teresa's questions would we be able to bring these to the next council meeting
 Well, we can't bring it to the next council meeting. That agenda's already been set. That'll be coming out tomorrow. But we'll talk about looking at those to bring something forward in October. Now, one of the things, as far as the ambulance authority, we're going to have to get a commitment from them as a sub-grantee.
 So they'll have to agree to a contract and we'll bring that together. I can't guarantee how fast that will go. And it's also going to be contingent.
 But all of the other participants for the ambulance authority or sharing that the county and the other cities Are also going to commit to that now? Lionel is on that executive board. I understand the executive board Has voted to do that so that shouldn't be a problem That's correct, but
 But we'll just have to get an agreement with them. So it'll be sometime in October we could bring those forward. We could work with Yolanda when she's ready to implement the voucher system and the child care move with those forward.
 Since this is a discussion meeting, we can't make any absolute decisions right now. What we're doing is looking for guidance. If everybody more or less feels that's the direction we'll go, we'll plan on working on those right now. That'll give us time for you to get some more thought into some of the other issues we've discussed.
 Have not made the transfer into the general fund for the reimbursement so we don't have to do that Immediately we that's a decision. We'll have to we'll have to make At the council if you wish to look at it and analyze it and vote on it but From what I'm hearing Do I hear that we need to have more?
 work session, another work session and discussion, or do we want to
 I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions. I think we have a lot of questions.
 But if we do have a consensus on that, I'm happy to include it as well. I mean, that's what I've kind of been hearing, that we have consensus on that also, the over 5,000 and the under 5,000. Uh-huh. I would, yes. Yes. Yes. Thumbs up. Yeah, I got the sense that that was already taken care of. I'm sorry. I'm the only one with heartburn on the Clinton House then, right? I felt like we already had that resolved, and I really –
 don't want to drag it up again, honestly. I think I'm good. I feel good about it. I feel good about it. Okay. I have a question about the Clinton House that was brought up. I don't think, the university doesn't own the Clinton House. It's the Advertising and Promotion Commission that owns that, if I'm correct. Is that right? Sarah Bunch is on that. Isn't that right, Sarah? No. The A&P, can you hear me, Mark?
 I can hear you loud and clear. I'm sorry. The A&P was funding their budget, and I believe, don't hold me to this, I believe this was pre-COVID, and it was maybe...
 a quarter of a million, 200 something thousand. And we decided to, over the course of time, withdraw that funding for them. Okay, yeah, I kind of remember that now. I haven't been on the commission long enough to have everything exactly memorized. So that's what we did, but I believe that the Clinton House was, their board was going to be working on trying to come up with
 a new funding source because A&P did not feel that the funding we were providing was returning the rate of return that we would like to see for the A&P committee. Thank you. Yeah, thanks.
 I understand why you're having a little heartburn, Mike, but I do think that, you know, the Clinton House is really one of the historic attractions here. And so, yeah.
 I wonder if they've been trying to negotiate some relief from the university. And maybe we can ask that question. Because some of that, I believe, if I recall correctly, is for back rental pay from the U of A. Okay. So maybe they could negotiate some of that. But I think that's an important...
 I mean, when I have friends come to town, where do they want to go? They want to go to Crystal Bridges, the Momentary, and the Clinton House. But the Clinton House hasn't been open until recently again. So those are just people that I know that come to town and what their interests are.
 On the Clinton House, I think we have to apply the same acumen we do to anything else. And we have to look at when we're considering who does it affect, does it help the most people, that sort of thing. I just think we have to look at it that way, the same way we would anybody else.
 And one thought that I think that someone had brought up, Stephen or Paul brought up earlier, is that as we go through these applications and really kind of drill down, the documentation may not be there to fulfill the entire amount. So I have a feeling that we, in the end, possibly might have...
 something left that we might be able to do a sort of alternates. So if we can go down the list if we don't find we maybe if we you know we were gonna find the top 11 but then we have some leftover we go to the next one and we go to the next one and I think we should potentially think about that. That's kind of an idea I have but that way we don't have to come back and revisit that over 5,000 list.
 and just kind of use the funds in the order of the documentation that's available. That's kind of an idea I have as well so that we can kind of wrap it up today potentially, but I don't know.
 Well, yes, when we do when we verify the documentation what I anticipate will do a verify the documentation We'll put together a resolution Indicating these the amounts is documented bring it forward to the council that point of time you approve it Don't approve it if you wish to not fund one of them you can make that motion at the point in time So this will all end up having to go to council to be appropriated. It'll be individually there Well, we will have verified the information at that point. So
 But that will give us a starting point of something to work on. Well, that would be wonderful. Thank you so much for all the work. And if you have time, if you and Stephen could also take a look at seeing if the IRWP and Beaver Watershed Alliance and there was one more in the watershed conservation area.
 floodplain if those could be funded out of the city services or government services and so we can have a much clearer understanding of what restrictions are there or not. That would be great. Thank you. We'll take a look at that. Well consensus is consensus so well done. The only other thing to ask is, is there consensus on the city taking the 10 million?
 Can we put that to bed? Are there enough of us that support that? Or does that need to be discussed? I'm good with that. I think it needs to be discussed. Yeah, that would be brought forward and then we would vote on it at that point. So I'm okay that it's an item brought forward. I mean, we already decided that it would be deciding to not undecide it because we've already made that decision through resolution, I believe.
 Right now, the resolution stands that we're going to claim $10 million. Now, if you want to bring it forward for reconsideration, we'll do that. So if there's five of us, then there's consensus, and that at least tells staff they don't need to be researching that. Does that make sense? We can't make a decision here tonight, but what you can guide me is, if you wish, for us to bring forward for you to reconsider. That's...
 Because it's going to be in the public. If you're going to bring it to reconsideration and take a vote, we can have . I'm comfortable with that original resolution. Okay. Yes, I would like to keep, let's leave it at this. Yes. It would simply be a straw poll of who's here because we can't make a resolution, so. We can't vote. But I do think that's important. Thanks a lot, Councilmember Whitaker.
 Oh. Well, if. And as you know, I don't support that. But I respect those that do. So. So that. Council member has a right to bring something forward if they wish.
 I'm not sure if everyone's seen this page, but it's also another helpful page on the website that's called Other Projects. Has the council seen that? Something new that I saw in there that I didn't see before, Artist and Cultural Entity Support Grant Program as a Potential Project. And I hadn't really seen that before, but anyways, it's listed along with the Head Start.
 Is that the same Head Start project? Do you guys know what page I'm talking about? It's called Other Projects page. That is kind of what I was referring to when I was talking about the arts. And thanks for pointing out the page, Sonia. I couldn't find it. It's...
 Well, so I just want to confirm that the other projects page is part of the standard deduction potential fund buckets. The ones identified as city projects, yes. I think it's like an artist and cultural entity, expand Head Start, expand public-private partnerships with childcare slots. Does that sound correct? Okay. I just wanted to make sure.
 So we can talk about that in the future. Okay, great. That's all I have. I just wanted to clarify that. What do you need from us to get the – I guess we need to figure out the – well, could we go forward without talking about the –
 library piece and bring that the other everything else besides the library piece for the next meeting? It's gonna take us a while to work on these issues anyway. We can pick out whatever you want us to bring. If there's consensus on everything else except the library, then we'll just bring those.
 i think that sounds good the library is such a big project anyways i'd love for it to kind of have its own you know kevin will do the research oh yeah and you could you could submit questions to the library on specifics and things of that nature we don't have to consider that right now that's a this will give us plenty of work to do right now for a while yeah i personally don't have any questions on the library i'm all for workforce training development so that's all i've got is there anything else oh okay we will
 As soon as we can get it put together, we'll get it put together and bring it to a council meeting or a special city council meeting. You might want to think about that because you may have a few people from the public that would like to comment on this. Just saying. We've been through a few of those. Okay, I don't think we have anything else tonight, right? Is everybody good? All right. Thank you all.