i'd like to call the board of the city council meeting on september 6th 1 2 2. kenyon kenyon here whittaker here scroggins present bunch bunch turd here herzberg harvey here jones here mayor jordan
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. In the first four revisions we've had tonight, the present and present stations all give us an honest, honest report.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of July, so that's period seven of this fiscal year, which is 2022. Sales taxes, as we talked about before, are up for the year about 11.2% right now. That's running just about $2.5 million. Franchise fees are up 9%, so they're up pretty significantly. Building permits are up.
 They're up 26%. We talked about that a little bit last week also. Charges for services are up. Those are basically coming from the parks and parks usage, which is doing better than anticipated. The only two that are pretty well down are the fees collected by the courts, and interest income is still down.
 Again, as it has been for the rest of this year. So far this year we're up about 9% compared to what was anticipated. We're a little more than $3 million right at this point in time.
 As far as the street funds, street funds still running strong. Again, that's state turn back, which is MFT turn back. That's up 11% so far. And the state sales tax, state half-cent for sales tax, it's up 23%, so that's pretty strong. There's still a lot of gasoline usage, and it's going pretty strong at this point in time. Parking fund, parking fund's up 17%.
 compared to what was anticipated. So that's doing very well at this point in time. HMR taxes up 14% compared to budget. Trash and recycle is just about flat. So we've been down most of the year. We're roughly flat right now at this point in time. The water and sewer fund is up 7%. Billings are up 7% at this point in time.
 And the airport is up about 26% in their total fuel sales compared to last year. So that's pretty significant. And it's up compared to budget. All in all, we're still seeing a lot of strength. Remember a lot of the budget categories that I talked to, which I'm talking about the comparisons to those I had anticipated still being a little soft this year. So we're doing very well.
 very satisfied with where we are right now moving forward. Reminder at this point in time, we're starting to get ready to look for budgets pretty soon. So that's where we are at this point in time. Again, I'm very happy with the performance and I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Okay, number one,
 Mayor, may I, I don't know if this is the right time or not, but I'd like to take one of the items off of the consent. Absolutely. It is item A5, RFQ 2201, the Olson Engineering contract to do the assessment of lands with high ecological value. Sure.
 i've been in touch with uh peter nearing garden and if i could uh i guess we'll move it to first of business before we get into the unfinished business okay any items that are pulled off the consent well that's that's one is there any others mayor i have a request to take 8.15 off the consent agenda that's the reallocation of cdbg funding okay
 and what i will do i will read them and also say they're pulled so i'll read them in order and then we'll go to them before we get into the finished business okay uh number one a resolution to approve an addendum to the interlocal agreement for continuation of the ambulance services through the washington county regional ambulance authority to provide additional funding
 any amount of 357 454 dollars and approved budget adjustment number two a resolution to approve a cost share agreement with old missouri land development llc for trail improvements along the east side of old missouri road near the rolling hills drive intersection with the refund
 an estimated amount of fifty eight thousand five hundred and thirty three dollars to be paid by the city of federal and to approve a project contingency in the amount of six thousand dollars number three a resolution to approve a minute number four to the professional engineering services agreement with Olson incorporated any amount of three hundred
 $32,785 for additional engineering services related to the Midtown Corridor project and to approve the budget adjustment. This is 2019 transportation bond project. Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $23,996 recognizing revenue from the Mud Creek
 bridge assessment funds for the same street project and number five a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with olson incorporated pursuant to rfq 22-01 in the amount of eighty nine thousand nine hundred dollars to provide an assessment of lands
 with high ecological value and to develop ecosystems services plan and to approve a project and see of 8909 that has been pulled number six a resolution to a task order number 10
 with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the amount of $22,500 for continuing riparian habitat enhancement and channel stability establishment in Tanglewood Branch and associated tributaries in the Fay Jones Woods and the Lower Ramble.
 7. A resolution to approve a land sale agreement with Painless LLC for the sale of approximately .25 acres for $80,085. 8. A resolution to approve a purchase of a swing set and safety surfacing from Playcor Wisconsin Inc. DBA Game Time for installation at Holland Park.
 IN THE AMOUNT OF $116,594.96 PURSUANT TO AN OMNIA COOPERATIVE PURCHASING CONTRACT AND TO APPROVE A PROJECT CONTINUENCY OF $10,000. NUMBER 9. RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A VENDOR AGREEMENT THAT WILL ENROLL THE CITY OF FEDERAL IN A LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLD WATER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM THROUGH THE ARKANSAS DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTS. NUMBER 10.
 A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO THE ENGINEERING SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH McCLELLAN CONSULTING ENGINEERS INCORPORATED IN THE AMOUNT OF $894,485 FOR PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING DESIGN FOR THE WEST CORRIDOR WATER TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT AND TO APPROVE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. NUMBER 11, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE REPLACEMENT OF TWO HVAC UNITS
 in the motor control center building at the west side water resource recovery facility by elite building solutions for the amount of forty one thousand six hundred and fifty dollars
 plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges, and to approve the budget adjustment. Number 12, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of $697,000 pursuant to RFQ 22-011.
 SELECTION FOR FACILITIES MASTER PLANNING SERVICES AT THE NOLAN WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY AND TO APPROVE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. NUMBER 13, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
 TO MOVE THE WATER SERVICE BOUNDARY TO ALLOW FOUR PARCELS OF LAND NOW IN THE SPRINGDALE WATER SERVICE AREA TO BE MOVED INTO THE FED VIL WATER SERVICE AREA. NUMBER 14, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE PURCHASE OF ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS FOR THE BIOSOLID MANAGEMENT SITE FROM THE FED VIL WATER SERVICE AREA. NUMBER 15, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE PURCHASE OF ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS FOR THE BIOSOLID
 GRAYBAR ELECTRIC COMPANY INCORPORATED IN THE AMOUNT OF $97,720 PLUS SPLIT TAXES, FREIGHT CHARGES TO AN OMNIA PARTNERS COOPERATIVE PURCHASING CONTRACT NUMBER 15, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A BUDGET ADJUSTMENT IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF $557,298 TO REALLOCATE CDBG
 CV funding for COVID-19 outreach, testing, and protection that has been pulled as well. Number 16, a resolution to approve an increase in project contingency funds in the amount of $50,000 for scope of work on vacations as needed for the Black and Beach Corporation water and sewer rates study. Number 17, a resolution to approve
 the addition of one full-time equivalent grant administrator position to facilitate and administer American Rescue Plan Act funds
 disbursements to approve the addition of one full-time equivalent plan or position for the development services department and to approve a budget adjustment and number 18 a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of one million seven hundred and thirty eight thousand dollars for
 for the purchase of additional fleet fuel through the end of 2022. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Caravans, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Now we will go to the items that was pulled from the agenda. Number five, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ number 22-01 any amount of $89,900 to provide an assessment of the lands with high ecological value and to develop an ecosystem service plan and to approve a
 project contingency of $8,990. Peter, you have this, or Teresa, or?
 Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Peter. I took a look at, as you all know, I drafted the resolution, and you all supported that last year. And I took a look at the statement of work and found there were a couple of things that were missing that were actually part of the resolution. And Peter and I had a conversation this afternoon, and I understand some of those components had been discussed, but they weren't included in the scope of work.
 and also they were not included in the staff staff write-up so those items were reference to the open space plan into the work that had been been done by Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association and also some review of peer cities and
 My concern was is that I wanted to make sure that the contractor reviewed all those documents as had been discussed and mentioned in the resolution and that there were references and citations for Some of the decisions that they might make with with regard to metrics and criteria and that sort of thing so
 uh what peter and i discussed was maybe making those adjustments if the council supported that and bringing it back to the table on october 4th so tabling it for four months or so i don't know if i've left anything else out peter i i want to say how much i appreciate all the work that's been done i just thought that those were really important components to be included within the scope of work and so that
 there is a reference back to the criteria and how it's been developed and how we can support that. Sure, absolutely. And I appreciate you spelling out those details for us. That certainly reflects the conversation we had earlier today. I did wanna share for the benefit of the council members, just the context and where this plan fits in with our climate action planning work.
 and how those elements that you mentioned are gonna be covered as part of the plan. So this is the same slide that I showed at agenda session. Essentially our new climate action plan framework at the very top. On the right hand side in the yellow is our existing energy action plan and the update that will be staff led
 to update that plan, bring it up to speed. It's been five years since that plan was initially done. Excuse me, that's on the right. And then on the left in the red is the new ecosystem services plan that would be led by Olson Engineering. And that's what this scope of work will address and cover. I did wanna also just break out that a little bit more so the council members could understand all of the stakeholders and resources that we would be using as part of that plan development.
 FNHA, the Open Space Plan, Enduring Green Network, many of our boards and committees, stakeholders outside the city, including the public, are all included in that area. And then in terms of what we will be looking at on the right-hand side for what we would consider ecosystem services are all those types of lands that represent our riparian areas along our rivers and streams
 that those lands that would provide habitat connectivity across the city, lands that could help us do a better job of carbon sequestration and meet some of our climate justice goals. Other ecologically sensitive areas in the city would all be included and evaluated as part of what their potential is to provide ecosystem services to the city. So I did just wanna make sure the council understood this.
 The elements that Councilmember Turk are nuances in detail that are covered in this scope, but can absolutely be added as detail in there along with the staff memo. And we're more than happy to do that for the council if that's what you all would like. And with that, I'll be glad to answer any questions. What questions do we have from the council on this? May I have a quick question? Yes. Oh, sorry. Yes.
 Peter, will those items significantly have an impact on the budget or is that, do you see that as those items okay to put on there? Because I've got a number tied. Yeah, I don't want to misspeak or mischaracterize for the consultant. We'll certainly have to have that conversation with them. I don't think so. I doubt it because as I mentioned, they are.
 nuances of what is already scoped so I don't believe so but we do have to get the scope we would have to get the scope of work revised working with them that would have to go back through legal review and to the council review through the clerk's office in order to get it back to you all in October okay thanks I would not see anything wrong with holding this for a month you know to let them try to work out the details so you know
 I move we table item. Yes, I guess that's what we need to do. Do you all want any public comment in case somebody's here? Yeah. Let's take some public comment in case somebody's here to talk about this. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration.
 don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that Lisa who do you have on zoom mayor no one has their hand raised okay is there anybody in the chamber like speak on this okay so I have a motion the second table correct um can we just clarify that would be for the October 4th meeting for the October 4th meet okay
 Who was the second? Oh, hey, Karen, would you please call her up? Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Dirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. And the next one is A15. Read it again.
 All right, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $557,298 to reallocate CDBG-CV funding for COVID-19 outreach, testing, and protection. Yolanda, you have this one? I will be recusing from this item. Okay. Yes, good evening, Mayor, Council. What you have before you is...
 a request to approve a budget adjustment to reflect the approval of the reallocation that HUD has given and attached, you will find in your agenda packet the actual letter from HUD approving the reallocation. So what this is doing is basically housekeeping in adjusting the city budget in alignment with the approval of the reallocation by HUD.
 okay what questions do we have from the council on this okay then let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on topic give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom please uh mayor natasha coleman okay go ahead
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan and city council members. This is Natasha Coleman in Ward 4 at 3453 West Yale Street. And I'm coming as the chair for the CDAP board meeting.
 I did meet with Yolanda since this had been presented to the City Council members, but there were some additional questions that were raised just over the weekend from certain community members that were questioning some of the documentation that was submitted to HUD with regards to the approval. So I was requested to pull this item and have it go through an additional review, perhaps presented to the Board before the approval is given for this to move forward.
 Okay. Thank you. Okay. Who else do we have? Mayor, there are no other hands raised. Okay. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. Thank you, Council Member Kenyon, wherever you are, for pulling this so we can talk about it.
 Mayor, thank you for your commitment to public engagement on all the things that the city does. We have a great track record for that. It's why we have these long conversations about items. It's why some of the other cities around sometimes make fun of us for our long meetings or how many citizen boards and advisory commissions we have.
 But it really speaks to how involved Fayetteville likes to be in these big decisions. We'll see that later tonight. There's a parks item on the agenda for changing the fees out at Lake Sequoia. And in your memo, that says that it was approved and recommended unanimously by the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board.
 Now planning things all come with a Planning Commission recommendation. That's a whole different beast, but tonight there's a policy change recommendation from the Planning Commission about how we put out signs for public notification and that has been listed in the first sentence of your staff memo that it's recommended by the Planning Commission. They've considered it and that one is about a
 welcoming more public comment for items that are often very, very much less significant than this. And I have written y'all this for the last several weeks and spoken to you since the last July meeting about how I feel that
 The process for this item for the CDBG coronavirus funds reallocation has fallen short of that standard that we set in almost every other department in the city. Just now, we heard it referred to as a simple housekeeping item to do a budget adjustment for something HUD has already said previously.
 is taken care of, except that you've never discussed whether moving this, whether asking HUD if it was okay to move this half a million dollars of money meant to help house people in Fayetteville, whether or not that was something you actually wanted to do or not.
 And so tonight you're going to get to make that decision. We're going to call it a budget adjustment, but it's a pretty huge policy shift in where we put our money. And we didn't even talk about where this is going. We called it a budget adjustment. But this is to fund a mobile health unit from UAMS.
 UAMS got more than $50 million from the federal and state governments in COVID money, and here we are sending them our half million in addition to that. Nobody has asked about this mobile health unit. UAMS posted on Facebook back August 19th that they had bought one already and that it's intended to go all around the state. Are we buying another one? Is the new one, if that's what it is, just for Fayetteville or is it going to go off into Springdale too?
 How will ongoing staffing be funded for this mobile health unit? These are all pretty straightforward questions that I expect you would have asked if the topic were ever brought to you for discussion outside of a budget amendment. I'm sure they're questions that your advisory board would have asked if they'd ever been given the opportunity. It's not about the process tonight. It's about the decision you're going to make because the city council is the only ones that can set spending priorities in the budget. It is...
 is this where we want to send our half a million dollars to a state agency swimming in well nobody's swimming in covid cash at the scale of this but we have folks who need housing and i know staff has said that they couldn't fulfill or they couldn't find uh demand for that but there are agencies around giving out rental assistance uh that have more demand than they can meet and so i wonder how we're missing that demand here
 Mayor, I hope we can vote no on this tonight, keep the money where it is, recommit to spending it on housing, and if there are questions about how we need to do that, if the implementation needs to be changed, you have an advisory board that should be involved in that conversation. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, Mayor and City Council members. I'm Sarah Moore. I'm in Ward 2, but I'm also the Executive Director of the Arkansas Justice Reform Coalition.
 And I know we've had this conversation in the past and I appreciate this getting pulled because I think there's new information and I think that anytime new information comes forward that we should kind of reassess the situation. I was under the impression many times federal programs can have stringent guidelines. However, under this administration and going through the pandemic,
 there are programs that have had greater flexibility. And so with this particular program, I was under the impression that once the reallocation was made, that that was it, we were done. But in speaking further with HUD, they actually do have additional flexibility and said, you know, no sweat, no timeline constraint, you guys can reassess and you can readjust these monies.
 And I want to bring some additional information forward to you tonight that you just might not be aware of because I do think that Fayetteville is a welcoming city and I think that we want to make sure we feel like taking care of the housing needs of all the residents of Fayetteville is important to us.
 Unfortunately, so many folks are still impacted by COVID as much as we'd like COVID to be gone. I know my mother-in-law and my father-in-law still have COVID. My sister-in-law in Louisiana just got COVID. I've got friends that are at home. So it's definitely still out there and especially impacts those community members that are renting that work in like the service sector where they don't get COVID.
 nearly the protections that maybe they need to prevent getting COVID. And so when they do get an exposure, they're stuck at home. And because they're on an hourly wage, they fall behind really quickly on their bills.
 I called 2-1-1 today. I'd heard in our area and I was aware in the areas I work that rental assistance monies have dried up but I really wanted to do my due diligence to bring forward information to you today. You know you see all the advertisements about call 2-1-1 for rental assistant, utility assistants, mental health.
 I spent 50 minutes on hold today when I finally gave up and asked them to call me back. An hour later, they called me back. I asked specifically in Washington County about any rental assistance available for anybody that's behind on rent because of COVID. He did a search. There's zero available. I asked for him to look at rapid rehousing, which is people that are actually homeless.
 zero available in Washington County. I said look further do you have any rental assistance that you can find with any criteria in Washington County? And he said no.
 So, between now and the end of this calendar year, I will tell you in our community we have little to no rental assistance available for the people of Fayetteville and of Washington County. And so I want to bring that forward to you tonight because I think this is new information that you're maybe not aware of when you're making this decision. A half a million dollars can make a tremendous impact for our community and keep people housed.
 very hard to rehouse someone once they have this ding against their credit history that they just got an eviction. Additionally, other barriers about their credit or their felon history, things like that go against them and make them very hard to rehouse in the current climate that we have with our
 So I really would ask for you to reconsider tonight. I think we do, we should take a brave pause. I think that it's the right thing to do for our community to say tonight let's not reallocate this, let's take this back to the CBDG board and let's talk about how this could potentially be allocated. I also want to bring forward to you that there are partners in the community that are willing to come forward and actually assist with the rental assistance applications and disbursement. EOA is a partner that has,
 long standing in this area that's been very successful and talking with them, they get two to three requests per day of people looking for rental assistance. I ask them if they keep it by city and they do not but if you look at the per capita, basically one person a day is asking probably from Fayetteville for rental assistance just to that entity and that's
 Obviously charities and other groups, nonprofits are getting requests as well. So if you looked at just the fact that EOA themselves potentially is getting about 20 requests, on average you think those are about $2,000. $80,000 a month over the next several months gets you close to about $200,000.
 Very quickly you see how this half a million dollars could be incredibly impactful for our city of Fayetteville residents that rent or need additional things to keep them within their rentals or within their homes. So again, I would just ask you to reconsider the additional information you're hearing tonight and let that weigh in your decision about how we wisely take care of the least amongst us in our community. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, my name is Melissa Terry and I live in Ward 1 at 701 Southwood Avenue. And I am also speaking to encourage you to vote no on this requested reallocation.
 The reason being at the highest level that as a policy decision the city of Fayetteville has decided that we're a housing first community. And what that means is that we recognize that there are many other needs present. But that based on social science and public policy that we understand that housing is
 first is the most impactful priority for budget funding and That keeping people housed as this more was saying is way less expensive than trying to get people back in housing
 Additionally, I would like to just reflect on the fact that the City of Fayetteville and the University of Arkansas had a joint meeting this spring on housing security and our housing crisis after we lost two of our community members who perished due to inclement weather and being unhoused in Walker Park. So we have policy frameworks in which we work in.
 And then we have this opportunity through the CDBG-CV, the COVID CARES Act dollars, which is not funding that we will get back. And so the due diligence and the way in which we deliberate how these funds can be impactful by investing deeper into our community programs, UAMS does wonderful work.
 Community, what was the other nonprofit? I think it was the community medical center, I'm sorry, I can't forget their name, a community clinic. They all do wonderful work. But again, as a housing first policy priority,
 We have dollars that are coming from HUD, which is the Department of Housing and Urban Development. And we have so, we've seen just from the ARPA applications, like how just little investments here and there are make or break for some of our frontline nonprofit organizations who are doing the lifting.
 And looking at, I think this was brought up earlier, but the letter that's being referenced from HUD that was sent to us because we sent them a request
 that I feel was premature because it wasn't properly vetted through the Community Development Advisory Board, which was authorized by the city in December 2020, ordinance 1691, I believe. And in that charter, it talks about that that body's responsibility is to deliberate funding decisions,
 collective impact decisions, which is exactly what we're doing ad hoc right now, but which we can do a better job of in the advisory board process. Additionally, the other thing is that, again, no slide to community clinic or UAMS, but in the public input session on the Zoom meeting, when one of the speakers asked, what are the
 well why these two entities how did that come to pass the response from staff was well they sent in applications and so as a public policy person i say and i wonder well where was the rfa where was the notice of funding availability what kind of application who else
 who didn't get invited. The public didn't know there was an application process. So that's just messy and we can do better than that. By sending it back down through the committee like it's supposed to go through. And I actually did reach out to Mr. Cook who signed the letter from HUD just to do my own due diligence and make sure that there would be no negative impact to the city.
 if City Council votes no and sends this back to committee. His response was that's absolutely fine. That actually gives us more of a community paper trail of how these funding decisions were made. He was curious why some of these questions weren't brought forward during the public input session and when I said that they were,
 He was surprised and said that they weren't reflected in the documents submitted. So those documents were foiled and the complete comments in the public input session, specifically in regard to the request to send this back down to the committee, were not included in the comments to HUD. So I would ask that you vote no on this and let's do this the right way because together
 We just make better decisions. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, well, well, what shall we do? Is there a time crunch on getting this done? Well, if I'm to understand what Ms. Terry said, she had talked to HUD, and it didn't seem like there was. It seemed like that.
 And I can't remember who she talked to, but it seemed like that it was okay to send it back to committee. I don't know exactly what the procedure will be except for the committee to look at what we have in front of us. As far as reallocation into other programs, again, I'm not an expert at that, but I think that we do have a committee that is dedicated to vetting.
 that has experienced training and has a point of view that no doubt is valid, and also that we have respect for those individuals that have taken time to learn more about the issues that we're dealing with. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point.
 the programs and perhaps they have some ideas and some information that there will be a compromise or a understanding of some sort when we move forward. If I'm hearing this correctly, the biggest problem here is
 A lot of people or several people in the community feel like that they did not get their input. And they do believe that they have a point of view that includes information that was not discussed earlier, that might be important to take to CDAP. So the way I look at it, I think it's okay to send it to CDAP. There may be some changes, there may not be changes. But the main thing that we have to do is be diplomatic
 in the process and respect all sides of the point of view. So I don't know an appropriate time to do this, but I would like to make a motion to send it back to CDAP. This is a way that we show good faith for transparency and good faith for our community individuals that
 have a different point of view so there you go it's good points yes I would second that okay so we have a motion to second to send it back to committee I have a couple of questions sure sure can we do that um so Melissa could you come back up real quick please
 Thank you. Were you able to get something in writing from Mr. Cook saying that there was not a time crunch that he could extend it? Because, you know, that's really important that we don't lose those funds. I just don't want to lose the funds here. Yeah. So this was a the information that I received. The short answer is I did email him after our conversation. I have not heard.
 you know, a response back in writing that I basically just reflected what we talked about. I feel like that if that was wrong, what I said to him, that he knew that there was a vote tonight, that he would have like immediately had my number, he had my email, that he would have been, but essentially the, and this information is also
 verifiable on, there's a, as you all know, I've been through some things with HUD in the past couple years. So I have been working on my own credentials through a program called HUD Exchange, which is their internal certification and training portal. And inside of that portal, there's a specific training for CDBG-CD.
 And in that, the framework for what all is allowable is just spelled out in black and white. And I'm happy to send you all a link to that that shows where the flexibilities are. And one of the things that Mr. Cook is who I spoke to, and that's the gentleman from HUD who signed the letter,
 He reminded me that the way that HUD works is they want to support local control within federal guidelines. And so if at any time the wish of the council is in conflict with some timeline of the federal guidelines, then the proper procedure would be that HUD would just ask us to file an amendment and so it would not upset.
 any future funding, any current funding. So just a standard procedure. Okay. So the short answer is we're not in danger of losing funding. That's the information that I received and that's the information that's on HUD Exchange through their training portal.
 Thank you. I mean, I think that that is a really important piece of information, but I personally would like it in writing, you know, so that there was no, and I believe you, Melissa, just so there's no miscommunication or whatever, because that's a lot of money to potentially lose.
 don't know how we go about getting that in writing especially tonight but I definitely want to make sure we don't lose the funding but you could table it we couldn't it's the same thing I would probably be I know we have a motion on the floor I'll send it back to committee
 Well, that motion would almost have to include a motion to table if you're sending it back to the committee. So if we do send it back to committee, what's the time frame? I'm trying to look this up here of when they meet and that sort of thing. Yeah, Yolanda, do you have an answer on that? Well, they meet the third Wednesday of the month. The only thing that I would have to research is,
 If it's going to totally change, then we're starting anew. And that would require another 30 day comment period and a public meeting and then to resubmit
 to HUD for approval. And there is, I'm not contradicting, but I can also get this in writing. There is an end date to this. There has to be 80% of the total funding spent by the end of the year. And then we have until January 23rd to spend the balance. So just be aware of that.
 And I can provide that in writing and I will also get with HUD because I did visit with them today and I did not have any of this information was not presented to me. So I will visit with them so we can get something in writing as far as what...
 what can be done. Because it sounds like there would be a total modification to the reallocation that has been approved. So that, in essence, is a new reallocation with the requirement of the 30-day comment period, the public meeting, and then submission for approval.
 Okay. So, Mark, when you were making your motion, did you make it time specific? Well, I wanted to go back to the committee. I don't think that there's a big difference if it goes back to the committee and we expect a report in two weeks. That way there will be some action. Whereas if we just table it, it's just sitting on the table.
 Well, I mean, I'm fine with the motion that you made. I mean, but... And they can call a special meeting if they want. Right. We got a resolution, though, and it's going to have to be... If it was tabled to the next city council meeting, but referred to committee...
 and ask for that committee to have some response by the next meeting and have contact with HUD to make sure that we're not having any problems here and we'll be able to comply with any deadline and not lose the money. I think we ought to have answers to all of those within two weeks. Surely. I do too. Kip, do you have a way to put that together kind of quickly? I mean, you had a list of what...
 was important together. So I would like to modify my amendment to include all of what you just mentioned. Okay, it would be basically, it'd be a motion to table to the next city council meeting with a referral to the committee
 for their report on whatever they would like to do to analyze this and also with response from Yolanda about what is the HUD issue here and whether or not we have any deadline problems and how much
 we would actually have to do if a committee was making a recommendation and the administration was making a recommendation to change this, would we need to go back all the way to the start or not? So I think the record is right here that what we just said. So we don't have to, I think, commit it to any more writing than that, a motion to table with a referral to the committee. Okay. I will withdraw my previous amendment and
 Who seconded it? I'm not sure. I did. And then I will offer the amendment that you just mentioned for consideration. Second. I guess I need to pull my other second. Do we need to redo this? You're good. You're going to second that one anyway. Right? So we're good. But you've got to care. All right. Any other discussion on it? So it's my understanding when something goes back to one of these –
 you know, volunteer committees, they make suggestions of how we should do the funding, what we should do with it. But you make the final determination. We make the final decision, so there's the possibility that we don't accept what is presented if they go back and redo it. That's true. So that's always possible too. So yeah, I'm fine with this. Okay. Everybody good? All right. Everybody please call the roll.
 Kenyon yes, we'd occur yes Yes Turk yes, Hertzberg. Yes Harvey yes Jones. Yes Two weeks it is in all right Let's go to unfinished business number one a resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe and
 an unsafe structure on property owned by rosemary austin located at 2141 north green acres road in the city of federal arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of 33 894 dollars
 Jonathan, do you have this? I do, Mayor. Given the update I'm about to share, I told Billy Bryant he didn't need to come to the meeting. Following agenda session, we were able to engage with the property owner's realtor who had apparently attempted to contact staff, but with some typographical errors in the email addresses, we did not receive their update. As council members scroggin, trying to combine your name there, I'm sorry.
 shared at the agenda session, he noted that the MLS software showed that the property had been sold. We were able to confirm that the deed was filed with the county on September 1st. As a result, staff is recommending that this item be tabled indefinitely. What that will do is it will afford us time to work with the new property owner who we've already reached out to but not had a chance to connect with.
 with and engage with them about whether they want to pursue repairs of the home, what would be needed to do that, or if they want to demolish the home. If those are not successful conversations,
 the tabling this item indefinitely will afford us the opportunity to re-notify, re-bid, and bring the item back before you if it is necessary. But as of today, we are recommending tabling indefinitely, and I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I do have comparative pictures, but given the change in theme, I didn't know how relevant that may be. Any questions, council? Everybody good? Well, then I guess we need a motion and second to table. Thank you.
 oh okay does anybody want to address this on this one you give one turn at the mic you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that who do you have lisa there's no one on zoom mayor okay is there someone wanting to speak on this item in the chamber
 Okay, mr. Mr. Mayor I would be thrilled to move that we table this item indefinitely second We have a motion to second the table in death. Look care. Would you please call the wrong? Kenyon yes Whitaker yes Scroggins. Yes, thanks. Yes, sir. Yes Pittsburgh yes RV. Yes Jones Yes, okay. Let's move along to new business see one
 is an ordinance to amend 157.02 development in chapter 157 notification in public hearings of the unified development code to require public notification of administrative items and variances considered by the planning commission kit
 whereas this amendment will make the unified development code requirements for public notification clearer to those who apply for development approval when seeking a variance or other development related approval submitted as an administrative item now therefore be ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section 1 that the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby repeal section 157.02b and an actual replacement section 157.02b as follows so section b
 Applicability. Development applications include, for the purpose of notification, preliminary plats, concurrent plats, large-scale developments, variances from development requirements as listed in Section 15603C and 15607A, and administrative items. If an application does not require a public hearing, notification is not required. And Section 2.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 15702C and enact Replacement 15702C as follows. Notice of public hearing. For all development applications related to specific properties, the applicant shall provide the following notice. Great.
 Thank you, Mayor, and good evening, Council. So this is an item Mr. Williams, I think, described really well, but I'll give you a little bit of background on it. So if you have a public hearing on a development application, then you have to give notice of that public hearing. So currently our policy and our requirements are that a sign must be posted on the property 15 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting, and letters must be sent to property owners and residents within 200 feet of the subject.
 property. That's the standard for our applications. What staff has noticed is that we have a policy to require that notification for two application types that are not currently described in our code. Our recommendation that we're coming to you with is to have those included. The two items are development variances.
 That's different than a zoning variance. Zoning variances go to the Board of Adjustment. But a development variance might be a variance request for design standards, offsite site improvements, buffering and screening requirements, parking, tree protection, streamside protection, and also for bicycle racks and outdoor lighting. The other type that we would like to codify is the administrative item.
 That's a little bit of a catch-all. An administrative item could be a major modification to a previously approved development, a lesser dedication of right-of-way, a project extension request, or an appeal of a staff determination. When those items have a specific property location, we would like to capture in our code the requirement for a sign to be posted on the property 15 days prior and for letters to be mailed to property owners and residents within 200 feet of that property.
 And so what this would kind of do is again codify an existing policy that we have, make it clear. We have seen certainly an uptick in the number of development applications we're reviewing and we find that that clarity in the code would be helpful and kind of prudent at this point.
 We did take this to the Planning Commission. This was first seen back in May, on May 19th at the Long Range Committee and then they reviewed it in the regular meeting on August 8th and made a recommendation 8-0 in favor of this and then staff is also making that recommendation. So we did have a couple of questions in agenda session. And so just as a reminder, we do have notification requirements for other application types.
 So, annexations, rezonings, conditional use permits, and then also vacations and easements. The rezoning notification did come up when an appeal of a rezoning is made for a decision by the Planning Commission. That appeal of the rezoning also does require notification currently according to our code. That concludes my presentation. I'm happy to take questions from the Council. What questions do we have for Britton?
 I have a quick question one item I didn't hear short-term rental and that's only just dealing with With Planning Commission because I were just I got a letter I got my first letter And it was really nice was very clear as one page. They just filled in the blanks But that currently is only for CUP and with Planning Commission, right and they get those
 I didn't hear that in the list. That's correct. It's a really good question. Conditional use permits are in a slightly different section of the code. What we're proposing a change to is 157.02 and conditional use permit notifications live in 157.05. There was a requirement there. Since those do get a public hearing for the conditional use permit, there's a requirement that that notification be provided. Then it lives separately though. There's a series of notification requirements.
 And so we're really kind of laser focused on development, but there's several that belong kind of as a set. Yes, ma'am. Great. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber first.
 We'll speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Lisa? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Okay. I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Mayor, thinking through this, I...
 You know, I know that the staff has looked at this and there's not going to be any surprises as we move forward that it's going to work perfectly. But I really haven't, I personally have not had time to evaluate that. I'm willing to take the administrative advice because I feel like I didn't take the time. But if we could leave this on the first or second reading, I would appreciate it. Okay. Thank you.
 You know, I don't want any unintended consequences, let me put it that way. And I'm sure there won't be, but I would like to take the time to think through that. Okay.
 So, I appreciate the staff trying to match up and clean up the code here. One of the issues that I hear quite a bit about, and I don't know if there's an opportunity to make an amendment to this, especially since Councilmember Kenyon wants a little bit more time to review this, but what I hear from residents is that
 when there is, after the Planning Commission, the sign is taken down. And so residents think, well, it's over, it was denied, when in fact, most of the time it's approved and it ends up coming to the City Council. So I don't know if there's an opportunity to amend this to where the sign, the notification would be left until it's resolved with the City Council. And that way we better inform the public.
 ever since i've gotten on the city council that's been one of the top uh requests or complaints however you want to view it so i'd like to put that out there and see if that can be part of the discussion or maybe possibly part of the ordinance while we're addressing public notification i don't have any issue with that i would i would definitely support that council member you know it
 God love us, who doesn't like to talk about zoning code and signage? I suspect we might confuse neighbors unless it's a new sign that says, here's the date it comes before council. They'll still look at the old sign and say, well, gee, no one told me that I should show up at council chambers for the council meeting. I just thought they forgot to take the sign down. So if we're going to do that, we should probably –
 ask Jonathan about a need for clarification. How's that?
 Thank you, Councilmember Turk, for bringing this up, the opportunity to expand the amendment. I appreciate Councilmember Whitaker, the opportunity to comment. We certainly took your comments to heart from agenda session, Councilmember Turk, and Britt and I looked at the ordinance as it was being proposed tonight and how it could possibly be expanded, and there were a lot of concerns with doing anything in a hurried manner, which I'm not suggesting that you are suggesting, such as...
 Who would do the notification? Who would make the sign? Would it be a new sign? Do we charge a fee for a new sign because signs often disappear and they cost a fair amount of money? Could we do it by stickers? There's a lot of things to be considered with it. I think we can try to take the opportunity between now and the next meeting to see if there is an easy fix. But as it was, as I left it with Ms. Bostic this morning, she had proposed bringing it
 the planning commission's long range group at the end of this month, they meet at their second agenda session every month and vetting something through them. It might take a little bit longer, but I suspect we may get something more fully baked than if we tried to do it in the interim two weeks. So we will work to have something and bring it back to you all for the second meeting in September, but it may be that a more comprehensive solution to this may take a little bit longer.
 um thank you all for discussing it and and if it takes longer that that's fine i just want to make sure it doesn't fall off of our um you know topic that we that we actually come to uh just we have a further discussion about this and how we can uh better inform the neighbors that there are items coming before the city council so um thank you jonathan i don't think we'll lose theresa i don't think you'll let us lose that we will it'll stay on though it'll stay
 Okay, so if I'm understanding what y'all want to do, you want to table this, leave it on the first reading, what do you want to do? Yeah, I think we hold it, and unless you guys want to take it to the second reading in good faith or just leave it. Well, if we leave it on the first meeting, I mean the first reading, just in case we go on, because there's going to be some amendments after this discussion. I mean, we can do, that gives us a little bit of a buffer. Okay.
 Okay, well let's just leave it on the first reading then, all right? I did take some public comment on that one, didn't I? Lost in the conversation. Okay, we'll leave that one where it is. Let's go to number two, an ordinance to amend 97.070 recreational activities at Lakes, Federal, Sequoia, and Wilson to remove required fees at Lake Sequoia. Kitt.
 Whereas section 97.070 of the City Code currently requires a payment of fees for fishing and boating at Lake Fayetteville and Lake Sequalia, which have historically been collected by the marina operator. And whereas earlier this year, the marina operator for Lake Sequalia retired, prompting an evaluation of how the lakes are managed by the city and used by the public.
 And whereas amending Chapter 97 to eliminate fishing and boating permit requirements at Lake Sequoia provides opportunities with the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission through the Family and Community Fishing Program and will remove financial barriers, making fishing more available to our entire community. And whereas the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board unanimously recommended approval of these amendments.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 97.070, Recreational Activities at Lakes Fayetteville, Sequalia, and Wilson, and enacts a new Section 97.070 as shown in Exhibit A attached to this ordinance. Okay. All right, Allison, what do you have? Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Good evening.
 A lot of the language that Kit just included describes what we're doing, but I did want to offer some information.
 We currently manage three lakes, Lake Sequoia, Lake Fayetteville and Lake Wilson. Fees for boating and fishing are required at both Lake Fayetteville and Lake Sequoia currently who have historically had a contractor to operate the marina. Lake Wilson does not require fishing or boating fees and has no contractor on premises to manage the lake.
 We currently have several categories of permits available. Those are, they cover both daily and annual fishing permits. And they are categorized by age, offering a reduced fee for those 65 and older and veterans ages 16 and under are free. We currently have been collecting around $16,000 in revenue at Lake Sequoia per year from permit fees.
 As Kit explained earlier this year, the Lake Sequoia contractor retired and that gave us an opportunity to evaluate how we're operating the lake there. Staff saw an opportunity to remove even just that one small financial barrier to open it up for more folks to fish and boat at the lake. And again, that does provide us potential opportunities to partner with Arkansas Game and Fish on their community fishing program.
 We did review this at the August 1st Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and they recommended in favor of the changes unanimously at that meeting and I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Alice on this one?
 Allison, great interview this morning with KUAF. So it's nice to be able to hear it several times. So I'm guessing that because you no longer have a marina operator there, that the $16,000, you don't really, that's not going to impact budget, right? Because before, was the city of Fayetteville paying for the contractor? We were. Okay. So it's revenue neutral, I guess. Right.
 since the operator is no longer there and you don't need that revenue to support him. Right, yeah, actually the marina contract was more than the fees that are collected. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those in the chamber Will speak after that Lisa, who do you have on zoom? No one wants to comment mayor. Okay Is there anybody in the chamber like to comment on this? Okay. Well, I'm gonna bring it back to the council This is an ordinance or discussion with the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Oh
 We suspend the rules isn't an ordinance this we move suspend the rules and go to the second reading Second we have a motion second to go to the second read care of which please call them wrong Kenyon. Yes Yes Scroggins yes Yes, yes, yes Hertzberg yes, Harvey. Yes Jones Yes
 And, in Orniston MEN, Section 97.070, Recreational Activities at Lakes Fayetteville, Sequoia, and Wilson, to remove the required fees at Lake Sequoia.
 I did have one quick question that I that we that came up Ellison that you mentioned and I wanted to make sure and have it documented here the City Council meeting Regarding the advantage with Arkansas Game and Fish Commission Kind of relationship how removing our fees kind of brings them in. Can you go into that just a tiny bit? Sure in talking with them. I
 lakes that require it's harder for them to partner on lakes that require a fee and so the the state fishing license is still required but they have a community fishing program that where they will come in and either help activate via fishing derbies or potentially stock the lakes through their programming if you're not charging a fee and
 That's awesome. So basically it's up to the Game and Fish if they're out looking, they'll ask you for your license. But that's really the only kind of fee that potentially someone can look out to pay at this point. Correct. Okay. Thank you. With that, I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Opinion? Opinion.
 Yes. Lineker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. In Ornish Amendment Section 97.070, Recreational Activities at Lakes Fayetteville, Sequoia, and Wilson to remove required fees at Lake Sequoia. Any final comments from the council? All right. Caravage, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 22-030 located at 21...
 78 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 for approximately 6.01 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, and RO, residential office to CS community services. John. Oh, sorry, Kip. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre and RO residential office to CS community services. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in Southeast Fayetteville, well within board one. It's on the north side of Huntsville Road, about equal distance between Crossover and the east and Happy Hollow to the west.
 It includes just over six acres of largely cleared land. Some of the notable characteristics on the site are the stone house and garage in the southwest corner of it, a canopy that's largely around that house and the remaining fence lines of the property, and a farm pond that appears to have shown up in our aerial imagery sometime between the 1980s and the 1990s.
 The request before council tonight is to rezone the two parcels that constitute the property. One of these parcels, which you can see here in pink, is currently zoned to RO Residential Office. The applicant is requesting to rezone that to CS Community Services.
 The balance of the property, which is just over 5 acres, is currently zoned to RSF4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre. Similar to the RO piece, the applicant is requesting to rezone that to CS community services as well.
 In reviewing the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, planning staff did find it to be compatible. While the staff felt less definitive about the areas north of this site, which are either undeveloped or zoned for very low density residential development, we feel that the request aligns very much with the surrounding properties to the east, west, and south, and the property's location on Huntsville Road, which is a major transportation corridor.
 staff certainly felt more definitive in its recommendation when looking at the city's long-range plans we felt that it was highly complimentary of those plans starting first with the future land use map it designates the property as a city neighborhood area that's considered or anticipated to be one of our more intensely developed lands in the city preferably in a mixed-use pattern that can accommodate a compact complete and connected neighborhood
 Planning staff feels that the CS Community Services Zoning District complements this highly by allowing the whole spectrum of residential uses from single family up through multifamily and also allowing restaurants and retail and offices as well. Similarly, this property's location falls within what we call a Tier 2 center in the City Plan 2040's growth concept map. Those are areas where we anticipate the most intense nodal development in the city.
 That's the specific tier 2 center is centered on crossover and Huntsville just to the east and
 When looking at the request through the lens of City Plan 2040 goals, staff found it to be in an agreement as well. Not only is the property within what we consider the mayor's box of arterial roads that run around the city, it also has access to existing services and infrastructure, whether it's water, sewer, or fast fire response times from the Happy Hollow station, or access to Happy Hollow Elementary to the north.
 We felt that this is, again, very complimentary of our city plan 2040 goals and the infill rating for the site we feel reflects that.
 As far as other issues to bring to your attention, I'm attempting to do a better job of this to put this forward. It is in the report, but I realize that can be several pages in. One distinction between these two zoning districts is the canopy requirements, which are driven by our zoning districts. This request would take the property from a mix of 25% to 20%, depending if you're talking about RSF4 or RO respectively, to see us as 20% standard.
 Also, there is a portion of the site that is identified as having some hydric soils on the land that largely follows that farm pond I described earlier and the drainage ditch that follows along it running north to south.
 For what it is worth, the subdivision that was recently platted to the east has similar hadric soils on it. And during the review and development review process of that, there was not any delineated wetlands identified as a part of that. Doesn't mean there aren't any on this property, but it is suggestive that that may not be the case. Either way, the delineation would be required with any development of the property.
 All that said, planning staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly comfortable with it. There was very limited conversation at the commission meeting itself before they forwarded it to the City Council, unanimously recommending it be approved by a vote of 8-0.
 To date, we've received one piece of public comment. That was before the Planning Commission meeting. A neighbor had called with inquiries about it, but no real statement of opposition or support. And we've not received any public comment since then. Otherwise, I'm available for any questions the Council has. And I believe Chris Jones is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would you like to speak before the Council?
 Yes, sir. Hi, I'm Chris Jones. I'm representing the property as a developer. Thank you Jonathan City Council and Mayor Jordan So I'm just here for any questions you might have. Okay, what questions do we have in the council on this? Sonia y'all had any any comments or I haven't seen anything come through. I don't know has anybody else Councilman, I haven't seen or heard anything. Okay. Thank you DeAndre. I
 All right. All right. So we have no questions. Let's take some public comment. Now, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Lisa, do you have anyone on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this one?
 Good evening. Thanks for having us here this evening. Robert Stafford, Ward 1, 527 South Sherman. This property is about four blocks from our house. And I'd just like to say that we strongly support this. I think it's a great use. And I see no reason not to approve this. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Who else would like to address us on this one? Okay. Okay.
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, some rezoning. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I have a question for staff. Now if I'm looking at this, there is one house on there right now. Is that correct? OK. That's correct.
 That house is kind of a unique style to the Ozarks. It's a giraffe house. I know, you know, when I was growing up, you used to see them all the time with the rocks kind of laid out in an unusual pattern there. And so that's kind of, that's the only thing I hate to see go. But, you know, that's, I'm not really...
 going to die on that hill either. So, you know, I know this property, I had one complaint about not in favor of the rezoning. And it made me think about, you know, it was like, well, this is housing here and these are little homes and we don't want any apartments and we don't want this and we don't want that. And I got to thinking about
 This property, and maybe Mark and the mayor can remember this, it used to be on this property, I think this is where Moonbeath used to be. Oh yeah. Yeah. So it used to be a slaughterhouse there, I think. Right there, not where this house is, but just down from it as part of this property. So this is kind of an unusual part of town here. It's gone through a lot of changes and it will probably go through a lot more changes
 But I will be in favor of this, I think. Thank you. Thank you. So, I do have a question. I know that it's sort of on a hill. Is that right? Like it kind of is a little bit of a rise, but it's fairly flat, I feel like, on that. Can you speak to the topography a tiny bit, Jonathan?
 Certainly, the property does slope slightly from the southeast to the northwest. I believe it's anywhere between a 2% to 5% grade from when I looked at it. The farm pond that I referenced looks like it's capturing drainage that's flowing
 east from Mount Sequoia and going towards Huntsville Road. And if you happen to drive by, you may have seen that subdivision that's just been finished there. That's why they located their detention pond near the street. But it is a generally flat site, certainly for Fayetteville. Okay, thanks.
 And then the hydric soils, you said, will be reviewed once they, if they present a plan, that's the only way the hydric soil kind of evaluation would happen? Correct. It's a standard comment when developments are submitted in Fayetteville on properties that have hydric soils that a professional determination audit needs to be provided to our engineering staff of whether the hydric soils are actually indicative of wetlands or if they're just hydric soils.
 And from there, there can periodically be a determination of jurisdictional waters, which is a fancy Corps of Engineers way of saying whether there are legitimate wetlands there on the property. I think the most recent example you all may recall discussing that was on the Chandler Crossing rezoning on the northeast side of town. There were areas of hydric soils there, and it did turn out that there were some wetlands on that property that were identified. Thank you. I don't have anything else.
 unless someone else has a question i've maybe spend the roles and go to the second reading second we have a motion to second to go to the second rate care which please call the rock canyon yes yes scroggins yes yes turk yes erksberg yes harvey yes jones yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-030, located at 2178 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1, for approximately six acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, and RO residential office to CS community services. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Anyin. Anyin.
 Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 and an ordinance to rezone that property is cried and reasonably petition rzn 22-030 located at 2178 east huntsville road in ward 1 for approximately six acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and ro residential office to cs community services what final comments do we have in the council care would you please call the role
 Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 Number four, an ordinance to approve vacation 22-01A for property located in West Sligo Street and South Razorback Road Ward 1 to vacate a portion of street right of way.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a street right-of-way is not required for transportation purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 Any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner's developer's expense, and a utility easement shall be granted to AEP Swepco at the time of development.
 Thank you, Mayor. As I noted at agenda session, the applicant was sharing with me during agenda session that they had concerns about their ability to attend the meeting tonight, that the project lead is not able to attend, so they've asked that the item be tabled to the October 4th meeting. If the council is amenable to that, I'll refrain from giving it my full presentation tonight and hold that off for October.
 alternative representative from the applicants team is available if council's questions or concerns about tabling I'm available for questions thank you I'd be fine with that sounds good okay so how long are we going to table until October the 4th that is applicants request Mary yes okay is there anybody here that has any public comment on this just check all right
 I'm so we need a motion second table to October the fourth correct I move we table to October 4 say good all right we've got a table to October the fourth motion is sick care which please call the rough opinion yes we differ yes Scroggins yes yes yes yes yes Harvey yes Jones yes
 okay thank you all number five an ordinance to amend 31.30 office of city clerk treasurer duties to expand clarify city clerks custodial and destruction of city records duties kit
 Whereas ACA 14-43-506, Duties of Circuit Clerk, Subsection A provides that city clerk, quote, shall have custody of all the laws and ordinances of the city. And whereas the Fayetteville City Clerk Treasurer is the proper elected official to also have official custody of all ordinances, resolutions, contracts approved by ordinances, resolutions, or through the agenda and non-agenda process.
 minutes and agendas of City Council meetings, all documents within the City Council agenda packets, statements of financial interests of City officials, records of the police and fire pension boards, and internal documents or records of the City Clerk Treasurer's Office. And whereas the City Clerk has historically conducted destruction of documents pursuant to the retention schedule for the City of Fayetteville and state laws when approved by the City Council for destruction.
 now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 31.30 subsection C duties of the Fayetteville code by enacting new subsection c3 and c3 for as follows subsection 3 subsection c3 the city clerk treasurer shall be and is the official custodian of all of the following city documents
 A. Laws and ordinances of the City, including the City of Fayetteville Code of Ordinances. Subsection B. Resolutions of the City Council. Subsection C. Contracts approved by the City Council resolution. Ordinances are through the agenda and non-agenda approval process. Subsection D. Documents within the City Council agenda packets.
 Subsection E, minutes and agendas of the City Council meetings. Subsection F, statements of financial interest for City officials. Subsection G, records of the police and fire pension boards. And Subsection H, all internal documents or records of the City Clerk Treasurer's office.
 In subsection 4, the city clerk-treasurer is empowered and authorized to oversee the destruction of city records pursuant to state law, particularly ACA section 1459.114 and any amendments thereto when authorized by the city council resolution. Good evening, Mayor Jordan, council members, and city attorney Kit Williams.
 This ordinance has been created to expand the current section of Code to Match State Statute regarding my office's custodial and destruction of city records duties. As you know, my office has been tasked with the document destruction process for most city records. However, our responsibility per state statute is to be the official custodian of the records listed in the proposed amendment before you.
 I would like to take a moment to recognize the work and research completed by our city attorney, Kit Williams, on this ordinance. I would also like to recognize my two team members here, right here in the front. Christine Ray, our document manager, and Gina Mathis, our document system specialist, for the work that they do daily to get ready for the document destruction process. So as you know, we usually do this process once a year.
 depending on how many records that we have and as i mentioned last time i want to thank council member turk and council member scroggen for always assisting our office during the document destruction days i'm sure you can ask them and they can attest to how many boxes we actually have in that storage building as well as our downstairs area so i want to say the feedback that we actually had received from council member scroggin
 during this last document destruction day provided our office additional information to clarify the parameters of the research that we have been doing regarding this topic. And it allowed us to look at all of our processes when it comes to generating reports, being able to provide that information when it's being asked of us.
 Instead of having to go down to a building and write down all of the information or go count records, instead we're looking at pulling the information from a database.
 So to go on further with this information, this whole process and the research that went into this was solely to figure out how can we take care of the city and provide the information that is being requested of us. Also, how do we look at...
 what documents have to be destroyed in the presence of a council member or not in the presence of a council member. Now, as I mentioned last time, that does not mean that we will just destroy records at any time. A resolution still has to come forward to City Council for you to vote on before any records can be destroyed.
 So, just to go on and let you know, based on the interactions that we've had with you, with the city staff and the citizens of Fayetteville, we've worked with the city's IT department to create a filing form that will be housed in our database management system, Laserfish. The new process we're creating will assist the office in identifying what records need to have the presence of the council member while being destroyed and which ones did not.
 Again, please keep in mind that we will still bring that resolution before you, before those documents can be destroyed. The filing form that we have created with the IT department will allow us to pull a report at any time in order to determine if it's time to bring a resolution forward for you to approve for that document destruction process.
 This form and process has been created at no additional cost to the city or the citizens of Fayetteville since we're already using the software that we have access to. Again, Christine and Gina are here if you have any additional questions or I can help answer any questions that you may have regarding the ordinance amendment. Okay. Do we have any questions for Carol? Yes.
 Mr. Mayor, I'd like to add that of course it's not only your resolution. We always follow state law on what documents can and cannot be destroyed. Some documents we keep forever because they're so wonderful.
 But some of them we are able to copy and keep them in that form. And actually that's probably much more searchable and much more easy to find. And so that's a good form for them to be in. And I want to thank Kara for working on that and helping make this reality. And the other reason for this code section change is to make sure you all realize how many things the city clerk treasurer's office does. What is it, all the custodial requirements that they have.
 It helps me as a city attorney if I'm in litigation and I need to present a contract or minutes or something like that into court because now she's clearly the custodial, the legal custodian, and so she can certify those records and they're then admissible in court. So this also helps my office in making sure that I'll have the kind of administrative support that I need if I have litigation requirements.
 Okay. Alright, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Do we have anybody participating by Zoom? No comments from Zoom, Mayor.
 Anybody in the chamber like to address us on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading of what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I'm kind of surprised we didn't have a long line to talk about document shredding. Yeah, I tell you. You'd think people would be wanting to shred that over the garden or something.
 If we've got no questions, I'll move to suspend rules and go to second reading. All right. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 And your order to amend section 31.30, Office of the City Clerk Treasurer, subsection C, Duties, to expand and clarify the City Clerk's custodial and destruction of City records duties. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Kenyon. Kenyon.
 Yes, we'd occur. Yes, Scroggins. Yes, and yes Her yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones. Yes and orange man section 31 point 3 0 office of the city clerk treasurer subsection C duties to expand and clarify the city clerk's custodial and destruction of city records duties and
 A final comment Mr. Mayor, if I may. I would like to thank council members Turk and Scroggin for witnessing the shredding of these records and to let you know as a staff member years ago I drew the short straw and I had to accompany shredded records to witness them being buried in the landfill and in unmarked graves so they could never be found again. So thank you both.
 I'd like to thank Kara and her team for always trying to make the office much more efficient and just professional and so thank you very much and consistent with state law. Okay, all right, any other final comments? Okay, Kara would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Do you all need a break or? Sure, yes. Okay. Let's take about 10 minutes, and then we'll take a short break. Okay. All right. Let's go ahead and get started.
 The next item is C6, a resolution to allow the installation of an historical marker in the honor of Nelson Hackett in the city flowerbed in front of the Bank of Federal. DeAndre, you have this one. Yes, Mayor Jordan, I do. And I believe that we have...
 JL Jennings, who is chair of the Black Preservation Commission and staff member Britton Bostic as well. Okay. So how long are we looking at for the presentations, DeAndre, or how do you want to do this? Mayor Jordan, thank you so much for asking. I believe that Dr. Banton and Dr. Pierce cannot be here tonight.
 They spoke at the previous agenda session. So I don't believe that there will be presentations on their end. Yeah. JL, are you the spokesman? No.
 Yes, Mayor Jordan, JL will be speaking on behalf of the commission tonight. And I'm not certain if any other commission members will chime in during the public comment session. But JL is here to speak and answer any questions from the council members. So 10 minutes or...
 No, I'll be much more brief than that. Okay. We might have lots of questions. We'll not let you sit down. Again, Mr. Mayor, good evening. City Council, thank you for your time. My name is J.L. Jennings, and I'm the chairperson of the Black Historic Preservation Commission. And I would like to speak in support of creating a historic marker honoring Mr. Nelson Hackett.
 When our commission met for the first time, we discussed the purpose of the commission, which is to research and investigate sites of important struggles and achievements of our Black residents and their supporters to promote diversity and equality and to oppose discrimination in Fayetteville. As a commission, we decided that Mr. Hackett's story encompassed this spirit.
 we invited Dr. Michael Pierce to come and give a historical presentation to the Commission regarding Mr. Hackett. And I realize that Dr. Pierce and Dr. Banton made presentations to most of you all here today, so I won't repeat that here. After hearing from Dr. Pierce, though, we affirmed, we were affirmed in our decision to move forward with planning for the marker.
 Nelson Hackett's story is one of freedom, perseverance, pain, and inspiration. Faced with unimaginable consequences, Mr. Hackett embarked on his journey to freedom only to achieve it and then lose it.
 In doing so, though, Mr. Hackett changed the course of history for enslaved persons fleeing bondage in search of the very freedom that we all in this room enjoy today. We believe that the first marker that this commission creates should embody the culture of Fayetteville. Creating this marker and telling this story will add to the inclusive culture of this town that we love.
 We spent months trying to find a location for the marker. We considered locating the marker on the trail system. We considered attaching it to an existing building. But ultimately, we decided the best location would be in the flower bed in front of the Bank of Fayetteville on the square.
 Given the historical significance of the location with the proximity to the Wallace family business and the high visibility, the Commission unanimously voted to place the marker in this location. We also were very intentional in choosing the style and the material for the marker. The Commission agreed that the marker should command some presence and be durable.
 The design is a more traditional style historic marker than most of us have seen around today. And the cost of the marker is very reasonable as well. So I ask that you approve this request because you charged our commission to research and investigate ways to tell Fayetteville's untold history.
 to give a voice to marginalized citizens who sometimes feel that their voices go unheard. We answered that call and that charge. Now we just simply need your vote. I implore you to support this resolution and even more so, I implore you to support the commission that you created. Thank you. What questions do we have for Mr. Chabons?
 I don't know if this is for Mr. Jennings or do we have a picture of the style of the marker? Because now I'm intrigued about what this marker looks like because it's supposed to look different than some others. So it's an 18 by 22 foot bronze marker so for the scale of it.
 We're looking about this size of marker. So is it gonna be like one of those metal plaids? Yes. Yes It'll be it'll be bronze and then it'll be It'll be posted on a metal pole. Stick out a little bit or something. Yes Raised edges sir. Whatever that yeah letters raised edges. That's what I meant by letters that stick out Okay, that sounds nice Questions or anything Thank you, thank you
 I'm going to go ahead and close the meeting. Thank you. Is there anything else you want to add or because I'm fixed open up for public comment. Thank you so much. And to my fellow city council members, thank you for empowering this group to do the work that they do. The very important work that they do and tell the story of not just Nelson Hackett, but
 how racism has impacted this community, but how the community is continuing to thrive and to be resilient in spite of. So thank you so much for that. This commission was founded back in August of 20th, I'm sorry, back in August of 2021, more than one year ago. And this commission has been going strong ever since and very committed to doing the work that you have empowered them to do.
 All right. Thank you, DeAndre. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Now, this is the topic is the plaque.
 The next one is the street renaming. Okay. So stay with comments on the plaque right now. So please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have to speak on the plaque? Lisa Mayer. Philip Thompson has his hand raised. Okay, go ahead. Philip, if you'll please unmute
 I HAVE ACTUALLY NO COMMENT ON THE PLAQUE EXCEPT THAT IT'S A GREAT IDEA. ALL FOR IT. MY COMMENTS WERE FOR THE NEXT MOTION, THE NEXT AGENDA ITEM. NEW SPEAKER Yes, WE'LL TAKE PUBLIC COMMENTS FOR THAT ONE TOO. SO YOU'LL GET A CHANCE TO SPEAK ON THAT ONE FOR SURE. NEW SPEAKER NO ONE ELSE HAS THEIR HAND RAISED, MAYOR. NEW SPEAKER DOES ANYBODY IN THE CHAMBER LIKE TO SPEAK ON THE PLAQUE?
 Robert Stafford, Ward 1, 527 South Sherman. Thank you for your time. I think the only thing I really want to say about the plaque is I think you're about to hear, hopefully not, but I would be expecting hearing arguments about the erasure of history. So I think that this plaque is awesome. I think it's a great idea. I think it shows that we are not erasing history. We are
 showing what we're changing the narrative and what we're showing the better part of our history we're showing the positive part of our history and I think this is awesome and I think it's a great location and totally support this and I think the Andre and the Nelson has it no yeah Nelson hatchet project for everything they've done thank you thank you Bob we also like to address okay
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. It takes a motion and a second.
 just comment right now I just want to thank councilmember Jones for bringing this forward at the committee for all of their work all of those involved I think it's a wonderful place to place the plaque I think a lot of people go to the historic gardens as the first place when they come to Fayetteville and so it'll get a lot of visibility so I hope potentially if it's not quite
 quite well lit, we might consider the future as a phase two to have it lit, possibly. We have a lighting project I know going on for the square, so maybe we can look at that as well. So I just want to thank you, and I want to say that really for me it's about expanding the story and telling untold stories and stories of people.
 that we have here in Fayetteville that maybe people haven't heard, and we have to acknowledge all of our history. And so it's important that we do that, and I think this is important for a lot of communities, not just the black community, but other communities of color, to know that this acknowledgement is in a beautiful placement and a very, very well...
 visited space and that says a lot for for those communities so I want to thank everyone who has worked on this and will support it and I would I would like to move that we approve the resolution okay okay we have motion second to pass the resolution is there any other final comments from the council
 I just want to echo what Councilmember Harvey had to say. I think this is very important that we get all of our history out there, the good, the bad, and this person, Nelson Hackett, he deserves a lot of credit for his perseverance.
 And it's unfortunate some of the things that he experienced, but he also changed history. And this is a very prominent location and well-deserved. So thank you, Councilmember Jones and the committee for bringing this forward and also for the U of A history professors that have been doing a lot of research on this. Thank you so much. I'd also like to.
 echo echo that because I did not know who Nelson Hackett was until this this came up and I went to I believe it's called the Nelson Hackett project, which is Really it involves teaching. I guess it's teaching tools how to educate students in the school system about this person and what I
 he unknowingly did and how he changed the course of history. And it's really fascinating. And if you go to their website, they've got a map that you can go through and you can track his progress and you can see how he was pulled back. And it's just out of spite basically. It's really a fascinating and sad story. But I think this is a great place to put this marker and I'm really in support of this. Thank you. John Cole Smith, Jr.: Final comments.
 Okay, Kerwood, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number seven, a resolution to rename Archibald Yale Boulevard to Nelson Hackett Boulevard. DeAndre?
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan, once again, and thank you all for your vote. I believe that JL is kind of, he did a really good job of giving an overview of the work as it relates to the marker, and the street is very similar. So, Mayor Jordan, if I may just share a few words to the council members concerning the importance of the street renaming. Sure. In August...
 In August of 2020, members of the Fayetteville City Council and many of you declared racism as a public health emergency here.
 and recognizing the severe impact of racism on the well-being of residents in the city overall. And you have committed to allocating funding, staff, and additional resources to actively engage in racial equity in order to name, reverse, and repair the harm done to African Americans in this city, including the following actions.
 The city will center the voices, work, and leadership of the communities most directly affected by said racism. And this was done August 17, 2021, when you established the Black Heritage Preservation Commission.
 The purpose of this commission, as JL has mentioned, is to recognize, acknowledge, protect, and preserve historical Black structures and cemeteries in honor of the vision, accomplishment, and perseverance of Fayetteville's early Black families and individuals and the churches and other structures they built.
 Another purpose of this commission is the creation of black historical markers to recognize the struggles and achievements of our black citizens to promote diversity and equality, equity for all Fayetteville residents, and to oppose discrimination against any Fayetteville resident. The commission may recommend to the city council what we are experiencing tonight, that a black historical marker
 memorializing such an important site to be created and installed at such a location. And as I mentioned just previously, that's what we have done tonight, and we're so thankful. But let's talk about the street renaming, if we will. Renaming Archibald Yale is an opportunity for healing and one step in embracing diversity and acknowledging parts of history that may have been forgotten.
 We all know that conversations on race can be sensitive. And at the past city council meeting, when Dr. Pierce and Dr. Benton, during the agenda session, rather, I became emotional. Being an African American and being made aware of the struggles that...
 my ancestors and Nelson Hackett faced, and unfortunately, many, many, many circumstances continue to experience. However, here in Fayetteville, Arkansas, we can pride ourselves on being the first. Mayor Jordan, your legacy, the very first city in the state of Arkansas and the only city in the state of Arkansas where you hung a Black Lives Matter banner
 That banner received a lot of, a lot of pushback and criticism, but it also spoke to Fayetteville's commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. African Americans, not just from Fayetteville, not just from Northwest Arkansas, and not the state, but all over, were very proud and surprised and proud with so much respect.
 for Fayetteville and that bold move. You continued to do that when you named racism as a public health crisis. Again, the only city in the state of Arkansas and Northwest Arkansas to do that. So tonight, we ask you to please, let's continue to lead the way. To say that we are committed to racial justice and failing to respect and honor the commission's wishes tonight
 speaks to the possibility that sometimes we're putting up smoke and mirrors concerning repairing old wounds, interrupting the cycle of racism, upholding justice. We have to be careful that we don't value practicality and convenience over doing justice in a more commemorative sense.
 There is absolutely no way that we can change the past. However, we can be intentional and acknowledge and embrace a new history in a bold and progressive way.
 This will definitely unite Fayetteville and echo even more loudly our unwavering commitment to lead the region, continue to lead the region and the state as it relates to racial healing for community members who continue to experience wounds, neglect, and marginalization.
 So Mayor Jordan, thank you so much. Your legacy to be known as bold and progressive, standing with the black community time after time, after time, after time, after time, when it wasn't popular. We appreciate that. From MLK Street to Juneteenth to racism is a public health crisis right up until now,
 You and the Fayetteville City Council have continued to show that you are serious, intentional, and deliberate about racial equity. So we ask tonight that you continue that. Thank you. Thank you, DeAndre. Now I guess it's time to take some public comment. All right. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration.
 don't engage anyone in the public or any council members please stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that so um let me ask jayle do you have anything you want to add and let's let's go ahead and do that okay
 If you have 10 minutes is... Probably even more brief than the previous one. Just I'm very succinct. Okay, well I won't...
 Thanks for an opportunity to speak again. To tell Mr. Hackett's complete story, we're requesting this name change to Nelson Hackett Boulevard from Archibald Yale Boulevard. So some might ask why rename the street after Mr. Hackett? And my response is the symbolism associated with it, what greater symbolism to acknowledge
 Mr. Hackett's journey by renaming the street in his honor to represent the journey that he took. Mr. Hackett's international impact on freedom, on the freedom of enslaved people is paramount. He changed the course of history. Renaming the street in Mr. Hackett's honor would symbolize the triumph of freedom over oppression and given the names current, given the streets names and
 excuse me, given the streets current namesake and the intertwined history between the two men, I think this would be an important step. But let me be clear, this is not, or nor has it ever been about council culture. Instead, this is an inclusive initiative.
 Every citizen has the right to feel like they belong and that they are included in this great city. And approving this renaming is a step to deepen those feelings for all of Fayetteville citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who do we have on Zoom? Mayor Lance Reed. Okay, Lance, go ahead. Can you hear me?
 Yes. Yes. Good evening, council members and mayor. I want to throw my support in advocating for the street renaming of Archibald Yale to Nelson
 As Councilmember Jones stated earlier, the City Council overwhelmingly passed in August of 2020 racism in the public health resolution and stated that they were centered the voices of the unjustly marginalized voices. Nelson Hackett was extradited back to Arkansas
 by Archibald Yale. And so it is only significant and only do justice if we're gonna put a marker and support a marker visibility there. Also, we have to also
 honor the complete legacy and rename the street of Archibald Yale. That is very significant and it is oppressive given the significance and the harm that he did to my ancestors as well as Nelson Hackett.
 We want to make sure that we have a, we are intentional about listening to marginalized voices and listen to the commission that you empowered to do that work. Any suggestion of any other type of name or any other pullback, that's kind of, it's kind of intuitive what you,
 empowered the commission to do so I please advocate for changing his name to Nelson Hackett thank you Thank You Lance who else would like to address mayor we have Philip Thompson okay go ahead Philip please unmute okay now yes my name is Philip Thompson I live in Ward 3
 Born and raised here, I'm a native boy. My family moved into this area more than a decade prior to our statehood in 1836. We've been here 200 years. I think that I also deserve to have a voice in this matter.
 I think without question, Nelson Hackett's experience is very compelling and that it would be entirely appropriate to name the fatal street after him. I'm totally in favor of the black on the square so that we raise awareness. And, you know, given our city's rapid expansion in recent years, there are any number of streets requiring names or name an existing street after him. But let's be honest here and lay our cards on the table. There's a lot more going on here than
 than the long overdue honoring of an enslaved African American, who by escaping to and later being extradited from British Canada and later forced back into slavery, raised many important questions about the abominable and indefensible institution of slavery. There's a political element here in Fable who wants to expunge from history all memory of Archibald Yelp because he was a slave owner, which is detestable, of course.
 They also want to expunge anything and everything else that offends them. Everyone in human history must be held accountable for our modern, impossibly perfect 21st century standards. My question is this. When does this nightmarish Orwellian cleansing of history end?
 Need I point out that Dixon Street is named for one of the city's leading slave-own family? So no more Dixon Street. Washington County and Madison County are named for two of the largest slaveholders in all of Virginia. Benton and Carroll County are likewise named for slave owners.
 Sometimes it reminds me of how Pol Pot, as Camille Rude now would declare year one in abolished history. Other times it reminds me of this wanton destruction, you know, by the Taliban in Afghanistan, the Buddhist temples, because it offended them.
 I think we can do better than that here in Northwest Arkansas. This has long been a center of learning, a tolerant marketplace of competing ideas, and a crossroads of cultures, not just North and South, but also American Indians and white settlers, as well as the English-speaking world and that of the French and Spanish. History should not be mindlessly exterminated, but instead studied, learned from,
 and interpret it with a better understanding of modern day audiences. This is a wonderful little funky unique college town we have here. There's nothing like it. I don't want to see it turned into another difficult, narrow-minded, intolerant, lockstep orthodox college town like Berkeley or Madison. I think we deserve better. That's it. Okay. Thank you.
 who's next there's no one else on zoom mayor what no one else okay who would like to address us in the chamber good evening my name is marilyn heffner and i'm president of the air green cemetery where archibald yale rests today tonight um i'd like to give you some facts regarding archibald yell since i came on the board of the evergreen cemetery i've been
 by the people that live there. And it's caused me to do a lot of research and I learned a lot about people in Fayetteville that I would never have the opportunity to know. But if they could all come out one night, it would be a great occasion. Archibald Yell is probably the singularly most famous founding father from Fayetteville. He grew up as a poor farmer in Tennessee.
 He gained notoriety through his military exploits in the War of 1812, in the Creek War, in the Battle of New Orleans, and in the First Seminole War. And he gained the attention of President Jackson, who gave him a position as the Territorial Circuit Judge in Arkansas Territory, which was in Fayetteville in 1835.
 Archibald Yale as the territorial judge gave opinions that decided very important cases. He was known to leave the bench And retrieve individuals who failed to show up for their trial in order to give them their day in court And he was also instrumental as a territorial judge in writing the first Arkansas Constitution He came and
 He was not one to succumb to the beliefs of some of the other people that were writing the Constitution. And he had a deep distrust of the American aristocracy. And he always endorsed equality.
 That stand for endorsing equality cost him. It cost him the ability to be the first governor of Arkansas because they wrote in a clause that you have to have a four-year residence in order to be a governor, and Archibald Yale had not been here four years. So he was an
 excellent, eloquent articulator of the government's duty to respond to the rights and needs of the lower socioeconomic class. And he was the advocate for the rights of the common man as well. And he also advocated public education. Because he could not be the first governor, he was elected the Arkansas first senator in 1836.
 And he brought home for Arkansas money for roads and for other improvements in the state and in the city of Fayetteville. He was known all over as how he rode in the saddle, and he still spoke in a way that folks could understand. He was elected the second governor in 1840, and he was so popular that the Whigs did not even put up a candidate to run against him. He represents the American ideal that any person can achieve greatness.
 After serving as governor, he decided that he'd run again for Congress, and he ran against his fellow law partner, David Walker. They traveled together to campaign. Archibald Yale was a very charismatic individual, and David Walker was rather reticent. When they would go on the campaign trail and they had ended up in the city that was having a turkey shoot, Archibald Yale would sign up for it, and normally with his um
 shooting expertise, he won. And he would give the prize, which is normally a side of beef, to the widow, the poorest widow with children in the city. He always looked out for the widows and the orphans. He gave very inspiring speeches. And when he got to a big tent revival with David Walker, Archibald Yale was the one up front leading the hymns.
 What made this man so charismatic? He was a larger-than-life character. He dueled, he fought, he was a magnetic politician. Women loved him, men admired him, and he defended his friends to the end. He outlived three wives. He had five children. He was a governor, he was a congressman. He had many duels and he had many fights. But when America called,
 for him to go and leave Congress. He came to Arkansas and recruited 1500 men to go to the Battle of Buena Vista in the Mexican War. He was killed by many lacerations in the Battle of Buena Vista in 1847. He was buried by his soldiers on the battlefield in Saltillo, Mexico. He was first buried in a tin box.
 on the battlefield. Time. Marilyn, time. Okay. Can I say one more thing? No. Time's up. You have five minutes unless the counsel gives you more time. I'd give her just one more minute. Oh, I don't even need a minute. Okay. Okay. Nelson Hackett was convicted by a Washington County grand jury and Archibald Yale performed his duty as governor when a piece of paper was set on his desk to extradite Nelson Hackett.
 Hackett back to Arkansas. I'm sure Mae Jordan remembers as I do many times that things came across our
 Desk as mayor that we signed that we weren't necessarily for but I hope that if you decide to rename Archibald Yale Boulevard actor Hackett that you will certainly that give some consideration to renaming another street after Yale as you did know Lynn Richardson and Leroy pond I hope that the judgment of the 21st century will not erase the many good things that Archibald Yale Represented in his importance to the city of Fayetteville in the state of Arkansas Thank you Who else like to dresses?
 Robert Stafford, Ward 1527, South Sherman. Thank you, DeAndre. Thank you, JL. Thank you for the folks at the Nelson Hackett Project. I'm going to cut to the chase because of what I just heard. Nelson Hackett, I mean, sorry, Archer Ballgeo, by today's standards, was a war criminal, period. In the Mexican-American War, his troops, under his command,
 were guilty of rape, pillaging, slaughter and murder of innocent women and children. He died in shame on the battlefield. The men under his command were named the Rackensackers. I don't think that needs any explanation. I think it's in the name. Other battalions wouldn't let his troops come into occupied cities because of their reputation.
 Google. If you haven't already, if you haven't done your due diligence in Google, go home and Google. You know, when DeAndre first told me about this idea and this plan, I encouraged him. I thought it was awesome. I thought it was great. I thought they picked a great person for this street to be named after. But I told him.
 I was in San Francisco in 1995 when they renamed Army Street to Cesar Chavez Street. And I've heard all the arguments, all the I'm not a racist but arguments. So I'm going to tell you what they are because you've probably gotten these in your emails. Why now? I agree with that one. Why now? Why not in 1952, the day after it was named after him? They should have changed it then. It should have never been named after him.
 Are you going to rename Washington Street next? No. This isn't about slaveholders. Yes, Washington and a lot of other founding fathers were slaveholders. Archibald Yell was well beyond that, for the reasons I already told you. Washington was a war hero. Archibald Yell was a war criminal.
 What about the businesses? What about all the businesses that are going to have to change their business card and their addresses with the post office? I drove up Archibald Yale today. I was expecting 20, 25 businesses or addresses. I counted 10. I counted 10 street-facing buildings whose address may have been on Archibald Yale.
 And then the argument that we need to remember all of history, the good, the bad. And we need a, yes, we do. We do need to remember and study all of history, the good and the bad. But we honor the good. We do not honor the bad. I can guarantee if you go to downtown Berlin, you're not going to find Adolph Avenue. It doesn't exist. And there's a reason for that. Thank you.
 We're supposed to honor the best of us, not the worst of us. I think the renaming of the street is very fitting. Archibald Yale was the one that got Nelson Hackett extradited back to Fayetteville. And the last thing that I think is very important, Archibald Yale Avenue is a red-lined street. It was built, it divided Fayetteville. It divided the whites from the blacks. It divided the rich from the poor.
 Now, as Archibald Yale is being reconfigured so it brings the city back together and brings us on the south side of Fayetteville back into the fold of the city, there's no more fitting time, there's no more fitting person. This is an easy choice. This is a softball. You're either on the right side or the wrong side. There is no middle ground on this. We are not erasing history. We are deciding the story that's the correct story to be told. Archibald Yale is still part of this story.
 but he doesn't get the honor anymore. The right side does. The last argument I like to hear is, don't you all have more important things to do?
 Like you guys can only do one thing. I've seen you do many tonight. I hope your better angels preside I hope you honor the good people of Fayetteville by doing the right thing To have that street name your afternoon is disgusting personally and and like I said his days done And we're not erasing them. He's still got his place in the cemetery. He's still got a big monument. He's still in our history books and
 It's just what narrative are we going to tell? What narrative do we want to be proud of? That's your choice. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening again, Mayor. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. It's hard to follow that one up. I'll say a few of the same things, but I'll try and skip some.
 From an urban design standpoint, I wish we would just remove the street, reconnect the city grid, and heal some of those divisions that were introduced when the street was put in.
 We're not going to do that, but at least we can fix some of the naming issues. It's been said tonight that this is an effort to expunge history, but we shouldn't whitewash history either. I've heard folks today in comments on news articles asking how will we ever learn about our history if we remodel it.
 rename the street. And I hope that nobody is learning about Archibald Yeltsin while they're driving up the street because if they're googling it while they're on the road, that's how rear-end accidents happen over there. People are going to learn about our state's second governor and his wartime atrocities without driving on the street with his name. We name our streets to memorialize people, events, places.
 and to celebrate them. Sometimes our values evolve and that's what's happening here.
 That can be embarrassing over time when we realize that some of the names we chose in the past don't really live up today. And so our celebratory names should be able to evolve along with our values, so that we don't find ourselves standing here in 2022 honoring forced servitude under the hand of Governor Archibald Yell, or the war crimes of Colonel Archibald Yell that Mr. Stafford just talked about.
 he's always going to have a legacy and it's going to be a mixed one. I suspect most of us are going to leave mixed legacies in our time, but at this point it's hard to ignore that his includes inescapable chattel slavery as part of our nation's history.
 I hope that we will remove his name from this prominent place and I hope we will continue to go further in removing the ways that we have honored this slavery around our city including the big streets with the Recognizable names and the small streets back in our neighborhoods like chattel Street in West Fayetteville where the residents have been asking to change that one for years It's not joking y'all. It's it's it's
 You take a left off of Chattel on the tradition and it takes you to Plantation, there's not a question what was going on there. Sometimes we name things after people to recognize their accomplishments. Archibald Yelch really had some of those, and we will still have the infrastructure and the legacy that he brought back from the legislature. Sometimes we name things after people to recognize what they've endured. And that's what we're doing tonight. We're recognizing what the state of Arkansas did to Nelson Hackett.
 This is barely justice and it's 180 years too late, but it represents our values today and it's the right thing to do. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I will bring it back to the council. What discussion would y'all like to have or what action would you like to take? This is a resolution. Mayor, I have been contacted by the merchants and the residents along...
 this street, and they felt like that they were left out of the discussion. And if there's one thing we're learning as we go along is that we could avoid a lot of disdain for the government if we include people early in the discussion. And I'm representing their feelings. I'm in no way...
 trying to impugn the reputation of our commission, because I do think the commission is important. I've supported it, and I think that they are very important to our city. But equally important are the voices of the merchants and the residents that live on Archibald, Yale. And from what I heard today, most of them found out about it just today or yesterday. Okay.
 And it's been a holiday weekend, so they really haven't been paying attention. So what they've asked me to do, and we can discuss it, is to please table this. I feel like I'm the tabling person tonight. But again, people want to have a voice. And we are a very engaged city. That's what we have a reputation for. We've heard it from other city council members this evening. I would like to...
 And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point.
 But, you know, these specific merchants hadn't got to tell their story. So, you know, what I heard today when I was talking to them is they do have an impact. And we have the same thing whenever we rename 6th Street. We always hear this argument that there is a cost associated with changing the name of a street. And we have...
 I worked through that by, I think on 6th Street, there was a time period where both addresses would work and they could still use either address.
 This is not out of disrespect for anything, not disrespect for the history that we are discussing this evening, not disrespect to the commission. There is an alternative way of looking at it, as Ms. Hefner pointed out, and she certainly has a point of view of a lot of the historians that are native to Fayetteville.
 I also have been contacted by people that wonder, is there a need for a more comprehensive approach to the issue of the the the
 I don't know. I'm not the one to decide that. But they felt like, again, they were left out of the discussion. Now, this is only a street, people say. Well, it is a street, and it is a street that, you know, is a little bit more of a neighborhood than it is a city.
 as a divider of Ward 1 and Ward 2 in some places. So, there's a lot to be considered. And what we have considered this evening is compelling, but there might be some other points of view that need to be heard. And they were not prepared for this, and so we're not hearing that voice.
 I would encourage the City Council to table this till the next meeting and between now and then hopefully a subcommittee could meet with the merchants and the residents on this and at least have an open dialogue. So I move that we table this until the next City Council meeting. Am I able to
 Thank you, Council Member Kenyon. Mayor Jordan, I believe Britton is here, and if she would, because when the conversation first took place, those factors were taken into consideration. And so I believe that she can give us, provide us with the number of those issues.
 businesses and individuals who were impacted. This, in this weekend's paper, there was a business owner who spoke out in favor of it. So, just as you've had people have concerns, I've had people speak in favor. So, you're absolutely right, there is a, we,
 I certainly believe that we, anytime that we do anything in Fayetteville, there should be, we should consider many perspectives. But if my memory serves me correctly, about three weeks ago, the Fayetteville Flyer put out, they did a really nice elaborate story. And so this isn't anything new. Now I do apologize that they weren't made aware of it, but,
 This is not new. This isn't new. But that's neither here or there. I do know that Brittney is here, and she can, if she would, kind of share with the council what she's done and what she knows about those who may be impacted. Okay, DeAndre. Britt, you want to? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 so what i would like to share for the council if i can get it to come up is our um we have a mapping system online that shows parcels in the city and so one of the things the commission considered as they were looking at this was the number of parcels that touch archibald yale boulevard and then also which of those parcels may have um a
 an address that's on Archibald Yall versus which parcels may not. Jonathan, I'm not able to get this image pulled up, so I may need to ask for an assist in my show and tell.
 is this what you're looking for that's exactly it thank you so much and so um a little bit difficult to see because this is not prepared for this council meeting but there are some red arrows that are indicating multiple parcels along south archibald yell boulevard and when i exported those properties or i took the parcels and and kind of pulled the identifying information from it it looks like there are 18 parcels total and that touched archibald yell boulevard but
 Some of those are owned by the city of Fayetteville. This is an assumption on my part, but I'm guessing when the street was constructed, there were some kind of triangular parcels that the city owns, so those are not necessarily addresses that would need to be changed. And then there are also some parcels in the list that don't come up with a site address, meaning that they could possibly be associated address-wise with touching or adjacent parcels. And then I'm counting...
 eight parcels that are showing a site address with an Archibald-Yell address. And so those would be maybe who we would want to look at reaching out to or contacting or communicating with as the affected properties. So I'm happy to answer additional questions. Do you have a comparison between Archibald-Yell and MLK at that time with 6th Street? How many businesses? I don't at this moment, sir.
 i can get you that um i'm very familiar with that one um okay so i count 18 arrows is that yes sir that's correct and my list reflects 18 potential properties with an archibald y'all address although it only lists eight of those with the archibald y'all address so we would need to understand why there's a little bit of a discrepancy with the 10 that i don't have an address for okay
 Mayor, do you remember how we handled that? There was some timing in some way that we allowed people to use their current address for a period of time as there was a transition. We did, Mark. I was, well, I was actually the lead sponsor on the name change to MLK. It was a, well, it was a special time for me. And
 A lot of folks didn't want to change. But we did. We took some public input, quite a bit. We actually had changed the street and made it an honorary street for about two years, can't you imagine? Yeah, two or three years, I think. And then I took it forward to make it a permanent street.
 Anyway, that seems like a long time ago, but it wasn't long ago. But there was a time where we allowed the people along that street to
 to keep their street address temporarily. Mark, and I don't remember how long that was. That was that two- or three-year period when it still was 6th Street, but it was also labeled as the Honorary Martin Luther King Boulevard. Oh, okay, okay. So I said enough of that. We're going to name it. Well, I think that that did allow the people along that corridor to be...
 to be recognized. And there's 18 parcels, there's eight businesses. I think we can take two weeks and talk to those individuals some way so that their voice is heard. That's all I'm saying. This is just an important dialogue. Absolutely.
 It needs to be had. They do have a point of view. Even you can't blame them. You can say there's only eight businesses, but if it's your business, it's 100 percent impacting you, not just a little number. And it could be that we have a compelling argument to help them understand the importance of this that they have not been presented. So I'm just requesting dialogue.
 Councilmember King and thank you so very much and that brings up a point. One of the reasons why when people ask why now, because when the when the completion of the.
 of the street is done, that has the potential to create more businesses and more individuals. And so with what we felt that right now is the perfect opportunity because there is construction and this street renaming wasn't going to take place tomorrow. The goal was, of course, when the development of the entire street is done, then we're going
 the goal, of course, was to change the name as well. So it wasn't overnight. There will be some time in between. And I'm not sure, I should know this, but I'm not sure exactly when the development of the entire street will be done. But we did take that into consideration. And we had quite a lengthy discussion about that. And we did want everyone to know that
 If it's voted on tonight and the council decides to support it, then we were hoping to tell those individuals who could be impacted that this would take effect the first of the year. Something like that. But that's not dialogue. I understand that.
 I know what dialogue is. We had that dialogue and so what I said, I said that to say this, we understand what you're saying but I wanted to make, I wanted the council to know that we just didn't make this decision without taking those factors into consideration. My other question would be the commission meets on September 15th. So what happens, I'm not sure what that would look like
 How communicating that to those individuals who were concerned because they have every right to be concerned But how do we reach a final decision? How do we reach a conclusion? But in and for me That's a concern and but again your
 your statement, your concerns, their concerns, they are legitimate and absolutely we wanna make sure that everyone is involved in this process as much as they can be. DeAndre, I just had a quick comment, friendly suggestion maybe. I think during our renaming of Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard, I went and took around a petition to all of the neighbors and business owners. There was only one business, but the business.
 And I wonder if maybe it would be possible to write something up explaining the significance of the road name change, and then taking that around maybe to the residents and business owners to educate them and give them an opportunity for dialogue. I'm very open to that. And I'm not sure who would do that. Britton, Ja'el, I'm not sure who would be directly responsible for that, but...
 I am very open to communicating and having some form of dialogue. So thank you for sharing that. Oh, so. Right now we have a motion on the floor, but there is no second. You know, I will second that. Okay, now we've got a second. All right. So we have a motion and second to take for two weeks. For two weeks. Okay.
 Mayor Jordan, can I ask a question? Oh, sure. Thank you. So what happens when we, let's hypothetically, we reach out to those individuals and then they, for whatever reason, I didn't get it, I don't know, I didn't know about it. What happens?
 I'm a supporter of having this conversation. And I've stated time and time again, but I'm just wanting to know exactly, given the Commission's considering and being respectful of their time and of Britain's time, are there any more details that we can incorporate so everyone will be on the same page? I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question.
 But what do you all want to do? Any more details? No, I can't think of any more details. I just want to give two weeks, let these people have their opportunity to become more familiar with this. And I think, I mean, I honestly think that this street renaming has merit. But I also believe that
 there's a more greater opportunity to educate people about this that has maybe been missed a little bit. And I wish that the professors had been here to make
 presentation to the council instead of just at the agenda session but I do think if you go to that website and look at what is trying to the program that is trying to be taught in the schools it's it's really impressive and it's it's a fascinating journey that this man unfortunately went on but I I think that that there is the opportunity to hold it for two weeks
 let people say what they want to say, and then we make the decision on it. That's our choice. Well, that's my point of view also. Thank you, Council Member Bunch. And I do think since there is a commission meeting between now and then, that it would be nice to offer an invitation and maybe some preliminary information to the residents and the businesses along that corridor.
 I certainly appreciate that. And Councilmember Bunch, thank you for sharing those words. They're well-received and well-respected. And Councilmember King, thank you as well, because you do understand, because you were a part of the street redaming with MLK, and so we certainly appreciate your input. And the commission is meeting on September 15th, so my details, I guess,
 include who would be reaching out, who would be responsible for reaching out to the businesses to set the tone for the conversation? Mr. Mayor, not to muddy the waters, but if I may,
 I presume council members received an email from the city attorney's staff where I had proposed an alternative or an amendment to the naming. And you may not have had an opportunity during the holiday to even see that or to read it. And so, not in competition, I would like to at least have an opportunity to share my thinking if you would allow me to, sir.
 while my dear mother god rest her soul was was irish and her people worked on the railroad my father's family were swiss and they made the trains run on time and regrettably he gave me his dna which means that my own bias is that we do things in a strategic logical progressive way it doesn't make it right or wrong it simply means
 that my preference is always going to be that we have some known procedure and process and that we follow that to the best of our ability. In 32 years of municipal experience, Mr. Mayor, I come close to on a par with you, but I know that naming a street is easy. Renaming a street is never easy. It doesn't matter how appropriate, how supported, it's always a complex matter.
 Normally there's going to be some hurt feelings and certainly it impacts businesses along the way. And that it's a three-fold decision. One is do you remove a name, which should almost be a separate decision by council from my experience. And then to consider what are the alternatives and then finally to select an appropriate name. Certainly Mr. Hackett
 is a worthy historical figure. We wouldn't have approved a monument for him if we did not believe that. And so for DeAndre and for JL and the committee, well done. I mean, you educated us, you brought that forward. And I'm appreciative of this council approving that. I proposed the name to honor Ebenezer and Clara Henderson,
 not out of disrespect for Nelson Hackett, but because I viewed them as that alternative form of hero in the city of Fayetteville. And so I'm looking at Fayetteville as not just a center for regional medical services, but as an education center for the state of Arkansas. And as an education center, as I looked at the street names of South School connecting to South College,
 to me it resonated as a natural potential connection to have the Henderson School be honored. And in case you didn't get a chance to read anything that I submitted or that the city attorney forwarded, the Henderson School is the reason and the rationale behind Arkansas responding to Fayetteville's petition to be the first
 school district in the state of Arkansas and Fayetteville being recognized as school district number one. It's not a causal relationship, but it contributed to that. And so I just viewed the Hendersons as commensurately appropriate for due consideration when we go to name a street. Mr. Hackett, you know, if this was a Shakespearean play, we would say
 He's certainly a hero, a tragic hero, because of what he experienced and what was done to him. The Hendersons are heroes because of what they were able to accomplish in that era, in that time, in the city of Fayetteville in 1866 and 1868. And so I think for Fayetteville to have the first publicly funded school in the state of Arkansas,
 is a significant thing. So, okay. I would like to add that, and thank you so much, Councilmember Whitaker. JL mentioned when he gave his presentation that there were numerous, when the commission first sat down,
 thought of numerous individuals. And we have many firsts. We have the first elected official. We have the first superintendent. We have the first police chief, the first African-American police chief. There are numerous African-Americans. There's Squire J. Hagan, the pastor of St. James. So because there were so many, there were numerous African-Americans who did similar work to
 with what the Hendersons did, it was really, it would have been almost unfair to signal out, to single out one individual or one family, considering that there are so many African-American families who've done great work in Fayetteville. So Nelson Hackett,
 was the choice for the reasons that we described tonight and for what I just said. There are numerous, I mean, there are numerous names worth throwing around, but the council wanted to be very strategic and be very fair. And so that's how we landed on
 Nelson Hackett because the conversation, we don't want to slight any other family saying, well, you know, well, you know, we were the first days. Well, they were the first step. So why do you take that into consideration? And also too, we have to be very careful that we don't undermine the work of the commissions that we, uh,
 that we designate. We have to be very careful about that. And I believe that this commission is certainly able to make the decision based upon what they thought is best for Fayetteville. And so I respect what you're saying, but the reason that they did not name anyone locally because of what I just shared.
 the possible conflicts of choosing one person over the other. So Nelson Hackett was a very, very safe choice and a choice that we can all, we all understand and we all agree with. I feel, personally, I feel comfortable with the discussion about whether we name it Nelson Hackett. With all due respect, I think that I would just say
 keep it between the two streets. And I think, you know, from my perspective, I feel that Nelson Hackett, I mean, his story takes on just almost biblical proportions, you know, when you think about what he experienced. And it also affected international policy.
 and which I think is very important. Absolutely. So I would like to kind of just keep it between those two there. So that's just my opinion. But we did have a motion. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks, the next council meeting.
 DeAndre, do you want to weigh in on the tabling one more time because you are the sponsor of this? Yes. I can, between Britt and JL and myself, we can work something out as it relates to approaching the businesses and perhaps inviting them to a meeting, having a discussion with them.
 I'm sure that between the three of us, we can certainly, certainly get those individuals and businesses engaged. Yes. I know that when I went through the naming of MLK, we had some conversations with the public and several conversations with the public.
 the African American community really got on board with that and was very helpful to me as we brought that forward. So I think a couple of weeks would be okay. But I would have to agree with a council member Bunch, I don't really want to cloud the issue of the name with other names. That's just me because I'm going to respect
 the wishes of council member jones he brought this so i think that needs to be settled before and there's lots of worthy african americans that deserve a street named after them and we have some streets around here we can name other african americans after so that's just my two cents worth and uh we have a motion in a second is any other discussion on this
 Okay, and you're good with that DeAndre, okay? I am, absolutely. Thank you, thank you so much. I'm good with that. Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business for tonight.
 So we have any announcements nothing? Okay, we have the ramble opening this week. Thank you Yes, that seems worth mentioning. Yes It does It's on Thursday at 445 Thursday at 445 I look forward to seeing you all there. All right, I can't think and tomorrow night we have the ARPA funding discussion
 what time is that 5 30. okay all right well thank you all good work