I'd like to call to order the September the 5th, 2023 City Council meeting to order. Chair, would you please call the roll? Whedeker? Here. Burnham? Here. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Ertsberg? Here. Jones? Moore? Moore.
 Here, Mayor Jordan. Here, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Let's see.
 We have the monthly financial report from the Chief Financial Officer, Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of July of 2023. So that's period number seven in the 2023 operating budget. When we look at the general fund, the general fund sales tax, sales tax is up 8.6% on a year-to-day basis. Franchise fees were up.
 roughly 6% on a year-to-date basis. Licenses or permits are up 7%.
 Charges for services were down a little bit as we're a little softer than what we have projected in some of the perks programs at this point in time Quark fees and fines are up a little bit. That's that's good news because they have been down roughly for the last two years interest rates are also up at this point in time as interest rates are larger than what had been projected at the point of time so all in all in a general fund I
 The year-to-date revenue is up 7% compared to the budget. Now when I talk about sales tax, we talked about the parameter for the salary increases and how much sales tax would have to increase to keep in keeping with those salary increases.
 The metric I gave you was 9.23 right now. We're at about 8.6 up. So we're down a little bit. And that equates on a dollar level about $150,000, down on a year-to-date basis. Still got five months for that to pick up.
 And I'm confident that that'll be workable by the end of the year. But so far, the results, the operating results of the general fund has been solid at this point in time. Street funds, pretty flat. It's up about 1% for the period. But street funds revenues are holding their own at this point in time.
 Parking fees were down the last couple of months. They've been down a little bit. They're about 4% down for this period however, that's basically when I look at the expenditures at this point in time in keeping what the expenditures are so We're holding our own again with a parking fund HMR fees HMR fees and HMR collections which we've been talking about that's a
 That's hotel, motel, and restaurant taxes. They're up 11.6% for this period at this point in time. So that's been pretty strong the entire year. Water and sewer revenue, build revenue is up about 2%. So that's pretty level. And most of that is due to water consumption in the last couple of months.
 RTC recycling trash collections down about 5% again that's because some of the recycling reimbursable costs are down primarily cardboard sales are have softened this year from the vendors who purchase that and also if we remember the transfer station was down for a significant period earlier this year
 The airport, airport flights were down over 30%. To this point in time, fuel sales are down 28%. That's a large drop. And the sales, however, remember as the sales are down, the expenditures for fuel are also down. So it's holding us on at this point of time. So all in all, the report is still positive moving forward, and I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 what questions do we have for paul on finances okay thank you paul now we have a proposed agenda addition by council member moore is that correct kit uh yes that is and i think she's ready to discuss it okay do i need to make a motion to suspend the rules or would you like to first actually mayor i think it's there in front of you why don't you read the title of the resolution if you're okay hang on
 A resolution to address the urgency, with urgency, the affordable housing crisis to request that Mayor Jordan apply for a housing and urban development pro-housing grant of up to $4 million to fund housing, supportive changes to federal's land use and zoning ordinances. Sarah. Thank you.
 Thank you. And so I'm bringing this forward tonight and asking for consideration to add to the agenda because of the tight timeline. This was put out in our review space at the end of July. Kept watching this grant, brought it forward to staff to look at it and have had some conversations.
 Unfortunately, because we're going through a paper reduction in the federal government right now, it's stopped it from getting into Grantscot.gov yet. And so it still shows an opening of September, but they're not going to end the completion date at the end of October, on October 30th.
 So because of the urgency of application, you would actually have to have a 15-day public comment review period after you put your plan together. And then you would need to have a period of time for review internally before you would apply for the grant. And so, for example, if we gave ourselves the month of September to put application information together, the first two weeks of October to put that out to the community just like we do the CBDG.
 funds to be able to weigh in. I gave staff a consideration of a week to ten days. Then we'd have to actually put the application in by October 30th date and that's why I'm asking for consideration because I made a call to HUD today just to double check that there wasn't going to be any leniency in pushing out that date because they had not posted it to Grants.gov and that I was told that that was not going to be the case.
 what discussion so at this point there probably needs to be a motion to spend the rules as to add this to the agenda and you can still discuss it after that after that motion's on the table discuss whether or not that's the right thing you want to do well has staff reviewed this what staff has reviewed the item before you and we have uh thoughtfully declined to attempt to put in an uh
 grant application at this time we don't have a concept we don't have a work plan in order to meet the schedule that council member moore is requiring of us so staff's not jonathan what have you had any
 We have had the chance to look over it during the brief time that it was brought to our attention. I think you could always be safe to say that more resources are exciting, but I think to Ms. Norton's point, I think we have some concerns about our ability to
 Put together a successful application to begin with, but also with the potential award to be in terms of millions of dollars, which on the one hand is a very exciting amount. On the other hand is a very challenging amount to administer. I think that comes out to about 5 to 6 times the amount of money that the city gets in CBG money in any given year.
 So, there's concerns about the capacity to apply, or to apply competently, and the capacity to administer it. And similarly, without having it in any work plan in this year, we're not entirely certain how we could be able to incorporate it at this point. Okay, before tremendously more discussion, there will be a motion to suspend the rules, and this would suggest whether or not you feel like...
 that council member Moore has explained it enough so that it should go on the agenda tonight, although it's just being walked on. After, if that passes, then at that point in time, further discussion can be had. Just depends if you want to suspend the rules and it requires six affirmative votes to do that. I move we suspend the rules, uh, so that we can have discussion about this. Second. Okay. Everyone please call the roll. Wiedecker? Yes. Vernon? No.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Okay. The motion failed. It requires... No more. I'm sorry. Yes. Okay. The motion still fails because it requires six affirmative votes to pass the motions to suspend the rules and there were only four. Okay. All right. Let's move on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 15, 2023 City Council meeting minutes.
 A resolution authorized the destruction of certain records shown on the attached final document list pursuant to relevant sections of the Art and Cell Code related to maintenance and destruction of accounting and other city records. Number three, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 3 to the
 Contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of fifty nine thousand six hundred nine dollars to provide additional services associated with West Street West Center Street and North Harmon Avenue intersection project this 2019 Street Improvements bond project and
 Number four, a resolution to award bid number 23-22 into authorized contract with Apex Central Incorporated in the amount of $1,809,765 for the construction of the 15th and Razorback Road Intersection Improvements Project to approve a project tendency in the amount of $180,000 to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Street Improvement Bond Project.
 Number five, a resolution to accept, quote, any amount of $35,340.90 plus applicable taxes from Spatco Energy Solutions for the upgraded fuel inventory and management software to approve project contingency in the amount of $3,534.09 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number six, a resolution to authorize a contract with Syntex Consulting Services, Inc., pursuant to an RFP 23-07 in the amount of $24,671 to develop a historic context statement for University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods. Number seven.
 A resolution to express the willingness of the city of Federal to accept and utilize federal aid recreational trails program funds in the amount of $100,000 for the trails at Lake Federal Regional Park to approve a city match of $20,000 for the project and to approve budget adjustments. Number eight, a resolution to award RFP 23-06 and to approve a one-year contract
 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms with Titan Aviation Fuels for the provision of aviation fuel and refuel trucks for Great Field. Number nine, a resolution to authorize a construction contract in the amount of $274,398.97 with Spatco Energy Solutions LLC for the fuel farm rehabilitation
 project at craig field to approve a project tendency in the amount of thirty one thousand nine hundred and thirty nine dollars and ninety cents and to approve budget adjustment number 10 resolution authorized acceptance of a federal aviation administration grant in the amount of four hundred and seventy five thousand seven hundred and thirty eight dollars upon nine percent
 of the cost of an environmental assessment for the wildlife fence rehabilitation project at Drake Field to approve a construction contract in the amount of $475,956
 with Milestone Construction Company LLC to approve project contingency in the amount of $54,596 to approve a no-cost change order with Milestone Construction Company LLC and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 11, a resolution to approve a utility relocation agreement with Arkansas State Highway Commission for utility relocations related to the Highway 62 interchange improvements project.
 number 12 a resolution to approve change order number three to the design bill contract with structural preservation systems llc in the amount of not to exceed seven million eight hundred and eighty four thousand three hundred forty three dollars to rehabilitate the sewer pipeline and stabilize the tunnel under the southbound highway 112 exit ramp on i-49 and to approve budget
 Number 13, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote for the purchase of a fire ground command training course from Firefighters Inspiration Readiness and Education LLC in the amount of $106,000.
 Number 14, a resolution to authorize the purchase of bunker gear, coats, and pants from Lion Manufacturing through NAFCO Incorporated pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract in the amount of $49,811.14 plus political tax and freight charges. Number 15, a resolution to authorize the purchase of D.C. Direct Current Reverse System.
 for the federal radio tower size for Motorola Solutions in the amount of $108,915 plus any applicable taxes, freight charges pursuant to a NASPO value point cooperative purchasing agreement.
 Number 16, a resolution to authorize acceptance of 2023 Justice Assistance and State Drug Crime Enforcement and Prosecution Grant in a total amount of $226,235 with a local match in the amount of $46,066, which will be used to pay a portion
 of the salaries and benefits of the four judicial district drug task officers with the federal springdale and prairie grove police departments and the washington county sheriff's office and number seventeen a resolution to authorize acceptance
 a project safe neighborhood grant award in the amount of $18,114 for the federal police department and to prove a budget adjustment I will entertain a motion except consent agenda I'd like to remove item 16 from consent, please Okay I still need a motion to approve
 Do the consent that I've already, as read. I move to approve the consent as read with the removal of item 16. Second. All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? B.D. Kirk? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 And before we go to unfinished business, we need to address this issue number 16.
 I'll read it again. A resolution to authorize acceptance of the 2023 Justice Assistance and State Drug Crime Enforcement and Prosecution Grant in the total amount of $226,235 with a local match in the amount of $46,066, which will be used to pay a portion of the salaries and benefits of the four judicial district drug task officers with Federal Springdale...
 Prairie Grove Police Department's and Washington County Sheriff's Office. Okay council member Moore And I just needed to pull this off consent because I'm not in agreement So I don't need to have a lot of discussion or on the item But just needed to make sure that I could register my book. Okay. All right. What discussion would we like to have? And if we approve the resolution Second do wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I'm gonna get public comment. I
 Okay, before we vote on this item. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber on this item?
 who you have on zoom no one on zoom has their hand right okay i'll bring it back to the council did we have a motion in a second to pass any final i think we do okay do you have any final comments from the council all right care which please call the wrong wedeker yes arna yes yes yes yes herzberg yes more no that did pass okay
 Let's move on to unfinished business. Number one, a resolution authorized the mayor of the city of Fiddle to purchase real estate to be returned to the NWA Black Heritage Association for restoration, redevelopment, and advancement to the African-American community into the vibrant and thriving district it was meant to be. I understand that Council Member Jones wanted us to table this. That's what he told me. I don't know what he told you that to.
 Okay. All right. So if there's anyone here to speak on that item, then I'm going to open it up for public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after. Who would like to speak on this one?
 Remember, it's probably gonna be tight. Yeah. Good evening mayor and council Kyle Smith 28 a 1-dub Drive When this came up several weeks ago I spoke in favor of it in principle and understanding that the details haven't exactly been worked out and maybe Actually, there's quite a bit of work to do on how to fit a proposal like this into the legal framework that we exist in in the state of Arkansas and
 I'd like to reiterate that support in principle and also clarify some of what I heard in the discussion, and it's been weeks, sounded like maybe some crosstalk where there was not necessarily a meeting of minds as to what the goal was.
 visiting with Ms. Killian afterwards, she made it clear, kind of confirmed my suspicions that their goal here is not to preserve, not necessarily to preserve specific historic structures,
 and turn those back over to private individuals, but instead to preserve community equity in the land in the area. Many of them would like to develop their land rather than preserve it in the traditional sense,
 but there's an African American community invested in that and rather than selling their assets to probably white developers to profit from, they would like assistance in developing the capacity to grow their own wealth in the land that they already own.
 that idea seemed to be missing. Now that still poses legal challenges, and that's one of the reasons that I'm disappointed that we didn't at least consider the grant proposal that Council Moore brought forward.
 Some of what's in this proposal would be a qualifying eligible use for that grant. It specifically calls out preservation activities for communities that are protected classes in the HUD language. And so I feel like we've just missed an opportunity that could have dovetailed well with this if we were just willing to take a moment and look at it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan?
 No one on Zoom has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. In the discussion on this, I know that Councilmember Jones would like to take it. And so...
 Mayor, do we have an idea how long to table it from Councilmember Jones? I reviewed the video since I missed the agenda session last week, and I didn't see a timeline on there. I'm wondering if maybe we could give them plenty of time to kind of hash this out and come up with a plan. Maybe Councilmember Whitaker has more information than I do. The request was to table to October 3rd, the first meeting of October.
 So it's not indefinite, and we'll see what happens on the 3rd. Right. And, you know, I know it may not make a whole lot of difference, but I always like to sponsor the ordinance to be here to defend their position. It's not exactly a rule, but we always showed –
 enough respect for one another that if they were out of town or they were on vacation then usually we would table it for What did you say? Okay, I mean that's what he wants that's what I would do and that is the request for October the 3rd okay, because if we tabled it indefinitely and he could I
 Well, yeah, and again, he's not here to say whether he wants to table it indefinitely. Okay. So I would have a respect for him if I would make it October 3rd. Anything else? Okay. Caravage, did we get a motion and a second to table? Sorry. I move that we table it until October 3rd. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to table it until October 3rd. Caravage, please call the roll. Whitaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Okay.
 bunch yes kirk yes earthsburg yes more yes okay all right number two an ordinance for his own that property describing the zoning petition rzn 23-017 located near north truckers drive in ward 2 for approximately 20.23 acres
 from RPZD, Residential Plan Zoning District, to RMF18, Residential Multi-Family, 18 units per acre kit. Oh, no, this is on the second reading, isn't it? Right. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. All right. Or not.
 I can just read the rest of it. Just be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RPCD, Residential Plan Zoning District, to RMF 18, Residential Multifamily, 18 units per acre,
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of favor arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of favorals Reflected zoning change provided in section 1 now wrong
 that's the second reading thank you all right jonathan thank you mayor jonathan kirth of development services department as a reminder to council this item was referred to the environmental action committee at your august 15th city council meeting it was presented at the august 21st environmental action committee meeting where there was no specific recommendation offered but a tour was requested by that group that followed on the subsequent wednesday i believe it was the 30th
 And several members of the Environmental Action Committee were able to attend, and as I understand it, several council members as well. Subsequently, the Environmental Action Committee submitted a document for council's consideration that was added to the packet today by the clerk's office. In case you've not had the opportunity to consider that, a brief summary of it includes a description of the ecosystem services that the EAC
 uh understands the property to offer uh in addition to any current and potential interactions uh that development of the property may result in or has with wilson springs just to the south or the clabber creek riparian corridor going southwest from there
 With these in mind, the ultimate conclusion of the AC was a recommendation against the proposal from the applicant recommending in lieu a proposal to rezone the property to R. A. residential agricultural. I received a question from 1 of the council members leading up to this meeting. What was the zoning designation before the?
 As a whole, the planned zoning district on the property encompassed about 140 acres. This specific 20 acres was zoned RA prior to the PZD designation. There was a different extent to the property to the northwest that was zoned RSF for residential single family four units per acre.
 Of course, I'd be happy to hand off when I conclude my comments to any of the council members that attended the tour, especially Councilmember Turk, who I believe was at the Environmental Action Committee meeting as well for more detailed comments. But lastly, I did want to point out that in case you were not aware of the
 Considering your email in the run-up to the meeting the city attorney's office issued a memo just a little while ago And I'll defer to him to summarize his comments which included considerations that would be appropriate With a rezoning and also at a bare minimum what this property ought to be rezoned as With that I'm happy to take any questions And I believe John Gilbert and his team are available as the applicants here. Would you like to speak for the council?
 GOOD EVENING. KELLY COMER HERE ON BEHALF OF THE APPLICANT. THERE ARE OTHER REPRESENTATIVES AS WELL IN THE ROOM. WE ARE EXCITED TONIGHT TO SHARE WITH YOU WHY YOU SHOULD APPROVE THE REZONE REQUEST BEFORE YOUR CONSIDERATION. FIRST AND FOREMOST, I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT SOME OF THE POSITIVES THAT WILL BENEFIT THE CITY OF FAYE BILL THAT COME WITH THIS PROJECT. OUR $70 MILLION PROJECT IS PROJECTED TO HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE CITY'S TAX SPACE.
 I ALSO HEARD A COMMENT EARLIER THAT REFERRED TO THE CITY'S HOUSING CRISIS. THIS PROJECT RECOGNIZES THE NEED FOR ADDITIONAL QUALITY HOUSING IN THE CITY OF FAYETTEVILLE AND IT WILL MEET THAT NEED. ALSO AS FAR AS INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT GOES, THE PROJECT WILL ENHANCE THE CITY'S CONNECTIVITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE BY INVESTING SEVERAL HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS TOWARDS EXTENDING AND IMPROVING EXISTING ROADS ADJACENT TO THIS PIECE OF PROPERTY.
 I also want to discuss the spirit of cooperation that we've had with city staff during this planning process. We've engaged in extensive collaborative nature to ensure that the project aligns with the city's goals and vision. We've had over four in-person meetings with the city staff and we've discussed in detail what the appropriate zoning request would be for this land given our intended use. Currently the property is not zoned, so zoning it is appropriate for the development of this property.
 Several months ago, we were asked to consider a 50-foot easement by the city for a new water transmission system that would be adjacent to the northern end of the property, and we quickly adapted our site plan to accommodate this request, again demonstrating a willingness to work together. We were invited to attend the Environmental Action Committee's meeting, and we were there and available for questions. The project has received unanimous support from the Planning Commission and a recommendation for approval by city staff. Thank you.
 Our proposed rezoning aligns seamlessly with the City's future use plan and is incompatible with adjacent property uses. I want the City Council to consider all of the property that surrounds this particular site has been developed for various uses including a church, a senior living center, and then the retail establishments like Sam's Club and just recently the Aronson project that was approved.
 In conclusion, we believe that this project represents a significant opportunity for our city. It promises economic growth, improved housing options, and enhanced infrastructure. I also want to mention that there is going to be a report from the Environmental Action Committee that is going to be discussed. And while we appreciate the attention that the committee has given this, we want to highlight that we did not see any substantial, incredible reports or data to back up this report. We also want to...
 emphasize that the standard that this report holds development projects to might inhibit future rezone request. At this point I'm going to hand off the mic to Jason who can speak more to some of the environmental concerns. Remember y'all have ten minutes.
 Yes, thank you. Jason Apple with ESI. I just want to also follow up and highlight a couple questions about the site itself. There is currently not a designated flood zone on this property. We understand there are hydric soils based on the overlay mapping by staff on GIS.
 of those wetlands and wetland areas was performed and only the stream that runs north-south about the western third of the property was classified as jurisdictional. We have not completed a full study. However, that's our initial cursor review.
 to discuss the development strategies, we're held to a high standard with the city of Fayetteville's drainage criteria manual. It includes flow velocities, we cannot increase those. It also discusses water quality, so there's a water quality standard that we'll be held to through the development review process.
 As far as a couple of the concerns for Wilson Springs, I know there was sediment deposit concerns by the preserve. We're going to follow all required SWPPP procedures, follow
 Have it approved by DEQ and follow all those measures. I think this will be a positive project for the city of Fayetteville. If you have any other questions, we're happy to answer. Okay, what questions does the council have for Kit? Do you want to, Jonathan referred to your memo you sent out this afternoon about rezoning. Basically, my memo was that the property needs to be rezoned.
 And I think at one point it was zoned RA, and as you probably know, although we haven't done much annexation in the last few years, but every time we brought property in in the past, it was always zoned as RA, which is probably the lowest density that we have. Even though there are certain activities that can occur on RA that might not be very attractive to a neighbor.
 of that because it means agricultural. And so there are agricultural allowances in there that aren't in many other residential zones. But at the very bare minimum, it would need to be rezoned to one of our standard zoning districts in order for it to be developable. And I thought we had gotten rid of that problem 10 years ago. I thought everything had gotten rezoned, at least back to RRA. And I was surprised to find that this one had not.
 So at this point in time, some rezoning ought to be done. And you should follow also the zoning considerations that I sent out to you in the memo. It's the same memo I've been sending out for over 20 years, basically, because it quotes the state statute saying why do you have –
 Power why the cities have power to do something well here are the here are the eight nine things and then of course it also talks about several Other factors that the courts have recognized through the years And so those are the primary things you should be looking at when you're considering rezoning and also keep in mind Whatever zoning there's going to be can be something built in any zoning that you zone. I know we had the discussion today just a
 and you may know this but we were talking about ra that doesn't mean nothing's going to be built in an r the environmental action committee said nothing could be built there but they did not understand what residential agriculture was because you can put up buildings so all right what questions does the council have for the staff or the applicant anything question sure
 So this is for staff. What are some of the things that could be built in RA? Is that, I know it allows one structure, one house per what? Two acres. Two acres? I'm sorry. Okay, so I couldn't remember if it was one acre or two acres.
 That's correct on the residential side of things you need two acres per unit and you can build single or two acres per unit You can build single-family or two-family dwellings by right. It also allows the whole spectrum of agricultural uses that could be something is Passive as hay farming which is more or less what the property is being used for today It could be also used for livestock or chicken houses things like that as you think of more intensive agricultural uses
 So how many acres are in this? I forgot. It's just over 20 acres. 20 acres. So if we were to choose RA, it would effectively, for residential purposes, limit it to only one house per every two acres. That's correct. So 10 houses? That's correct. Okay. And so some of the things that as an agricultural use that could be allowed there, you know, right now it's a hay field, it looks like, or some...
 but someone could have, like, could someone have a, you said a chicken house there, so someone technically, not that that's going to be the best spot, but someone could put a turkey house there. Correct. Okay. Because, okay. Yeah, how would that go over? We're having that discussion later. And the buildings that are around there, the church, the senior church,
 you know, Living Center, the Sam's Club, could any of those be built in, none of those could be built in RA? That's correct. So all of the things around it could not be built if we zoned it RA? Not by right. Okay, not by right. Okay, that's pretty much all I have on that now. Great.
 So, Jonathan, I don't know if you have the copy of the, you gave a good summary of the EAC's recommendations, but I'd like the whole thing read, if you have a copy of that. I have an earlier draft, or I would read it. I don't have the final draft. I do have a copy. I think it's the final draft. This is what was sent to me by the sustainability department earlier today. I can start from the top.
 Dear City Council, the Council has requested that the Environmental Action Committee provide an opinion on the zoning request for the Agenda Item B-2, the rezoning request for North Truckers Drive to Linnan 208. 208 references the Platte page. We have considered this issue carefully. Some of us have toured the area. We have consulted with local ecologists, the Fayetteville chapter of the Audubon Society, and heard the opinion of the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust. Our conclusions are as follows.
 Note that this property, former wet prairie, currently gives the City of Fayetteville these ecosystem services. One, flood control. Think of it as a big sponge. Two, water purification. The sponge is a very effective water filter. Three, cooling effects of the plant communities. Four, a carbon sink, contributing to the City's climate action goals. Five, sediment capture, which protects downstream creeks. Six, groundwater recharge, and of course seven,
 habitat protection for the many endangered amphibians, reptiles, fish, and birds that move through this area, including the Virginia rail and the endangered Arkansas darterfish. This is all part of the Greater Wilson Springs and Claver Creek ecological community.
 The City of Fayetteville went to great lengths along with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Land Trust to protect Wilson Springs. Allowing more upstream development will, according to Marcin Nance from the Land Trust, endanger the quality of the water and negatively impact the flow rate of the water, endangering the delicate community that depends on these waters. The spring is just downstream from the land in question. Development will also impact downstream Clyburn Creek, increasing sediment, detrimental nutrients, and pollution. It will increase the likelihood of more stream bank erosion along the creek.
 Building on wetlands complicates the construction process and it leaves future residents dealing with long-term water issues At least two of the EAC members experienced flooding on their properties and would like to see the city stop Encouraging development in areas that are likely to be impacted by future heavy rain events
 One member notes that in her neighborhood in West Fayetteville, near the Woolsey Wet Prairie that was built on wet prairie, the residents are constantly mitigating flooded yards and even houses in big rain events. There are challenges in building and living on this sort of land that can be avoided. The water table is high and there's nowhere for the water to go when it arrives in excess.
 One of the guiding principles of the City's Vision 2050 is ecosystem preservation. It is particularly significant that the Truckers Drive property has creeks on two sides and a cattail marsh on the third side. It is an integral part of the Wilson Springs ecosystem and should be protected.
 for all these reasons we advise the city not to pass zoning that will allow construction on this property instead we recommend zoning the property are a residential agriculture since it is the option that would provide the greatest ecological benefit consistent with the city's environmental goals respectfully environmental action committee september 4th 2023. okay thank you
 Thank you for reading that. I just wanted to express that there was a lot of thought put into this. There's a lot of items in there that do provide ecosystem services, and I think the intent was not that there couldn't be anything built in RA, but that in general it is the least intensive zoning district that we have. So I don't think they thought that nothing could be built there, but not as much as what is proposed, the RMF 18.
 Okay, Scott, or was it Sarah? I think Sarah was first. No, go ahead, Scott. Okay. Having not been on the council when the other developments had gone through the process, the property to the, I guess that would be immediate south, and then the property where the church is to the northeast, were these concerns...
 brought forward then for those particular developments because they border this particular development and we're a considerable distance away from the flood area, correct?
 Is that directed to me? Yes, I'm sorry. Yeah, unfortunately I also don't benefit from that institutional experience of having been here directly for that. I think several on the council, in addition to myself, were participants in the rezoning discussion of the property north of the church. I think Biopharma or Biopharma Cal perhaps was the name of that request. There was some discussion at that time about whether or not
 whether the streams that began on that property were protected by our streamside protection ordinance, which they are. But I don't recall there being a large focus on the Wilson Spring property and how the development of that property may affect it. But as for grand retirement to the south of the property being considered in Fellowship Bible Church to the northeast, I don't know the answer to that. I do have a little history with this property myself. Okay.
 Just to give you a little background on what I know, there's about 140 acres. In 2006, we put in a PZD because we weren't exactly comfortable with a lot of zones. But our zoning ran out somewhere. When did the zoning, the PZD run out, Jonathan? I believe it was 2010 or 2011. 2011? Is that right? Yes, 2011.
 And then we did two. Then basically this plan goes back to not any zoning at all. As Kit has advised, it's got to have some zoning. We didn't have any zoning. So now, or what was faced then about 2015 or so, we had a couple of developments going to the north end, which was the church, and then on the south end, which was what? The retirement home in 2014. That's right.
 And so we approved both of those. So I just want to bring you all up to speed with what we have done and what it was designed to do. And it was designed to be a PZD, but the PZD went away. So now you're faced with you've got to have some kind of zoning in there, according to what I visited with the city attorney today.
 He said it's got to have a zoning. You can't just set it out there in limbo. Now, we've got about 59 acres left, right? I believe that's correct. I think so, too. So this is part of that 59 acres of the original 148. Just wanted you to have that background on it. And it was a unanimous vote of the council in 2006. I did approve that as well. So...
 And the makeup of the council passed the 2015 rezonings, and that was like it didn't have a zoning until it did those two. I think that's right. Is that right, Jonathan? Correct. In 2014, those were rezoned, and the staff proposed rezoning only applied to the northwest portion, which I think was zoned to RSF8, but that was subsequently rezoned during the biopharmacology rezoning. So I just wanted you all to have that.
 I've been around a while, so it was back in 2006. So, just to give you a little summary of the history of that land that I know about. I don't have anything else to say. Yes, Sarah. Okay. I don't know if Sarah had her mic on also. Okay, Sarah. Oh, okay. No.
 Well, and I was able to attend the Environmental Action Committee, and I really have appreciated the additional work and feedback that's been given. You know, like what Councilperson Berna mentioned, you know, we're newer to council, right? And, you know, part of what our responsibility is as a legislative body of the city is to ensure that our regulations are...
 at the correct standards for how we do develop. And so in numerous conversations that we've had now on rezones, we've had conversations about the concerns around water and environmental concerns and the water that will come off of these sites.
 I know that our regulations have been improved over the years. I know others in our area have looked at that and have improved theirs even more so in our region, and I think we should look at that. I also think that we can't hold people to – we can't –
 being negative towards projects because we wish that we had regulations in a certain way. And so I'm very sensitive and I am respectful of the information that's been brought forward. However, it's a balancing act, right, of trying to protect our environmental factors in our city, in our green spaces, in our waterways. But the truth of the matter is we also had to spend a lot of money to move people that were encamped on our creeks, right, in our waterways.
 And that problem didn't go away. They just moved somewhere else, and we're gonna talk about them again. But I'd like to talk about them less because they have housing. And I guess we had a retreat in June where I felt like we all held hands to and said quality of life,
 and we said we need to solve this housing crisis that we're in. You know, I tried to bring forward, I mean I'm very concerned about our budget for 24 and looking for creative solutions and I think that grant could have been part of that solution because I think we're gonna have some hard discussions
 But every reason where we have this conversation, where we're not able to potentially put housing on the market for people that need it today. We just listened to Britton's numbers, and our multifamily is at 0% of available stock that's available for rent. And she said a healthy market is 5% to 8%, which is basically over 1,000 units that we need right this moment.
 And so, again, while I feel like we need to balance all of these needs that are in our community and we need to be incredibly mindful of our environment, we also have to figure out a way that we can tackle this housing shortage that we have. And this property is a perfect example of being part of the solution. And I hope that we can come to some agreement so that we can get these units that we so desperately need. Sure. Yes. Okay.
 You know, I really appreciate the tour that we had of the land and to go around and look at it and meet with the members of the EAC that were there and I know they put a lot of thought and effort into this, but let's just think about if this were rezoned RA,
 we're talking about a maximum of 10 houses which you can't actually put probably 10 houses on it Then from a city perspective that to me is not a very good use of the land it's very inefficient use of the land because a developer is going to have to go in and build these houses and put in streets and sewer and all that stuff and
 to go to ten houses. And later on, we're going to inherit those streets. And those ten houses are not going to pay for the infrastructure that will be, you know, when it comes time to make repairs to it. So that's not a very efficient use of the property. And, you know, it's a beautiful area right now. It's green and birds are flying and all of that. And I hate that we are at this point where we don't have a lot of, we don't have...
 Big open vast fields that are high ground that that are usable and we're at a point with with Being able to provide housing where it's not going to be one house for every two acres It's going to have to be apartments and I don't necessarily like building more apartments but that's kind of where we're at right now, and I think that that this rezoning request is
 is to me, as much as I'd love to see this stay green, I think it would be lovely. But I think the rezoning request is appropriate for what can be built there, what can function as far as the efficient use of the land. I think that's very, it's very fitting. So that's my two cents, thank you. And keep in mind, we're on the second reading. It's not like we're fixing it.
 I know, but I want to make my case clear. And I hear you, sir. And I'll make my case back.
 So we heard from Northwest Arkansas Land Trust. I suspect that when these other like the Assisted living home and the church was actually rezoned That they did not have the kind of flooding and impact that they're having right now Wilson Springs so this is cumulative and so any impervious pavement and lack of low impact development will have a significant effect on on that preserve and
 and also downstream on Clapper Creek. So we need to keep that in mind. The other thing I want to mention is that at no time did I hear affordable housing mentioned in the development proposal. And just because more is built doesn't mean people can afford it or it will be affordable. There's been a lot of studies done about that. So while we may need more housing, it's not necessarily gonna make it achievable to the folks that need it the most.
 The other thing I want to stress is that the highest density around that area is RMF 12, it's not RMF 18. So this is actually higher density than what is surrounding the area right now. So I think those things are to be considered. I know we're only on the second reading. I don't know if we'll have any public comment or not but
 In the big mix of things, I think we also need to remember about ecosystem services. And as we've discussed before, we are down to marginal areas of development. We don't have any great places of development anymore. So the prairies are almost gone. Areas that are wet prairie are disappearing and actually creating other problems that need to be addressed.
 So I'll hold off until we have more discussion at a later reading. Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by their name will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Okay.
 Good evening again, Mayor, Council. Kyle Smith and I live about, as the crow flies, three quarters of a mile from there. It's part of a regular jogging route in and around that area, though obviously not out into the middle of the grass. You all need a preservation zone. Ecological systems have a value and we should account for that and it should be preserved when it's appropriate.
 But you don't have a tool that does that. RA zoning is not a preservation zone. It may occasionally produce a similar result because it doesn't allow some services and the services that it does allow may not be economically feasible. But trying to use RA as a preservation tool is a
 trusting in coincidence and good luck. It is not a good way to accomplish the goal. We need a better tool for that. What we do have are our drainage standards which say the development is responsible for maintaining the current conditions at the property edge. We do have our streamside ordinances which increase those those standards within proximity of the streams. If you don't trust those,
 change them. If you don't change them, then it's all that people can go by and we should rely on the codes codes that we have for preservation. I understand that the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust was consulted and some other organizations had very strong opinions. Those organizations don't elect y'all. The voters do and if you listen to voters, they are hurting for housing.
 It's all some folks can talk about. Maybe I'm the only one that can't stop talking about it, but you hear it out there a lot. And so this brings housing. And while of course new housing is hard to make affordable just because of construction costs, that's affordable in the technical 30% of your income term.
 you only build ten houses out there like Councilmember Bunch outlined those ten houses will have to be massive large luxury properties to command the price that would would make the cash flow for the infrastructure investments and
 While we might not get affordable housing with a capital A, we can certainly get more affordable than that and we can provide housing to people who need it. This is about half, almost exactly a half mile from a designated tier two growth center as outlined in the 2040 plan that y'all have approved unanimously and reaffirmed unanimously. And if we want preservation under our current situation,
 Without a specific zoning tool, the best way to achieve it is to look at the zoning throughout the rest of the city. That is, in many cases, hasn't been touched in 20 to 50 years. About 64% of our landmass has not had the zoning changed since prior to 2003. Some of it dates back to the 70s.
 There's a lot of zoned land where we could be building housing and it's not currently allowed. If we would bring our entire city's plan up to, regulations up to, agreement with our plans, we wouldn't have to be looking at places like this because nobody would want to go spend the money on new streets and sewer if they had it available elsewhere. Thank you, Kyle. Who else would like to address this? Who do you have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay.
 Well, this is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What discussion would the council like to have or what? If I could, I would love to ask a question of staff if I may. I was just fixing to say what discussion would the council like to have. But go ahead, Mike. Jonathan, I don't know if you have access to the original Planning Commission staff report that included the planned planning
 map for the PZD because in essence my question is going to be what density was approved previously with the PZD and I know that that'll be hard to come up with precisely But if we at least had that pretty picture I couldn't even tell you where this 20 acres is on that. It was a mixed-use development. I think it was I
 what was it something west and that that is the challenge mary i was called park west uh i think it included 11 planning areas and they fit together like a puzzle not neat squares i'm happy to pull that up councilmember whitaker and i'll try to just as quickly pull up the uh the pzd booklet which is kind of the document behind those that that pretty i think it would be helpful for us to be able to see
 And thank you. I wasn't smart enough to think of this early enough to give you a heads up. I apologize for that.
 and I'll offer a little bit of narrative too to orient everybody. If you look along the east side of the property, that's Highway 112, immediately east of that theoretical roundabout is the former Highway 112 drive-in. The north side is also 112, and the road you see coming down here north-south, that's Dean Solomon. The approximate area of the proposed rezoning, and this is approximate, mind you, is about 20 acres right
 I'll try to make that more visible. You can see that rectangle. There we go. It's roughly 20 acres in the middle of the property. As I noted, I can advance it to the next page here. Sorry, things are hiding behind my Zoom windows here. Give me just a moment. Nothing like live document navigating.
 As you can see here, planning staff at the time indicated roughly where that rezoning request is, but every gray line you see is a separate planning area. So this planning area included ones called courtyard, multifamily, civic lawn, mixed use district, parks and trail, preservation, botanical detention. So it did not include one single entitlement on this 20 acre portion of the property. Does that answer your question, Council Member Whitaker?
 I'm sorry, I think that if this was to stay on the second reading, I think the question that I would ask at the next meeting is when we look at those mixed uses, some of those are going to be residential, commercial. If we could get an estimate on either square feet of development or residential dwelling count, things of that nature would give us some perspective to see
 Are we lessening the proposed density environmentally? Are we increasing it? Is there a way for us to consider impervious surface that was previously approved? I don't have any way of asking about the proposed impervious surface, but at least it would give us some sense historically of the consideration the site received by the city.
 If that makes sense as a... It does make sense. I don't know that it's feasible. Again, given the varying allowances across the spectrum of the property, I think we can, if it is left on this reading by council, we can certainly look into that and see if we can put numbers to it. It's a really good question, though, isn't it? Even if we can't answer it. And I apologize again for not being smart enough to have thought of it previously.
 We put that in a PZD because we're going to let everybody weigh in on it. I remember that. I forgot that. Thank you Mike for asking the question. ... ... ... I'm sorry. Jonathan, right there adjacent to 112, is that apartments?
 That, I believe, was another area of mixed use. Yeah, you can see Planning Area 11 is what that's called, so north is now to the left. That extended all the way out, so it would be apartments, shops, restaurants. And then the intent was to have commercial along 112 townhomes and single-family abutting what is now the church property.
 And again, this piece would include, it's noted as mixed-use civic lawn, park and trail, which presumably was intended to follow that existing stream. And then Planning Area 6 is labeled as a preservation botanical detention, so maybe a catch-all of open spaces. It's a long title.
 If you go back one more, there you go. And let me actually, yeah. It looks like, yeah, the rectangle moves west. As this, yes. Thank you. So overlaps where the stream is, apologies.
 You know this is really good perspective here but when when was this easy be approved because I know it doesn't have five years before it expires correct this entitlement again the beginning of the conversations this was approved in 2006 it expired in 2011 so effectively this property has no zoning entitlement today
 Did we have our streamside protection ordinance in 2006? No. Okay. We got that in 2011. So there's some, you know, while this gives us a visual,
 You know, there's some things on this that, you know, we didn't have when this was approved. And when it expires, you know, this doesn't exist anymore as far as I'm concerned because we have streamside protection. We have different standards than we did in 2006. And that's, you know, but this does give us an idea about what was approved at one time, I guess. So thank you.
 Mayor, I believe I can answer at least partially to the best extent I could next meeting. It looks like the planning area that does allow residential uses, that planning area 11, which you see making up roughly the eastern two-thirds of the site, had a density allowance of 24 units per acre, and it allowed single, two, three, and multifamily, similar to the allowances of the proposed request. But again, that's for the eastern two-thirds or so.
 Well, do we need anything else? Have I taken public comments yet? I have not? Well, I did? Okay. Thank you. Sorry, I got a little enthused in the mapping there. Scott? In reviewing this, I think it comes down to, in my mind, is this a zoning that is appropriate for this area? Yeah.
 I consulted with representatives from the church, and they're fully in support of this rezoning. And it goes back to preserving green space, housing, green space, housing. And I just don't see how it's feasible for us to hold the developers to standards that are not there. I mean, they are following guidelines
 our present zoning or our development requirements so they'll be held to that i feel like the zoning is appropriate and i just i err on the side of of of trying to get some housing uh and i think this is an appropriate spot to do that i feel like the staff will adequately cover
 concerns that folks have about the Runoff, but I will be supporting it. Well, we're still on the second meeting So I've forgotten about the Paradigm was that That's correct. Well, we spent a long time on that anyway so
 Yes, Sarah. I have a question for the applicant. Are they able to come forward and ask them a question? You sure can if you want to ask them to come forward. Yes, please. Don't fight for the microphone.
 And it's okay if you're not the right representative, we can, after I ask the question, we can have someone else come up. So what I wanted to see is, I don't know, holding this one more reading, if we're going to learn new things in the next couple of weeks. And so my question to you guys as the applicant is whether or not you'd want us to advance it to the third reading so we can move forward, or if you feel like there might be new information before the next council meeting. We'd like to advance the third reading. Okay. Thank you very much.
 Well, when we do we'll be voting. Okay. Let me clarify what is going to be required to pass it Is it if we move to the third it will require? Five affirmative votes to pass any ordinance and I know we only have six city council members here the mayor can vote if his boat is needed to pass an ordinance and
 But this is an unusually small number of people here, so it's kind of like just depending on what you want to do on that. I think hopefully DeAndre will be back at the next meeting. Do we have any idea about that? Does anybody know? Do you think he will be back? Okay. So don't know if that affects your decision on that or not, but I don't think it's going to be unanimous vote, would be my guess.
 I have a question for Kit before we, so if we took this to the third reading, we vote on it, it fails, what does that do for the applicant? They cannot bring back this same request for another year then, right?
 That's basically correct. I mean they can go to the Planning Commission with us was somewhat of a different one And and if that's acceptable enough as a big enough change and Planning Commission will let them go forward Otherwise they have to wait for a year. You all have a question if you do come up to the microphone My name is Steve Ruggs. First of all, thank you for an honest thorough discussion. I think this was a good discussion very fair and
 The issue that I'd have going forward with the third reading would be just the fact that there was so much good information discussed tonight. My question is I don't know how is that shared with absent council members or to what degree are they brought up to speed? Just I want to just make sure that you know any vote is taken with full consideration of what was discussed here tonight. That's really it. Oh hang on just a minute. Kit, now we can take it to the third reading and not vote on it, can't we?
 Leave it there? If you get to the third reading, then you either vote on it or you table it. OK. I would say we wait on the third reading and let a full council get here. Yeah. I know that's all we said earlier. I'm just trying to weigh all the considerations here. Sorry about that. I understand. Oh, I understand. All right. Well, shall we pick it up again in two weeks? Good idea. All right. No, that was easy enough.
 I want that map, Jonathan, of that thing that we passed in 2006. Sir, I'll try to distill it. I think it was a very long document. I'll try to pull that piece out. No, no, just get me the map. I got it from there. My memory's not gone completely complete. So, Mayor, since we're leaving this on the second reading, can I make a request of staff? Yes.
 I didn't want to put you on the spot tonight, but since we have an extra two weeks if You all could look and see how many calls we've had about flooding in the area especially to the west of
 uh just downstream from from there and also directly west because i believe those neighborhoods have actually had serious flooding concerns over the years and i think it would be important to have that information for them council we'll put that together thank you thank you all right well let us let us enter into new business all right number one resolution to approve the contract
 LLP pursuant to RFQ 18-14 for bond council services as needed through December 31st, 2024.
 Kutak Rock has been our bond counsel for the last five years. The contract is expiring in November. What this request is, is continue the contract for one more year. The reason for requesting that at this point of time, we still have bonds to issue pursuant to the 2019 contract.
 citizen approved uh... on plan uh... therefore i'm asking us to be written this be uh... property continued until twenty twenty four we still have fifteen million dollars worth of bonds
 that we are able to bring forward between now and that period of time. So I'm asking we continue the contract for one year until we issue the bonds. Another one thing to understand is the bond council and the bond underwriter is named in the request
 to the citizens when we go to approve the bonds pursuant to referendum. So I'm asking this be request, this be continued to give us the opportunity to finish that 2019 bond request which was approved by the citizens. Okay. What questions do we have from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any councilmen. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this in the chamber? Do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. This is a resolution. I need a motion.
 What discussion would you all like to have, or what action would you all like to take? I'll make a motion to approve your resolution as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Wiedecker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay, number two. Okay.
 A resolution to approve the contract with students incorporated for Senate to RFQ 18-15 for bond underwriting and related services as viewed through December 31, 2024. Paul. Same situation I explained before. Stevens is the underwriter, again, named in the bond referendum. So I'm asking that be continued for another year to initiate or finish the 2019 approved bond issue.
 I'm happy to answer questions. What questions do we have in the council? OK, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Just give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by the end of the speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 who you have on zoom no one all right i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution what discussion would the council like to have what action would the council like to take a move we approve is written second we have a motion and second to pass the resolution please call the roll weedeker yes erna yes yes yes yes herdsburg yes more yes
 Okay, number three, an ordinance to amend 151.01, definitions 161.31, district I-2, general industrial 162.01, establishing listing and or enactment 164.27 data centers in the unified
 continuation of data centers and Prevent noise disturbances in the city of federal and to declare an emergency kit Whereas the equipment associated with the cooling systems and generators required to operate data centers generate broadband noise and low frequency hums that result in noise disturbance and
 Noise disturbance is the cause of degradation and may produce negative impacts on public health, property, and the environment. And whereas noise attenuation should be an integral part of the design and construction of data centers in order to prevent noise pollution and noise disturbance, and whereas the City of Fayetteville finds that the public interest is served by the prevention of unreasonable noise emanating externally from data centers,
 the provisions of this ordinance are enacted for the purpose of preserving and protecting the public health safety and welfare and property of the residents of Fayetteville now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 151 o1 definitions of the Unified Development Code by enacting the following definition
 Data Center, a facility constructed and operated that is engaged in the storage, management, processing, and transmission of digital data, including facilities used for cryptocurrency mining,
 which houses networked computer systems along with supporting equipment such as batteries, backup power generators, HVAC, and cooling systems. A data center does not include a dwelling used for home digital asset mining as defined by Arkansas Code Annotated Section 14-1-501.
 Section 2 that the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends section 162.01 establishment listing in chapter 162 use units of the Unified Development Code by enacting a new section VV as follows. VV unit 47 data centers. Subsection 1 description.
 Unit 47 consists of uses related to facilities engaged in the storage, management, processing, and transmission of digital data, including facilities used for cryptocurrency mining, and for included uses, it lists data centers. Section 3.
 City Council, City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, hereby amends Section 161.31, District I-2, General Industrial of the Unified Development Code by adding Unit 47 to Subsection B-1 permitted
 Section 4 at the City Council city of Favillard are here by NAC section 164 point 2 7 data centers in chapter 164 supplemental zoning regulations and specialized development regulations of the unified amount development code as shown in exhibit a attached here to
 In Section 5, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville Archdiocese determines that if any provision of this ordinance is found to be invalid by the decision of any court of confidence jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining section, phrases, and provisions of this ordinance which shall remain valid and enforceable. And Section 6 is the Emergency Clause.
 The City Council and City of Fayetteville Archer hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay to address the potential harmful effects of noise disturbances emanating from data centers, which is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exist such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay. John. Oh, Sarah, you had this one.
 And we talked a little bit about this in the session, but just to kind of backtrack is in the state of Arkansas, there was legislation that was passed that basically said that no city or county could say no to crypto mining. And so there was a big discussion within the Municipal League about what crypto mining is and what is the impact as it came into some of the more rural areas of our state that have less regulation. Some of the feedback was what was mentioned in the ordinance was that crypto mining is
 concerns around noise, energy use, whether it was an appropriate place for that to reside in that locality. And so the Municipal League and some of the webinars and conversations as they worked through were making the recommendation that we just find an appropriate place to designate
 they wouldn't cause disturbance within the community. And so that is the premise. Now in the state of Arkansas as well, just to kind of get some history from talking to folks,
 is newer, but what has happened is that because the state of Arkansas tends to be a cheaper place for energy, that we actually are being sought out more forcefully for the potential for this business. And so while at first blush you would think maybe Fayetteville is not on the map for someone that they would consider, some of the things that they really look for are solid infrastructure, making sure that they have reliable energy source, and they
 water source if they're doing a cooling through water. And so because of that, because they're highly mobile, they don't have to take up a lot of space, they could easily come into Fayetteville in certain areas. And so I thought it was appropriate to try to bring it forward as quickly as we could when that came into effect August 1st. And that's why the emergency clause. And so I would hope that we could read it through in three readings tonight.
 I do know this is a newer subject and so in the event we have questions, I'm open to holding. I just, you know, obviously you don't want to find out with one instance where you have them end up, you know, locating and that causing a disturbance and then us, you know, learning and wanting to reconsider that.
 Mr. Mayor, I'd like to point out too that this ordinance is not just something we came up with, but it's been proposed as a form from the Municipal League and the Arkansas City Attorneys Association to address the problems that some of these cryptocurrency mining facilities have created when they have been located in Arkansas. And this was the best possible solution that the Municipal League proposed.
 I think I-2 heavy industrial is the right location for it because we have other noise issues coming out of the industrial park and also the industrial park and other industrial areas are somewhat not interspersed throughout the city as much and so this is probably a better place to protect our citizens by limiting them to I-2 areas.
 Okay, any other? Yes, Tracy. I have a lot of questions. I'm pretty familiar with this because Boone County has been in the throes of trying to address this kind of issue.
 What I hope that we don't, by bringing forward this ordinance, what I'm wondering, has any other city in Arkansas, city, not county, city in Arkansas, created a separate use unit like this? Because I'm not aware of that. And I don't want to send the wrong signal that we want your business here.
 I mean this kind of cryptocurrency would basically eliminate any hope that the city has of Achieving in 2015 a hundred percent renewable energy. It just wouldn't happen because they're such a energy hog so I Hear what you're trying to do, but I want a lot more background about has this been done in any other Arkansas City and
 And I think it no you have sorry go ahead. I think it probably has I can't tell you which city But this was put forward by the Arkansas Municipal League to city attorneys and to and city Administrations across Arkansas in order to try to protect them And so I don't think we're the first one to jump into this and other cities have done it This is the best protection we can get this is certainly not putting out the welcome mat this is putting them in a limited area and
 that if they do come with all the problems they bring, and I agree with you, I don't think they would be really good citizens, but unfortunately the legislature made a mistake and they passed this law at the end of the legislative session. The sponsor of it has come out publicly saying he regrets doing it and that they didn't read it well and he'd like to get it changed.
 But it hasn't been changed, and so therefore, I think this is the most responsible thing we can do at this point in time.
 But we have more protective noise ordinances than almost every other city in Arkansas and in what I've read is that our noise ordinances would be sufficient. Is that not the case, Kit? I wouldn't trust that. I think that if they are sufficient then we're safe. I don't think they are sufficient to do this for this constant hum.
 We have ours are measured just in the decibels and there's a difference between having some sound out there and then having a constant background sound which I think is what so many communities or the people that have been had problems that is it is this constant sound and our noise ordinance
 has some effect and I hope it would be effective for this, but I don't think that's enough. I think we ought to do this too and try to make sure that we're not going to have it in a place that's going to be much less favorable to our citizens. But wasn't that also a recommendation from the Municipal League is to implement noise ordinances?
 It might have been, but we got a good noise ordinance. I don't think we can probably go any lower than our noise ordinance. There is a higher level allowed in industrial areas, but the level is measured in Fayetteville by where it crosses into...
 some other zone that a person is living in. So that's where you measure it. And that's a lower level if it's a residential one. So I really think our noise ordinance is in good shape. And I think we've already done that, so we're ahead of the game. But I think this is a good secondary measure that at least limit it to already a heavy industrial zone. Thank you. OK. Well, I guess we'll take a little public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmember Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first And those participating by Zoom will speak after that who would like to speak on this topic? In the chat nobody on zoom in all right. Well, I'll bring back to the council. This is an ordinance and
 it is on the first reading, what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? I would like to, if it's okay, you mentioned that you wouldn't mind, you know, if we needed more time to digest this. You know, it sounds like
 something that you know I would be in support of but you know Teresa brought up some really good questions here and I'd kind of like to to be you know see if everyone might be in favor of just holding this I hate to just kick the can on every item down the road but I'll do whatever y'all
 What's the response from the audience? Well, you know, as I did offer it, I guess I would ask Jonathan today, if someone came in asking to put in place a crypto mining operation that would be more of a commercial, you know, an industrial or a larger size that's not residential, what would that process be like and where could they locate in Fayetteville today? Okay.
 That's a good question and this is something that's come up more recently in recent years as a theoretical Way of considering the use when we've looked at our existing use units where this would probably fall or where we determined it would fall It's new sheen at 21, which is warehousing Which does have a much wider breadth of areas of the city that's allowed most prominently in I won heavy commercial and light industrial and I to the zoning district proposed with this ordinance and
 To put that in perspective, most of the city's I-2 zoning, heavy industrial, is in the city's commerce part. Think about where our transfer station is, where the utility department is, that portion of town. The areas of town that are zoned I-1 are much more interspersed, kind of reflecting the more dispersed industrial pattern Fayetteville used to have when the railroad was more active.
 There are portions of I-1 that are very close proximity to residential areas, which bears noting. The most prominent ones are, if you know where –
 Crisis Brewery, sorry, is the only thing I can think of right there. That area between Poplar and Sycamore west of Gregg, that area still has quite a few industrial uses, a lot of warehousing, but it also immediately abuts a lot of apartments and residential uses. So there are places like that interspersed throughout Fayetteville where it would currently be allowed. And to speak to the question of the noise ordinance,
 As we get more and more into it, it has been an interesting education in the types of decibels that our equipment, our meters, the police department's meters tend to pick up and what they don't pick up necessarily. And this fits in a lot with what the council has probably heard about outdoor music venues, which is it's the base that's the irritant. And very often you will get the police department going to a property's boundary using their meters.
 picks up a within ordinance decibel level but things are being vibrated off the shelves a block away and so that's where a lot of the commentary has come from and a lot of the guidance has come from especially from the municipal league is that these facilities tend to have a very low base thrum that is not captured by typical noise ordinances and to answer council member turk's question more directly i'm not aware of any other cities that have taken the use unit
 approach to it. Greenwood, just east of Fort Smith, has adopted two new noise ordinance elements. I've not gotten familiar enough with them to know whether they address that distinction between types of decibel though. It would be really helpful if we hold this to have that kind of information next time
 from what greenwood has done and what their experience has been if they've had any experiences yet but it would be nice to see what other tools that are out there councilmember turk we can't ask the league to just send out on their listserv so we can get that information back jonathan i can handle that asking the league for what they know and then they'll propagate that to the cities thank you
 Like I said, this is really a Municipal League draft ordinance that we just made work for Fayetteville. And as you notice, the Municipal League recommended an emergency clause because, in fact, if we, before this is effective in Fayetteville,
 If they come into an I-1 area and they are interspersed throughout the city, sometimes in places you wouldn't think are there, on mission and other places where you've got nothing but residents all around it, if they come in and locate there before the ordinance is in effect, then that's it. They're there. They're prior nonconforming use.
 that's why I would urge that we go ahead and pass this tonight and even put the emergency clause on it because Otherwise, we might have a permanently unhappy neighborhood Because we waited and it's also you know If there is a if you see a problem with it You know in two or three weeks or something there was some sort of issue that came up that that we weren't thinking about we Can go back and amend it. But if we don't get this on the books, I
 then we are exposing ourselves to having one of the cryptocurrency entities locate in a very unsatisfactory place for Fayetteville.
 kit I think you sufficiently frightened me enough I'm going to I think we should go ahead and pass this to them. Alright then, so we need some motions around here. I'm going to make them, let's see what is this? I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Did I get public comment on this? Nope. Hang on. Alright. I'm going to move.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on topic please give us your name and address and those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and they'll participate by then speak after that who would like to address us on this issue mayor i could have sworn you took public comment and i resisted but a couple of things just about the physics of of low frequency sound
 low frequency waves propagate further and have the experience less interference from things like trees and fences and just the things in a room and that's why the base can really thump even when it may not have as high a decibel reading the the human impact of feeling it can be much higher and and
 and can go past the boundaries of the property line that we would normally measure at. So it can go through walls several buildings away and as a computer nerd for decades,
 Decades now I have done a little bit of crypto mining at my house. I don't do it regularly because the power consumption is so crazy back in college at over clocks and some computers to Superpower them and that required a lot of water cooling and fans and I can tell you that noise is insane and I would not do that again since I I
 I lived through a college dorm with that, but I would not want that anywhere near me now that I'm older and wiser. And I hope that you will take care of this tonight. Send them out to the industrial park. It's where they belong if they're gonna be here, and hopefully we don't get them at all. Thanks. Yeah, who else would like to address this? You have anybody on there? But nobody on Zoom, Mayor. All right, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 Did we have a second on that motion? Yes, you gave us a motion on taking it to the second reading, right Sarah? Oh, I thought Mike did. Did you second it? Well, okay, somebody seconded it. Second. Oh, sounds good. Have you got that, Karen? Thank you very much. Would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Moore?
 Yes And orange cement section 150 101 excuse me definitions section 161 3 1 district I to general industrial and section 162 o 1 establishment listing and to enact section 164 to 7 data centers and unified development code to address external noise attenuation of data centers and prevent noise disturbances in the city of Fayetteville and to declare an emergency I
 i propose we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second no motion second to go third and final read care would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes more yes yes
 in order to amend section 151.01 definitions section 161.31 district i2 general industrial and section 162.01 establishment listing and to enact section 164.27 data centers in the unified development code to address external noise attenuation of data centers and to prevent noise disturbances in the city of Fayetteville and to declare an emergency okay any final comments from the council
 I just want to reiterate again. I don't want us to be perceived as putting the welcome man out Because this will in many ways not even with this new Ordinance will not really end up being a good thing for Fayetteville. So if they're listening, I hope you don't come. Thank you Okay final comments
 can you please call me up whittaker yes verna yes yes kirk yes herzberg yes more yes the mayor there needs to be a separate motion on the emergency on the emergency motion to declare an emergency sorry i motion that we passed that this is an emergency second we have a motion second to pass the emergency clause on the court any more comments on that
 Kevin, please call the line. Whittaker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Lynch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. All right, that passed also. All right, let's move along to number four. In order to approve vacation 23-0003, property located near North Shiloh Drive in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of the utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA section 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof Which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portions of utility easement It is not required for corporate purposes Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of utility easement as described in exhibits a and B attached to the planning department's memo
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as exhibit a to a planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk and section 3 this vacation approval subject to the following conditions number one any new easements required by a EP Swepco are to be obtained with final easement plan of any associated large-scale development In section 2 any damage to a relocation of any existing facilities will be at the applicants expense Okay, Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located south of West Mount Comfort Road and west of 49. If you're familiar with where Adventure Subaru is, if you head due south from there on Mount Comfort Road until it dead ends, you'll be looking into this particular piece of property. It may be just as familiar or more familiar to the council from the large scale development that was heard by council earlier this year on appeal from the Planning Commission.
 It was approved and appealed to Council by some residents, but ultimately the Planning Commission's approval was upheld. As a reminder of what that request looks like, it's for a multifamily project that would be straddling both sides of the future extension of Shiloh. What a request coming before you tonight looks like is the vacation of the general utility easement area that you see here in red.
 In survey terms, what that looks like is approximately 0.26 acre piece of land varies from about 25 to 30 feet wide by about 450 to 460 feet long, whose vacation is necessary in order to locate the buildings, if council recalls, as much out of the floodplain as possible.
 When reviewing the request, staff did not find any issues with it. All the city's franchise utilities have consented to it, and as a result we're recommending approval of that, of the vacation proposal. The only franchise utility that commented was SwepCo, and they requested that a condition be included that as the project moves forward.
 it would as a part of its easement plat which is when you dedicate easements right away to the city it would include anything necessary by sweptco so those documents are reviewed and signed by the utilities otherwise and as mr williams noted the other condition recommended is that any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's request or at the applicant's expense which is more of a boilerplate condition than anything
 And because it's been a while since we've seen these I always like to advise easement vacations do not go to Planning Commission So that's why you don't see a Planning Commission recommendation here And I'm happy to take any questions the council has and may I believe Libby topping this here as the applicant for the item Yeah, can like speak for the council
 Hi, my name is Libby Topping with Kraft and Toll. I think staff did a great report so I'm just here to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. What questions does the council have for the applicant or staff? All right, this takes public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration.
 I don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Mr. President, in the chamber, will you be allowed to speak first? No, this thing goes in. We'll speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic? No, sir. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, so what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? No? No.
 Prior to any motions, we need to wait for Kerr to return. Oh, sorry, sorry. Oh, you got it? OK, I'm sorry. My fault. I would move to suspend. Wait, did we take public comment yet? I'm always jumping the gun. I already did public comment. I would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Move the motion to second. Go to second reading. Guy Jackson? Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Okay. An ordinance to approve DAC 23-3 for property located near North Shiloh Drive in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of utility easement. I would move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion to second the third and final reading. Please call the roll. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg?
 Moore? Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 23-3 for property located near North Silo Drive in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of the utility easement. Any final comments from the council? That's Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go to number five.
 An ordinance to rezone a property described in the rezoning petition RZN 23-019, located at 1634 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, Ward 1, for approximately .88 acres from RO residential office and C2 thoroughfare commercial to C2 thoroughfare commercial kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.O. Residential Office and C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial of about .88 acres.
 section two that the city council the city of fable arcs are here by men's official zoning map of the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay jonathan thank you mayor this particular property is on the north side of martin luther king it's about a thousand feet west of razorback roads intersection with martin luther king as you can see here on the overhead aerial this specific site is on the northwest corner of mlk and eastern av
 It may be most recognizable to some on the council as the location of Boss Man Tacos, a drive-through taco shop. It's currently split zoned, or it has been split zoned effectively since zoning has been enacted in Fayetteville as far back as the 1970s. It was divided between C2 Thoroughfare Commercial along the southern portion of the site and RMF 24 along the northern portion. Sometime between now and then, the northern portion was rezoned to RO, leaving it with
 C2RO split zoning designation for the property. The request is to rezone the property or the portion of the property remaining RO to C2 to give it a consistent zoning across the entire site.
 When reviewing the request, staff first considered it for in terms of land use compatibility considerations. When reviewing the overall area, which includes the major Martin Luther King Boulevard, Jr., several automotive-oriented businesses along it, segueing into fairly high-density residential housing to the north, staff does find the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses.
 The less straightforward, however, is the plans or the proposals alignment with our future land use map. The city's designation for the site in the future land use map is as a, excuse me, have city neighborhood area there. It should be urban center. I apologize for that mistake. That should read urban center area, which is those most intense future land use map designation.
 which generally when applied citywide is intended to accommodate the fullest spectrum of residential and commercial uses, but also acknowledging that in certain areas, especially near interchanges and along some transportation corridors, zoning districts that are more auto oriented in nature may be more appropriate.
 when it comes to infill if you're considering it from a commercial info standpoint this certainly gets a several points in its regard most prominently for infill on the commercial side is fire response water sewer and access to a paved trail and transit since the proposed c2 zone district does not allow any residential uses however the the points for infill associated with schools aren't necessarily as much of a perk or as much in favor of the request
 with that said the two primary items i wanted to touch on i've already alluded to are that the c2 zoning district allows much more intense commercial activities which does align with that aspect of our future land use map and long-range planning goals it does however eliminate some of the residential uses that are allowed currently in the ro zoning district
 The further consideration is, as I noted, this is being used as a drive-through taco stand. The previous drive-through use was approved under conditional use permits in the past, and rezoning the entire property to C2 would allow a legal non-conforming use, because that's a conditional use permit, to exist by right, allowing more readily to modify the property.
 on the balance of those issues ultimately staff recommends in favor of the request the planning commission forwarded the city council with no discussion they felt comfortable with staff's recommendation and it was afforded by afforded unanimously otherwise there's been no public comment on the item and mayor have patrick hennigan here as the applicant and i'm available for any questions i'm sorry i believe he's online mayor okay you have 10 minutes if you speak for the
 So Mr. Hennigan, please go ahead. Hands up. His hand is raised, but he's unmuted, right? Here we go. Can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Sorry about that. Patrick Hennigan with GMKB Fayetteville. I think staff did a great job with the report, and I'm here to answer any questions that you may have. What questions does the council have for the staff or for the applicant? Anything?
 okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what discussion would the council like to have what action action would the council like to take
 I would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second. Care, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 23-19 located at 1634 West Martin Luther King Jr Boulevard in Ward 1 for approximately 0.88 acres from RO residential office and C2 Thrift Fair Commercial to C2 Thrift Fair Commercial. I would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final. Please call the roll. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay.
 In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition, RZN 23-19, located at 1634 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in Ward 1 for approximately 0.88 acres from RO residential office and C2 thoroughfare commercial to C2 thoroughfare commercial. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Weedeker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Banks? Yes. Turt? Yes.
 Ertzberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six.
 A resolution pursuant to 39.10C4 of the federal city code to authorize the mayor to pay the total amount of $50,000 to Laura Gray for a water damage claim arising at 1284 East Shadow Ridge Drive and to approve the budget's justice. Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. On October the 14th of last year, the city experienced an 8-inch water main break on East Shadow Ridge Drive.
 Laura Gray owns the home located at 1284 East Center Ridge Drive. The water main break caused flooding to the residence. Laura Gray's insurance company denied her claim, so she filed a damage claim with the city after the incident.
 Estimates were received for foundation repair, landscaping repairs, painting and drywall repair, and pool and spa repairs. Itemized the damage estimates were the foundation repair at $50,811.81, the landscaping at $5,000, the painting and drywall at $3,600,
 The pool maintenance at $349.01, and the pool and spa $493.88, and the spa replacement, which was depreciated, $9,492.16, for a total of $69,746.86.
 The staff does recommend joint payments to Laura Gray and the repair vendors to allow for the damage repairs to be completed to restore the home, landscaping, pool and spa. The staff recommends approval to reimburse Laura Gray for the maximum amount allowed by section 3910 of the city code. Do you have any answering questions? Okay, is the applicant here? Laura Gray, is she here? I don't believe so. Okay.
 All right, just checking to make sure she's not. What questions do we have for Tim on this thing?
 A quick question, Tim. You did bring this before water and sewer, right, I believe? I brought it before water and sewer, before we had all the estimates in, so I did not ask for a vote. But if you remember, I emailed the committee to see if it was okay to go ahead and bring it to the committee, not to use up another two weeks. That's right. Thank you for that reminder. And then what was the size of pipe? I'm just curious. That was an 8-inch. An 8-inch. Okay. Thank you.
 Okay, any other questions for Tim? Okay, well, let's take some public comment. We have everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilman. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, those present. In the chamber, be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that'd like to speak on this topic? Anyone on Zoom?
 Mr. Hennigan still has his hand raised, but he was speaking on the item two items ago, so I don't think he, he just took his hand down. Thank you, Mr. Hennigan. Maybe next time. All right. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have? This is a resolution. What action would you all like to take? I move we approve the resolution as presented. Second. Motion second to approve the resolution as presented.
 All right. Any final comments? Care to please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Moore? Yes. That requires a two-thirds vote, and you got that. Okay. All right, let's move on to number seven, a resolution to grant the appeal to Councilmember Scott Berna, Holly Hertzberg, and DeAndre Jones. Thank you.
 and approved conditional use permit CUP 2023-073 for a short-term rental at 10 South Palmer Avenue. Jonathan, do you have anything on this? I do, Mayor. I'm sorry, I'm having a little bit of a technical difficulty here. I did realize the council member was here. Yeah, I'm happy to present the topic and if you'd like afterwards. Yes, let's get. Perfect.
 I'll start describing the item while I try to resolve my issue here. This particular property is just west of the University campus. It's located at the, excuse me, just allow me a moment please.
 Hang on just a minute. Does any of the council members like to speak on why they did the appeal? Scott. Yeah, I'll just say that I agreed to sign off on the appeal for a couple reasons. Not necessarily that I'm going to vote for or against it, but I felt like the conditional use permit applicant had followed all the rules that we as a city council have set before us.
 has quite honestly looked to me like had been a star pupil because he had done exactly what we would want him to do. And it felt like the staff had approved it and then the Planning Commission had applied some rules that are not necessarily...
 in play right now for reasons for denial. So again, I haven't made my mind up that I'm going to agree or disagree, but I felt like the applicant had a right to have his voice heard. Okay. Ollie, do you have any comments?
 Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. I agree with Scott. I don't feel like we've sufficiently codified the compatibility by density, and we're going to be discussing that starting tomorrow at the Ordinance Review Committee. But I would like for the applicant to have a chance to have his argument heard at the council, and maybe we can look again at the ordinance and the rules that were applied. Okay. Jonathan, are you ready now? I am. I appreciate the council's patience with me. Okay. Okay.
 We got nothing but time around here. Here we go. Yes. The property is, I describe it as West Fayetteville, some might describe it as Central Fayetteville. Either way, it is west of the main University of Arkansas campus. It includes a single family home in the southeast corner of Palmer and Central and includes a home that was built in 1966 with currently three separate curb cuts onto the property.
 The request before the council tonight is, as the council member has noted, it's an appeal from the Planning Commission's denial to operate a Type 2 short-term rental in the City of Fayetteville. As my ongoing reminders include, Type 2 short-term rentals are those permanently operated as a short-term rental. They're not intended to have a permanent resident. They're more often than not used as a short-term rental.
 And also as a further reminder, Council somewhat recently modified the cap of Type 2 short-term rentals allowed in Fayetteville from a 2% number of the total housing units to a hard 475 number. And as of today, we're sitting at about 400 that have been approved with a 4%.
 believe it's a few dozen additional ones that are in the queue being considered various stages of business licensing or waiting Planning Commission consideration you give me that number again how many it's about 400 I think as Britain shared with you all about the housing presentation on Tuesday our numbers are updated daily it just depends if somebody gets the right document at the right time if there's a Planning Commission hearing
 So we are just hovering around 400 right now and I'll have a very firm number for you all at ordinance review tomorrow evening. Back to this particular request, again it's a single family dwelling sitting on a corner lot. It includes about 3,000 square feet, built in 1966. You can see a few pictures of it here. These are looking at it from the east side and the south side as well.
 The house has five bedrooms under our short-term rental ordinance that would allow up to 12 visitors. Ordinance allows two per bedroom plus two additional. When reviewing the request, staff has some concerns about the availability of parking that I'll go into in a little bit. So our recommendation on occupancy in particular is to limit it to 10 rather than the 12 that would normally be allowed by right. Moving on to that specific parking issue.
 As an older home, as those may be familiar with many parts of Fayetteville, there are no garages on this piece of property. There are, however, three driveways, two driveways on the northern side of the property off of Center that are paved and more formal and a less formal but used driveway that's made out of gravel on Palmer Avenue.
 Staff has concerns with the use of the informal gravel driveway that it could lead to vehicles pulling onto the lawn or just expanding organically over time. And so our recommendation is to not include a condition of approval if Council were to approve it that does not allow the gravel driveway to be used by guests unless it is paid to city standard.
 additionally this would fall under this property as any single-family home would fall into the requirement allowing only four vehicles on the property at a given time here's a picture from the applicants or their application which indicates with stars where those driveways are the two on the northern side of the property again along Center Street are those that are paved the one to the southwest is the unpaved driveway coming from Palmer
 The applicant has advised that they'll be storing the trash cart similar to how it would be when it was a residential property. There's an area next to the, sorry, I said there weren't garages earlier, they're not usable garages as I understand it, near those garage doors that you can see on the site.
 When considering the request there as you all know there are several conditions of That can be considered for denial One is if there's adequacy of parking Again staffs recommendation is that be limited to the two paved driveways, which would in effect limit it to four vehicles off street There's a question of adequacy of the streets and street parking. There is no parking allowed on either center or Palmer and
 Another consideration is the existence of zoning violations, which staff has not identified any. And lastly, it's the concentration of Type 2 short-term rentals. The metric that we've shared that staff uses is a quarter mile. And within that quarter mile range, there have been seven that have been permitted. I think as we've spoken about before, this metric is used to capture existing permitted, or excuse me, permitted Type 2 short-term rentals, not necessarily those that are operating without a license.
 uh lastly i wanted to touch on public comment uh there has been public comment uh both or at the or before the planning commission at the planning commission and since then
 those are opposed to the request or at least offering very serious concerns most prominently of what seems to be parking again no on street parking is allowed on Palmer or Center there have been a number of concerns also offered about the potential for tailgating issues some residents have noted that there have been improvements to the house that would be accommodating of larger events which according to our short-term rental ordinance are not allowed it does not allow
 Baby showers, wedding events, tailgating parties, things of that nature. And that was a piece of the planning commission's discussion was that interaction between our short term rental ordinance and any laws that may pertain to events like tailgating parties. Other concerns are about the number of short term rentals in the area.
 The concerns that there's not an on-site or on-property ownership presence in the event that there are parties that need to be addressed or mellowed out. And then lastly, that there is concern that taking this house out or into the short-term rental market removes it from the student housing market, and given its proximity to the university, that that's a more appropriate location for that.
 Ultimately, staff did recommend in favor of the conditional use permit. The Planning Commission, however, recommended in denial of it unanimously. I believe Council Members Berna and Hertzberg have already spoken to their reasons for wanting to sponsor the request. I'm happy to take any questions. And, Mayor, I believe there's representatives of the, I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing it, the Baker family or Baker family here tonight. Yes, I'd like to speak for the council.
 Yeah, yeah, you're up. You're not speaking up. We can't hear you back there. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Mr. Mayor, City Council, my name is Ben Israel. I'm a 57-year resident of Northwest Arkansas, and I've been in real estate development and brokerage for the last 35 years.
 I was the acting agent broker for the family that bought the Baker family who bought the property and Their intention was that for the next four to six years their kids their two young men would go through the school and they would live in the house along with some some other renters that would help pay for the house and then beyond that they would use it as a rental and I
 I saw a picture up there a minute ago of the house, and I couldn't believe how much different it is today. I wish you could go by and see it. They spent $150,000 on the house. When they bought it, the back deck was falling off. There was unbelievable damage to the house, both interior and exterior, and they spent $150,000 to bring it up to speed. It's nicer than the house I live in right now.
 So, they've spent a lot of money. I think that the house has doubled in value based on what they've done with it. But my thought process is that it's what, less than 100 yards to the university campus, what parent wouldn't want to come up and attend ball games. It's so close to every sport we have except basketball.
 The only sport it's not close to is golf, so that'd be kind of hard to be close to golf. But it is an amazing property. It would work very well for short-term rentals, and I would highly recommend you drive by it and see it if we don't get approved tonight or whatever we do.
 But it is, I believe in what they're trying to do. I know that they are good people and they will oversee the property. It is not a property that will go into a dangerous position. I mean, it's not a property that would get run down. Again, I wish you could have seen it. I don't think there's any problem with paving the drive, as he mentioned. We've talked about that. That may be necessary. So...
 I'll be happy to answer any questions or let someone else speak. Okay, well, you all have seven minutes. Is there any questions for the applicant or the staff from the council? Thank you. All right. If you don't have any questions, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the council chamber? Go ahead. Okay. First of all, Jonathan, I thought gave a very even-handed description of everything that's going on, so my compliments to you.
 It's taking my time. My name is Alan Baker. I reside at 19 North Palmer, which is about two homes north of 10 Palmer and Caddy Corner. I want to thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak against the City Council overturning the Planning Board's decision to deny a Type 2 rental for property located at 10 Palmer.
 Just as sort of a note, approved or pending approval short-term rentals on Palmer average, just the two small blocks that I live on, well I only live on one, but equal about 30% of the homes.
 And you made a very good point. It's the ones that we know of. And one of the flaws, I think, in the system of 475 is that it's not allocated per ward. And so what you're going to see is in my neighborhood, College Heights, you're going to have an exorbitant number of short-term rentals either authorized or pending or not authorized.
 The planning board in denying the type two short-term rental, the planning board last month referred to College Heights as a neighborhood in distress. And they took everything into consideration and made their decision. It's not just the rentals. It's the drag racing on the streets. It's the parking violations. It's the noise. It's the stop signs. We got to the point now where people don't even slow down at four-way stops. I've never seen anything quite like it.
 If the City Council overturns the Planning Board's decision to deny the Type 2 short rental IS to those that vote in favor, to explain the metrics they used to determine the Planning Board decision was incorrect and should be overturned. Some points of interest.
 I think highlighting, and I don't know the gentleman at all, so this is not personal, but this disingenuousness of the owner. And he's not alone. There's a lot of people that own short-term rentals that say things, but then they don't do things. The owner stated rentals would take their trash approximately 100 feet from the kitchen to the shed in the backyard. That ain't going to happen. I don't think anybody's going to take it 100 feet. And that's an easy fix, but it just goes into disingenuousness.
 The owner advertised his property online for rent before he was granted a business license, which is in violation of the city code. The owner continued to advertise his property online even after the planning board denied his permit. The owner listed the property online as being able to accommodate 12 individuals despite the planning board's initial approval for 10 individuals.
 All have been corrected, but again, point out to the disingenuousness of the owner. The owner has parking for a limited number of vehicles. Now, if you take into consideration, and this is not scientific, the F-150, the Suburban, the Yukon, the Tahoe, if all the vehicles, the four, were those size, he can park two vehicles. You can't park on the gravel. You can't park on the gravel.
 You can't park on the city paid for little parking spot that's just to the north of his home because it'll be sticking out on the sidewalk. And you can park two in front of what was a garage.
 So, again, it's fine if it's much cars, that's okay. But if it's not, it's your standard vehicle, he can only park two. From what I can see, he's essentially built a duplex in a single-family development. And it appeared that the owner's number one interest is maximizing the amount of money he can make with no regard for the quality of life of the neighborhood at large. Case in point, he took a three-car garage and turned it into living space. So he eliminated the biggest problem we've got near the campus, and that's parking.
 Will the City's, the Council's decision tonight support City Ordinance, and I don't think I got this right, but 172.111 or something like that, but the City Ordinance that says
 In regards to short-term rentals, four cars per single-family home promotes public health, supports safety and general welfare in single-family developments, and ensures compatibility of land use within single-family districts. Final point, imposing limits on things like number of cars that can park in a single-family development does not work if there's no enforcement. The City does not enforce parking violations.
 unless it's metered parking on Dixon Street or downtown square. They just don't. I live in College Heights. Nobody gets a ticket. The fire department doesn't care. They don't seem to care. Imposing requirements for owners to have trained representatives to respond to violations doesn't work. In the last quarter, I've been part of a short-term rental that had 12 vehicles and in another instance had 8 motorcycles.
 bottom line you can have all the codes and all the regulars all the provisions but they're useless unless there's an enforcement in the city and it doesn't seem to be i ssd council to not overturn the planning board's decision to deny type 2 short-term rental at 10 palmer but if you do overturn i would ask this you explain the planning board or somebody what were your matrix in overturning a very well thought out decision by the planning board and that's it and i appreciate your time thank you no not that
 Okay, who would like to address us next? Good evening. My name is Jennifer Law and I reside at 19 North Palmer Avenue. I attended the July 24th Fayetteville Planning Commission meeting where the request by 10 Palmer Avenue for the short-term rental property was denied. Prior to that July meeting and even three and a half weeks after the meeting,
 10 North Palmer was advertising on Airbnb for short-term rental business. Now, I'm not an attorney, but this is a clear violation of the Fayetteville short-term rental business license requirements that states no short-term rental can be advertised prior to having obtained a business license or
 and the business license number shall be included in the advertising listing. On August 14th, I did file through your, I think it's a fairly new site, C-Click Fix, and I sent it to the Fayetteville Planning Commission. I request to please address the violation that 10 North Palmer,
 I even attached a screenshot showing the advertisement on Airbnb. My request remains open. I've not received any information from the Planning Commission as to my request. I leave you with the following thoughts. Does the City intend to enforce code violations that have been committed?
 I have to be also concerned with the blatant audacity of Tim Palmer because they advertise for short-term rental knowing they did not have a license and were denied a short-term rental license. What I'd like from the Fayetteville City Council is assurances.
 We seem to not get enforcement when violations regarding these short-term rentals are violated. Nothing is done. Believe me, I live there. I tripped over the eight motorcycles on the sidewalk one night. But I would like to have some assurances that violations are committed, that they will be addressed and taken care of. Thank you for granting me this time. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Hello, my name is Bailey Beikirk. I live at 1961 East Overcrest where I've been a Fayetteville resident for the past four or five years now. I used to reside and live in 10 South Palmer. I am the son of my father, Steven Beikirk, who purchased the property.
 I want to say that I have immense care for the property, not only from going over there every week to mow the property and to talk with neighbors and ensure it looks good, but
 Just also like keeping a well presence with the city of Fayetteville. From people that come up and travel for Razorback games, I've met fans from all over the state of Arkansas, whether they use the house for parking or just are walking by on their way to the Razorback games.
 So I wanted to say that. Also additionally, I did put the house on Airbnb before the July 24th meeting. And the reason was for that was just to simply get the skeleton of the house listed. And I had blacked out all of the dates.
 through the rest of 2023 and into January and February of 2024 to ensure that there would be no bookings. This was my idea for the short term rental, and I wanted to make sure that I had done everything the right way in the correct way and the most legal way. And to address density, there are currently in June's
 planning and commission meetings, there was two short-term rentals approved that also had densities of seven in which we are going up against same type of those. That was CUSP 2023 0056 and additionally 2023 0060 and then the reason for putting the capacity at 12 for the short-term rental was per the code that
 two per bedroom. We had five bedrooms plus two overall. That was the reason for 12. And I'm happy to bring that down to comply with whatever needed. Additionally, while we were renting this property out to college students, it was very tough.
 to manage the college students, especially during some of the years of COVID in which a lot of online classes were occurring. It was tough in that I would say like more home gatherings were happening rather than going out to restaurants and other parts of the town. So dealing with noise complaints and everything was difficult. And that was for the large decision of saving money to try and move away from college students because
 Just like the care for the property really wasn't there and it's kind of you know kind of Disturbing when you're walking into that and seeing that so But yeah, I've talked with I think a few of you I've even talked with DeAndre I think he's in Hawaii for his 50th birthday party I sent an email to you guys asking for your support on this and I appreciate your time Then everything that you do for the city of Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you Who else would like to address this? No, no, no, no, no
 no you cannot okay last one tonight i promise mayor um this is an interesting uh interesting position uh i think for this property to be in because almost exactly a year ago on august 16 2022 we were here talking about rezoning requests
 for this property to be turned into RIU for, I believe it was up to four units on this property as a redevelopment project.
 Staff supported that planning commission was split and the council voted eight to zero at the time against Allowing this to be redeveloped in a more economical and efficient land use and so here we are we've put the owners in a position where they have to Do major upgrades to a property that was described at the time as deteriorating they've likely
 invested so much into it that they've made it hard to rent and so now this is a this makes sense from their perspective As a way to recoup their money. This is a consequence of the council's actions a year ago That doesn't mean that the short-term rental is the right move for the neighborhood. I think that it's not I hope you will deny it and
 I don't know what that does to the landowner. Maybe they have to turn it into a flip where they sell it to somebody who will buy it and move into it. Maybe they're able to rent it long term. But we could have had four new housing units here close to the university, and instead we've got one very expensive one. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hello. Hello.
 My name is Carol Lester. I live two doors down from number 10 South Palmer Avenue. I want to thank you all for allowing me to speak to encourage you to deny this type 2 Airbnb, VRBO type property. As a former Airbnb-er, I did rent my property. I did have high-end clients there.
 And even at that, you cannot control what goes on when you're not there. You simply cannot. I had an issue one time of 13 cars parked in my front yard, and they were paying dearly to even spend the night in my house. And so I just bowed out this year and said, no, I'm not going to do it anymore. One of the main reasons is because of what it does to your neighborhood. Now, at the planning...
 Committee meeting that denied the short-term rental type 2 We talked very much about Service vehicles being able to get down South Palmer or or all of Palmer and you you alluded to the parking issue But how are you going to get ambulances fire trucks, whatever when there's an emergency?
 We have a lot of older people like me that live on Palmer. And, you know, one of these days we're going to need someone to come help someone on Palmer. I just want to remind you all of that. That's what we talked about at the planning commission meeting. And then another thing, the property that is in view right now has a history of being a party house.
 And I'm sure that these young men are great young men. However, every Thursday afternoon, they would have some kind of a beer fest. It was almost every Thursday afternoon. They would rent the big bouncy houses. They would have, I don't know, 75 kids, loud music, all of that going on in the middle of the day.
 Thursdays and the authorities were called many times I do not know if anything if you know if anyone responded but we have a neighborhood we're University Heights we have families that live there and this is not what we want our neighborhood to be known as we're trying to preserve an old neighborhood
 where people can walk down the street and say, hey, how are you doing? We know each other. And when you have constant people coming in that really don't care what goes on in your neighborhood, and this is going to be not just for Razorback Games, it'll be all the time. If I'm understanding what type 2 rental is, it's just like a hotel room. And they want to keep it full all the time.
 So, those are concerns that I have for my neighborhood. It's concerns that I have for the children that live on Palmer, and also for the older people that live on Palmer. Thank you very much. I appreciate you listening. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Excuse me, council members, I appreciate your time. My name is Steve Biker. I'm actually the owner of 10 South Palmer.
 First and foremost, your city staff was really incredible and generous with their time in helping us navigate this process, so please give them a thank you. Let me tell you a little bit about me very directly. I've been a small business owner. Our family's been small business owners since 1957. I own a beverage distribution business. I've been an owner of that business since 2000, myself in Kansas, where I reside today.
 I've been small business of the year. I've been a board member of numerous charities in my community. I've always given back in my community. I'm very foundationally present in my community as a past Chamber of Commerce president as well. I say that just to let you know that I'm not a fly-by-night person. I believe in small towns. I live in small towns. This property is heavily renovated to the tune of $150,000. I believe we've added value to this neighborhood.
 our intention is to have an airbnb that follows all the rules we have tried vigorously to follow all the rules in this process and i appreciate uh mr bernard recognizing that earlier there's also a shortage of housing for game days as i know because when i came down here to visit my boys from there in school trying to find somewhere to stay was always a challenge um you can't you can't control your attendance all the time i totally 100 percent get that get that
 This property should not go into Airbnb or short-term rental process. This property probably be leased out to college kids again. I do have debt service on the property. So I guess I could rent out to college kids. I think you're gonna have less traffic, less noise, less issue with a short-term rental than you would with a long-term tenants, my personal belief.
 We will add noise monitors to the property, we'll have ring doorbell monitors in the property to control the number of tenants in there. We will have very tight rules and restrictions on there such as if the police are called there will be a fine to the tenants that are renting in short-term rentals. Those are becoming more commonplace to address some of the tenants that get on short-term rentals that aren't the best tenants.
 Think with us you will have a short-term rental owner that cares about the property and does actually care about the neighborhood Unfortunately, our neighbors don't know me and who I am and hopefully with the opportunity to get this permit We can prove to them over time that we are very viable and caring community member There are four parking spots trash cans will not be placed in the shed We'll create a proper structure for the trash cans and
 We'll address some of those issues. We do believe we've added value just in the renovations, and I think that adds to the neighborhood quite a bit. So the property itself is dramatically different than it was. We closed in the space in the garage and put kind of French doors there
 Just because I really didn't want cars parked in the garage, which was close access to the basement. There's bedrooms down there I just didn't like the way the system was set up. I just didn't think it was the safest for the guests so I can ask I can answer any questions or for any anyone that has questions, but just let you know that small business owner care about our communities and it doesn't change whether or
 And you have two local property managers here. They'll be my sons that live in Arkansas. They were great students in Arkansas. And they'll be there to observe the property and make sure it's run well. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening, I'm Bill Bradley. I live on West Pratt Drive in the neighborhood. I don't have a lot of new things to offer that my neighbors haven't already brought up as far as concerns.
 I will say it's interesting to me, having gone through the City's processes many times, that filling out your applications right and properly is tantamount to approval with some. So I think that the
 know it's a slippery slope and I think one of the things that I'd like to know and maybe y'all can respond is what is the I'm assuming there's a coherent plan or one in the works to handle this phenomenon of short-term rentals and and what is it I mean I haven't seen anything that outlines it
 you know the planning commission who is familiar with details like that much more than me unanimously advise the council that its conditional use permit should not be granted so i mean you know at a minimum i'm confused that's probably not all that abnormal but that's i'm confused by what is the plan and
 Does anybody want to respond to that? No, we can, but it will eat up whatever time you have left. Bill? Go ahead, Jonathan. Certainly, Mayor. Thanks for the question. To say that as far as whether there's a plan or a strategy for short-term rentals, it's certainly been an evolving one, just like most cities in the United States have been evolving in how they handle short-term rentals and understand their impacts on neighborhoods.
 Initially, the city recognized that there was a concern or a very fine distinction between those that are operated by people permanently as short-term rental. We decided to apply much more stringent regulations on how frequently those can be versus type one short-term rentals where people get out of town for bikes, blues, and barbecue or whatever it may be and want to rent during games. That's one piece of the structure of it. Another piece is about how many of these would be located citywide.
 Initially, the staff recommended and the council approved an ordinance that allowed for 2% of the housing stock to be used for Type 2 short-term rentals. As we've seen the short-term rental impacts roll out throughout the City of Fayetteville, it was recognized that that's probably too many.
 And so recently the city council reduced that down to a hard number of 475, which was effectively cutting in half what could be allowed citywide. So I think it is definitely a work in progress as it is with any city ordinances trying to keep up with technology. But I think council is definitely recognizing that there are impacts that either were not foreseen or the acuteness of them were not foreseen up to this point. So I'm not sure if that answers your question.
 Well, kind of. It's a work in progress, is what I heard. Yes, the Ordinance Reviews Committee is reviewing this tomorrow night, I believe. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct, Mayor. Thank you. Well, and it's a slippery slope, I'm sure. But, you know, the first thing was there was zoned single-family residence, and they have a bunch of mini hotels.
 come in is disruptive and you've already heard of the hazards that that can cause. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening. My name is Karen Pierce. I'm at 1634 Hotz Drive, which is next door to Palmer.
 10 Palmer is a single family for zone. I don't even know why we keep coming back here to discuss this because it's a single family neighborhood. And these type two VBROs are inundating our neighborhood. As the owner stated in his letter to you guys that was published online, he said it's renting to students would be worse than renting to VBRO visitors.
 I'm saying that's not so. When our students rent, they're nine month residents and sometimes longer. But once the owner and the city reminds them that they're renting a home and not a venue, and when they're renting to three unrelated students, it's not an overcrowding, it's not a party. It's when these homes are rented as venues, we
 become endangered. The emergency vehicles, ambulance and firetruck at Palmer and Center, they're literally blocking them from coming into our neighborhood. If my husband has a heart attack, who's going to break up the party? And he keeps saying what a better home it is now that they've remodeled before they had permission.
 It was run down when he had it. He didn't take care of it when it was a rental. It was a party venue. You should have seen the super slides and the near-naked girls and the beer everywhere. Everyone drives so fast to get to these homes and venues. We have a toddler park right there on Hutt and Palmer. And there are children playing with these cars, racing through the neighborhood with no respect.
 The VBRO people rent it and they're going home. They don't care if they parked on the street, blocked an emergency vehicle, used too much of our sewage lines. It's an old neighborhood and they're having 10 to 20 people or when they have their big party venues, 100 people. It's just awful.
 causing so much stress on the infrastructure and the neighbors. 10 Palmer is an SF4 property. That's my neighborhood. I stated it. I can't say it again. And this man knew it when he purchased the property. He remodeled before he got his permission. I'll say it again.
 VBR, okay, also I need to correct, they did advertise after they were told not to. One of our neighbors checked to see if she could rent it, and they were going to rent it to her. She put the dates in and everything. So I beg your pardon. VABRO renters do not value that it's a family neighborhood. They rent it for a party. It becomes a venue.
 We have other places they can rent venues. Yes, the owner stated, it's perfect for parents to come and visit. We're by all the games. That doesn't mean you can...
 turn the family neighborhood into a micro hotel. And that's what these are. Yet, he doesn't have it set up as a micro hotel either. They don't have sprinkler systems. Some of these places have their bonfires right next to the house. They don't care. They're going home. They don't care if they burn down our neighborhood. They are having motorcycles and cars partying into the middle of the night.
 The police do not give tickets. There's no accountability for these people. We're guarding the kids as best we can, but there will be an accident one day. I mean, they're just going too fast. We would like for you to deny the type 2 status for Palmer Avenue, please, and thank you for letting me speak. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 My name is Beth Lewis. I live at 15 North Garvin Avenue, which is just a couple of blocks north of 10 Palmer I'm in that neighborhood. I I can appreciate how the owners of Tim Palmer have put in the Renovations on the house and they have improved the home and all
 However, they did it prematurely, it seems to me. And the issue more is not the improvement in the house. The issue to me is the people. What you're doing in our neighborhood by allowing many of those mini hotels, I guess I'd call them,
 is you're allowing the house to be empty for a whole lot of the time. They're not rented out 24-7, so it's not like a neighborhood. It's not like there is a neighbor living in that home, somebody you can wave to as you walk by. It's an empty house lots of times you walk by until the weekend comes or there's an event in town.
 So to me, that's a sad thing. The neighborhood is changing because of that. It's losing its people slowly but surely. You're chipping away at what is good and wonderful and comforting about our neighborhood.
 And I just think that's such a tragedy. And so I would really encourage the council to vote against this. It's just changing our neighborhood. It's stressing it. And I echo everything that my neighbors have said regarding the different stresses and concerns that we do as neighbors have. So I just encourage you to vote against this, please. Thank you. My name is Tom Pierce, 1634 West Hotz.
 First, I didn't know that I was worried about having a heart attack, but my wife pointed it out to me. By the word, she used the word naked, and I think she meant naked. Because naked, you're up to something. So as you can tell, there's a lot of stress around this. The council, in its best intentions, has tried to wrestle with this. These really good entrepreneurs have tried to wrestle with this.
 I have really just two points. The first is, it really is a safety issue. No matter what anybody says, our streets are full to the point where if you had a heart attack at the house, we would be really concerned whether we could take care of it. If your house caught fire, we're not sure whether we could put it out. So that's number one. Number two, the clerk court memo
 dated 728 138 in the afternoon I'm an accountant so forgive me for that states the reasons for why the appeal should be overturned by the other developer the basis of it is is that premium pricing brings a better clientele than students so I want to make the point because it's really it's something that's occurred in our neighborhood that's really important to understand
 Students are there for nine months. They become our neighbors. Let me say that again. They become our neighbors. We've worked with the University Student Affairs Division and said, can you help us with it? And they talked to the students. We've worked with the property owners and said there's a thing going on here. If somebody falls on your property, you may lose your house. That's ended most of that, meaning it's manageable.
 I want you to understand that students are our neighbors. They're our neighbors. Do a little bit of arithmetic. Three tenants versus 10. Students are manageable. The others that show up are not. Nine-month tenant versus three days. What I'd like you to understand is it's neighbors versus a group of people that whatever happens in Fayetteville stays in Fayetteville, and we have to deal with it.
 So it's important to understand it's safety and neighbors versus party houses. Neighbors versus party houses. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, Mr. Mayor and City Council. Thank you for your time. So I just want to read some remarks I had and then go through a couple of points that the Bay churches bring up.
 So as the owner, I'm located at 15 North Palmer, which is exactly diagonal from 10 Palmer. And I'm urging you all to follow the city commission, the planning commission, unanimous decision to vote no against the Airbnb or short-term rental.
 As I've noted before, because of the relatively large size of the corner lot and proximity to Reynolds Stadium and Walton Arena, especially during football season, which you know, we've got a home game coming up next weekend. This is coming, but our concerns will become a non-stop tailgating location. Furthermore, with the amount of recent investment in the home, especially a very large platform deck, it further enhances its appeal for these types of celebrations and parties. And I've brought, I think folks have mentioned, hey you should see what it looks like now.
 I did take some photos and it's an impressive deck. If I can hand it to the city clerk. All right. Mr. Mayor, I did not catch his name. Oh, my name's Travis Smith. I'm a 15 North Palmer. So it's an impressive deck. It's not a kind of deck you'd normally put on a house for typical student renters.
 Also, it contains two separate living units, kitchen, baths, and everything, two separate ones. So you're actually looking at two Airbnbs in a sense. Additionally, the short-term rental saturation of the neighborhood, which has been discussed, is also a concern. It would further destabilize the neighborhood that is student-friendly, as Tom before me mentioned.
 We're confident though that the investment that the Bay Kirches have made in their property can be recouped by selecting respectful, responsible tenants who in this tight, it's a really tight student market, they're willing to pay for quality. And they are really appreciative to get out of the apartments. In my experience, because I have another rent, I have one rental near the Cardinal and the Atmosphere,
 they want to stay there and they do a good job. And I think some of the problems that Bay Courts have had is in a hands-off kind of approach to selecting tenants. And they've had their house trashed. And I'd be working and I'd look over and thinking, okay, maybe they figured it out this time. This new group, nope, same thing, trash. House is trashed. And it's just over and over. I know they've owned it since 2018, I think. So they've had...
 ample time to get it right and just hasn't. It's not easy, but anyways. So in closing, with the acute need for student and local housing, a property this close to the campus should remain neighborhood focused and available as a longer term rental to Fayetteville residents, to U of A personnel, and mostly to student renters. They're good kids, and as folks have mentioned, I would rather work with and build rapport with students
 than the frequent strangers, Airbnb strangers, that would be going in and out of 10 Palmer. In addition, this property should not be wasted on out of the area tailgaters or visitors who already have ample regulated and policed areas and other accommodation options available to them.
 If I can, I have one minute, real quickly, to address some of their issues. They say they're going to charge a premium price of $700 a night and that would essentially root out the riff-raff. Well, $700 per night is completely subjective and it can be driven rapidly upwards by lowering the price, so that's just an arbitrary number.
 In a sense, by lowering that price, you can pack them in. You can maximize your investment really quickly.
 is that they say our property steps away from the university, which is why we believe the density needs to be higher near the university than other areas of Fayetteville to service the incredible growth in student population, which is true. They set records over the past few years with new incoming freshmen. This is exactly why it should not be an Airbnb. Because what are we doing here if we're trying to build student density? Why rent a really nice property? Why rent it out?
 to non-students or visitors who you know anyways um and and by by saying well um it's a shoulda woulda coulda thing but the planning commission is already okay thank you thanks for your time now okay who else would like to speak with council who do you have on zoom i don't have anyone zoom there okay all right i'm going to bring this back to the council
 This is a resolution. What discussion would the council like to have and what action would the council like to take? Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm very familiar with this neighborhood. I've received lots of complaints in the past about too many cars parked on the street. These streets are very narrow in that area. It is an old neighborhood. There have been, I would say, a turnover in terms of some older people moving out and younger families coming in.
 But there have been several Airbnbs in the area that have been denied. I think there's one, there would be another one, but we actually denied it. And that was on Hotz Avenue maybe four months ago.
 Our lack of enforcement is still a major concern. We have not addressed the unlicensed Airbnbs that are operating in that area. We're still waiting on that report. I hope we get it soon.
 And then the history of that place is very concerning to me. I also know that you can go on Airbnb and create, because I used to own an Airbnb on Dixon Street, you can create your advertisement, but you don't have to publish it. So just wanting to put the skeleton up, sure, you can do that, but you don't have to publish it.
 So that was kind of a show of bad faith in my worldview about actually publishing your place before you actually had a conditional use permit to do so. So these are concerning issues to me.
 We really need to get a handle on the enforcement. It can't come soon enough. I think Holly knows and Jonathan knows I'm always asking where that report is. So we really need to address that before we add more Airbnbs. So I will not be supporting. I will be supporting the Planning Commission's decision is where I will land on this. Thank you. Scott. Scott.
 Jonathan, as we sit here right now, and it's appropriate that I ask this question this week, game day, this residence, as any residence, could have a gathering for game day experience? Am I correct on that? They can't have a quote-unquote party, but they can have guests over for –
 That's a good question. I think this is a lot of what the Planning Commission grappled with. If it was functioning as a short-term rental, no, it could not. Our short-term rental ordinance explicitly forbids gatherings beyond just guests staying at a residence. You can't have events that attract additional people to the property, the concern being that you're causing additional traffic to it, whether it's parking, driving, walking, riding scooters or otherwise.
 However, if it was just a property, there are certain exceptions in our code that allow a lot more flexibility or latitude with parking, especially near the university.
 It's kind of a no-holds-barred rule when there's a university event for parking allowances. If it happens to be just a gathering, a one-off gathering, that would generally be in the purview of the police department if things were getting unruly. If it happened again and again, regardless of whether it's a short-term rule or not, at some point it starts to become an events venue, that would be subject to a zoning violation. That type of use is not allowed by right in the single-family zoning district.
 So if we were to approve this as a short-term rental, they would not allow gatherings. That's correct. If we denied this as a short-term rental and they rented it to college students or any individuals, those renters could have gatherings. That's correct. Again, within the constraints of rules like the noise ordinance or unruly behavior laws. Okay. So I guess I fall...
 quite honestly a little confused because I understand the challenges that short-term rentals bring But we hear we hear some of us we hear different ideas amongst the community members It seems like they complain about the party house, but then they'd rather have students renting the houses versus short-term rental and to me that gives a a
 I guess I'm grappling with that a little bit. So this one's a tough one, because I feel like, right or wrong, in that area short-term rentals are hot because of the University game day experience, and it does affect the neighborhood, I get that. But that's the conflict I get. It seems like we're getting mixed messages there, and I'm struggling with that. Okay, Sarah.
 Yes, I have a question. Jonathan, we talked about the, there are three driveways to this property, right? Yes.
 That's correct. Only two of them can have vehicles parked on them because the last one is like gravel? Staff's recommendation is that it be conditioned such that if it's being used as a short terminal, they can't use the driveway on Palmer that's gravel. Okay. You know, someone brought up the, how do we know how many cars can fit in the,
 the driveways because someone brought up the issue of the really big vehicles like the big trucks or the you know Tahoe's or Suburban's and you know, those things are pretty big. So That's a good question. We
 get those requests from the applicant they submit how many parking spaces they have and where they want to park this applicant submitted to have parking of those three locations staff evaluates those we take a tape measure out there we have had several that measure exactly 18 feet which is all that's required to be paid from the street to be a driveway in the city of fayetteville that doesn't necessarily accommodate a crew cab extended
 bed F-250, but it does accommodate a lot of other vehicles. So regardless of whether it's this property or other properties, 18 feet is not necessarily always accommodating. If you think about a normal parking space in a commercial parking lot, you often see vehicles hanging over the back even though those are 19 feet in length, even longer than our typical driveway length requirements. And so if it's a long-term rental, though, people could park on the gravel driveway?
 Yes, there is an allowance in our ordinance for gravel driveways as long as they are maintained and not leading to erosion issues. The main concern we have about those is if gravel starts running off into the city right away. At that point, it starts damaging public sidewalks, public asphalt, and getting into our stormwater system. Okay, thank you. Mayor, Council Member Hertzberg has her hand raised. Okay, go ahead, Holly. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mary. Thank you, Susan. My question is for Jonathan. Do you know where we're at with the consultants and the data that we're collecting?
 the latest i got from them included just raw numbers uh they aren't to the point where they're giving specific address points um i'm just gonna or i'm planning on providing that with the ordinance review meeting tomorrow night again it's not it doesn't give address specific points but at this point they've collected a raw number for the city as a whole uh if you can give me a moment i can see if i can track that down thank you and if you can't access it easily we can talk about that more tomorrow too
 I'm sorry, council member Hertzberg. I couldn't hear that. Oh, sorry. I said, if you're if you have any trouble accessing that, we can just talk about it tomorrow. Okay, I do have the numbers this is the latest they have. Um, and again, this is they're not completed the work. They're not completed the audit of the entire city. Uh, what they have listed is.
 Uh, three hundred and sixty five compliance short term rentals, which we know we have more because we have more that are licensed in the city. So that indicates to me that it's their, their audit of the city is not complete. Uh, one hundred and eighty three non compliant properties and one hundred and twenty two properties with unknown compliance. 122 with unknown compliance. So that could easily filter into either of those other 2 categories and smooth out any inconsistencies there.
 Mayor, I have another question. Sure. So I just want to reiterate or review. Jonathan, even if this place is actually approved as a short-term rental and they have a huge party, can you describe how the city handles that currently? I call and say, hey, my gosh, I know it's a short-term rental. They're not supposed to have parties there. What exactly happens right now?
 Certainly. Typically those complaints go to our police department. As you'd imagine, most people's reaction when there is a short-term rental or when there's a party is to call the police department. What follows after that is where the planning staff and the police department need to coordinate. I won't pretend that that is flawless because not every patrol officer knows to ask people, is this a short-term rental? Are you here as a short-term rental property? And depending who you ask.
 So it's not always documented as a part of a police report. So in that regard, I think that's where we're trying to button up our enforcement policy so that the different groups of the city are all communicating to ensure that
 receiving a warning from the police department may result in a violation from the planning division. So, does that answer your question? Partially. And are you available on the weekend? Do you get a call ever from the police department asking if it's a short-term rental? And then my follow-up is, what is the violation from the planning department? No, we currently do not have any weekend enforcement through codes or any group of the development services department.
 What it looks like depends on the issue. If it's an unlicensed short-term rental, the violation letter that they would receive is either stop, stop doing the illegal thing, get a license or permit to do the thing, or if they continue to operate, they go to the prosecuting attorney and could potentially face fines of up to $250 a day.
 And have we prosecuted anybody? Has the city prosecuted anybody, even for repeat multiple violations? I mean, I'm just thinking about that residence on Hots. At 8, no. Thanks. I'd like to make a motion that we deny the appeal.
 Instead of doing that there needs to be a motion to approve the resolution And if you on favor of supporting the Planning Commission decision you will vote no and defeat the resolution and the reason for that is that takes five a firm revotes to pass a resolution and
 So if you do a motion against it, and you don't get five votes, then you might not pass yours So always when it's an appeal there needs to be a motion to support the appeal And if you're against it, then you just vote no motion to approve second Motion is second to pass the resolution of the appeal and a no vote would be against the appeal Correct. Yes, okay any final comments council I
 care which please call the roll we took her no erna yes bunch no turk no hertzburg yes more no the motion fails the resolution was not agreed to okay well that concludes our business do we have any yes mayor i have a few announcements thank you um just to follow up
 On the Ordinance Review Committee meeting, just the details, it is tomorrow night. It is going to be in room 326 at 5 o'clock, and there will be a subsequent Zoom sent out in the morning. So that's the Ordinance Review talking about short-term rentals tomorrow evening.
 Also, we do have, I'm not sure if you all remember, but this week is traditionally Welcoming Week in Fayetteville, Arkansas. It's a holiday, or just a, it's an event that we celebrate in anticipation of welcoming all kinds of
 new residents to town, except crypto miners, Teresa. But we actually, the city is going to have a block of city sponsored events, community resources. Yolanda's group has rallied and got all of our departments together to have welcoming booths at Arvis Bank during first Thursday, Thursday night. So please visit us there if you come to first Thursday. We'll have all the different departments represented.
 Fall bulky waste pickup is beginning. The first one will be for Ward 1, September 23rd, and as you all know, those are announced on our website, so you can check out your ward or encourage your neighbors to do bulky waste. And then the last item is that business license renewal window opens September 1st and will be open until October 31st, and that is all online. Thank you. Anything else? Thank you all.