I would like to call the City Council meeting of September the 1st, 2020 to order. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Turf? Here. Smith? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, welcome everyone in light of the current health concerns. Bethel City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential sports staff.
 We have Kit Williams, City Attorney, Kara Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer, Susan Norton, Chief of Staff, Keith Macedo, IT Director, Police Chief Mike Reynolds, Fire Chief Brad Hardin, Finance Director Paul Becker, and two representatives from Tegel's IT Department. City Council members, City staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see,
 before you the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded to public record and piped into the council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office or city staff prior to the meeting viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's youtube
 joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment.
 i will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized federal residents will be allowed to speak first when recognized please state your name and address for the record public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may they may wish to address being open for public comment
 This is a time for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The city council may allow both a speaker additional time
 an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote also everyone's to stay on topic don't engage councilmember anyone from the public and no rude behavior tonight now first order of business we have tonight under reports is Paul Becker's financial report Paul
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm going to report on the city finances at the end of July. So this is the seventh month in the period. In the general fund, sales taxes were strong during the month. They're up 2.3% over budget for the year. Franchise fees are down a little bit. Alcoholic beverages are down.
 Park funds and park activities, charges for those services are down. Courts are down. However, in total, the city's revenue budget is right about on line with what we had anticipated, which I am very pleased of right now. I think that's about the best we could expect.
 The expenditures are not online. We've cut back on some things such as travel and training, especially travel. We've looked at reductions and held back expenditures where we could. So the general fund is, like I say, I think doing very well considering the pandemic. When I'm looking at the street fund, the street fund's revenues are up 2% on a year-to-date basis.
 expenditures again are being looked at very closely and they're in line with budget at this point in time
 The parking fund, which I reported to you last time, was losing quite a bit of fund balance due to expenditures exceeding revenues. The revenues for the month of July came back much, much stronger than the prior two months. They're still down compared to budget about 55% of what they normally are at this point of the year, but that made up a lot of ground for where they were the previous.
 two months as of now the parking fund has collected 60 percent of the budget
 again this is something we're going to have to watch hopefully with uh with some of the relaxation of the uh of the of the ordinances uh we'll see some pickup in our uh hr taxes see some pickup in parking down in the dixon street and downtown area however this is this is a fund that we're going to have to monitor going forward
 as far as parks development parks development uh is about 60 percent of the budget at this point in time that they've collected so they're down uh they're down a bit i'm sorry that's 80 of them they're down roughly 20 percent of where we had expected them
 at this point in time this plays for operations so the operations are fairly well intact i'm not concerned about general operations however it will probably impact the capital programs going forward if this continues much longer so we'll monitor that uh we'll monitor that as we go along the water and sewer fund uh revenues are up about 2.7 percent
 at this point in time now that bill filled revenue but I do want to discuss with the council is at this point in time we've got over seven hundred thousand dollars worth of past due accounts receivable that's up roughly six hundred thousand dollars compared to last year another reason we're doing this is because we're not shutting off we're not shutting anybody off due to lack of payment
 at this point in time, how is this something we're gonna have to monitor and those accounts receivable balances outstanding that are past due are increasing. However, we have a pretty fair fund balance in the water and sewer fund at this point in time. We've got a lot of capital programs going forward. So I don't foresee any immediate difficulties. We're getting ready to start a new rate study for the water and sewer,
 and we'll be working on that through the rest of the year, certainly with the help of the Water and Sewer Committee. So we're getting ready to embark on that at this point in time. I don't see any significant financial problems at this point in time in water and sewer, other than that past due amount is in fact rising.
 The trash and recycling revenues are about 5% under budget at this point in time. However, to counter that, expenditures are down almost the same amount. That's because commercial pickup has declined. Full charges are down because a lot of commercial has cut back at this point in time. So we're about where we had expected to be based on operations.
 We also have a pretty reasonable fund balance in trash and recycling at this point in time. So that doesn't concern me at this point either. The airport is very slowly coming back in operations. Their flights are down about eight and a half percent compared to last year. Fuel sales, however, are down 30%. They're picking up a little bit. So fuel sales are down about 30% compared to budget
 we're going to have to watch this very carefully because the activity at the airport picks up basically in the fourth quarter as related to sporting events etc so we're going to have to see how that holds and how that plays out through uh through the end of the year based on what happens at the university of arkansas or whether or not we'll have some sporting venues at that point in time
 That's roughly the major funds that we're looking at at this point in time. I'll again comment and say at this point in time, I think we're doing about as well as we could expect to do, especially happy with the general fund being just about on budget on a revenue basis. We're going to be starting budget discussions in the future.
 We'll look at that. I'll take out my crystal ball and see what estimates I can make at that point in time and see what revenue is. But at this point in time, I think what we have to do is we have to stay flexible. We have to be ready to make changes. We have to be able to pursue opportunities when we see them. With that, I'll conclude my report and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council?
 all right thank you all let's move along with the consent agenda thank you paul all right number one resolution to approve change order number one contractor haynes pump and process llc for aeration basin gates at the nolan water resource recovery facility in the amount of 5761.88 cents
 Number two, a resolution to accept and quote any amount of $22,456.77 plus collective taxes and freight charges from the Electric Motors Center for the repair of a jet flow mixture pump used at the Westside Water Resource Recovery Facility.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Afterglow Aircraft Solutions LLC with an airport hangar at 4580 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $2,492.23 per month.
 Number four, a resolution to authorize a contract with Engineering Elements PLLC in the amount of $4,500 pursuant to RFQ 20-01, Selection Number 16, to provide design services, bid documents, and construction administration for the installation of lighting at the Walker Park Skateboard Area to approve a project contingency in the amount of $500 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 number five a resolution to approve a contract with hub international in the amount of sixteen thousand two hundred fifty two dollars for insurance brokerage and consultation services through the end of 2020.
 Number six, a resolution to approve change order number two, the contract benchmark construction of Northwest Arkansas Incorporated in the amount of $145,771 for construction of the fleet truck wash facility and to approve the budget adjustment. Number seven.
 a resolution to authorize a professional architectural services agreement with Moda Studio PLLC pursuant to RFQ 20-01 selection number 20
 in an amount not to exceed $61,000 for the design of a restroom and pavilion at Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain to approve the project contingency any amount of $61,100 and to approve the budget adjustment this is part of our 2019 parks bond project approved by the people number eight
 a resolution to authorize contract with cox advanced services arkansas llc any amount of 22 589 and 70 cents for utility relocations for the zion road construction project and to approve a budget adjustment this too is a 2019 transportation bond project approved by by the people so i will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as read so moved second
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Undone, finished business, we have one item.
 an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and authorized new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement with an easement agreement with the arkansas missouri railroad for a new railroad crossing at futral drive and great avenue to approve project contingency any amount of twenty eight thousand three hundred forty four dollars and eighty six cents and to approve a budget adjustment for
 for an estimated total project cost of $750,000. This is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects approved by the people. And let's see, Chris, you have this. Thank you, Mayor. So when we last spoke on this project, we were still pursuing
 some other options related to the agreement that we have in front of us with the railroad. So the current agreement is to allow the crossing at Futrell Drive in exchange for closing the crossing at Garrett Avenue, which is just north of Ride Out Lumber. So since we talked, we did take this issue to the Transportation Committee.
 We presented several options. One was improving the Garrett Avenue crossing at a cost of five to $600,000.
 uh construction of a connector street along the railroad to connect the two existing crossings at poplar and township so that if the garrett crossing were closed there would still be two outlets for the businesses and properties along the west side of the railroad there we also talked with the committee about
 instead of closing the Garrett location, closing the Douglas and Frisco crossing, which is just east of the University. Ultimately, the Transportation Committee voted to pursue the closure at Frisco. That was a 3-1 vote.
 But the request from the committee also was to get input from the Active Transportation Advisory Committee. So last night, last night we... Chris, I'm sorry, just a slight misspoke. You said it was a three to one vote at the Transportation Committee, but Sarah Marsh was absent. I'm sorry, three to zero. That's correct.
 So last night the ATAC met and discussed this option and they didn't really like the idea of closing the Frisco location. Ultimately voted, I believe it was 7-0, to recommend to the committee and to the council that the closing remain open to all traffic.
 and if the if the council wishes to pursue another option other than the Garrett closure they recommended looking at improving the Frisco crossing with with lights and signals as opposed to the Garrett or some of the other options that were recommended so that is a new option that is presented to the council at this time so
 At this point, basically what the council has in front of them is the current ordinance, which is the budget of $750,000, approving the agreement for the new railroad crossing at Futrell with closing the crossing at Garrett. What we wanted to do this evening is just talk about what these other options are. If the council wishes to...
 pursue the other options, then staff would go back to the railroad and talk about revising that agreement. If the council does wanna proceed with the agreement as is, we do have an amendment to the proposed agreement, which adjusts the budget and also adds a stipulation regarding the development on the Futurall Crossing, which I don't believe the council has addressed yet, but we did talk about last time.
 So I think that's all of my presentation. I'll answer any questions at this point. What questions do we have in the council? This doesn't need to be approved today, does it? There seems to be a lot of stuff still in the air. The only thing that could be approved, if you...
 want to accept the current agreement that's in front of you that's been signed by the railroad, that includes the stipulation of closing the Garrett Crossing in exchange for their future. If you want the staff to pursue changes to that, then we would have to go back to the railroad, get a revised agreement. And none of those other options at this point are guaranteed that the railroad would be acceptable to those.
 So we would just have to go back and discuss that with them and see what we could come up with. And the current agreement, is that the one that's by Rideout? I'm sorry, I didn't catch that last part. Is the current agreement the one that's by Rideout?
 Correct. The Garrett crossing is what's tagged to the proposed agreement that's in front of you right now. Which Rideout has said that they're not happy about. That's correct. We've actually gotten feedback from Rideout, from the storage facility, and also from SWEPCO, which owns property. They are concerned about that loss of access as well.
 three businesses at this point that I've received feedback from. Thank you. I have a question. So, Chris, you presented three new plans here over here by Garrett to hook up to Poplar Street. Have any of the businesses that you just mentioned seen these three different options? Yes.
 I've not shown the two latest ones. We did talk about the extension along the railroad track last time, but we have not shared publicly the other two options. We could put those up on the screen if you'd like. Well, I think it would be really important to get some feedback from those businesses that have concerns. Okay.
 I have a comment. I do want to mention, I appreciate that Chris brought the, are you finished Teresa? I'm sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off. Oh yes, I'm finished. I'm sorry, I didn't make that clear.
 So Chris did come to the active transportation committee last night and I want to thank him for doing that. And then Matt Hoffman came to help us also understand what happened in the transportation committee. And so that was helpful as well. One thing that he did, he did mention that he hasn't mentioned tonight is that he was able to send out notifications to neighbors in the area of the
 Is it the Frisco area, Chris, that you sent out? That's correct. Yes. So we did do that. Maybe we could kind of do a similar thing with the options to the businesses now. I do think that's a great idea, Teresa.
 and and we did contact all the businesses as well uh prior to this so uh both of the locations um the area around the crossings the the property owners and uh tenants of those locations have been contacted um but if you'd like i could go through these three drawings um that we've got
 That would be awesome. Thank you. Yeah, why don't you do that, Chris? Because we did have someone, didn't we have, didn't someone, a representative from Ride Out speak on this one issue that's on the screen at transportation? The one, the Shady Avenue? Yeah, okay. Yeah, I think they were kind of concerned with being able to turn a truck around that short space. Yeah.
 This is the initial view that we had, and it runs along the railroad track, connects up with Shady Avenue. The weakness of this plan is that we would have to go along or in the railroad right-of-way, so we'd have to get permitting taken care of with that. And then also when you come here, you have kind of a short distance to get in and out of there.
 the next option and that did change for you guys right you can see the second option yes it did okay
 This option would go around the back side of Rideout Lumber, kind of go between the Swepco property and the Rideout property, connect up with kind of the middle street in this little subdivision here, and then connect a little bit further away. You can see that the cost of that goes up just the additional length of the street. And then the third option is even further, it goes all the way around the back side.
 of the Swepco property and comes down to to Burch Avenue. So again, a little bit more expensive yet just because of the additional length. So those are the options that we talked about that would be these connector roads so that if this crossing were closed, it would allow traffic to go either direction to get to a crossing of the railroad. And Chris, you're saying that
 None of the businesses have looked at option two or three, right? That's correct. We just completed these, so we just got them done. Because I'm curious to see if there's no other access to the back of, like, right out, how they're going to, if they could hook a semi that coming in where those streets are coming in, if they could make a, they'd have to make a really hard turn there. Seems like, I don't know if that would be convenient.
 Yeah, and of course that's just a concept. We could certainly make that radius large enough to accommodate trucks. That's great news. Chris, I'd like to talk more about the Douglas Street-Frisco crossing if there's not any more questions here. I had thought about that in the past myself. It is not going to interrupt any business in that area, and it's kind of a...
 a, you know, that crossing that comes into that area is over a one lane bridge and it's not really, certainly not a high traffic area. In fact, it's unsafe. I use it a lot. I'll admit it because I live over there and I cut through, but I think that that is really worth talking about if we have to close a crossing.
 I don't know what happened at the Transportation Committee last night, but it seems to me like if they thought it was valuable, and now that I think about it too, a valuable option, then I think that we do have to look at it. And it's not going to force an alternative route that we would have to pay for. So I think that it's an option that really needs to be considered. Thank you.
 And I suppose I could comment a little bit on what some of the discussion was. I mean, basically, if you remove this crossing from a vehicular standpoint, you end up with about a half a mile distance between crossings of Maple Street crossing and then North Street, it's the next crossing to the north. So it does create a very long distance where we don't have crossings.
 have an opportunity for a vehicular crossing. The pedestrian bicycle crossing is not quite as bad because we do have the Maple Street crossing here. And then there's also, because the trail goes under the railroad here, there's a connection over here. So that's not as long of a distance. The benefit of that crossing
 of closing, it does make for a safer trail experience there because we don't have the cars crossing over the trail. We do have a weakness in that because of the low water crossing, all of these properties here would not have a way out.
 when this low water crossing, when the storm is occurring. So we've shown that the extension of Frisco out to Maple. The weakness of that is that that comes out very close to the trail on Maple and it makes for kind of a tricky intersection there. This is also very narrow, the existing Frisco so we likely have to widen it. So there would be some cost
 related to making that improvement or to making the improvement to the low water crossing, which would probably be the low water crossing would be probably more substantial than any of the options we talked about just because the bridge needed. So that was really it, just the length of area that we would not have a crossing opportunity across the railroad.
 Yes. And Mark, if I could also address the the the active transportation committee that met last night. You know, we we really just voted unanimously to not if at all possible to avoid any closures whatsoever. And instead try to go back to the railroad and propose that we improve the crossings.
 to reduce the liability. And so that's kind of what came out of that conversation, about an hour and a half conversation that we had with the committee last night. And then there was an additional one with transportation, but I wasn't in that one. But really we want to try to keep people
 keep this open even though we do realize that it needs some increased safety features which we discussed as well and sent recommendations to Chris as well on how to make that safe to cross for vehicles and pedestrians. So we did discuss that and so the intention there is to leave that open and leave both open and then try to figure out how to
 open up the write out as well, leave that open to improving that experience as an opportunity and try to just completely avoid closing anything at all. Chris, is it really a possibility they would consider not closing one of the, or closing a crossing somewhere? Is that a possibility?
 Well, what we've heard from them is that they, because of the feedback from customers or a customer on the Garrett crossing,
 that uh they they now are kind of rethinking whether they want to close the the garrett crossing so i i do believe we have some uh ability to negotiate uh you know a little bit of negotiating leverage with the with the railroad uh to look at other options um whether that would include keeping both of these open and only approving one of them again i i can't say 100 that uh
 that we could be successful in getting that done, but we certainly will pursue that if that's the consensus of the council. So, Chris, I see that there's a crossing just north of the Garrett Crossing at Township. What is preventing these businesses from using that crossing, which is just right up the street? Well, nothing really. It does create...
 the the way that uh that ride out is using the existing garrett crossing it it allows for much smoother um in and out of their of their truck traffic um but i think the you know a lot of the vehicular traffic in and especially out of those businesses are using the signalized intersection so
 It doesn't cut access off for anybody. It just makes it a little less convenient for some of the businesses. And I think we have some of those business owners on the line today and they could probably expand on that answer if we get to public comment. We also have an unimproved crossing just north of that at Jocelyn Lane. Is that one we could negotiate with instead?
 Well, that's an option that we haven't talked about. We looked at that a little bit, and we discounted that. And I think that the railroad probably would be less interested in that, but we could certainly talk to them about that as well. It has, I think, only one option.
 one house on it it does get used by trail users that's a kind of a cut across to get over to um some of the businesses along greg so so we do get some usage there but that's we could we could pursue that option as well if uh if the council we could we could talk to the railroad about that one as well yeah i mean that that would um
 That would be such an easier transition. If we were to go ahead and close this one at Garrett, and those businesses could use the one that's just right up north at Township, and then if we were to look at closing Jocelyn, would we have an opportunity to go back and not close South University?
 I'm really concerned that the neighbors weren't notified about the closing there. And I also am very concerned that we arbitrarily tied developments to railroad closings when I would be more apt to close the Garrett crossing, but I would rather see the development that's tied to the Garrett crossing go forward because that's the one that includes the hospital expansion.
 And from the comments at the last meeting, it seems like that those were arbitrarily tied together. And I feel like that development needs to go forward first because that's our jobs and our hospitals. So I would like to have a little bit more understanding of what our options are there. Because I still feel like, you know, in terms of usage, South University versus Joslyn Avenue, it's easy to determine that South University is going to have a lot more users.
 And perhaps if we'd actually notified the adjacent businesses and residents, then they might have contacted the railroad as well. And we might have more negotiated. What else do we have? So Chris, I have a question. So we're looking at, you know, some of the improvements we're looking at, you know, of course, this is for the, the break farms, I guess. You know, when we're talking about possibly improving, you know,
 uh other intersections like with frisco what what types of what is the cost of these improvements that we're looking at i mean if we're looking at at maybe making some changes there what would that be uh because it's not going to be 750 000 it's going to be something less than that isn't it right i i would expect the uh the cost of the the railroad improvements to be um
 similar to the cost of what you're talking about here, probably in the $500,000 range. And then just depending on how much we want to change the alignment of the roadway and all of that. It's, I mean, it's kind of in the neighborhood that, that the railroad crossing is obviously the big expense and adding the lights and gates and all of that is going to be somewhere in the range of probably that $500,000. Yeah.
 We also will have the stipulation of maintenance cost and other items similar to the current agreements. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, I'm in favor if we can find a compromise here that would allow the businesses. I understand why they don't want to.
 I mean, it doesn't seem like it's that far to go down to Township, but if you've got a truck coming in and you've got an entrance right at your business entrance,
 You would much prefer to have that, keep that entrance if you could, instead of, you know, having to drive, even if it is a block. For customers, I wouldn't think it would be such a big deal because you're coming out of the stoplight on, on township, but for the trucks, it might be a big issue. So I I'm, I'm kind of in agreement with Sarah that whatever we need, whatever we're doing here, we need to get kind of get something figured out so we can get moving on with that development that we'll, uh,
 affect the hospital and the apartments that are going in on Drake Farm. One of the questions we have in the council. Okay, let's take some public comment tonight. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor. Also, everybody needs to stay on topic. The topic is the railroad crossing.
 don't engage city council member or anyone from the public no rude behavior and we will take federal residents first please give us your name and address who would like to be first mayor Ross right out although his home address is Searcy he is okay can you guys hear me yes
 Yeah, so I appreciate all the discussion tonight, and we certainly appreciate the extra consideration on this. You know, the first thing I want to point out is that it's not inconvenience going down to Township. I thought I'd laid that out pretty well last week. It's actually the road that reaches from right out to Township along there is basically a...
 like a private drive. It's not wide enough to have 18 wheelers passing each other on it. It also is a place where rail cars are unloaded. There are grievous
 issues with running a hundred and something trucks up and down that road every day it's not it's going to be unsafe um it's going to it's going to be much less safe than than having an unprotected crossing there um you know additionally in back in 1995 when we put that lumber yard there on greg street um we put it there because there was access let's keep that in mind um
 We had our largest month in 25 years in August of 2020. That was last month.
 We're busy and I would have never put a lumber yard doing several million dollars a month at the end of a dead end street where my customers have to drive through my competitor's parking lot. Obviously that would not have happened.
 You know, as Chris pointed out, we have some leverage with the railroad. We're a large customer of theirs. And, you know, when he mentioned that to them or they mentioned it to him, they were somewhat bending on this negotiation. So I really think that the proper approach here is to –
 first leverage them and to just drop this Garrett closing and, and move forward with the development. I think with the proper posturing, they would be, they would go along with that. If, if that is not possible you know,
 I can't speak intelligently to the Frisco crossing, only to say that I've been told it's very dangerous. The crossing at Garrett's clearly not dangerous. There's tons of line of sight there. But, you know, if you've got to get into rerouting roads and stuff, that's going to get very expensive as well. And at that point, you're going to have to spend the money to improve the existing street between us and townships.
 because then that becomes a main thoroughfare and people can't park trucks on it or the police can't park on it to catch speeders. It just becomes, it's going to get very expensive, I'm afraid, if that's the case. Also, I'd like to point out that out of those three options, Chris put on the board, really the only one that's feasible is the first one for us, even though that does cut off the opportunity
 southeast corner i believe of our lumber yard it would allow us to exit through the back of our property the other two options would require every 18 wheeler that comes in there to turn around in some way again creating an unsafe situation because you have 18 wheelers backing up into traffic if you if you went with that first option at least trucks could enter through the
 front of our yard and then exit through the back of the yard on the shady lane. I don't know that the railroad is going to go for that because I thought the whole point of a railroad right of way was that it was a protected space. So I don't know how they're going to allow you to build a road through the right of way. Yeah.
 I just really think with the railroad, if you have a little leverage here, the goal would be to get them to just drop this part of the requirements. And if not, then our first request would be for you to consider improving that crossing at Garrett Avenue because, as I said, we do have a lot of money. Right, yeah.
 Yeah, we do have a lot of money invested there, and we're very busy as we've ever been. And as I said, we would not have put a lumber yard there if there had been no street there. It would have been a silly thing to do. So we appreciate your consideration and all your work on it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Mayor Drew Wallace. Go ahead, Mr. Wallace.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Drew Wallace, and I live at 805 North Hall, and I am the chair of the Active Transportation Advisory Committee. So I guess I'd like to say two, I'll stay on two points. So one is the chair of the committee is that we are adamantly opposed to closing the crossing at Frisco and Douglas. We had a lot of discussion on it. We had some committee input on it, and we just feel that that would
 would block off an area that we should be creating more access to instead of creating giant cul-de-sacs. I think as...
 Matt Hoffman said was a would basically create a super block of like a half block where you can't cut through and and with all the improvements that are coming in on Maple to create the Maple Street cycle track and things like that. Part of that improvement was to move some of the traffic off of Maple and to kind of make that area flow for cars and bicycles and pedestrians and everyone that's going to be going through there better and by cutting that.
 intersection off it just completely cuts off that entire spot um and the proposed uh
 fixes if you will that the city staff worked hard on to see if some compromises were to go up to Maple which would be to kind of basically have another intersection right at Maple right next to the current Greenway where cars would then be having to turn left or right which would probably mean it would have to be signalized which would mean that it's right next to the other signalized intersection right there at Gregg.
 That would just stop traffic even more and create even more signals in an area that we're trying to work through making all kinds of traffic flow through better. So we're just against closing that and are completely for improving that intersection, if anything else, because like every railroad crossing, every railroad crossing is dangerous because it's where their trains are crossing, where their cars and people and bikes going by. So we feel that improving intersections are much better than closing any of them.
 So as a private citizen, I'm against closing all of the intersections, the one at South University, the one at Garrett, and the one at Frisco and Douglas, because I think the same way we should be improving these connections, not cutting down on them. I feel like that it's almost like a false choice to where –
 I don't think the city should be beholden to the railroad company even though the railroad is obviously a vital infrastructure transportation component they're they're as as public officials you're representing the people of the city and and the businesses in those city and and and everything that's involved with that I feel like that our city is better with more of those crossings that are safer and I think that we should be working on improving and making the the
 the each one of the crossing safer instead of cutting off where every time we add a new one, another one has to be cut down. I think that I just feel like that there's a lot of negotiation there that, that,
 that is opportunity for and and that would be that would be the thing that i would say is for for all of these i definitely hear with with um where mr rideout saying too of just trying to to cut off an area that is the one of the main reasons why that business is there i think is also a vital component in the same way that lots of people are going through um those intersections at uh at frisco and at south university i think that a lot of people don't know that those are going to
 or even on the table to close. I think that most people don't really realize that's going on. So I just would urge you, Mr. Mayor, to kind of keep that in mind and I appreciate the time. All right, thank you. We've had several discussions with railroad, but I guess we can always go back to them again. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Well, I see that we have some more work to do here. So what do y'all wanna do?
 Mayor, I have a question for Kit. Something Mr. Rideout said kind of raised a red flag in my brain. He said they wouldn't have put a lumberyard there if they hadn't had the access. Does closing access there put us at any risk of a takings claim? I don't think there's a big risk there. I'm really difficult to say that there's no risk there.
 But I think that, and that's something to think about, and obviously the other thing to think about is not just legal risk, but also there's the business risk and things like that. And that's why I think that Chris has suggested some potential alternatives, all of which are somewhat difficult and expensive. It would be better if we could somehow convince the railroad to support one of their best projects
 and not require this to be closed. And I think that is potentially possible from what I heard of Chris talking. And so it might be that really tonight we can't have a final decision on this unless, well, at least if it would require the closing of that particular crossing, which I think is important.
 not what really anybody in the city wants to do. So anyway, I think there might be some risk. I don't think it's a terrible risk to do that, but it is, there's a little bit of risk there anyway, and of course that would be a very expensive lesson if we did have some liability. Okay, thank you. I tend to agree with what Mr. Wallace was saying. I feel like
 closing anything is a move in the wrong direction. We push for more connectivity as one of our major goals all over the place. And it really hurt to close university and finding another East-West connection that we can just sacrifice is a real challenge. I don't know. We keep asking, and I know that the leverage with the railroad is limited, but it's real hard to...
 to trade established development and economic potential for future. And sometimes you have to do that, but I'd love for us to find another way to open up the land that the hospital needs without having to sacrifice somebody that's been there for a long time. Okay, I think I'm hearing what the council is saying. Why don't you all table this thing again, and Chris and I will go back to the railroads and,
 Trying to keep the railroad crossings that we have and get the two new ones too. But I think we sort of settled the university crossing last week, but we can go back again. I want the council to keep in mind, we didn't really want to close any crossings either. But the policy of the railroad, and Chris, you can correct me if I'm wrong, when we talked to him, said, you open up a new one, you got to close an old one.
 and that's just policy but we can go back to them again and see what we can do mayor i have a question or maybe a comment um how you know we're obviously we're growing in population how does how do railroads accommodate growth of new cities i mean shouldn't that be part of the consideration and maybe you already made that argument so we we have we have made that argument we will go back and
 We can try and make that argument again. We have been pretty, you know, we've been about as stubborn as a railroad has. I want to jump in there and say, not only this,
 This last round, I got to join. And so, I mean, it's been Chris. It's been Chris and the mayor. And I got to join the last time, Chris and the mayor and me. And so I was the new guy in town asking all of these questions, all these really seemingly logical and innocent questions that you all are asking. And they are logical. But the railroad was really adamant. And so I do think, though, Chris is right, that perhaps –
 And Mr. Rideout is maybe right that because of that business there, we might have, and since they're customers of the railroad, we might have a new way to talk to them. Right. I have a couple of ideas that I need. I'll get with Chris tomorrow on it and see what we can maybe do. How many times have we talked to the railroad about this? How many times, Chris? I've lost count.
 I don't know if I can count that high. It's many, many, many times. This has really been... We've been after it. Yeah, this discussion has been over a period of multiple years as those development properties, and it's been on the Master Street Plan, like I said, for many years. Probably for at least five years, we've been talking to the railroad off and on
 about that. We really got serious last mid last year in trying to work out some of those things and started putting things together but I've had dozens of conversations and emails over the last year. But you know we're tenacious so we'll go back again if you all table this for another couple weeks we'll see what we can do in two weeks.
 I would also like to see us look at the crossing at Quality Lane. That's just a little bit further north if we do have to close one. That's really just serving one apartment complex, which it looks like we could reroute to Drake Street. So it seems like that's another option worth exploring with less impact than the ones currently on the table. You know, Sarah, if I remember the last conversation we had with the railroads, we asked them,
 what other one could we close besides Garrett and they they pointed us to Frisco but Frisco does not seem to be an option here so we also offered improvements to the Garrett crossing and we did not get a rosy response on that one so maybe if we offered I don't know we'll we'll offer something else
 Mayor, would there be an opportunity for a representative from the railroad to join us here to visit? Okay. Well, we'll see if they would like to join one of the council meetings. It might save you some trips back and forth as the go-between.
 and so i heard sarah mention quality lane and jocelyn lane and so i guess the next day or two if anybody thinks of anything else around town that we should look into please let chris know that we had and keep in mind we we also have an expansion to a hospital out there that we're trying to secure in this city that we really really need um so that's a really big investment
 And so, you know, the big mixed use fund was also a big investment. So, you know, we don't want to – we also don't want to lose a hospital expansion either. So I want everybody to understand that as well. But we'll stay after. There are some crossings in Johnson. Maybe we can close one of those. I move we table this for two more weeks or longer if the mayor needs longer than that. Well, we'll just hang out.
 thank you all uh go ahead uh i don't say would you please call the roll scroggin yes yes yes yes yes marsh yes kenyon yes yes okay we'll stay after it all right let's go on to new business
 Number one, a resolution to approve change order number three of the contract with Nav Host Construction Corporation in the amount of $10,494,726 for construction of phase one of the cultural arts corridor project and to approve a budget adjustment. Wade. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, this is another one of our phase one bond projects. Approval of this change order will mark a major milestone for all of our arts corridor projects.
 You know, it's been just over three years since a letter intent was submitted to the Walton Family Foundation for the design services. Since that time, there's been a bond election resulting in approval of the project by the citizens, procurement of the design team, procurement of a construction manager, design and budget reviews, public meetings and input sessions, land and right-of-way acquisitions, utility coordinations,
 bidding, and then negotiations. Now we've got the opportunity to start the construction. The scope of this work was presented at the June 9th agenda session. And it includes the Faye Joan Woodlands and stream restorations, Razorback Greenway upgrades, and West Avenue streetscapes from south to meadow. Of course, all the trade packages were publicly bid through our purchasing division.
 and the construction of this phase is scheduled for completion in december of 2021. so i'll take any questions what questions do we have in the council okay what public comment do we have and each speaker has allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor stay on topic the topic is the arts corridor
 Don't engage any member of the City Council or anyone in the public. Please no rude behavior. Federal residents first. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Are we on the first reading? What? We're on the first reading? This is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second.
 the resolution any final comments from the council all right care which please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 I just want to say thank you. I'm really excited about this, but I wanted to just take this opportunity real quick to let you know we are planning a groundbreaking. So as soon as we can get started, we will, and we'll be getting that invitation to you all very shortly. Next week will be the groundbreaking. Thank you, Council, very much. Okay, number two.
 an ornistry zone that properties grab his only petition rzn 20-7133 for approximately 3.05 acres located at 60 40 and 60 74 west weddington drive from r.a residential agricultural and rsf4 residential single family four units regular to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RI12, Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville actually hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Okay. Jonathan, you have this one. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. Let me get the presentation pulled up for a council meeting.
 All right. This particular property is in West Fayetteville. It's about as far west as it gets before hitting Double Springs Road. It's about three and a half miles west of the intersection of I-49 and Weddington and about half a mile east of Double Springs Road.
 The property totals about three acres on the north side of Weddington. It's currently developed with a single-family home. It's bordered to the north, east, and west by other single-family homes, mostly on large lots and with some agricultural uses in some cases. To the south is the only exception, where some low-density attached duplexes, residential housing was built prior to being annexed into the city of Fayetteville, Tennessee.
 As you can see, the property is split zoned today. The majority of it totaling about two and a half acres of the overall three acre size is currently zoned RA residential agriculture with a sliver along the eastern border zoned RSF4 residential single family four units per acre. And the request before the council tonight is to rezone the property to RI12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre.
 uh when looking at this request in terms of the city's adopted plans for the property the future land use map designates it as a residential neighborhood area which does indicate some intent to see a diversity of housing developed in the area or potentially some non-residential uses given that weddington is a fairly major connecting corridor
 When evaluated in the terms of City Plan 2040's infill matrix, the property receives a varying score, perhaps unsurprisingly given its position on the periphery of the city and the depth of it from Weddington, a score of 2 to 5, and that gets credit for proximity to fire service, access to water, sewer, the trail along Weddington and parks to the northeast and to the south.
 when uh staff was evaluating the issue you may have noticed in our report that there were some mixed findings on the property on the one hand we certainly do recognize that they're the land uses in the air are generally low density and it is certainly a rural setting on the other hand we do recognize the request has quite a bit of consistency with the city's long-range plans
 The RI-12 zoning district does allow a greater diversity of housing types at a moderate density that could be complementary to the future land use map designation.
 This diversity of housing can of course open up opportunities for attainable housing. And lastly, the location with access to Weddington, a major corridor, city infrastructure, and then some amenities does allow for some potentially positive development. Sorry, I went further before I meant to. But jumping back to it, the staff did receive a fair amount of public comment leading up to the meeting.
 There were a couple residents who commented expressing opposition to the proposal. One resident most significantly had issues with the property owner themselves. There's been some issues of neighborliness between the two of them. The other resident had some concerns about the negative impacts that developing this property would have on the existing infrastructure and the infrastructure.
 and serve as something of a reverse nuisance for their agricultural properties having more dense residential development near uses that have been historically used for farmland staff also received a petition leading up to the planning commission meeting from about a dozen neighboring residents and property owners and they cited a number of concerns ranging from traffic drainage uh
 property values, again, negative impacts on agriculture, the threat that developing this property would have for the existing trees on the site, and just the potential for general nuisance. On the balance of all the considerations, staff is in favor of the request. At the July 13th Planning Commission meeting, the Planning Commission did vote to deny the request and did so by a vote of 7 to 2.
 The commissioners that did speak in favor of the request noted that the proximity to Weddington supported a higher level of density and intensity and also the proximity of the development to Double Springs where there are some non-residential uses and services justified increasing a number of rooftops here, houses here.
 The commissioners that did oppose the request was somewhat based on public comment and then agreed with the resident nearby residents assertions of incompatibility. Other commissioners felt that the existing ordinances are not set up to adequately ensure the compact, complete and connected development our comprehensive plans want to see, particularly this far west in town.
 And stemming from that and the applicant's assertions that they would want to build affordable housing, there were questions of how affordable the housing can really be when factored in with transportation costs, if the majority of services and workplaces were fairly distanced from this property. And that said, I'm happy to take any questions the council has and I appreciate it, thanks. Okay, what questions do we have in the council on this?
 Jonathan, one of the things I was noticing when I was reading through everything is, you know, you mentioned some of the questions about, you know, neighborliness in the past, not measuring up there. But one of the things that they were talking about burning, cutting trees and stuff like that, would, if we change the zoning, does that change the person's ability to cut down trees on the property?
 not necessarily any depending what kind of development ultimately comes in on the property it may or may not be subject to our city's tree preservation requirements as the council may have picked up on over recent years in particular there are certain manners in which a property can be subdivided and developed with either single family or two family homes and they don't have to meet any of the city's tree preservation standards
 If it were to be developed as a larger whole or subdivided into multiple lots, it would be subject to tree preservation requirements
 uh as to the complaints or concerns about previous tree removal our tree preservation ordinance does have a look back period of five years if this property was to be brought in for development that is subject to tree preservation our foresters would have the ability to go back and look at horse historical aerial imagery to assert whether canopy was removed that may result in penalizing or the need to mitigate some of that canopy
 Okay, thank you. Certainly. What other questions do we have for staff? I have another question about, like, okay, if it's zone RI, then RI-12, then it can have single family, duplexes, two, three, and four units.
 Right. Single family. How do ADUs, how many ADUs could they fit in there? If, I mean, each, if you've got a duplex, you could have one, is that correct?
 The way our ordinance is written is that ADUs are only associated with single-family dwellings. So it's difficult to calculate exactly what it would be over the span of the entire property. But I think if the developer, if the property were rezoned and the developer were seeking to develop it to its maximum potential, I don't imagine accessory dwelling units would be part of the equation because they would have to sacrifice the ability to.
 building attached residential. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Jonathan, could you kind of respond to the planning commission comment about the current zoning codes not providing for or the development codes not providing for our plan goals? What are they concerned about and do you agree with that assessment? I think it's
 and believe it or not despite the fact we have 35 or so zoning districts in fayetteville sometimes it seems like we need more a lot of our zoning codes are not necessarily calibrated for peripheral parts of the city or areas of greenfield development i think
 staff and the commission, likely the council as well, have seen instances of this, particularly, I think RuPaul is the best example where council very deliberately allocated a large amount of money to construct RuPaul and then rezoned portions of RuPaul for mixed-use development and what's being built as single-family dwellings.
 So the entitlements are there to be able to build things to a higher density and intensity and mixed use development. But on the flip side of it, there's no requirement to build up to that density and intensity. And many of those zoning districts, despite their entitlements, we have seen a lot of instances of more suburban or conventional style development than you'd see urban development in some of our more,
 are zoning districts that are encouraging of urban style patterns. So on something this size in this location connected to Weddington, I guess what's the worst case scenario that they were worried about?
 I think it was predominantly, and again, it's always risky to speak for others, but my take on the conversation was that it wasn't exclusively about the pattern necessarily, but I think I heard the term dense sprawl used where we may be.
 While it may be an ideal place for development, the time may not be now. And despite the fact that we're getting the level of density or intensity that our plans may want in the short term, it may not actually be facilitating the overall city growth patterns that we want to see as we'll basically be getting the density we'd like to see, but with a lot more vehicle traffic, it won't necessarily be.
 creating those 15-minute neighborhoods that a lot of people would like to see. Thank you. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Do we have an applicant? Jonathan is the applicant here. I apologize, I believe Ms. Vicki Wood is in attendance. Okay. Ms. Wood, if you could go ahead. You have 10 minutes.
 Yes, yes. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Hello? Yes. Okay. Hello, I'm Vicki Wood and I'm representing the Houston's the property owners, Gordon and Linda Houston. And what we would like to say this evening is that the Planning and Zoning Committee, as well as the City Council, has supported and approved the 2040 plan.
 Within this plan, this property that we're discussing is in the area that has been deemed to be higher density. So if they support the 2040 plan, we believe they should support this rezoning also. From what I understand and what you've said, there's a petition against it brought about by neighbors who feel like they like living in an area that feels rural to them.
 And I believe I sat in on the last meeting and I heard, or the planning and zoning meeting, and that's what they said. It feels rural to us and we want to keep that feeling. But there are a number of commercial properties in the area nearby. And as you mentioned, the duplexes across the street. And there have been several new homes built on very small lots already in this area.
 So we feel like this area has already moved past feeling rural. And if this property was rezoned so a developer could come in and build some multifamily units, we believe it would afford people to have...
 rental properties. Not everyone can afford to buy a house, but maybe they could rent a house or rent a duplex or a triplex. And in addition, it would provide more tax dollars. So we would like to implore the city council to appeal the decision to deny the rezoning and allow us to rezone it and market it to someone who can bring in the affordable housing um
 to this area like i said that already has a lot of small lots and some duplexes across the street and that's all i have for now thank you so much okay does the council have any questions for the applicant before we go on the public comment okay now let's go to public comment then uh each speaker has uh five minutes to be broken into segments of two three and two minutes which staff will monitor
 also stay on topic which is the rezoning don't engage a council member or anyone from the public no rude behavior federal residents first please give us your name and address and who would like to address okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council what's wishes the council this is an ordinance we
 I suspect that if this was appealed, that the people around there that came to speak the first time have no idea this has come back to us again. So I definitely don't want to move it forward today. Okay.
 is that the consensus of the council i agree okay i think so too okay we'll just leave it right here then if no one's opposed to that mary is there typically a re-notification of the surrounding area on appeal do they get notified of that or would they just have to watch the agenda that's a great question i'm not sure i know the answer to that jonathan can you help
 The planning division does not re-advertise items that go to City Council. That's typically done through the clerk's office, I believe. I don't know if Ms. Paxton can provide clarification on that or not. We post the information on the agenda, and that's put through, and that's the only notice that we give. Okay. Well, I take it from the council that you would like to make sure that the people that live in the area are notified. Do I get the sense from you all? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 i know the council members from that area would probably really appreciate it for sure so and i know everybody wants to too so we will try and get some sort of notification out so that would be uh jonathan if you would just go ahead and do the typical 200 foot radius um for notification that you would normally do certainly okay good enough we'll leave it right here let's move on okay number three
 a resolution to request that the city staff study and present an ordinance eliminating discretionary proceedings for religious uses to to the extent possible provide for regulations based on the size and intensity of proposed use and employ a non-sectarian employee non-sectarian language um mary you have
 Oh, Kyle, you have this or Mary or who has this? I believe, Kyle, you brought this one, right? Yeah, Kyle. I got it. Yeah, and it's been a few weeks since I talked about this at agenda session. So just to kind of recap, you know, we've in the last couple of years had several times where church-related issues have come up and then we've run into issues with the federal law about religious land use and...
 So we keep saying that we'll deal with it and this is a request to do that. I think that staff's already got some draft language and I know Kit has put some out and I've had some ideas. And this is just a request for staff to facilitate some public input to kind of consolidate those three and make sure that we are
 We are on track with main goals being to eliminate to the extent possible discretionary hearings about churches and to enable them to be built by right in a wider variety of zones as appropriate. Hopefully we can distinguish based on the impact of the church by size rather than by its particular content.
 and also include some appropriate ways for them to apply the design standards or exempt them as appropriate. And then, of course, as the title suggests, I think it would be appropriate for us to include or to modify the language to refer to all religious institutions instead of religious gathering places instead of just churches.
 So basically you have a resolution of intent to do a study in those areas, correct? I believe that's correct. Okay. Mary, do you want to have any comments on that? I don't really have anything to add. I think Councilman Smith did a good job of kind of describing where we're at. Staff has done some preliminary research into kind of other municipalities and how they've addressed this and then done some background research into RuPaul and met with,
 the city attorney and we'd like to just kind of move it forward and get some of these code amendments in front of you okay what questions do we have for the council i have a question for council member smith do you envision a particular process for when these come back or do you think they'll be ready for the council itself when they come back i would anticipate that um
 We'll have a draft that kind of comes from a consolidation of the three sets of notes that are out there and public comment. We'd like for it to go to ordinance review just for council to hack at it some, and then hopefully we can bring it or can refer it here from that venue. That sounds great. Thank you. We have a question from council. Well, let's take some public comment.
 each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor everybody stay on topic which is a resolution of intent so don't engage council member or anyone from the public no rude behavior federal residents first please give us your name and address and who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution was the wishes of the council
 Mayor, I move we pass the resolution. Okay, we have a second. Second. Okay, we got a motion to second to pass resolution. Any final comments from the council? Kerowitz, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much number four an ordinance to amend 166.23 urban Residential design standards of Unified Development Code to increase flexibility for small building design Kip whereas the Planning Division and the Planning Commission recommend the City Council adopt code changes specifying different design requirements for small and large attached residential buildings and
 and whereas the recommended changes are intended to allow smaller attached residential buildings to better reflect the character of the surrounding neighborhoods and make it easier to build missing metal housing
 Whereas the amendments are in line with goals one and six of city plan 2040 to make infill and revitalization our highest priority and to create opportunities for attainable housing Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section one That's good. My computer decided to leave me back to paper
 The City Council, City of Fayetteville, are hereby amends subsection D2AIII of section 166.23, urban residential design standards, so that the provision reads as follows, quote, the following architectural elements shall be required of all principal facades that are greater than 48 feet wide along the street frontage.
 Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby enacts a new subdivision D2A4 regarding the required architectural elements for principal facades of 48 feet or less. Subsection 4, one or more of the following architectural elements shall be required of all principal facades that are 48 feet wide or less along the street frontage. A, balconies. B, facades.
 B bays or bay windows C porches D dormers E porticos F Turrets and 4g other architectural feature approved by the development review manager that meets the intent of the code Okay
 I do. So the purpose of the city's urban residential design standards is to enhance Fayetteville's appearance and identity, as well as compose active residential facades that are compatible with surrounding property.
 Among these standards are architectural requirements for two-family, three-family, and multi-family dwellings to vary building types and materials, including such things as relief in the wall pane and incorporating the two or more design elements that Kit just read out to you. These include balconies, dormers, porches, et cetera, on all primary facades.
 Staff has found that a reduction in these design standards for primary facades 48 feet wide or less, as proposed, does not really nullify the intent of the ordinance, because requiring relatively narrow structures such as infill duplexes that tend to be modest in bulk and massing to include two or more design elements on all principal facades creates conditions where compliance with existing urban residential design standards may be burdensome.
 And again, as Kit mentioned, any principal facade over 48 feet will still be required to have two or more of these design elements. Reducing the design requirements for narrow structures will simplify design standards and allow for a more organic development of the built environment.
 The reduction also allows for a more streamlined design process while still requiring developers to appropriately address the street, as well as allowing smaller residential construction to blend better into the existing housing stock. I'll be happy to take any questions. What questions do we have, Council? I have a question. Sure. So could somebody tell me who the zoning development administrator is? That's a good question. I believe it would be ultimately Garner. Jonathan, you want to weigh in?
 The code designates me as the Zoning Development Administrator. It's Jonathan. Okay. So if I understand this correctly, the current code incorporates anything that
 What does the, I guess I'm a little bit confused here, what does the current code say about 48 feet wide or less street frontages? What is the current code requirement? So the current code requirement is just that any two-family, three-family, or multifamily dwelling incorporate two or more of the design elements. So that 48 feet wide or less is the amendment to the code.
 So right now, if you had a duplex, each principal facade would still be required to have two or more design elements. And so that's what we're trying to reduce because it's burdensome and it can create a situation where a facade looks crowded. So we're adding that element to the code. So we're basically reducing it. We're cutting it in half what the requirement is. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that. Yep. What other questions do we have?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes with staff to monitor. Everybody stay on topic, which is the urban residential design standards. Don't engage council member or anyone from the public. No rude behavior. Federal residents first. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Will Dockery. Okay, go ahead. Hello, Will Dockery, 4149 West Bradstreet.
 Fayetteville. I know this is small change, but hopefully it'll help with some of our missing metal housing and
 I know the way that we actually have our code right now makes it kind of hard to build some of these things. And furthermore, things like duplexes and especially quadruplexes, which you would see in the traditional old style parts of our city, like on college, would not be legal right now. But by making this change, they would be. And in fact, those are some of our...
 lower priced housing right now. And that's partially because they're older, but also it's because they didn't have to have this interesting thing where we're trying to combine the facades of four houses onto a quadruplex. So I think this is a good thing. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to council. Which wishes council, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Do I have a second? Second. I'll move a motion and a second to go to second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 And ordinance amends section 166.23, urban residential design standards of the Unified Development Code to increase flexibility for small building design.
 as a wishes to council. Mayor, if I could, I think we should hold it right here. We need to have, I believe, the public's input more broadly. We just had one person speak. And I'm not really sure that they're aware of this. So I'd like to ask the council maybe just to hold it for another meeting. I agree with that totally. So if no one is opposed, we will hold it on the third reading
 here okay on third read all right let's move along number five an ordinance the way the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with e-court a llc with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms to provide online citation payment software for the federal district court kit whereas the fable district court has utilized virtual justice court software since 2007
 for its case and citation management needs. And whereas virtual justice integrates with only two online citation payment vendors, one of which the city has used for many years, but the agreement was recently terminated primarily due to the high cost the vendor was charging customers in transaction fees.
 And whereas eCourt Pay LLC software is the only other online citation payment software that integrates with the virtual justice software and is currently used by 29 cities across Arkansas, including Siloam Springs, Rogers and Springdale. And whereas based on the positive reference from the city of Springdale,
 and the lower transaction fees charged to users, staff recommends entering into a contract with eCourt Pay LLC for online citation payment software. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical.
 and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a one-year contract with ecourt llc with an option to renew for up to four additional one term one-year terms provide online citation payment software for the fable district court with the fees charged to the users of the software as set forth in the contract a copy of which is attached to this ordinance okay
 Mayor and Council, I'm bringing this item to you tonight on behalf of District Court Judge Story and District Court Administrator Dean Stockholper, who's also on the call tonight or on the Zoom meeting. As usual, Kit explained it in detail. He picked up almost every one of my talking points here, so...
 this is a just a new way an additional method to be able to take payments uh which this we already accept cash check in-person payments uh via credit card and debit card and this will be an additional method to pay online uh via debit card or credit card and i'll be happy to answer any questions you may have okay what questions do we have for keith on this council okay let's take some public comment
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of two, three and two minutes which staff will monitor. Everybody stay on topic, which is the e-court contract. Don't engage a member of the city council or anyone from the public. No rude behavior. Federal residents first. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Mayor, I know Dina's on the line too, the municipal clerk. I didn't know if she wanted to say something.
 okay is there any comment from the judge's office i don't have any comments i'm i'm unstable internet connection right now i just i just feel like we tried to get this item on the agenda or get approved some time ago uh right after um
 Well, I believe it was early April and there was just too much going on with the virus. So I thought we'd try again. I think it's just really important because we have a lot of, especially now that the university students are back, they like to be able to have an option to pay and not have to go anywhere to do it. So I think that we might get an improvement in collections.
 with the e-court pay. And I think it would be an asset to the court and to the city of Fayetteville. Thank you. Good, thank you. All right, now I'll bring it back to the council. I am correct in understanding that this is only adding options. This is not taking away options. That's correct. Okay, I move to suspend the rule and go to second reading. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to second reading.
 I don't care what you please call the roll. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy?
 and nor is to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with ecourt pay llc with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms to provide online citation payment software for the fayetteville district court okay what solutions to council
 I move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turth? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with eCourt Pay LLC with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms, provide online citation payment software for the Fayetteville District Court. Any final comments from the council? All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Okay thank you all very much. Number six
 An ordinance rezoning property described rezoning petition RZN 20-7174 approximately 0.18 acres located at 921 West Berry Street from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RMF 40, residential multifamily, 40 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is about four blocks north of Maple Street and the main U of A campus between Garland to the west and Leverett to the east. It's on the southeast corner of Berry Street and Oakland Avenue.
 for those of you familiar with the area or not or if you're just looking at the aerial you can see that it is an area of very wide variety of residential uses there are even a number of non-residential uses within a close walking distance there are services and restaurants along leverett their institutional uses including the university and religious institutions to the south and schools to the west with few exceptions the zoning reflects this
 Diversity of residential use, despite the almost uniform color, with the land on all sides of the property zoned for a full spectrum of residential housing types from single family to two, three, four, and even multifamily uses. The request before council is to rezone the property from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to RIE, residential intermediate urban.
 The city's long range planning documents support the request. They support density and intensity at this location. The city's future land use map indicates that this property is intended to be city neighborhood area, which is represented by the widest possible spectrum of residential uses and non-residential uses. Despite the single or purely residential aspect of our zoning district, we feel that it is very complimentary of urban uses and urbanity in general.
 Riu despite not allowing multifamily does allow greater flexibility in developing infill development allows narrower lots without some of the more difficult to work with lot area requirements and tight properties and
 Similarly, city plan 2040s infill matrix indicates that this is an ideal location for additional housing. I guess a very high score on the matrix of 11. This includes variables such as street connectivity, access to utilities, and proximity to many of those amenities I just ran through a moment ago.
 Accordingly, staff has no issues with the request and we are recommending in favor of the proposal. No public comment was received in advance of the Planning Commission or at the Planning Commission and the item was forwarded to Council unanimously with a recommendation of approval. And I'm happy to take any questions the Council may have and Daniel Lazenby is available from the applicants team for questions. Thanks.
 Did you say the applicant was here? Yes, Mayor. Daniel Lazenby. OK. Daniel, you want to speak before the council? OK. What questions does the council have? Mayor, I have a question. This looks almost identical to a rezoning that we considered a while back a block south of here at the corner of Eagle and Oakland. And as I recall, the big hang up there was not the housing types. It was the single tree on the corner.
 And I noticed that this also has some trees on the corner in a similar position. And I'm wondering what Urban Forestry has to say about those trees. And also, how's the one on Eagle doing these days? All right.
 I can attempt to answer that on Forester's behalf, Mayor. I don't know if a representative from our foresters are here tonight, but unfortunately speaking for the one on Eagle, they did make efforts to save it. You may have seen in the aerial I presented, it does show it on the property, but it's my understanding that the tree did not survive the construction and near its root ball and it had to be removed.
 You are right, these are very similar properties in a lot of ways, including that they do have a tree canopy on the current site. If it's developed in a similar way, it's also not subject to our city's tree preservation ordinance. Again, that development route I described earlier of doing a simple subdivision of land and building permits for singular two-family homes does not require property to go through some of the city's higher development thresholds, including tree preservation. Okay.
 And Mr. Blaisdell, I believe you are with us. Hello? Yes, sir, Mr. Mayor. I apologize. I had to leave Zoom momentarily. If anybody's got any questions for me, I represent ESI, the engineer for the project. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have with the staff or Mr. Blaisdell from the council? Okay. Let's go and take some public comment then. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes with staff monitor.
 Everybody stays on topic. Topic is the rezoning on Berry Street. Don't engage the council member or anyone from the public. No rude behavior. That will rest then. First, please give us your name and address and who would like to address us. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the way this is the council? This is an ordinance. And so what discussion do we have then? I do want to keep this on the...
 at least the second reading, if we go forward, the neighbors on the, I think that's Eagle Street, that had so much concern about the development that was mentioned earlier with the tree. I'm not sure that they know that this is happening and they might have a comment on it, and I'm going to contact them to see, because the street as a whole was pretty upset about losing the other tree and the,
 So anyway, if we could at least hold it for two weeks, I would appreciate it. Okay. Does anyone oppose to that? So we'll just leave it right here for two weeks. All right, let's move along to number seven.
 An ordinance to rezone that property, inscribing rezoning petition RZN 20-7182 for approximately 17 acres located south of West 15th Street and South Van Buren Avenue from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily 24-year-old and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Non-Industrial to CS Community Services. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to CS Community Services, Section 2. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. As noted in the description, this property is just west of the intersection of School Avenue and 15th Street in South Fayetteville. It's about an eighth of a mile west of School Avenue, just a little way southeast of the Pinnacle Foods plant.
 It is undeveloped largely and has remained so for most of its history. It is a bit unusual and some of the unusual shape the council may have noted as a result of the fact that about a third of the property was actually part of the platted subdivision that includes the houses that front 15th Street. You can see Tate Street noted on the aerial here where some unbuilt right away currently exists.
 The property is currently entitled under zoning code for multifamily and industrial development. It does straddle the residential uses to the north and west, which include a mixture of single family and multifamily, and the industrial uses to the east and south, or industrial zoning to the east and south, which include the university's technology parks and warehouses to the east and also a religious institution to the east.
 the oops sorry the city's long-range plans do generally support this request uh the future land use map designation for the area is sitting the apron area if you'll recall from the last item that is intended to support our our widest spectrum of residential non-residential uses at a pretty high intensity and density
 Given its location, it's perhaps not surprising that it gets a fairly moderate infill score. It is within the Fayette Junction plan. It does have close access to Great House Park and the Town Branch Trail. Both transit lines have stops within close proximity of the property, and there is water and sewer. Just to put it in the context of the Fayette Junction plan for you, this sits in the northeast corner, a gateway of sorts along 15th Street.
 You can see what was intended a little bit over a decade, what was envisioned for the property with development nestled up closer to 15th Street. In reviewing the request, the main staff concern and an issue really discussed by the Planning Commission were the riparian corridors. It's arguably the most unique characteristic of the site. Not only does it have the town branch running along the southern border of it, but also has the college branch coming from
 the Northeast and the Cato Springs from the Southwest. As you can see here on the floodplain map, that results in a significant amount of the property being encumbered by floodplain. Although staff did initially have concerns with this, we do feel like the existing entitlements on the property, the existing zoning districts
 make it a reasonable request to rezone the full breadth of the property, the CS community services. It would allow it to serve as that transitional district between the residential uses to the west and the north and the non-residential uses to the east and south. Additionally, it would allow some of the more form flexibility of buildings and development to actually pull the development of the property up towards 15th Street as the master plan had envisioned.
 whereas some of our more conventional zoning districts would typically require larger green spaces or setbacks from the street pushing development further into the floodplain. That said, staff does recommend approving the request. Similarly, the Planning Commission forwarded the request.
 with a recommendation of approval. There was comment made by one of the commissioners who was unfortunately disconnected during roll call. We did attempt to reconnect with them, but they did express concerns about the repairing corridors on the property. And as far as public comment goes, we did not receive any from staff other than inquiries
 As I noted at agenda session, there were some problems, however, with keeping the sign, the public notification sign on the site. And so staff actually did go out there a couple of times to repost that during the notification period leading up to the public hearing. With that said, I'm happy to take any questions the council may have. And I believe we do have members of the applicant's team here. I think Garrison Roddy is in attendance. Thank you. Who's in attendance?
 Garrison Roddy. And Eric Long, Mayor. I apologize. Okay. Would the applicants like to speak to the council? They have 10 minutes. Garrison, go ahead. Can you all hear me?
 Yes. Mayor and staff, thank you very much for your time. We were very encouraged, I guess, by looking back to the Fayette Junction plan and trying to align best with those plans that the city invested in 10 years ago. We're also encouraged, I guess, by this plan.
 by some of the new zoning, especially CS, and talking and working with the planning department and trying to accomplish goals that the city needs, especially in South Fayetteville. And it's, I guess, an honor and a pleasure to be part of that growth that's happening throughout South Fayetteville and to see a lot of the changes, positive changes, I think, that are happening. So thank y'all very much. Okay.
 what questions do we have from the council to the applicant or staff okay let's take some public comment then all right each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor everybody stay on topics topic is the rezoning of 15th street and van buren um don't engage a city council member or anyone from the public no rude behavior federal residents first please give us your name and address and who would like to be first
 okay i'm going to bring back to the council what's the wishes to council this is an ordinance um does staff feel that the new zoning would protect that repairing zone more than the old zoning
 That was certainly the biggest consideration with this request. I think the short answer is yes. The allowances in the CS zoning would give the developer an entitlement that would allow them to concentrate it out of the repairing corridor near those streams.
 We also feel that the existing city standards near streams, the streamside protection zone specifically do allow a heightened amount of protection compared to what you may see elsewhere in the region.
 And then the other consideration of course is without sounding like I'm repeating myself, just the existing zone or the existing entitlement on the property. Today somebody could develop the entire extent of the property under the multifamily or industrial zoning. We felt it appropriate that the proposal to CS was a comparable request that again would allow the flexibility to avoid those streams. Okay. Thank you.
 I'm really excited to see this moving forward. We desperately need more housing and services down in South Fayetteville, and this parcel has been empty as long as we can tell. So I really hope that we can move this forward rapidly. I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Well, we've got a motion to second and go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Yes.
 Turf Yes Smith Yes Gutierrez Yes Marsh Yes Kenyon Yes Petty
 I have a question.
 I'm sorry. Jonathan, I have a question for you. If you could put up the map that shows the extent of the streamside areas, that would be very helpful, the one that you added into our packet this week. Certainly. Allow me just one moment, please. I apologize. I had it at my fingertips and now I misplaced it. Allow me to pull up the one in my presentation for just a moment, and in the meantime, I'll track down that other one and get it pulled up for you.
 Okay, what I'm kind of seeking is clarification about the buildable area on that lot. Just so we understand and the public understands a little bit better about what is a buildable space because there is quite a bit of
 of the floodplain and some other areas that flood on a fairly regular basis. And I just want to make sure that we're very clear about that and what the rules are with this piece of property. If we are if we approve it to to rezone it right there. So is it basically just the area in gray and in the sort of orange colored area?
 Yes, let me allow me to walk walk through it. For those who don't look at this every day like I do the hatched portion of the map represents the flood way, which has some very, very high development standards. If somebody was to propose building in it. Basically, you have to establish that
 for every amount of or every cubic foot you're displacing in a floodway you have to prove that you're accommodating without pushing that off on somebody downstream the blue area is what most people call the 100 year floodplain means you have a one percent chance any given year to flood and then the orange is the 500 year floodplain which any given year you have a fifth or
 Sorry, yeah, a fifth of a percent of a chance to flood that time. The FEMA standards are much lower for floodplain than floodway for construction. Generally, it's the base floor elevation of a structure has to be two feet above the floodplain elevation. There are those on staff who are better at speaking of this than I, but I do know that
 that sometimes the city's stream side protection zone standards exceed even those established by FEMA. That would likely be the case, particularly on the Eastern property line where the college branch is located.
 The city's streamside protection zone has a series of zones set back from the creek. If it's not particularly sloped, it's about 50 feet. And the further you move away from the creek, the more restricted you can develop into that area. If it is a fairly sloped bank area, it's increased up to about 70 feet from that area. Does that answer your question?
 That was very helpful. I would really like to hold this on this reading because this is a complicated piece of real estate right here. It's got a few constraints on it. I would request, Jonathan, if you could find out if we were able to hold that if you could find out in the next two weeks, what the stream side protection ordinance, what it would restrict in that particular area since it is based on slope.
 That would be incredibly helpful. I would just like to make sure the public has a chance to review this and understand how close this area is to these different, these two streams. And what are you, it's kind of a unique parcel too. So it's, so if we could give it another couple of weeks I would appreciate it.
 I'd just like to clarify that this parcel has existing development rights that actually exceed what they're asking for. And whether or not we rezone it, that will not change the buildable area of the lot. So we're not really changing anything there. We're actually just offering more flexibility to have community services instead of high density apartment buildings. And so the
 You know, we're not changing the developable area. We're changing, we're enabling more flexibility so that the project can better respond to the context and build the neighborhood with much needed opportunities for services. In addition to what Sarah just said, I was looking at Facebook today and the South Fayetteville Facebook page.
 There were like 90 comments on this and Sonia had posted a link for people to attend the meetings. So, I mean, I think there were quite, you know, maybe not 90 comments. Maybe that was an exaggeration, but there were a lot, there were a lot of comments and, um,
 So I think, you know, I don't know if we need to wait on this. I mean, I'm sure we could round up some people to come in and talk about it, but I think they already knew about it, it seems like. So thanks. Is this a development that was called Sanctuary? Okay, so we'll see that in a large-scale development, I assume, at some point. It was also written about in the newspaper today, just FYI. Yeah, I mean, I think...
 You know, I did review those comments that were on Facebook, and it sounded more like anything from the photos that were in the newspaper that there was a concern about the style more than the water issue, although that was expressed as well for anyone else, anyone that was expressing concern. So I don't know that style-wise, I don't know. Jonathan, can you?
 speak to that? I mean, it's quite a modern, very northern Fayetteville style that we're seeing in South Fayetteville. However, you know, this is part of the changes that we're seeing. So is that anything that we can address with zoning? I mean, this is this is kind of the way that the growth is going is my understanding.
 let me interrupt we can't consider the project this is a zoning we can only consider potential uses that would be under community services drawings concept plans or things like that really are not part of the zoning decision that would come after the zoning has been done and development has been proposed
 So I think we need to stick with the potential uses of community services as opposed to the current uses that are allowed under a residential multifamily and heavy commercial light industrial. That's what this zoning decision is about rather than any proposed project that may or may never be built. Thank you, Kit, for helping me to remind me of that. I think that that's helpful for the public to know.
 And then I guess, and just again, because we have brought up that conversation, in terms of water, what types of options do the neighbors have if in fact, once we...
 Once we get this, you know, development in here and if it exacerbates water issues, are there any kind of opportunities that the residents have to kind of modify that or address that later? Or do you feel that the flow is already being addressed well enough?
 Well, we have a stormwater engineer on staff. I noticed that a lot of this is FEMA zone districts, which have specific rules both by the state and FEMA about what can and cannot be done there.
 And I'm sure I did get to know more about all these FEMA rules and stuff from the three different cases where we've been sued for flooding, which we've always won. But I have had to educate myself. And I tell you, I'm impressed with our stormwater engineer, Mr. Hughes.
 And so I think he'll be very careful in analyzing any proposal to make sure that the water issues are taken care of. As Jonathan said, we have a 50 foot setback from a stream bank.
 before almost anything can be done. There's a little bit that can be done in the last 25 feet, almost nothing from 25 feet to the top of the storm, of the stream bank. So there's lots of protections that Fayetteville has instituted through the city council to protect water issues in Fayetteville. And then of course the federal government through FEMA and stuff have required other protections. So,
 I think that even though we won't necessarily see any large-scale development, because that's going to be decided by the Planning Commission, the stormwater issues will certainly be looked at very hard and carefully by our very competent engineering staff to ensure that we are going to be in compliance with everything and that the water issues will not be made worse by any development.
 I have one more question regarding that. So the change in zoning from RMF 24 and I-1 to CS, the safeguards, the oversight, the requirements for FEMA and also city code, do those change at all with the different zoning designation that is before us tonight?
 I don't believe that they do. What it does do though is allow different kinds of uses and probably maybe even some reduced setbacks from the street, which is if you look at the map, some of the better land farther away from the flood is toward 15th Street.
 so i think it might allow better utilization of the parts of this project that will actually be able to be worked on i think a lot of this land uh i guess i should defer to brian pew our stormwater engineers but i think a lot of this land which is close to the storm close to the creeks especially in this in the floodway
 will not be able to be developed. And so I think the community services might allow better flexibility to develop that land that is proper and available for development as opposed to the heavy commercial light industrial and the apartment zoning that it is now. Chris, are you on the line? Do we have any engineers here tonight? I'm here, Mayor. Do you want to weigh in on any of that, or do you have...
 Well, I think they've said it pretty well. The floodway is very restrictive. Essentially, you can't develop within the floodway. The FEMA requirements, as well as our streamside protection ordinance, protect the floodway. Typically, you are allowed to build in the floodplain
 With a project this large, we would be looking at a more detailed study and a lot more information than what you'd see on a smaller scale project. So as Kit noted, I'm confident that our codes are in place to protect upstream and downstream property owners, protect water quality, and make sure that we don't increase the flow in the stream.
 Right. And by rule of thumb, usually that post-flooding is not supposed to be worse than the pre-flooding. Is that correct? That's correct. Absolutely. And then would you say in your estimation that the bill by right that they have right now would be worse –
 on flooding if it was developed like it is than if we did this other zoning, which... I think it'd basically be the same really. The engineers are not going to allow the pre-development flow to be aggravated by the development as opposed to what's happening right now. Is that right, Chris? Right. Those codes are the same regardless of the zoning, so that any type of large-scale development like this would
 would be required to meet our water quality and flood protection ordinances. So the ordinances that we have in place, the flooding would not be worse if it was developed? That's right. We have multiple levels of water quality and flood protection in place.
 Thanks everyone for clarifying that. I feel like in this case it's almost really imperative that we change the zoning this evening because I'm interested in having as much protection for that for the flooding and it sounds like this is the direction, this is a better direction, the rezone will help with that. So I would prefer not to leave it here and to move forward with the rezone.
 If that's a motion, I'll second it. I move we go to the second reading. No, we're on the second reading. Right now we're on the second reading. It's an ordinance, so you'd have to go to the third reading. I move we go to the third reading. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second. We go to the third and final reading. Kerwin, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Okay.
 Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Kenyon Kenyon no no yes in order to rezone that property described and rezoning petition RZN 20-7182 for approximately 17 acres located south of West 15th Street and South Van Buren Avenue
 from rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre and i won heavy commercial and light industrial to cs community services okay what final comments do we have in the council on this i wanted to explain a little bit my reason for voting no uh
 i do think that there could have been more discussion across the community on the management of the stormwater runoff here into the watershed and so that's why i did that but i'm certainly fine with the way that things worked out okay any other comments from council
 Yes, I'd also like to explain my position. I just feel like the public needs a little bit longer time. I'm glad that there was an article in the newspaper today and there's been a discussion on Facebook. But this is kind of a substantial change. And I realize they already have building rights there. But I just wanted the public to be a little bit more aware of the project. So that was my reason. Okay. Any other final comments from the council? No.
 Okay, Carriage Police Call Now. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number eight.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 20-7167, properly located at 4280 West Martin Luther King Boulevard, to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purpose.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3.
 This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And two, there shall be maintained a 15-foot radio clearance from the closest overhead electric line. Okay, go ahead, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in southwest Fayetteville on the north side of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, just shy of the city's boundary with Farmington.
 In recent years, it was approved to be rezoned to Urban Thoroughfare UT, which has a required build two zone that necessitated the developer building their restaurant as close to the street as physically possible. During construction, the building got placed a little too close to the street as possible and was actually placed somewhat over a existing utility easement.
 So at this point, the project is working to get a certificate of occupancy on the building, and they are not able to do so, given the conflict with this easement. There's an overhang on the building that is sticking over the easement and overhanging.
 easements go all the way to the ground and all the way to the sky for for planning and development purposes we have no issues with the request the Planning Commission boarded as part of the consent agenda we received no public comment and the utilities have all signed off that are necessary accordingly we're recommending approving the easement vacation as recommended by both staff and the Planning Commission I'm happy to take questions
 And I believe we have George Duquesne here with Bluen Associates representing the applicant tonight. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or staff from the council? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, and it's on the first reading. Will we suspend the rule? No.
 Second reading. I'll second that. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Hang on just a moment. Do we need to take public comment? Yeah, I think he asked for it. I did. Did I miss that? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I missed it. No, let me just back it up to be sure that I'm double checking myself. Do we have any public comment on this? And...
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes with staff monitor. Please stay on the topic and it is a vacation. Don't engage a council member, anyone from the public, no rude behavior. Federal residents first, please give us your name and address, who would like to be first? Okay, so now we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. And who was the motioner in the second?
 Let's do that again. I was the motioner. Okay. Who seconded it? Well, somebody volunteer. Sarah Marsh. Okay. Sarah. All right. So we have a motion to second to go to second. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Yes. Turr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 Adnordance approved. VAC 20-7167 for property located at 4280 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. And so? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Care to please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to approve VIC 20-7167 for property located at 4280 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith?
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, let's go to number nine. An ordinance to approve vacation 20-7178 property located at 4322 and 4334 West Barnum Drive to vacate a portion of general utility easement. Kip?
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of the general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo,
 Section 2 a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached is a given a to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk and number three section 3 This vacation approval is subject to condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities Shall be at the owner developers expense. Okay, John Are you muted John? Are you with us John?
 I am. I apologize. I was muted at least once a meeting, right? This property is in West Fayetteville, southwest of Owl Creek Elementary and a part of phase five of the Sloanbrook subdivision. The applicant requests to vacate a utility easement that was dedicated in the city in the 1990s to accommodate a sanitary sewer main. Easement's no longer needed due to construction of new mains throughout the Sloanbrook subdivision. More pertinently, the
 The easement vacation is required to actually make a few of the lots in the subdivision buildable. As you can see in the exhibit provided here, lots 52 and 53 are encumbered by that easement today and limiting their ability to build. We don't see any issues with the request. All the necessary franchise utilities have signed off on it. The Planning Commission forwarded it as a part of their consent agenda and staff also recommends approval.
 with only the condition that Mr. Williams noted about the need that the applicants pay for any relocation or repair to any utilities damaged. I'll be happy to take any questions and I believe Justin Jorgensen is here or questions from the applicant's team. Thank you. Okay, with the applicant, I'll speak to the council. Mr. Jorgensen, go ahead. Mr. Jorgensen, can you unmute yourself? There we go, let's try it again.
 Mayor and Council, I hope everyone is doing well. Hopefully this is straightforward, but I am here and glad to answer any questions that come up. Thank you. Okay, does the City Council have any questions for the staff or the applicant? Okay, let's take some public comment. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Everybody stay on topic, which is a vacation.
 Don't engage council member or anyone from the public. No rude behavior. Federal residents first. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. All right, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Once the wish is to the council, this is an ordinance. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 TURF. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. In order to approve DAC 20-7178 for property located at 4322 and 4334 West Farm Drive to vacate a portion of the general utility easements. I move we suspend the rules. Yeah, go ahead. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes.
 In order to approve DAC 20-7178, the property located at 4322 and 4334 West Bond Drive, to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 Eddie. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number 10, an ordinance to approve vacation 20-7184 properly located at 2160 North Rupert Road, the vacated portion of Street Right-of-Way. Kip.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it will be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby vacates a portion of street right away as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo section two that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk section three this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one
 anyway any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developers expense number two dedication of gas easement shall be completed along the western edge of Rupert Road to accommodate gas line relocation as shown in attacks attached gas easement exhibit number three
 Access easement dedication shall be completed as shown in the attached access easement exhibit. And number four, general utility easement dedication shall replace the location of the proposed right-of-way vacation to serve existing public water and sewer infrastructure. Okay. Jonathan, I believe you have this one. I do, Mayor. Thank you.
 This property is in northwest Fayetteville, just west of the intersection of the new extension of Rupel Road and Mount Comfort Road. And you can see here in the aerial exhibit, the historical aerial exhibit, where the former route of Rupel Road used to go directly north from Fayetteville.
 Whittington Drive due north past the links Fayetteville apartment complex and where it eventually joined Mount Comfort Road at an uncomfortable Y intersection that was in use for some decades as part of the realignment with Ruple Road. Staff has worked with the property owner to vacate portions of Ruple Road that no longer be used by the city and
 As you can see here outlined in red, the former alignment of the road and the new alignment of Ruppel Road. As a part of the request, there were a couple of issues identified that the engineering division staff worked with the property owners to the east and west to address. Those are principally about access and utilities. Mr. Williams addressed those largely in the conditions of approval.
 As far as access goes, the right-of-way would be vacated and replaced with an access easement that would allow both adjoining property owners to continue enjoying legal access to the pavement that remains north of the creek there. And the second piece is with regards to utilities. There are several existing...
 public mains and the private franchise utility mains in the area and dedication of additional easements along the edge of the new alignment of ruple road and the former alignment of ruple road would accommodate the respective franchise utilities abilities to maintain those
 All that said, franchise utilities and staff support the requests and the Planning Commission forwarded the request as part of the consent agenda and I'm happy to take questions that the Council may have. This was submitted by staff so either I'm happy to take questions or I believe Mr. Brown with the City Engineering Division is also available who may have some detailed answers that I may not be able to answer. Thanks. Okay what questions do we have in the Council on this?
 I have a question. I don't know, I'm not sure I understand completely why we would move the road when it aligns with the other one at that intersection. So I guess I just need more understanding of why this is happening.
 i apologize i did a poor job explaining it it sounds like as a part of the realignment of ruple road with mount comfort running north from whittington the former alignment is to be vacated so the new alignment of ruple road which hopefully you can see me indicating here with my cursor that is within public right-of-way and will remain within public right-of-way
 it's the former right-of-way that is being vacated with this request of which the southern portion the pavement has already been removed but there are some utilities still located in that area oh okay sorry i get it now okay so it's not that we want to add a new road there we're vacating this and then just continue i got it correct sorry for the poor explanation thank you one of the questions we have in the council
 okay let's take some public comment each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes with staff to monitor please stay on the topic which is a vacation uh don't engage Council member anyone from the public no rude behavior federal residents first please give us your name and address and who would like to be first all right I'm going to bring it back to the council what's wishes to Council this is an ordinance it's on the first
 Mayor, I think this is the finalization of a long-standing plan and I'm happy to see it through. I move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Thank you all very much. Yes. I've got a little bit of time in this. Okay. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes. And your ordinance to approve the AC 20-7184 for property located at 2160 North Rupert Road to vacate a portion of street right-of-way. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second. Go to the third and final reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. And ordinance approved VAC 20-7184 for property located at 2160 North Rupel Road to vacate a portion of street right of way. Final comments that we have in the council?
 Thank you very much, Council. This only took me about 20 years to work on that intersection. That was something we started working on in 2001, was that realignment. Thank you for putting in the time on it, Mayor. There is a lot of hours put into that one.
 Yeah, I do have a timeline on that one. So thank you all very much. A lot of Ward 4 meetings, too. All right. That being said, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number 11. A resolution to authorize the sale of a small parcel of land south of Georgia's majestic lounge and west of the railroad tracks to Bryan and Day Crown for the amount of $17,000. Matthew, I believe this one is yours. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I don't have too much to say about this. I know that we have Bryan Crown on the line and he's going to make his case. Okay.
 You know, for me, this comes down to just a couple of things. First, this is a unique property. We can see that by the small size and the shape and, of course, the location. In so many ways, it's kind of landlocked by drainage easements and pedestrian easements and by property that's already associated with Georgia's.
 And also I think that George's is a really unique business as unique as this property is. There's, there's nothing like George's property.
 elsewhere in Fayetteville. It's truly an institution. I don't think it's just a buzzword to describe Georgia's as an institution for Fayetteville. And in a lot of ways, I think it's hard for me and hard for a lot of people to imagine what Fayetteville would have been like over the last 10 years or 20 years or longer if Georgia's hadn't continued to survive and to thrive over the years. And I think in a lot of ways, it's been
 truly a stabilizing force for Dixon Street and for the culture of downtown Fayetteville.
 If you recall when we discussed this item previously, whenever it came up, if you were here, when Councilmember Justin Tennant sponsored this, that conversation went a little differently. And in so many ways, I'll explain. My thinking has changed. I think COVID has changed a lot.
 And the context of that decision was we had a very healthy economy and a healthy tourism industry. And we were also in the middle of designing the improvements to the parking lot in the cultural arts corridor, which ultimately was the reason we waited on this property, on transacting this property at all. Things have changed quite a bit. And my thinking has changed. Part of what I've realized in COVID is,
 just how hard hit and how fragile really our tourism sectors are. Live event venues were the first to close and they'll probably be the last to fully reopen.
 And it's a coincidence, but tonight there's national action to raise awareness for the plight of live event venues and to raise awareness for what Congress could do with a bill that's a relief bill that's before them today. You may see the Walton Arts Center or Maxine's or other institutions lit up red tonight across our town and across the nation to raise awareness for kind of what we're talking about tonight. Yeah.
 at least in a general sense. So tonight is just a property transaction. I do think that this is really gonna capitalize on the modest success or the encouragement that Georgia has already seen from what they've been experimenting with doing outdoors. But I think you're gonna hear more about that from Brian.
 Just to summarize, I feel this is a unique property with a unique business. And I guess to put a fine point on it, to me, it feels like Georgia's having this land for live events is the highest and best use for this particular property, given the context. That's all I have to say about it, Mayor. But I do know Brian is here and would like to share what his aspirations are and what his thoughts are. Okay. Okay.
 Ron, go ahead. Can you hear me now? Yeah. Okay. Thank you, Mayor Jordan and the City Council members. I just have a statement I'd like to read you guys. Georgia's Majestic Lounge opened in 1927 and is in its 93rd year of business. My wife, Day, and I are in our 17th years as owner-operators, being only the fourth owners in 93 years.
 George's is part of the cultural fabric of Fayetteville and especially in our arts and entertainment district. We are the bookends of the north side of our soon-to-be cultural arts corridor with Walton Arts Center. George's is truly an arts presenter and only open when we have shows and special events.
 George's is not just beloved locally and regionally, it is a nationally recognized venue in the industry. In 2016, Consequence of Sound named George's one of the 100 greatest American music venues in the United States, alongside venues like the Ryman in Nashville and Hollywood Bowl. We have been nominated for an Academy of Country Music Award, been featured in the New York Times Travel and Leisure section. In 2019, we received the Henry Award for Arkansas Heritage from the State Department of Tourism.
 I share this with you all as some of you may not know the history and accolades of George's. My wife and I have been proud to be a part of our great community and be able to have George's be a venue that supports our community, not just with concerts as we also have hosted countless charities, memorials, and private functions over the years. We have had a robust internship program with the U of A students for years, giving them real-world educational opportunities, but the heart of George's Majestic Lounge is live music.
 We are the heartbeat and the nucleus of the live music scene in our region. Live music feeds the soul and I've been blessed to make a living in the live music industry for over 30 years. My wife and I are blessed to be the curators of Georgia's during our time as owners. We've been blessed to run a vibrant business for many years that feeds the soul of our community. Then came March 13th.
 The mayor declared a public health emergency and we voluntarily closed our doors that day. We were heading into a sold out three night run of shows fully stocked with product but there wasn't a question what the right thing to do was and we closed. The safety of our patrons, staff and artists come first. We paid our staff in full through the end of March including estimated loss of tips and told our Georgia's family to hold on to each other. My wife and I were committed to only reopening
 when we felt it could be done safely and morally that we felt okay. On March 13th, we went into the 100% expense business. Georgia's doors remained closed for almost 150 days. We are, after all, in the business of gathering people to socialize and enjoy live music indoors. Science tells us outdoors is safest. So on August 2nd, we started experimenting with concerts in our parking lot to a very limited number of patrons.
 socially distanced tables, and the stage at least 12 feet from patrons. We found that folks liked it and felt comfortable. That leads us to where we are with land purchase request. It would allow us to put a cool stage slash deck under the tree canopy off the south side of our property. We could expand our capacity which will allow us to keep bands and employees working and maybe see what resembles cash flow again. There is no silver bullet for the live music industry during this pandemic. That would be a vaccine.
 Until then, we are looking for a way to expand our outdoor lifeline as we try to survive this as a business. When we do survive and get on the other side of this tragedy that is the pandemic, the new stage under the trees will be a great fit next to our new amazing municipal space that is part of the CAC. I could envision putting a band on the new stage and have them perform to the trail and the new CAC space as part of a special event. The new land won't guarantee our business's solvency, but it sure would let us try some more and bigger things.
 and we appreciate your consideration to sell us the small piece of land. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have from the council? I have a question about, this is for Brian, you know you mentioned you're going to put a deck in out there and it'll be nice underneath the trees. Have you already thought about what you might be able to put in, the size, and how many of the trees you might be able to save?
 Yes, ma'am. I think we can, the only two of the two smallest, youngest trees that are in the middle of this section would need to be removed. All the large, more mature trees would be saved and we would build in between them. It would be approximately a 28 by 28 deck that would fit inside the mature trees. Okay. Thank you very much. Sure. What other questions do we have in the council?
 i have a question for kit um i know we also received a higher offer from the underwoods who are also an adjacent property owner earlier when we first considered this proposal what obligation do we have to take the higher offer because this is public land
 well basically it's the same thing that i tried to explain to the council when come and go and casey were both wanting to get uh part of the old tyson land to put a new gas station convenience store on and before uh before we opened uh the beds i did tell you and the rest of the council at that time that usually you have to accept the highest offer money-wise however
 Sometimes you can receive some consideration by something that's not just cash. In that particular case, if I remember correctly, Come and Go had offered to build their building to LEED standards and made a couple other things that seemed to be very important to the city council. And so, in fact, the city council did accept the Come and Go bid, which was slightly below $1,000.
 the Casey's bid. Now we're talking over a million dollars for both those bids so the amount of money was probably larger than between twenty five thousand and seventeen thousand now but the percentage difference was much closer and I think in my memo to the council before any of the bids were open I said that the
 to accept some of this other consideration, really the money part must be pretty close. It can't be off dramatically or else the consideration would be suspect. And so I think that's still the same recommendation I have in this particular case.
 that you can accept as some consideration certain things that you might feel like are valuable and important, like saving the trees or something like that, helping an established business. And I can testify that my mother went to Georgia's in the 40s when she was here. So it is certainly a long established and recognized business. But there is a limit, and I'm not sure exactly what that is, where you would need –
 as your responsibility to our taxpayers to take a higher offer. It's not absolute, and it's really left to your best judgment. I can't tell you much more than that. What are the questions we have in the council? Is that part of the public record of what that offer was, and can we consider that today, or what do we do with that?
 It was a matter of public record. The offer was, this was in 2018, and the offer was $25,200 and something, I think, from Underwoods. I think that I've heard that Underwoods might be making the same or similar offer. I don't know. I'll let them speak for themselves. But I think they might be attempting to renew that offer or make another offer. I'm not sure. Thank you. Other questions we have in the council? No.
 Rather than selling the parcel, do we have the opportunity to issue a lease to enable them to expand without actually, you know, while retaining public ownership?
 Certainly, the city council, you're the landlords and the owners of city property. And so, you know, you're not required to sell it. You're not required to lease it. You could lease it, assuming the other side would want to lease it, anybody that would want the land.
 So that certainly would be an option that you could offer. Obviously, it takes both parties to agree to any sale or lease. And so it would have to be something that would be accessible to Mr. and Mrs. Crown, too, if you were going to be offering some sort of lease. I have a question.
 If we did go the lease route, wouldn't we make that open to anybody? Or how would we be able to selectively just lease it to the Crowns? Well, certainly it used to be, in fact it was a couple years ago, that state law required that if the property might be worth more than $20,000, it had to be put out to competitive bids. Well, that state law has been repealed and amended, so that's no longer required.
 And it's the same thing for a lease sort of situation. You know, you might feel like it's in the best interest of your constituents to open the lease availability up for more than just one business. Right.
 Ond dwi ddim yn gwybod a oes hynny'n cael ei ofyn gan unrhyw un o'ch gofynion y cymorthau y mae'n cael eu rhoi yn y cod. Ac dwi ddim yn credu ei fod yn cael ei ofyn o ran ddiniaeth ystod y ddaear. Mae'n wir yn unwaith eto yn ystod y cyfrif i'r cyfrif ddaearol ynghylch sut y byddai'r cyngor y ddaearol yn gweithio'n dda. Beth o gwestiynau arall mae gennym? Iawn, gadewch i ni fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd
 Mae'r siaradwyr hyn yn gallu cael pum munud i'w rhwystrau mewn segmennau o dri a ddwy munud, a bydd y staff yn ei gynnal. Rwyf yn dal i'r topic, sy'n ymwneud â'r gwasanaeth. Peidiwch â chymryd cyngor neu unrhyw un o'r cyhoedd. Nid ydych chi'n ymdrin â'r ymdrech. Mae'r arwain yn ymwneud â'r cyhoedd. Bydd yn siarad yn gyntaf. Rwyf am roi eich enw a'ch adroddiad. Pwy fydd am adroddiad? Craig Underwood. Iawn, yn dda. Allwch chi fy nglywed? Iawn.
 Perffaith, diolch. Hei, y peth cyntaf y dwi am ei ddweud yw mai rwy'n edrych ar Brian Crown a'r hyn a wnaeth ei wneud gyda Georgia. Maen nhw wedi gwneud swydd gwych ac rwy'n fan o Georgia hefyd.
 Mae'r adnoddau'r gwasanaeth ar gyfer gwasanaeth y dynion yn ddim yn ddewr. Yn ddwy flwyddyn yn ôl, roedd y dynion yn cael eu gwasanaeth gan y ddydd drwy broses oeddu'n silen. Roeddwn i'n gynnal y broses hwnnw gyda chyfran o $25,203. Ar ôl gynnal y cyfran, fe wnaeth y ddydd newid ei meddwl a gwnaeth yn fwrw i gael y propieth.
 Nawr, ddwy flwyddyn yn ddiweddar, mae'r un ddau llyfn sy'n cael ei ofyn i mi ar ôl 25,000 o ddau llyfn yn cael ei ofyn i mi ar ôl 17,000 o ddau llyfn, ac nid ydw i'n cael cyfle i'w gael. Mae hynny'n ddifrydol ac yn rhyfeddol anffur. Mae Underwoods hefyd wedi bod yn sefydliad ar y stryd o Dixon am flynyddoedd. Rydym ar ôl 63 mlynedd. Rydyn ni wedi cael gwerthfawrogion genedlaethol, rydym wedi cael ein cydnabod yn genedlaethol, rydym yn unig.
 Mae pob peth sydd wedi cael ei ddweud am George's yn gallu cael ei ddweud am Underwoods. Mae'r adnodd hwn yn ddifrifol. Diolch. Diolch. Pwy arall hoffwn i'w gyflwyno? Will Dockery. Iawn. Gwyl, Will. Helo, Will Dockery. Rwy'n credu y dylem ni dweud bod yn dda i'r tîm hon a ddim gwerthu'r llyfn hon. Rwy'n gwybod bod George's yn rhan o'r ffibr cwltur yng Nghymru a'i fod yn bwysig iawn. Byddwn i'n hoffi gweld y llyfn hynny ddod.
 Ie. Iawn. Mae'r ddau peth hwn o ddau ddau yn... Rwy'n deall y byddai'r peiriannau ar y ddau ddau yn ystod yna, ond rwy'n credu y ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau ddau dd
 Ac mae'n ymddangos ei fod yn rhywbeth anodd y byddwn yn gwastraffu miliynau o arian i wneud rhai sŵn bio ar y dde-aer yn ein parc newydd. Ond pan fydd gennym sŵn bio wirioneddol sydd wedi'i gael am ddegau yno ar y dde-aer, byddwn yn mynd i'w ddewis. Mae hefyd yn cysylltiedig â'r system dŵr, sŵn, arian. Felly mae hynny yno, a gallai fod yn well yn hawdd. Gallem gadael rhai sŵn milchwyd o'r plant arferol, rhai marmallews.
 in there and they would help with that. And so that's an important thing to keep in mind too with this piece of land. The parks department already mows this piece of land. So keeping it in the urban canopy would not damage or would not change our budget expenses. Also, I know that the crowns are with full faith are promising to keep those trees, but trees need darkness in their photo periods or they get stressed and die.
 And patrons generally aren't gentle with trees, especially when decking is built right up to them. I also worked in the live events process. I worked for the State Theater of Maryland back when I was a very young man, and we built an outdoor theater.
 And we lost some trees just because of the stage lights and stuff that were out there. You really, it does stress trees out. It's something to keep in mind. So like I said, I don't think the crowns want those trees to die because that will be a big part, but I wouldn't be surprised if in five to ten years we do lose those trees anyway through stress.
 And then something else I want to say is if the council in your wisdom, you do decide that we don't need this piece of land. I think it should be put out to bid as is clearly worth over $20,000. When I started getting involved way back in 2017 to save Lewis Park, this piece came up and then in March 6, 2018, I sat in council and.
 We heard that it had been appraised for about $17,000, but then we also heard a bid for around $25,000. And so with the multiple bids, this piece of land is just really in the best interest of following state law of land over $20,000 and managing our public shared monies and resources that I think it should be bid out clearly if you do decide to sell it. But really, I think you should table this and think about it.
 especially going forward with it in the Cultural Arts Corridor. And that kind of ties back into it should be bid out because that piece of land is going to be worth way more than $17,000 once the Cultural Arts Corridor is built. And we've already kind of traded away parts of that to on the north and the south side. So that's what I have to say about that. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mayor. Yeah.
 I have a couple of things to add, but first I wanted to ask Ryan Crown if he could talk a little bit about what their plans are with respect to the way the property already handles stormwater today and any of the other concerns that were raised that they've already thought through. Is there a certain amount of time you would like to give him? Up to five minutes. Okay. Is everyone agreeable? Is anyone in disagreement with that?
 Okay Brian you have five minutes. Okay thank you. In regards to the the the last comments concerning about bioswell and drainage, our plan is not to infill that area. We would be building inside of the existing storm drain that's there a deck that would be inside the mature trees. So I don't, I can't fathom we would be impacting any sort of drainage
 I had no interest in being on or over the storm drains just knowing what that could be a challenge in the past. And you go back to when I said a 28 by 28 deck, I don't think we'd be within four feet of the open storm drain and we would definitely be well north of the existing south storm drain where it goes in. So storm drainage should not be a challenge at all.
 while I don't know the exact scientific name for people that are arborists, excuse me, my wife is here with me and she's got a degree in horticulture and arborists that address trees. These are large mature trees and patrons would not be interacting with these trees. This would be bands that would potentially be set up on this deck performing to our parking lot and
 Well, I can't say with absolute confidence, but I can say with the best of my common sensibility, I can't fathom that there's going to be light damage to these trees, given the fact that there's already streetlights that are all around them. And...
 Our lights have been out there for years, the street lights, and there's not been any damage. But the drainage piece is the biggest thing that I wanted to speak to and say that it would be a deck on the south side that would be supported with some sort of, you know, poles. We're not wanting to infill that property with, you know, sub texture to displace any sort of drainage. So thank you.
 Okay. Thank you, Brian. Mayor, my final comments, I just wanted to extend what I said before. I do believe it's a unique property with a limited number of uses. We could certainly preserve it. We could certainly make some modest improvements to it beyond what we're already doing today, but I do believe that
 the plan that Brian Crown has described, if they do attain this property, is the highest and best use for it, given the context that surrounds it. And I make that statement genuinely and in good faith. I know that it's, I think it's
 it's not unexpected that someone who offered a higher price might think of this process as unfair. And certainly the way that the last time this come up, I can understand those feelings. Although I believe that the council acted transparently and had a transparent and good faith discussion about this potential transaction the last time it came up.
 And I still think things are different now. COVID has changed things. And I don't think it's fair to say that these two offers are from businesses that can be described in the same way. I think they're different in clear ways. And I don't think it's all about the purchase offer. And I think that's one of the reasons why it's important for these kinds of decisions to still be subjective and to not just be about the bottom line.
 If nothing else...
 I'm not going to say anything about the cultural intangibles and the feelings and the memories that people would experience by virtue of this transaction. But it is clear at least that a sale to George's will generate more future tax revenues by virtue of the sale than a sale to almost any other entity, whether that's one that we've already spoken with or one we've heard from tonight or one that we might imagine today.
 It's just a fact that Georgia's is likely to generate more future revenues. If that's what we want to make it about, then anyone else we could sell this to. So I come back. It's the cultural intangibles that are really important to me and that motivate my decision, especially in the face against the backdrop of this pandemic.
 Ultimately, I still believe this is a proposal to turn the land over to its highest and best use. Okay, whatever. What other conversations do we have among the council? Yes, I have a comment, Mayor.
 You know, I feel like as much as I would love to see this, the Crown's use this in this way, which I think it sounds very good and interesting. I think we need to think about our clear process and if in fact that the Crown's proposal is the strongest one.
 I think we could easily put the proposal out or the opportunity out from the land and then receive proposals and then they would compete just with everyone else. And so I think, I think we, if, if in fact it is the strongest, best use, then, then it would, it would win out in the second more fair process. I don't feel like it's
 I don't know, I wasn't around during the time of the last review and when it was put up for sale and then taken back. But I do feel that we, I think it's fair to open that up to everyone and anyone that is interested. And that's kind of where I'm thinking right now. I have a comment.
 Um, I think we really need as a council, we need to decide if we want to lease the land or sell the land. I think that's the first thing that we need to really decide how we want to move forward on that, especially given what happened in 2018. Um, there's a lot of energy expended money expended and bidding upon a piece of land and then having that that indefinitely, um,
 terminated or whatever. So I think we really need to figure out where we want to go. And if we choose to sell the land or we choose to lease it out, I think we need to have an open and transparent bid process. I mean, it could be a silent bid, but it needs to be the highest bidder. And if it's not the highest bidder, it needs to be extremely close. I feel as a council member that I have a fiduciary responsibility to the citizens.
 And that means usually in our capitalist system getting the highest price or very near the highest price for a public piece of property. So I really think we need to maybe step back, decide what if we wanna do anything with that piece of property before we move forward. Thank you. Sorry.
 Yeah, I was like, it's hard when you can't see people, you know. You know, this is something that really, you know, I agree with Teresa on, you know, on to some level, but we should try and get the most money. You know, that's our fiduciary responsibility to the citizens. But there are things that we do sell regularly.
 as a city or deals that we do make that are just, you know, that, that we consider as Matthew said, the intangibles of,
 And, you know, Georgia's is an institution that, you know, we've probably all been there. You know, people come here to go to Georgia's. People come here to go to Underwood's, too. So, you know, I'm kind of torn on this issue. I don't really know. I'd kind of like some more time to think about this. I do want to help a small business live venue. Okay.
 I really do want to help them, but I feel like we're kind of in an unusual spot here with this. So I'd kind of like some more time to think about it. Thank you. Yeah, I think I am likewise stuck between my preference for process and my preference for an outcome. I think that as far as the public enjoyment of the land, the Crowns will do a great job with it.
 But I just, I am, I like following the rules and I know the rules have changed a little bit, but I didn't, I was not a fan of the idea of selling this when it came through the first time. And I know we ended up taking bids and I was thrilled when we decided not to sell it because I'm generally pretty protective of public land. And I still don't know that we've got the full picture of what the...
 arts plaza is going to become and how this might play into it being adjacent i would be open to a lease consideration i think sonia hinted at maybe a request for proposal process that would let us consider the city's goals as defined on the front end and who could best fill them otherwise i feel like we're in a position of picking winners and and that's not super comfortable even though i think the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
 the benefit of this parcel to one to the two businesses in question is unequal um you know one one has substantially more to gain uh as far as their livelihood goes than the other i just we don't currently have two offers in front of us we just have one and and i think that it would be inappropriate to uh to proceed without at least considering
 some goal setting and how we might get other potential offers here. I agree with most of what
 My fellow council members have stated already, I would be very supportive of giving a significant lease term to George's. That would have many benefits in terms of enabling us to, you know, have some programmatic influence, be able to influence protection of the trees, safeguard the stormwater issues, which I do believe that they are making a good faith effort to
 to meet our goals on. But I think that having that additional control would benefit us. And then as well as giving us the opportunity to do something different later with the property. And we could always sell it to them later, but you can only sell it once and then it's gone.
 And I do think the relationship of this parcel to the cultural arts corridor is extremely important. And I do think that Georgia's could be a great partner in expanding, but I would also be interested in knowing what the Underwoods would be using it for as well as any other interested parties. But I think it offering the lease.
 that would be favorable enough to allow them to recoup the investment that they would need to get this venue up and running might be a great interim solution until you figure out what the long-term plan is for the property. I would like to echo the idea of proposing an RFP, a request for proposal. If we can define some idea of what would be good economic driver there,
 And we know that this is going to be a transformation. There's a lot of things going on with, of course, with COVID. It has changed our social, interactive relationship with each other as well as with businesses. And so if we did offer an RFP, kept it in the public ownership, then we would have time to see exactly what type of economic driver something would do.
 So if we could investigate it more from that position, I think it would be more fair because we would have an outline of what would work there according to whoever put it together and it was approved. And this is a way to be fair. Just like we take, you know, we have other public property that has rental and leases on them, such as.
 like the dock in Lake Fayetteville. That's not a good example, perhaps, but it does show that the public property can be leased out and meet a desired outcome through a proposal. So I hope that we will take time to step back and look at that rather than getting hung up on selling the property right now since it is contentious. Okay. Anybody else? Well, what do you all want to do?
 Mayor? Yeah. I just, of course, I made my feelings and thoughts known earlier. I feel like there have been two different things expressed by us as a group tonight. One was, one expression was that we should take the highest price. And another expression was that we should have a process to see proposals. And I wanted, I felt it was important to
 to highlight this and to point out that it seemed like there were two different things, because those do seem like two things that are quite different, with a proposal really being oriented towards all of our goals, not simply the bottom line price. I do appreciate the point, but I also have to question if we are talking about that because we...
 Because we aren't ready to admit that we probably have the best proposal in front of us from the best entity already today. And I think a lot of people in this city and a lot of us get frustrated sometimes when we put blind faith in a process, sometimes whenever we don't need to. And...
 So what I might suggest is we did have some preliminary conversations already around leasing the property with Devin Halland and Brian Crown, and that was at the suggestion of Garner Stoll. I think he was the first of us to have the idea. As of right now, that's not on the table.
 but perhaps it's from Brian's perspective, you want to proceed with this and I support that of course. It may be worth tabling and regrouping for a couple of weeks to see how thoughts have changed for everyone on the team at the city and with Brian with respect to the discussions tonight.
 I do want to end, you know, the bid process and the proposal process are quite a bit different. And I have to say that if the city chooses to go to bid, it doesn't seem fair that all the prices have already been discussed. There's so much prior knowledge with the bid process that I think it's hard to do fairly or perhaps even impossible, given what we have, what has already been disclosed.
 So in any case, I think based on comments tonight, I'll make the motion to table this for two weeks. Second. Okay, we have a motion and second to table. Two, okay. It might be helpful for the staff if the city council would provide some direction about what they might like to see. For example, if it was gonna be sold, we would have to have a deed
 As it stands right now, the Deeg wouldn't say anything about saving the trees or what the land could be used for. We have had heard proposals from Brian Crown about what he would like to do. But as a city lawyer, I would like to see stuff like that down in black and white and not as an idea that might or might not come to fruition. So I'm a little unsure also, like Matthew was, about...
 Is this going to be a bid where it's only basically almost only the money or is it going to be proposals where Various entities might say this is what I would like to do with the land. Here's how I protect the trees Here's how I'd handle any drainage or whatever else like that. And so I'm not real sure What we're going to accomplish with this tabling I'd like it if possible to get a little additional guidance on
 uh because if i'm gonna have to draft a deed on this i would like to know what i should put in the deed especially in relation to preserving uh some of the trees so anyway that's that's my request to hear more from the council
 I would really like to see us do the request for proposals, but then evaluate that more on a triple bottom line basis, where we're looking at, you know, the community and cultural value, the environmental value, as well as the economic impact. And if we were able to evaluate proposals based on those, so it's not necessarily the highest dollar, but it's
 a combination of what our metrics are as a community, I think that could help us get us to the best outcome. I really think that what we need to do first is to decide, have the discussion about whether we want to lease it or we want to sell it or we don't want to do anything.
 So I think that might be the first discussion with the city council. And then because there is another offer, unless I misunderstood Mr. Underwood's letter, I thought that he had also offered to continue to offer.
 buy that property at the selling price that he had in 2018. So it just seems that there's not the transparency or the inclusion that really means to be required here with public property. And so I'd like to make sure that he is included or other people are included if we move forward and start having these conversations. It just seems that he is, you know,
 I love Georgia's. By the way, I love that Friday night happy hour. It's my favorite place to go to. But again, because we are the fiduciaries of the city and we need to keep all citizens and all businesses on equal standing and transparency, we need to be very fair about this and very open about this as we move forward.
 So I would really like the idea that we table it for a couple weeks, maybe come back, have the discussion about what we want to do. Do we want to lease it, sell it, or hold it? And then we can move forward from there and start with the process. That would be my suggestion. Thank you. Would it be appropriate to send this to the Ordinance Review Committee? Sure.
 I don't know. Not really. That is for trying to figure out a complicated ordinance and get it worded right. That's not just if you have an issue, send us an ordinance review. You can do whatever you want to do, but that's not really the purpose of ordinance review. This is a resolution, and it can be complicated. One thing that the city council could do, in addition to what Council Member Turk said,
 is basically communicate, certainly to Brian and to Craig, that they should, if they're interested in purchasing or even leasing this, present an actual written down hard proposal, including saving which trees, how will they protect them, how will they use the land, and then how much they want to bid for it, rather than going through the city's
 full request for proposals, which is a very long project. And especially if we're trying to get to a situation which might be of assistance to current businesses during this pandemic,
 the pandemic is would likely be over before we would get a a full request for proposal situation out with a separate committee to look at them and select them i know when it was come and go versus casey we didn't do that what we did is we told both those corporations that we were going to have one final closed bid
 and that they would deliver and be opened at the same time just like we would do with normal bidding and that proposal not only had had the money but also had about what other considerations that the city might like in order to try to convince the city council to select their particular proposal so it was much less formal it was only
 the bidders putting that together what they wanted to put together and it was done in two weeks Rather than the months it would take if we go through a formal request for proposals As we would do it in many situations so I it's still up to totally up to you what you want to do and Of course we could start off and say what whether or not we want to lease it or not and so you could ask them to respond to that and
 Would they be willing to lease it? And what would be the conditions that they would want to lease it under? My concern is keeping the discussion in a public forum. As you know, as city council members, we can't talk about business unless it's in a public forum. And so what I'm trying to get to is an open and transparent situation where everyone can openly discuss possibilities of,
 in a public forum and I'm not sure how we can do that. I guess that's my concern because there was a lot of outcry of foul whenever we looked at cases and come and go. It wasn't like that we did it in two weeks and everyone was pleased because they weren't. The outcome didn't really matter now that we have nothing there.
 On the other hand, I would hate to go through that again where people feel like that it was not a fair and open process. I initially was supportive of the idea of an RFP process, and I think Kit raises an excellent point that if this is a lifeline measure, then going a long, slow road is essentially a decision that...
 could be traumatic for Fayetteville. And so I hope that whatever we do, we can kind of set a direction tonight and come up with a shorter process. I like the two week idea and come back to it. I think that two weeks might also give the two parties involved an opportunity to talk and see if there's a,
 perhaps a mutual arrangement that could serve both their needs. My understanding is the Underwood interest is more of a long-term preservation of interest and the Crown need is a more immediate, urgent situation. So I wonder if two weeks would give them a chance to form some sort of compact that might serve everyone's needs and then we could
 If not, then we can look at the comparative offers. Mayor? Yeah. I know we have a motion and a second to table, and I hope we will take a few, two more weeks for many of the reasons that have been suggested. I do feel as though it's a natural but false hope to hope for...
 a new agreement between the Underwoods and the Crowns that was recently attempted in anticipation of this. And we know what the Underwoods proposal are. It's to preserve their interest in the land for use as employee parking. That's been stated more than once and it's been put in writing.
 And we know the use, the intended use for the Crowns, which is to support their live event venue. To the extent that over the next two weeks, anyone who's interested in the property could address more specifically some of the concerns that have been raised tonight.
 I wouldn't expect that that would convince everybody who's spoken tonight to move forward. But I do think that all the parties involved can make a good faith effort to address many of the concerns or most of the concerns that have been put forward. With respect to the way the land is used and with respect to the specificity of the written language that's been presented.
 which is a concern that Kit raised. And I can commit and I think with staff too, I don't think I'm being presumptive that I think we can approach the conversation about leasing the land anew, but I also don't wanna be, I wanna be careful that I'm not prescriptive. I think that's a conversation we need to have in good faith, but ultimately this is still an offer
 from a third party and it's the third party's choice to make whether or not they want to attempt a different structure. But I do, that is a conversation that we'll try to have in good faith. You know, I think at the end, it's going to come down to, do you, in your vote, do you believe that we should prioritize the...
 the sale price or do you believe that we should consider other things in those account for the difference and I think that's what we're here to do that's a kind of judgment call we're here to make and I think I did I did make the motion I think there was a second Yeah you got a second. You got a motion seconded the table. So let's vote and see what we want to do here. Karen would you please come on the row.
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, let's go along to number 12.
 An ordinance for a zone that properties carbon zone of petition RZN 20-7140 located at 5152 West Weddington Drive for approximately 6.91 acres from RA Residential and Cultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville and Arkansas, I hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA, Residential Agricultural, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General, and RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville and Arkansas, I hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request may appear initially somewhat similar to the appeal heard at the top of the City Council's agenda, so I apologize if anything sounds repetitive, but it was certainly a theme in July at the Planning Commission. This particular property is a little bit closer to 49 than the Houston rezoning earlier tonight. It's about two miles west of I-49 in Weddington, on the south side of Weddington. It's one lot, albeit one very large lot, west of Broyles Avenue.
 The site is probably most recognizable to the council from a recent PZD that was submitted here for mini storage. It was ultimately withdrawn before a decision was made by council. Otherwise, the site is most notable for its shape. It has about 250, 260 feet of width along Weddington, but then about 1,200 feet.
 linear feet of depth going off the street, ultimately ending in floodplain associated with out creek on the southern extensive the site.
 Despite being in proximity to areas of more intense and dense development, the property and those around it are still zoned today are a residential agriculture. The request before council tonight includes a tiered proposal, the first piece of which immediately adjacent to Weddington includes about one acre of neighborhood services general. It's one of the city's low to mid-intensity mixed-use zoning districts, allowing residents
 single two, three, four family residential and non-residential uses and buildings up to about 8,000 square feet. South of that is the majority of the property is proposed to be rezoned to RIU, including about five acres. And the southern one acre is intended to remain RA in association with the Owl Creek floodplain in that area.
 Staff interprets the request to be supported by our long range plans. First, taking the future land use map designation of a residential neighborhood area. It does encourage a diversity of housing and non-residential uses along corridors. We feel that the proposed rezoning to NSG along Weddington and RAU south of that allows both those residential and non-residential uses that can interact with each other.
 and complement that future land use designation. Second, the infill score, albeit low, I'm not pretending it's anything other than that, it does suggest that there is fairly substantial infrastructure in the area in terms of water trail. Weddington, of course, is there. There's the trail on the north side of Weddington, and it is within the fire department's desired response time from their station along Ruple.
 Lastly, the property is in close proximity to the Weddington Corridor Plan. As you can see here, it's just off the westernmost extent of it, suggesting it may be a beneficial contributing property to that plan as it develops out on its own. Similar to the appeal earlier in your agenda, staff's recommendation hinged on the divergent between existing land uses and how we interpret the city's long range plans.
 ultimately staff recommends in favor of the request seeing the rezoning is generally compatible to our long-range planning documents and goals particularly the future land use map designation on the site while at commission it did have two hearings the first of which was on july 13th
 At that hearing, the applicant did propose a request that is different than what you see tonight. They proposed what's known as NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited, across the full extent of the property, allowing, again, one, two, three, four family residential and smaller scale commercial services.
 The commissioners offered some varied feedback to the applicant. Some commissioners on one hand were asserting that commercial was not appropriate at this location. Others felt it was appropriate, but that the request could benefit from a finer grain. I believe one or two expressed a preference to see it submitted as a PZD to understand exactly how the property would develop as far as whether there'd be a street pattern or building layouts.
 Others on the commission expressed concerns that this was on getting too far west along Weddington to be able to be to not be considered sprawl. And ultimately after asking the applicant if they wanted an up or down vote, the applicant requested to be tabled to come back with a more nuanced request. At the July 27th meeting, it was ultimately the request was ultimately denied by the Planning Commission. That's the revised request the Commission Council sees before you tonight.
 Again, there was a lot of varied conversation on it. It is hard to say that the commission denied it for one specific reason. To summarize all nine of their viewpoints, some of the more spoken upon points were that commercial, again, there were at least one or two commissioners who felt commercial was not appropriate at this location.
 similar to the appeal earlier tonight some of our commissioners have lost faith in our development codes ability to encourage the compact complete connected neighborhoods that our codes are really striving for and again the there were some who felt that this was a sprawl location being as it is between the hubs of double springs and ripple
 We did not receive any public comments on the request, either in advance of the meeting or afterwards. There was some public comment when the PZD came through about a year ago that was mostly about lighting and very specific to the mini storage development. But again, nothing on this request. I'm happy to take any questions the council may have. And I believe Robert Rhodes is available here as a representative for the applicant. Thank you.
 Okay. Robert, would you like to speak for the council? I would, please. Thank you. Okay. You have 10 minutes. This late hour and hours past cocktail hour, I'll not take 10 minutes. Good evening, City Council and Mayor. My name is Robert Rhodes, and I am with the law firm of Hall-Estill, and I represent the applicant in this rezoning request.
 This was first, as Mr. Curtis said, this was first presented to the Planning Commission with the entire track to be Neighborhood Services Limited.
 The Planning Commission came up with multiple suggestions, which were acted upon by the applicant at the next Planning Commission meeting. Here's some examples of some of the things that were requested, just a tiny bit more detailed than what Mr. Curtis went into. One commissioner at the first meeting said that this subject rezoning was close to a
 or a piece of property that had just been rezoned, where it was IRU, like what we're asking for, and commercial services. And that's about 100 or so feet west of what this tract is. And this rezoning could be, along with that one, be the start of a desirable node or tier three, as the terminology says.
 Another commissioner made the comment that if this rezoning could be semi-commercial and had connectivity to adjacent properties, it would be okay. Another commissioner agreed that the previous comment about business and connectivity, but also said if there was a small eating place here, it would be good. Another commissioner indicated that the layered zoning and some variance in the zoning would be helpful.
 Another commissioner agreed with that layered zoning, and yet another commissioner agreed but said that it could be nuanced, that would be okay as well. All these comments were heard, and the applicant did all of those things at its resubmission in the next Planning Commission meeting. But despite this, and a bit of a surprise, the Planning Commission turned it down.
 Now, what you have before you with these three different zones that, again, was turned down, but it was asked for by a number of commissioners, is certainly a nuanced zoning that brings some commercial enterprises to this piece of property. And as it's the applicant's intention, put a small cafe in the front part and a general business building of some sort.
 which certainly should be walkable from this subject property, as well as the other properties surrounding it, when those properties get built out to a residential neighborhood area per the City Plan 2040. These changes...
 into the three separate zones are not just a result of the applicant hearing what the commissioners had asked for, but it was working with the, and collaborating with the planning staff. Note that this rezoning also provides for the protection of Oak Creek in the southernmost acre. In regard to connectivity, the applicant has every intention to step out future street connections,
 in the area to be rezoned R.I.U. Therefore at some point allowing east-west traffic to get to other streets, thereby taking some of that traffic load off of Weddington, which the staff tells you, even if that doesn't happen right away, and even if you do approve this rezoning, Weddington has the capacity to take this rezoning.
 Again, there will be connectivity once these other properties develop as the city's 2040 plan proscribes, but this council needs to realize that somebody has to go first, and here we are. So if you look at compatibility at this time, although this is a zoning request in the middle
 of property that is currently zoned RA, city staff, as well as those who voted for the 2040 plan, believe that the best use for this property and most desirable is residential. In that regard, this rezoning request is certainly compatible. Also, keep in mind, rezonings that are not compatible draw public comments. This has drawn no public comments at all.
 I think an argument can also be made that with the immediate availability of sewer water and a trail system and a very low fire department response time, coupled with the expected future growth of this area, especially right next to the Weddington Corridor planning area,
 This takes the city where it already plans to go. Further, one of planning staff's findings is that it would be impractical to use this land for any of the uses permitted under its existing zoning classification. With all of that, I would request the City Council to approve this rezoning or leave it on the first reading tonight. I stand ready to answer your questions on behalf of the applicant. Thank you for your time tonight.
 okay what questions do we have for the staff or the applicant from the council okay well let's take some public comment then all right each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor everyone stay on the topic which is the appeal
 Don't engage the council member or anyone from the public. No rude behavior, federal residents first. Please give us your name and address and who would like to address this first. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? This is an ordinance and so. Mayor, I think I do have a question for Jonathan. I think I know the answer, but I'm gonna ask anyway.
 The block link, that's not dependent on zoning, right? So this is an RAU, they could have block links up to... 660 is what's allowed in ordinance. So y'all know by now, I like to sit here and consider the worst case scenarios on these kinds of things. And I'm afraid the worst thing I can imagine here, RAU, I like the idea of...
 I like the idea of denser housing along Weddington. I'm concerned that what we get is a row of very narrow houses with one cross street down the whole strip. And if you remember my objection to the previous version of this in the mini storage was basically that it created a connectivity barrier here. Since this is backed up against the creek on the south end,
 the developer of this parcel gets to decide how much cross traffic will be able to flow in this part of town. And that makes me nervous to have all of that in one decision like this. So I would love to know that there was going to be a denser connectivity of streets here, because that's really my only hang up at the moment. Okay. What other discussion do we have among council?
 I mean, I feel that the applicant has made a good faith effort to bring back something that is improved from the last time I absolutely was not in favor of the, uh,
 of the mini storage. Um, and and now we've got, uh, you know, something that has a very, uh, levels of steps of zoning. Um, being careful on the environmental side. I appreciate that. Um, bringing more density up to the street. Um,
 And I do respect that people are concerned about the connectivity, but I think I'm wondering if the, because of the topography, if we're going to be always, you know, coming across this issue anyways. And so I appreciate that they're, you know, trying very hard. And so I want to, and I'm trying to understand why.
 a little bit more on planning commission uh planning commission's decision it sounds like they didn't want the sprawl so i'm curious to hear from the rest of council um that's kind of where i am with this what other comments do we have in the council i i want to i have one um
 You know, this is just a really long and skinny, narrow piece of property, and that's presenting some challenges here. It looked like the Planning Commission in its first meeting asked for a PZD. I'm just wondering if that is still something the applicant would consider, and that might provide a lot more information on what the kind of street connectivity might look like.
 I don't know if we can ask for that maybe i'm out of line if asking for that but that might provide a little bit more clarity to this long and skinny piece of property and how it would be used. Well, the city council certainly has a lot of power in rezoning. There's no question about that. However, normally.
 uh just like we don't ask for bills of assurance uh we don't ask uh applicants to have to come up with a planned zoning district that's an option that applicants can have the reason they choose it is to be able to get the rezoning so uh you know there there certainly is a reason that they might want to look at something like that
 I surely don't think it's right for us to say you must do that. I think they have a right to also ask for traditional zoning, which at this point, that's what they're asking. Thank you for clarifying that, Kim. Also, a PCD, I mean, I like seeing PCDs because we know exactly what we're going to get, but it is a whole different level of application, and it is a, I mean, it requires...
 you know, a good conceptual plan be drawn. It's a much greater cost to the applicant. So that's, you know, I don't know that I would demand or expect that on this piece of property.
 Yeah, the PZDs, I mean, there's a lot of cost involved with that. And I definitely want those more often than we see. But I think a lot of the issues here is we're putting a lot of density or potential density outside the mayor's box. And I don't think a PZD is going to fix that because it seems like they want to put a lot of density out there, which is kind of my concern with this right now is the density so far outside the box.
 So what do y'all want to do? You want to hold it right here? I want to hold it right here. Yeah, I think so. Jonathan, I think at agenda session, I don't remember if it was on this one or the other one, I asked if we could look at the broader area, including some of the Farmington development down in the southwest quadrant.
 i don't know if uh i know there was some challenges about how to present that but maybe in two weeks we could see what the the density outside the mayor's box is pumping up against certainly and that reminds me mr mayor if i may follow up on a question council member scrogg and asked that agenda session
 he had uh he had inquired about the fire Marshall's take on the project I meant to cover that in my presentation I apologize for not doing that the up to now the fire Marshall had only commented on response times which is pretty typical for rezoning since they don't have any level of detail but I was able to get them to at least include some additional fire code sections that would be relevant particularly given the shape of the lot
 And one of the ones that is most pertinent here is that when a dead end road is proposed, it does have to have turnaround requirements associated with it. If you go beyond, I think it's between 150 and 500 feet, it requires a cul-de-sac at the end of it. And beyond that, and this is something that came up on the east side of town off of Mission, once you go beyond 500 feet,
 not only is the cul-de-sac required, but the road's minimum width is 26 foot. So I don't know if that has any bearing on your decision, but I did want to share that with you, given your request. And yes, Council Member Smith will definitely look at what you're requesting, touch base to make sure we get you what you needed. Thank you. Thank you. So I take it you all want to hold it here, right? For two weeks, correct? Yes. Okay, okay.
 So if nobody is in disagreement, we will hold it right here for two weeks. I'll take that as a confirmative. Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 mayor i have two announcements um all right all right uh exciting news for centennial park as you all know after the master plan was passed last year we've been working with nw trailblazers and rock solid and have been completing trails one by one we opened the first one the learners permit
 In June, now we have three more trails that are ready for people to explore on Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain. Junk Drawer, Basket Case, and Fayetteville Traverse. So anyway, these are one more notch on the difficult scale. They're blue trails, but they are open now. So there are maps available and signage for those three. You can check on the website or just go explore and enjoy Centennial Park.
 then in recycling and trash we have three updates we are now reinstating our extra bag fees we had suspended them during the time when we were not having recycling pickup but now that we have recycling back we want to make sure we get those bag fees going we had a little bit of
 abuse that we really needed to curtail so um now that we have the bag fees back in place everybody please consider doing both your regular waste and recycling um regularly and second announcement food waste drop-off locations and hours i've been re-announced and re-established for um the regular hours and those are on the website and then third the
 The City Fall bulky waste cleanup dates have been announced, and they are also on the website, but the first one for Ward 1, we'll start with Ward 1, that'll be September 19th at the Shaver Foods parking lot. I'm not going to read all the different locations, just wanted to make everybody aware that we'll have
 Each one will have four different pickups in each ward from the 19th of September and then each weekend through October 24th. Thank you. That's it. Okay. Any other announcements? I've got an announcement, Mayor. Go. I want to thank you for calling a special city council meeting last week and having the council attend because it's now not midnight and we are adjourning. Yes. That's a good sign.
 All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.