Here. Present. Long. Here. Christ. Here. March. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. May it be your will. Here. To join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 That's all right. Okay, under announcements, proclamations, recognitions, city council meeting presentations, reports and discussion items, first order of business we have is the 2016 second quarter financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, mayor and council. This is the second quarter report. So this is as of June, 2016, and I'm happy to report at that point in time.
 General fund, we had a surplus of over $800,000. This is generally due to strong sales tax, which is up roughly half a million dollars so far. Also, building permits have been strong. Expenditures haven't been quite to the level I would have expected them.
 to be at this point in time around about forty eight percent of total budget expanded normally should be about fifty percent at this point in time but i'm very happy uh... with operating results of the general fund
 When we looked to the street fund, we had an operating loss of $111 million through June. Now, the street fund was budgeted for a loss, and remember, it's not unusual for some of these funds to show a loss because of capital improvements, which are accumulated over time. So at any point in time, you could have a surplus or loss depending on your capital program.
 so this like i said the street bond had a loss of a hundred and eleven uh... thousand dollars as of the end of june parking fund revenue is holding its own it's roughly up uh...
 just about six percent in parking revenue at this point in time and that's about fifty two thousand dollar surplus for the parking fund look at parks development fund remember we're very happy that we finally did open phase one of the regional park
 It's a very, very good improvement for us, but our operating loss appears to be $4.3 million through June. This is due to an accumulation over time of revenues to support the construction for the regional park, which essentially phase one is very near completion at this point in time. So that's why we show a major loss in the parks development fund.
 Then if we look at the water and sewer fund, at this point in time we see a loss of about $2 million in the water and sewer fund. And don't forget that we budgeted $15 million in capital improvements for this year. So again, we're catching up with the capital improvement program in the water and sewer fund. The recycling program shows a $432,000 loss.
 We're completing some of the capital improvements we had associated with recycling and trash collection. Essentially, that is the site...
 The site improvements out at the transfer facility and the new building out at that site also. Airport fund shows a current loss of about $360,000. Again, those are programs funded by grants.
 that are not in sync with the time we get the commitment and the grant expenditures. So that's not to be expected. All in all, I'm very happy with the performance through June 30th, which is halfway through the year, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. Don't have any questions for Paul on this. Okay, thanks Paul. Next order of business now is the Consent Agenda. Number one, approval of the August 16, 2016 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve an amendment to the contract with Fisher Snacks LLC to provide for operation of the soccer concession stand at Kessler Mountain Regional Park. Number three, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the contract with Grubbs, Hoskins, Barton, and White Incorporated for additional construction materials testing related to the addition of a parking lot at Kessler Mountain Regional Park in the amount of not to exceed $2,000.
 Number four, a resolution to award RFP 16-02 and approve a one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with Johansson Consulting Incorporated, DBA, Johansson Group, for a classification, compensation, and benefit study. Any amount of $45,725 for the first year.
 to approve an annual project contingency of $4,500 for ongoing market reviews and consulting services each year. The contract is in effect. And to approve a one-year software license and support agreement with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with...
 DB squared LLC for DB compensation software, any amount of $1,200 per month for the first three years and $250 per month for the last two years. Number five, a resolution award RFQ number 16-08 and approve a five year professional services contract with First Security Bank for the provision of investment management services.
 Number six, a resolution to award bid number 16-36 and to approve a contract with Donaldson Construction Company, LLC, in the amount of $217,855 for asphalt microsurfacing of city streets at a cost of $2.33 per square yard and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $21,786.
 7. A resolution to award bid number 16-47 and to approve the purchase of a Meyer V4 spreader from Countryside Farm and Lawn Equipment Company, incorporated in the amount of $29,395 for use at the BioSolids Management Site.
 Number eight, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2016 Justice Assistance Grant Local Solicitation Award in the amount of $81,531, of which $34,748 will be used by the Federal Police Department, with $31,014 to be disbursed to the City of Springdale and $15,769 to Washington County and to approve a budget adjustment.
 And number nine, a resolution to approve a 50-50 cost share agreement with Flint and Lawton Development LLC for construction of a sewer main along a portion of South Street between South College Avenue and East Huntsville Road at a cost of $28,238.48. I'll accept the motion to pass the consent agenda.
 Matthew. Mayor so moved. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Next order of business is public hearing. Okay.
 Number one the resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by C Holdings LLC located at 1503 North Garland Avenue in the city of Pebble Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment staff thank you mayor council and
 On May 25th this year, Code Compliance received a request for service regarding the property located at 1503 North Garland. Building Safety submitted their unsafe building determination to Code Compliance on June 3rd, recommending the raise and removal of the structure. The notice of violation was sent to the owner of record on June 3rd. The signed return receipt card was received June 10th. And on July 13th, Code Compliance re-inspected the property and found it to still be in violation of city code.
 So we're asking for a budget adjustment in the amount of $3,849 for the project. Okay. Is the homeowner here? Owner of the property? Okay. What questions? We'll close the public hearing. What questions do we have for the staff? Is Mr. Cave going to address us? Sorry, is Mr. Cave going to address us? I can if you would like. Why don't you come up? Mr. Mayor, Council, Matthew Cave, Department of Building Safety. I'm the building official. I'm the building officer. I'm the building manager. I'm the building manager. I'm the building manager. I'm the building manager. I'm the building manager. I'm the building manager. I'm the building manager. I'm the building manager.
 David and I first went to this property last summer when we did the original original raise and removal. We also went out last week again to see the condition, the additional deterioration, substantial deterioration from our visit earlier this summer.
 As you can see, the ceiling is falling in, which means the roof has been compromised. Weather's getting in. These holes in the walls are new, I'm guessing from water infiltration and vandalism as well. Most of the windows are broken out. The door was standing wide open, pretty clear that the structure is broken.
 beyond reasonable renovation and rehabilitation. So that's how we came to the conclusion to remove the structure. And Mr. Cave, your opinion is this an unsafe structure? Oh, absolutely. Unfettered access, like I said, deteriorated floors, ceilings, walls, not a place for people to inhabit. What questions do we have, council?
 any public comments on this okay i will bring it back to the council sarah i move we approve the resolution alan i'll second that the motion of the second to uh approve the resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated unsafe structure any final comments from the council all right senator would you please call the role
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Mr. Mayor, I have a motion. Yes. I'd like to bring off of a few weeks ago we tabled indefinitely a motion for rezoning by Ms. Ron Cavanaugh's for the Razorback Golf Course.
 He has come forward now with a bill of assurance and other things that I think have sweetened the deal for those all concerned. I move that we take that motion off the table and consider it again. Okay. Is there a second? Della? Yes, I second that motion. Okay. We have a motion and a second to run table. So what discussion do we have from the council on this?
 I've had the opportunity to talk with some neighbors I went and actually talked to quite a few of them at their homes regarding this. It's an interesting proposal, but I would request that we leave it on this reading tonight so that we can have public notification go out to the neighborhoods.
 That's the one comment I've heard is that in order for them to be more informed and be able to come to City Council and have a good discussion about that, that we leave it on this reading tonight. Well, honestly, the first thing we've got to do is decide whether we're going on a title or not before we get into that now, I think. Is that correct?
 Yes, the first issue must be are you going to remove it from the table? Then at that point in time, you'll decide whether you want it to go to the second reading or table it at that point so there's better communication to the public. Right. So what discussion do we have on the tabling of this council? Okay, we have no discussion on the tabling, so. That's a motion to remove it from the table. A motion to remove it from the table. Thank you. All right. Saunders calls the roll. Thank you.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Loric Road from RA Residential Agricultural, RSF1, residential single family, one unit per acre, and RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to NC Neighborhood Conservation, RA Residential Agricultural, and NS Neighborhood Services.
 So we're on the second reading, or are we on the first reading? First reading. First reading. So that would be the second, unless I'll go and read it on the second reading, unless someone moves to table this. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to make a motion. Yes. I'd like to motion that we table this until the September 20th council meeting. Or we can just leave it right here. Well, no, you actually need to table it, or else I'm going to have to read it. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. All right.
 So you make a motion to table right now? Motion to table to the next meeting so it will remain on this reading. Okay, Justin. And I'll second that. Okay. All right. Any discussion on that? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Not Mara? Yes. Wilshire? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. So it just stays right here, all right? Yes, it will be on the second reading at the next meeting. Okay. Yes.
 All right under new business number one an order to approve vacation 16-55-19 submitted by Mulholland and Associates corporate property located at the intersection of McMillan Drive and Weddington Drive vacate a portion of a utilities kit Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk and Section 3 that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition Any relocation or damage to utilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense. I
 Jeremy. Mayor and Council, this property is located off of McMillan Drive. McMillan Drive is south of Weddington Drive at the southeast corner of Weddington and I-49. The property is owned Urban Thoroughfare. It is the site for a new Fitness One athletic facility.
 The applicant is requesting a vacation of a utility easement along McMillan Drive that was plotted back in the 90s when the original development was created and the subdivision was created there. All utility companies have responded with no objections. Planning Commission voted 9-0 and staff is in favor of vacating this utility easement. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this for Jeremy? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council.
 And we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Justin second we have a motion to second to go to the second freedom Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes
 An ordinance approved the AC 16-55 19 submitted by Mulholland and Associates Incorporated for property located at the intersection of McMillan Drive and Weddington Drive to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Okay. Justin? I move that the bill be moved to the third and final reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, and in order to approve the AC 16-55 19 submitted by Mulholland and Associates Incorporated the property located at the intersection of Macmillan Drive and Weddington Drive To vacate a portion of a utility easement any final comments from the council on this. Okay, Sandra. Would you please call the roll? I
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5508 for approximately 35.98 acres located north of Colfax Loop from an expired RPCD residential plan zoning district to NC neighborhood conservation and RA residential agricultural kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from an expired rpzd residential plan zoning district to neighborhood conservation and residential agricultural section 2 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map for the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 This is a request for rezoning in the southwest part of the city adjacent to the city of Farmington in a rapidly developing area near Pop Warner Elementary School. This property is north of the highway and Alberta Street, which is a collector street. It's west of the Ruble Road that is currently being constructed, and Alberta Street will be connected into Ruble Road. This particular piece of property was part of a larger residential planned zoning district called the Cove's at Walnut Crossing. It's pretty...
 phase of the codes at Walnut Crossing has expired and therefore the applicant is requesting the property be rezoned the original rezoning request was was for RSF 8 about 31 acres a little less than 31 acres which is a residential single-family eight units per acre a single-family zoning district and
 And the balance of the property, about 4 and 1 half acres to be residential agricultural. As you can see on the map here, that residential agricultural is situated around the headwaters of Goose Creek, which flows basically parallel to the property on the north side of the tract of land.
 At the Planning Commission meeting, there was some discussion about what the most appropriate zoning district would be. This is a higher density single-family residential district. The Planning Commission fell on the side of neighborhood conservation, which is slightly denser. It's a similar development pattern, RSF8 and RNC neighborhood conservation. One allows eight units per acre. The other allows 10 units per acre. The applicant was...
 Satisfied with the zoning district for that as well. And so it's our understanding that they're here and can speak to that as well, but Planning staff and the Planning Commission both recommend approval of the rezoning to neighborhood conservation and residential agricultural Yeah, can luck say a few words?
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. Hello, Jesse. As Jeremy covered, neighborhood conservation, we're completely fine with that. We're happy with either residential district that the council would prefer. Just under five acres will be rezoned agricultural along with tree preservation. I would bet 10 to 15 acres will actually be undeveloped on this property. Potentially more, we're really going to try to stay out of the floodplain.
 which is where the RSF-8 or Neighborhood Conservation Zoning Districts are a real benefit. We're able to squeeze down those lots, and it allows us a smaller footprint over the entire property. So our next stop, hopefully, is the City of Farmington. We'd appreciate your approval so that we could show them next week that the City of Fayetteville is supportive as well. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant and the staff and the council? Okay. Thank you, Jesse. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Alley.
 I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. So, motion passed. Shop Mart? Yes. Look here? Yes. Long? Yes. Brad? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Emmett? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5508 for approximately 36 acres located north of Colfax Loop.
 from an expired rpzd a residential planned zoning district to neighborhood conservation and residential agricultural adela justin second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass okay adela was yes dylan and then justin thank you everybody good
 Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5508 for approximately 36 acres located north of Colfax Loop from an expired residential planned zoning district to neighborhood conservation and residential agricultural. Okay. Final comments from the council on this?
 Shall the ordinance pass? Tomar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Kim. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three.
 An order to rezone that property describing the rezoning petition RZN 16-5500 for approximately 0.23 acres located at 335 East 7th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General. Kip?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from Neighborhood Conservation to Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Chair? Chair.
 This property is located at 335 East 7th Street. It's about a quarter acre lot in the Walker Park neighborhood within the Neighborhood Conservation Zoning District. The property was rezoned to Neighborhood Conservation after the Walker Park master planning process several years ago. It currently contains a single family residence dating back to the 1920s.
 The applicants requested to rezone the parcel from the neighborhood conservation zoning district to downtown general. Downtown general is one of our form based zones as is neighborhood conservation. Neighborhood conservation is primarily a single family zone. Downtown general introduces multi-family and some commercial use as well.
 from a staff's perspective we felt like rezoning this property which you can see here on the map would be incompatible with incompatible with the surrounding mixture of single and small multi-family residential uses not necessarily for the use intended which apparently is a small multi-family property on a quarter acre but for the potential that downtown general does allow 56 foot tall apartment buildings or commercial uses would be in our opinion incompatible in scale and massing with surround surrounding established residences
 This is a split vote and quite a bit of discussion at the Planning Commission meeting. It was four to four, ultimately, with one member abstaining. They had different opinions about the appropriateness of the request, and I think most of it fell on honoring the neighbors' intentions with preserving the integrity of the single-family districts within the neighborhood. I'm sorry, within the Walker Park neighborhood, while allowing for the downtown general that was selected –
 very strategically back when this these properties were developed for higher density and multi-family and commercial uses the planning commission ultimately tied on their votes and so it's been forwarded to you all as an appeal by the applicant staff did not recommend approval of the rezoning request okay is the applicant here no okay what questions do we have from the city council then
 Yes, Matthew. Oh, sorry. Matthew Dixon, Thank you, Mayor. I don't have any interest in this property itself, but I am partnered with Aptin on other projects, and so to avoid any appearance of impropriety, I'm going to recuse myself from this discussion. John Aucott, Okay. All right.
 Mr. Mayor, I just was curious, Jeremy, why did the staff recommend not going far with it? We're talking about a very small piece of property. It is. If you look at the map here, all of the green is neighborhood conservation. The lighter green is RSF 18. All of those dictate primarily single family, small and higher density single family, but primarily single family in nature. I'll also flip over quickly to an aerial photograph where you can see
 properties what you can see in this figure ground as well are primarily residential in nature there's not a lot of larger multi-family you might be surprised on what you could fit on a quarter acre lot particularly with the lack of setback through zero zero setbacks in downtown General so you can build up to the property lines you can also build a side and rear property lines
 if developed commercially there are no parking regulations so parking would not necessarily have to be provided so it's something that we have to evaluate as we look at a rezoning request particularly on the impact of surrounding neighbors and the neighborhood itself we didn't feel at the corner of wood and 7th street in particular mid block was the proper place for that type of zoning i'm a little concerned that you would say that we don't have any parking regulations we as a council decided we didn't want to regulate we want to deregulate
 and it shows a lack of confidence in a businessman or businesswoman's ability to choose the right number of parking places for their chosen profession or business. So I'd like to see us have a stronger criticism of the proposal than just, we don't regulate parking there so they can do something that we don't like. Most entrepreneurs will select what's best in their best interest, which means they'll select what's best in the public interest.
 has been my experience in a lot of years. Thank you, Jeremy. Sure. Okay. Mr. Mayor, I do note that the applicant has now arrived. Okay. He might want you to address this. Come on up. I sincerely apologize. I thought we started at 6, so I thought I was perfectly on time. Apparently not, but I'm glad I walked in. So I'm not sure exactly what... Just go ahead and...
 Tell us why you think that zoning needs to be different from the downtown general. Start with that, and then we'll ask you whatever questions we think. Introduce yourself, please, to the council. Introduce yourself to the council. My name is Aaron Ederman. Thank you for hearing me. Well...
 In this neighborhood, to me, it's primarily multifamily. You'll see duplex, triplex, fourplex, all surrounded by this property. So a single-family neighborhood conservation, which is what it is right now, does not seem to be the most appropriate.
 I think we're as a goal we are trying to increase density in close to downtown and so it seems to me that we should be looking at something that is more dense. So I went through all the different options in the different zoning codes and trying to find out what would make the most sense.
 I can certainly understand from planning's perspective that downtown general may They may have issues with that. I can certainly see why There are some some things there that you know, they would be worried about with regard to the building height Which is 56 feet and that's a lot higher than the other other zoning Some of the other business businesses that could go in there. So I do see that perspective and
 When I looked at what my other options were, I guess I'll back up and say what I would like to do. What I was thinking about doing was putting four units on there, so splitting the lot. It's 68 feet wide, so that would be...
 34 feet each side and putting what I'd like to do is put two houses and two ADUs in the back, two garage apartments in the back.
 Since this is just a rezoning, you're really not supposed to be discussing what your development plans are. If you had offered a bill of assurance, presenting that as a development plan, or if you had a planned zoning district that would show that, then that would certainly be okay for you to discuss that. Otherwise, you must just speak about the zoning.
 And as you said, there's a different height limitation and different sorts of businesses can go in there. So you can talk about that, but you really should not be discussing your development plans. Sure. Okay. I guess the reason I brought that up was just kind of as you go through what all the options are, and I think this is going to come up continuously, is how do you build neighborhood-scale buildings
 housing that's not apartment complexes in you know increasingly densifying the the core area of Fayetteville or or anywhere where it's appropriate for that matter but but how do we how do we build flexible housing that's not just large student apartments how do we build things that are that have multiple
 sizes and spaces. So, you know, for example, a house with a garage apartment, you know, that could be someone, it could be a, you know, just a rental unit to help supplement income. It could be an adult, a grown, you know, a grandparent, et cetera. When you look at all of the different zoning codes, it's 68 feet wide. So it's not 70 feet. So it won't,
 You can't you can't split it in half the options to split it in half are RSF 18 which is 30 feet wide lot width RMF 40 which has a 30 foot lot width and then Downtown general which is 18 Foot other than that. You can't split it in half and if you wanted to do More than two units on it You would need
 for RMF 70, or RMF 40, you would need 70 feet. So essentially, we're looking at two units on this property if it's gonna be, that's what sort of all of the zoning codes, except for downtown general, allows. I had looked into the possibilities of doing ADUs on here, RSF 18, but ADUs can't be,
 They have to be owner occupants who live on the property so In this case, it's a it's a rental rental little pocket and so it seems to me that that's that's what you're going to be looking at is sort of a primarily someone who's looking at as an investment property, which may be me or maybe someone else but RSF 18 doesn't really quite make sense so I
 Just kind of looking at all the possibilities. I didn't really see anything that worked particularly Well except for downtown general. I do see the potential issues that planning has with downtown general and those would be the height and then also the Some of the the businesses that could potentially go there with regard to businesses It's it's a quarter acre lot. It's mid mid block and
 It's both I could see see why planning might not want a business there but I could also for the same reason see why businesses also wouldn't want to be located there, so I Don't know I didn't see a clear
 clear zoning code that I thought was appropriate based on what we had and I must I will say that I am very appreciative of planning staff planning Commission in Council for I think really pushing the envelope and moving forward to to be progressive on adding adding things to the zoning but I just didn't I just didn't see where what I'm trying to do could fit in here other than downtown general
 Hi there. Thank you for coming to talk with us tonight. One thing that you mentioned is that it was an investment property for you. And you said it could be you or it could be someone else that developed it, which when we're looking at zoning, that's one of the things we have to consider is after we rezone it. Sure. It could be built to that specifications like you mentioned, like height or other things. And I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point
 But there are ways to get that zoning but make assurances that it won't reach those height levels. Like someone mentioned earlier a bill of assurance which we can't ask you for legally in the request process. But I know that staff has worked with many people in the past to work through those things if the applicant wants to.
 As it stands just for downtown general. I wouldn't be able to vote for it as it is But if there were restrictions on it, I think it would look a lot different Yeah with regard to height restriction I would certainly be okay with that and I think 45. I mean I could probably do less than 45 but That's what neighborhood conservation is. So that's kind of what I would initially I
 be inclined to say and i guess presumably with regard to the uses um i would be okay with that i'd probably maybe want to look a little more closely at what i think would be appropriate and maybe talk with the planning staff what they see what they think
 I think that's probably good. We can't really consider a bill of assurance unless it has actually been offered and is in writing and signed. So you might want to get with planning if you're considering that and then look very carefully at your options because a bill of assurance is like part of the rezoning itself and runs with the land.
 And so we'll be restrictive as you place it, just like the zoning is. So you need to be careful with that. And I suggest that you do talk with planning if you're considering that. Okay. Sarah. Okay.
 We're in a situation again where we've got a developer trying to do the right thing. They're trying to build the appropriate infill housing that we're supposed to be prioritizing and yet we do not have an appropriate zoning tool to enable that to happen. So we've got this issue where our development codes are not in alignment with our master plan goals and we need to have more development tools.
 But based on the discussion here tonight, I would move that we table this for two weeks and give the applicant an opportunity to consider other options. But I do think that this is yet another reason why we have to develop more zoning tools and fine-tune our development codes to meet our master plan goals. Well, if we just leave it up where it is, it will be two weeks before it comes to anybody. Okay. Then I suggest that we leave it on the first reading. Okay. All right.
 okay uh okay thank you thank you uh is there any public comment on this it's going to probably be left on the first reading okay right back to the council just leave it on the first reading give it two weeks let's see what we can work out okay all right now then number four
 In ordinance to amend 151.01 definitions, 174.03 exemptions, 174.04 and 174.10 on-site freestanding signs and 174.12 wall signs to more closely conform to the latest United States Supreme Court decisions on sign ordinances and to declare an emergency. Can I believe this is...
 Yes, I presented this, but before I would read the ordinance, I would ask that you amend what was originally proposed to the one that I sent you out last week and is in front of you tonight.
 That now includes specific provision to ensure that A-frame signs would still be allowed on the right-of-way when somebody's property basically abuts up to the sidewalk and they have no other place to put the sign. So if you approve of that proposed amendment I did, I would ask someone to make that motion. Okay. Matt. Thank you, Mayor. I think it's a good solution. I appreciate the city attorney drafting that up, and so I'll make the motion to amend it as presented. Thank you.
 Okay, sir, I'll second that motion. Okay. All right. What discussion do we have on the amendment? Thank you. Good. All right any public comment on the amendment Mr. Mayor Peter Tonneson Ward 3 and I'm usually not one for small talk but I do want to thank the mayor we were at the farmers market a few weeks ago my fiance and I and he was gracious enough to come out of the crowd and brave enough to
 and introduce himself to me in Georgia. And so I just wanted to thank you for that, and also for your sartorial excellence in your choice of a sport coat. Yes, I like yours as well. Must have been a big sale on them. On this sign issue, I just have a few points. One, I don't know why this is being treated as an emergency. Mr. Williams said in his memo that he was apprised of this issue at meetings of...
 City attorney that that actually would be germane once we get passed to the actual ordinance itself right now We're just talking about whether we're gonna man What was originally submitted to the City Council to ensure that a frame signs in front of restaurants and stuff would be allowed I'm sorry, so we're right at the very first part. I haven't read it yet All right the rest of it you get to weigh on that Peter in a little bit. I'll wait okay Thank you. All right. Does anybody have any other public comments on the amendment? I?
 All right. Seeing none, I'll break back to the council. The amendment is basically to authorize authorization for a frame sign, basically. To be continued as it is right now. All right. Yeah. All right. Any other final comments on that? All right. So I would just please call the roll. Mark. Yes. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tenet. Yes.
 That is passed, so now I'll read the ordinance as amended. Whereas Chapter 174 signs has long preserved the health, safety, and welfare of able citizens and businesses while ensuring the free speech rights of all, and whereas Chapter 174 signs has been repeatedly upheld as legal and constitutional both by the Arkansas Supreme Court and the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals,
 And whereas the latest plurality decision by the United States Supreme Court in Reed v. Town of Gilbert casts some doubt upon the descriptive use of religious or political signs such that these terms should be removed from our signs chapter of the UDC and replaced with the more generic term non-commercial signs.
 And whereas six justices of the United States Supreme Court expressly or implicitly agreed with Justice Alito's concurrence in Reed versus Town of Gilbert, explaining and clarifying that cities could constitutionally regulate the size of signs, the locations in which signs may be placed.
 Distinguish between free-standing signs and those attached to buildings. Between lighted and unlighted signs. Signs with fixed messages and electronic signs with messages that change. Distinguishing between the placement of signs on commercial and residential property. Distinguishing between on-premise and off-premises signs. Restricting the total number of signs and time restrictions on signs advertising a one-time event.
 And whereas Justice Alito, both in his concurrence and his opinion for the United States Supreme Court in Pleasant Grove City v. Sumlin in 2009, reaffirmed the city's right to speak for itself and, quote, say what it wishes and select the views it wants to express, unquote, because, quote, the government's own speech is exempt from the First Amendment scrutiny.
 And whereas the City Council has determined that artistic murals hand-painted on a building's wall without advertising, commercial logos, or depictions of commercial activities are not signs for the purpose of Chapter 174 signs of the Unified Development Code, and whereas governments are not allowed to favor commercial speech over religious, political, or other non-commercial speech,
 so that noncommercial entities in P1 institutional zoning districts should be treated similarly to commercial businesses in commercially zoned districts concerning the permitted size, number, and location of signs.
 and whereas larger buildings owned by the larger public institutions and church-related organizations in P1 institutional zoning districts should be allowed to have similarly sized signs as commercial and industrial districts rather than be limited to residential and office zoning district size limitations. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 151.01 definitions of the Unified Development Code by repealing the definition of bulletin board and the definition of sign and enacting a replacement definition of sign as shown below.
 Sign only those commercial and non-commercial signs that are in view of the general public from a public right-of-way or public property Shall be regulated pursuant to chapter 174 signs Signs within buildings not generally visible outside the building are not regulated subsection 1 non-commercial sign. I
 A device or display, including flags and attention devices, commonly referred to as sign, that does not advertise a product or service or relate to a business purpose, does not propose a commercial transaction or relate to economic interests, including offices and studios. Number two, commercial signs.
 A device or display, including flags and attraction devices, commonly referred to as a sign that does not meet the definition of a noncommercial sign nor a government sign.
 3. Government sign, a device or display that is installed, owned, required, or controlled by the City of Fayetteville, County of Washington, State of Arkansas, the United States of America, or any agencies or subdivisions of such governmental bodies. 4. Artistic murals.
 Artistic murals hand-painted on a building's wall without advertising, commercial logos, depictions of commercial activities are not signs for the purpose of Chapter 174 signs.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 17403C by changing its table to appear as follows. For District RA, permitted illumination is non-illuminated and area in square footage is 32. For P1, C, I, UT, DC...
 MSC, which is Main Street Center, and commercial plan zoning districts, permitted illumination is illuminated, area of square footage is 32 square feet. All other districts, non-illuminated and 8 square feet.
 Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 174.03.H.1 by repealing that subsection's introductory language and all of subsection 1 and enacts the following replacement language.
 Subsection H, noncommercial signs. Noncommercial signs are permitted to be placed on private property by the landowner or lawful tenant in any zone district subject to the following conditions. Subject to one. In districts where most signs are not permitted, primarily residential districts, one noncommercial sign may be erected subject to limitations stated in 174.03 for real estate signs.
 Section 4, that the City Council of the City of Pueblo actually hereby amend Section 174.03 by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement H3 as shown below.
 H3, all districts, in addition to the non-commercial sign allowed above, 60 days prior to any general primary runoff or special election, a property owner may display additional non-illuminated temporary non-commercial signs of the same size allowed to real estate signs allowed in Section 174.03 .
 All such signs not authorized for further display by an upcoming election, such as runoff, must be removed by the property owner within three days of the election which authorized the signs installation. Subsection 5, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hear by men Section 174.03 banners by repealing all the introductory language and all of subsection J1 and by enacting the following.
 J banners public event special sales event and non-commercial banners not to exceed 3 feet by 30 feet and Large non-commercial signs not to exceed 32 square feet may be temporarily installed under the following terms and conditions one non-commercial banners and large signs subsection a residential zones including neighborhood conservation residential office residential agricultural and rpzd and
 In addition to the non-commercial sign allowed in subsection H, the owner of a residentially zoned parcel may install one large temporary non-commercial sign of up to 32 square feet no more than 60 days prior to and to be removed within three days following an election. Subsection B, all other zones.
 The owner of a parcel may install one temporary non-commercial sign up to 32 square feet no more than 60 days prior to and to remove within three days following an election. If the parcel has more than 100 feet of frontage on a street, the owner may install one large temporary non-commercial sign per 100 feet of frontage.
 No more than once a year, an owner may substitute and install a non-commercial banner for an allowed special sales event banner no more than two weeks prior to and to be removed within three days following the election.
 Section 6, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends Section 17403L, Signs on Windows, by repealing it as an entirety and enacting a slightly modified replacement as follows. Subsection L, Signs on Windows. Signs painted, affixed to, or clearly visible through the windows and doors are exempt from the permit requirement.
 However, such signs are considered wall signs and must conform to all requirements and limitations for wall signs pursuant to Section 174.1.2, Wall Signs. Section 7. That the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal Section 174.03 and enact a replacement 174.03 as follows. Section 174.03 freestanding bulletin board.
 a church or other religious institution, and a school serving primary and or secondary education payable students may install one free standing bulletin board, not an electronic message board, on its campus to communicate non-commercial information and events such as church or school, events at such church or school. The bulletin board may be 10 square feet,
 and must be set back a minimum of 15 feet from the street right-of-way. The school or church may enlarge the bulletin board up to a maximum of 24 square feet by moving it back from the street right-of-way one additional foot for each two square feet of display surface area in excess of the normal 10 square feet allowed. This bulletin board sign shall be in addition to any other signs authorized in this chapter. Section 8.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 174.04 in its entirety and enact replacement Section 174 as follows. Section 174.04, number of signs. For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements organized, related, or composed to form a unit where matter is displayed in a random manner.
 without organized relationship to elements, or where there is a reasonable doubt as to the relationship of the elements, each element shall be considered a single sign. Section 9. That the City Council, the City's available arc, shall hereby repeal Section 174.07, placing signs on public property in its entirety, and enact a replacement Section 174 as follows. Only government entities may place signs on public property, Subsection A.
 No signs other than signs installed, placed, owned, required or controlled by the City of Fayetteville, Washington County, the State of Arkansas, and the United States of America, or their agencies or subdivisions, shall be erected on any public property or right of way except under circumstances set forth in subsection because the property owner has no available frontage property where a freestanding sign could be installed.
 Subsection B, if a property owner's building abuts a sidewalk within a city right-of-way or on city property so that there is no space outside the city right-of-way for placement of a normal freestanding sign, then the property owner may place one freestanding A-frame sandwich board on the property as permitted in Section 174.08c.
 A non-commercial sign of identical size, shape, and under the same limitations may be substituted for the A-frame sign pursuant to Section 173.03 . Section 10.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 174.010, On-Site Prestanding Signs, by moving Zoning District P1 institutional from A3 to A4, and from B2D to B2F, and from D1 to D2.
 and section 11 at the city council the city of federal arcs are here by men section 174 1 2 wall signs by moving zoning district p1 institutional from 174.12 c to 174.12 d and then the emergency clause section 12
 In order to comply with the most recent United States Supreme Court decision concerning non-commercial signs and their use in general elections, and to protect the basic constitutional rights, health, safety, and peace of the favorable citizens during the campaign period prior to the general election, this ordinance needs to become immediately effective. Therefore, the City Council declares an emergency exists, and that to protect the health, safety, and peace of favorable citizens, this ordinance shall take immediate effect upon its passage and approval.
 I did bring this forward. I partly explained that in the ordinance itself.
 I've been looking at this ever since the constitutional decision was made. The initial analysis of the constitutional decision by Justice Thomas seemed to make it almost impossible to have any kind of effective sign ordinance. But upon further consideration and when I went to DC to the seminar there and then later to Little Rock where the Arkansas City Attorneys Association had a meeting, the common belief
 was that in reality it would be Justice Alito's concurrence, which has the support of six justices,
 would really be the one that would control. And as you heard when I said what Justice Alito said was still regulatory of what we could do, I saw that in fact we could make a signed ordinance that would accomplish basically what our current signed ordinance does, but be in much better conformance with the language of the Supreme Court in its latest decision.
 I should note that this is one of many times that the sign ordinance has had to be amended as the Supreme Court has announced different rules and different constitutional analysis. It was done in 2002.
 It was the last time we did a really substantial change to it when it was discovered that there were several provisions within our signed ordinance that did not comply with the current regulations that the Supreme Court had demanded. The emergency clause is needed because the 60 days before the election is going to occur later on this week. And I did not want to have confusion out there.
 I wanted to make sure that people understood that this rule, this would be the ordinance that would control. There are limitations in the existing ordinance, which I thought made a lot of sense. For example, you could have one small sign for every candidate that you support. It seems like you wouldn't need more than one per candidate. That's a lot of signs.
 But in order to read the sign, if you read the sign to determine that it's supporting a candidate, that's not allowed anymore. And so because of that, there's now an unlimited number of non-commercial signs that a homeowner
 or a business owner or anybody else can put up in unlimited number of small signs, however many they wish. And the reason for that is I did not wanna pick an arbitrary number. I could have said five or seven, well, the Supreme Court or the local judge might say, well, why'd you pick that number?
 Well, I didn't have a good answer, so I left it unlimited. But that's the reason I think it's an emergency clause. For a long time, I was concerned that we could do any ordinance and to come and try to pass
 Initially, I was not sure what it should say, but after going to those seminars in DC and also in Little Rock, I felt like that maybe we do need to look at it. It was a complex five-page ordinance with many, many sections that had to be changed. I want to thank Jeremy Pate and Planning because obviously they're the ones that administer
 So I've been in a lot of conversations and negotiations with them and discussions about how best to do it and what needs to be changed and how can we say things differently
 creating new definitions for a sign to try to make it more simple and easy to understand. There's a lot of work that's gone into this, and unfortunately I didn't get all that done in time to be able to have three readings to get this and not have an emergency clause in order for it to be effective for this general election. And I think it's vital that this one be in effect at this general election, and therefore that's why I've asked for an emergency clause.
 And I'm willing to answer any questions that you all might have. Anybody got any questions for Kit? Okay. Oh, Adele. I really don't have any questions. I just want to say thank you, Kit, for all the work on this because I know it is a subject that gets mentioned a lot in the community. So thank you so much. I think this is an excellent ordinance.
 And I will also tell you my plan is, if this is passed tonight, is to immediately send out another memo like I did before the last election to make it hopefully even more clear to persons that might not have run for office before what the sign regulations are for non-commercial signs, not political signs, but non-commercial signs so that hopefully people will understand and be able to follow the ordinance.
 Mr. Williams, I was just curious. Suppose I put in two signs in my yard. One, they're exactly the same size, same color, everything's the same, except the words are different. And one of them says, for sale, buy my house now. And the other one says, vote for Joe Schmoe. Do I have to take down the vote for Joe Schmoe three days after the election?
 Yes, you would. In other words, during the period 60 days before the election up to 30 days after it, you can have an unlimited number of small signs the same size as a real estate sign. And you may have a non-commercial sign 365 days a year if you don't have a real estate sign up there. However, if you had a real estate signed up, you've used up your sign allotment except during the election period.
 So, the reason we had to allow real estate signs is from a Supreme Court decision because one town decided they didn't want real estate signs. They were afraid people were selling their houses and they didn't want people selling their houses so they said no real estate signs and someone appealed and the Supreme Court said no, a homeowner has a right for a real estate sign. So that's why we put that in the code.
 But you also have the rule you can't favor commercial signs, like a real estate sign, over non-commercial signs. Therefore, anybody can say, well, I don't want a real estate sign, but I want a political sign or a religious sign or a non-commercial sign, and you can put it up 365 days a year. Well, I guess the question would be, when I go to pull out the illegal sign after three days after the election has ended, how would I know which sign to pull out if I don't have to read it?
 You can pull out either one, John. You'll be in fine shape either way you go on that. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Okay, any other questions for Kit? All right, let's open it up for public comment. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. Yeah, I have sort of the same...
 Objection. I don't understand why this is an emergency. The Supreme Court issued its ruling in January of 2015, which is over a year and a half ago. I understand, Mr. Williams. I know we all become more and more familiar with what's going on in the law as time goes by, but still April and then June. And now again, we have government by helter-skelter, last minute,
 Why didn't we have this in time for this election on the library? I was at a Bible study three weeks ago, and one of the young men was bragging how he voted for the library funds. I said, oh, really? I voted against it. Of course, he lives in an apartment, so I have to pay for this $26.5 million addition to a library that already has a Starbucks, which I've never used in five years.
 But why didn't we have this then so we could have notices out in our yards about the issues in the election? I see serious problems with this because Justice Alito's concurring opinion was joined by two other justices, Kennedy and Sotomayor, not a total of six justices.
 there were three other concurring opinions, justices who concurred in the judgment. So the judgment was actually the judgment of the whole court. But they had their own views, and that was Kagan, Breyer, and I've drawn a blank right now. But if you're going to rely on Justice Alito's opinion, he still doesn't allow you to discriminate between events like elections and other events.
 And I agree with Mr. Latour's point. I mean, for example, if I have the indict the Clintons sign that's at the foot of my bed and I want to put it out on my property, that has no event associated with it. Just like the real estate sign that can stay in my front yard until the house is sold, why can I not have that sign in my front yard until the Clintons are finally indicted?
 And I think, I guess my big point is that this shouldn't be pushed through in a rush unless we either know that there have been problems with the ordinance in its current form in the past, or there are real threats of litigation for the city, which I don't want the city spending money on.
 I don't see why this has to be done so quickly now. And if it is done, if there is some tempering of the ordinance to fend off some threats that Mr. Williams perceives, then the city ought to come back and look at the whole ordinance in an orderly way where the public has some chance to show up and comment on what's being done. There is no greater right than...
 rights than the rights incorporated in the First Amendment. And this is very important. And I don't think it should be done quickly. And the last thing is a little swipe that
 You know, Mr. Williams' opinion refers to, he disparages Justice Thomas and refers to his opinion as unnecessary, overbroad, and sweeping, and then notes parenthetically it's the hallmark of judicial activism. None of that needed to be said.
 There's an issue here. There's an issue here, and it doesn't have it reflects a kind of bias and And I don't think we need that I think what we need to do is go at this in a principled Logical way because this is the most precious right we have and thank you for having let me exercise it Yes, we like to speak to us on this okay back to the council
 adela sarah second we have a motion and second to go second reading sunday would you please call the rub come on yes no yes right yes yes yes yes an ordinance to amend section 151.01 definitions section 17403 exemptions
 Section 174.04, Section 174.10, on-site freestanding signs, and Section 174.12, wall signs, to more closely conform to the latest United States Supreme Court decision on sign ordinances and to declare an emergency.
 I have a question for the city attorney, I guess. One of the things in this that I found is odd and several other people have sent me a notice on is that if they can have a real estate sign year round but they can't express their political opinions at the same time, is there not a way for us to make an allowance for that in the city of Fayetteville? If your house is for sale, should you not still be able to express a political opinion?
 with a political sign at the same time.
 Well, I guess you look at one of the purposes of the signed orders is aesthetics. And so I think that the original drafters of the signed ordinance, by getting rid of billboards and other things like that and limiting the total number of signs and not allowing signs basically in residential areas, were all seeking to advance the aesthetics of Fayetteville. It certainly would be allowable for the city council up here
 to say that someone can have a non-commercial sign anytime they want even two or three or four even whether or not they have a real estate sign i mean you could say you can have unlimited number of non-commercial signs year-round everywhere i think that that is somewhat dangerous because then the one of the the supports for the signed ordinance which is aesthetics
 will be kind of whittled away and when it kind of will make it to some extent weaker because you will basically be saying that an unlimited number or a large number of signs even in residential areas is not a danger to aesthetics and I think that that would weaken the sign ordinance as a whole, but the city council as their policy makers can
 If you want to add another non-commercial sign authorization, even if someone is selling their house or having a real estate sign up. So that's certainly within the City Council's power to do that. That's not what our current ordinance does. And so when I went back to write this, I tried to keep this as similar to the ordinance we've
 for many, many years, an ordinance that's been up to the Supreme Court of Arkansas eight times, and been to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeal once,
 And so I was trying to keep this signed ordinance, basically what has come to us from the history and been approved by our appellate courts. I did not want to make major changes. I did need to make changes, I believe, to make it more susceptible for me to defend, easier for me to defend, stronger against an attack.
 because we are using terms in the current ordinance that talks about political signs and religious signs, which means you've got to read the sign if you know it's political or religious. I think it's much better the way the Supreme Court differentiated. They talked about commercial and not commercial, and so I think that is what we need to use too. And so I do think this ordinance is stronger and has more armor on it to defend it from any attack, and that's why I have proposed it.
 And because we have an election just coming up, and so we need to get it passed and in effect,
 so that people will know the rules. But if you want to in the future, come back and look at this and say you want to have additional non-commercial signs, certainly that's your right as an alderman to propose something like that, and it's within the city council's power to do that. I guess that addressed a little bit more than I was looking for. I'm really just looking at the idea of one political sign per household, residential household, whatever it may be,
 i'm not sure what the harman that is just because there's a real estate sign there so i think it would be wise for us to have an exemption for that i mean there's all kinds of political views in this community and i like to know what they are so i'll make a motion to amend to allow for the non-commercial sign 365 days a year even with a real estate sign okay uh go ahead here a second on that i second that motion wow
 Okay. Okay, John, you have the floor. Mr. Mayor, it concerns me when we're talking about how we can protect ourselves from attacks that people are concerned about the First Amendment. I like pretty towns and I like pretty streets and things like that, but I don't think I can say a town is truly beautiful if our First Amendment freedoms are being suppressed.
 That's why this is a sensitive area, and we can have good people on both sides of this debate. And I realize we're trying to balance two competing interests, you know, the beautiful city that we all want and love, but we also have this other competing idea of freedom of expression, and just like Alan says, he wants to see what people are thinking. And I kind of like to know what people are thinking also.
 So I'd like to give our citizens the opportunity to express themselves without fear of some food violation. That's what's going on in my mind right now. I'd just better let you know what I think. Thank you. Mayor Redekopal Okay. Matthew. Matthew Kuehnert Thank you, Mayor.
 Well, I'm not against the amendment in principle, but I'm not going to support it tonight because I don't think this is the right time to have an extended discussion about the entire ordinance. I mean, I'd like to change a few things about it, too.
 But I think there's, you know, that our approach to changing parts of the ordinance should be maybe a little bit more ordered, especially given the timeliness of the election. I'd also, if we are going to discuss an amendment tonight, I'd really like to know what the precise language is going to be before we vote on things. Right now, I did not understand the motion in terms of the precise language and the way it would change.
 it seemed to be uh the motion seemed to distinguish real estate signs as a subset of non-commercial signs and i think that's precisely the problem that the city attorney is trying to address how i guess to clarify i would i would and i completely respect that you'd rather have a more systematic review i think that's wise as well but for the purposes of my motion
 As I explained earlier, just because someone's selling their home and has a real estate sign, we shouldn't prevent them from expressing their political opinions with one small sign. So I think that we should add as a general exception to our sign ordinance an allowance for that small political sign 365 days a year.
 I would like to say that such a change certainly can be enacted by the City Council, but I am very concerned that we don't have the language to actually do it tonight. This is an ordinance that does need to go into effect. It's an emergency. We have
 Obviously, in the near future, you can have an unlimited number of signs up for the next 60 days. And during that period of time, I will be happy to speak with you and try to draft a language that would change the ordinance to allow having both a real estate sign and a noncommercial sign up 365 days a year.
 And that can be done and enacted probably before all the other signs go down. So there's not an emergency for that right now because by Thursday or Friday, you can have an unlimited number of noncommercial signs. But I am very concerned about not having the precise language here
 uh to read tonight i would rather have you all pass this uh tonight with the emergency clause so it can go in effect and control this election and then in your interim alan i'll be happy to work with you and get a proposal up that we can submit to the city council that would try to accomplish what you want hey sir
 I agree with Alderman Petty's concerns and I would like to see us go ahead and pass this tonight but I do see other opportunities for improvement in the sign ordinance and I'd like to see us do a comprehensive review at a later date because I do think that Alderman Long has some very valid points.
 I just want to clarify, the idea that I'm supporting is the people's right to free speech. I don't think we should require a real estate sign to be there in order for me to express my ideas. I think our citizens should be free to have a sign in their yard of reasonable size expressing their political views whether or not they have a real estate sign. They certainly do not have to have a real estate sign in their yard in order to have a non-commercial sign.
 It's the only thing that Alan would want to change, I think, is saying that you can have your non-commercial sign regardless, and if you want to put a real estate sign up, you can do that also. And I can work with him to try to get that as a reasonable amendment, but that's not something I would like to try to do tonight. There's no emergency for it because, as I said—
 by Thursday or Friday, you can have an unlimited number of non-commercial signs there, and with a real estate sign also. So there's nothing, you know, this would have no actual, any effect at all for 60 days. So that gives us some time to work on that if that's what you want to propose.
 Now well, I appreciate that yeah, and it after we vote on this Amendment if it does not pass that appreciate if we could have that ready for the next council meeting Now I mean anybody else okay? I'll take some public comment on this amendment the amendment
 is to have an extra non-commercial sign per household 365 days a year. Is that pretty close, Alan? Well, that's the problem. We don't really have an amendment on the floor. We have a suggestion that the ordinance be changed, so its effect will be such and such, but we don't have the precise wording. We need precise wording when we do the ordinance. It's dangerous to, you know, that's why there's a requirement for an ordinance to be read, right?
 And, you know, I've read the ordinance, so that is what's before you to get an amendment to that. I don't have any language for that. I'd be scared to do it. The signed ordinance is very complicated and intertwined, and so I just think it's dangerous at this point in time to try to just change it on the fly, especially when there really is no reason to do it since it's,
 Thursday or Friday there'll be an unlimited number of non-commercial signs that not somebody could put in their yard Mr. Mayor No, I just want to say that I'm not in favor of lots of signs I've said in the past that I grew up in the age when Lady Bird Johnson had her initiative to take down the billboards and I remember how much better this country looked at
 when they were taken down. And I lived in Europe from 1971 to 72, and again from 84 to 87. And my wife and I were appalled when we came home and were struck by the level of commercialism, just the assault on you of too much signage in this country. And even this evening, as I was coming south on Old Missouri, I looked up, and it was wonderful to see hilltops that
 that were green trees and other hilltops, and not ugly sign after ugly sign. So there is an issue with sign, and there's an issue with commercial interests. But my great concern is over government control of content, which I've had in the past, and I still have, and that's what brought me out tonight. And I just would like to see this done in a careful way. Okay. All right. Any other public comments on this?
 Well, I just want to say quickly that I, in general, support what Alderman Long is saying, but without the wording to look at and to see, I mean, I fully anticipate taking time to look at it, but I couldn't vote for the amendment tonight without seeing that, even though I am in support of it in general. So I just want you to know that, and I thank you for bringing that forward.
 First, we're going to vote on the amendment, whatever that is. I think I... Yes. Am I right? All right. Well, I don't know if I'm right, but I read it correctly anyway. All right. Now, the amendment is an extra non-commercial sign for household 365 days a year. Close enough? All righty. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? No. Lutour? Yes. Mal? Yes. Gregg?
 Marsh? No. Eddy? No. Emmett? No. They were back to the ordinance itself. Okay. Now, we are taking public comment. We are to the third reading. I mean, that's where we are. It's been read twice, right? We're on the second reading right now. Okay. Just wanted everybody to know that. Okay. So here we are. All right. Adelaide? I move that we go to the third and final reading.
 Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tottenham? Yes. Moutier? No. Wong? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to amend Section 151.01 Definitions, Section 174.03 Exemptions, Section 174.04, Section 174.10 On-Site Freestanding Signs, and Section 174.12 Wall Signs to more closely conform to the latest United States Supreme Court decisions on sign ordinances and to declare an emergency. VICE CHAIRMAN MILLER Okay. Any final comments from the counsel? All right. Shall the ordinance pass?
 Yes. Scott Martin? Yes. LeTierre? No. Long? Yes. Ryan? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Mayor, we need a separate vote on the emergency clause and there must be, it requires two-thirds vote and the mayor is not allowed to vote on emergency clause so it takes six affirmative votes to pass the emergency clause. It takes how many? I'm sorry.
 i mean did you say take six affirmative votes by the city council members in order to pass the emergency clause okie dokie do we need a motion or are we just ready to go probably a motion in a second all right matthew mayor so moved sarah second we have a motion to second to pass the emergency call all right any final comments on that all right so would you please
 Tom Harris, wheelchair? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. The emergency clause passed as well as the ordinance. Okay. So thank you very much. I appreciate your concern on this, and I will certainly be, if there's other changes that need to be made, I'll certainly be available to you. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have tonight? Don?
 A couple of announcements for the Council and the citizens. The City has begun our business license renewal process for this year. It began September 1st and runs through October 31st, so businesses in our City
 This is the time to renew your license. You can do it online, you can do it in person, or you can do it by mail. Our first fall bulky waste cleanup is this Saturday, September the 10th. It's our Ward 4 cleanup located at Howe Creek Elementary School at 375 North Ruppel Road and the second location at our recycling and trash collection facility at 1560 South Happy Hollow Road.
 Also, this Friday, in an effort to promote our Spring Street Entertainment District parking deck for citizens who haven't parked in it yet. This will be your Friday night to park for free if you come to the parking deck so you
 What the deck is, how to get in and out, it's a promotion for that new deck. And then lastly, at the first football game and subsequent football games, the city is partnering with the University of Arkansas for the Walton Arts Center lot to be a park and ride to the game.
 It is an event parking event. We had 247 of our 292 spaces utilized for that this past Saturday. So we will continue that for home football games. That was done as an effort for Dixon Street merchants to encourage people to come back downtown and spend money in the city rather than getting on the road and exiting their communities. So we hope that works and hope you'll help us promote that through your social media and contacts that you have throughout the city. Thank you. Any other announcements?
 Well, thank you all very much and good work. Adjourned.