I would like to call to order the September 3rd, 2024 City Council meeting. Care which police call the roll? Weedeker? Here. Burnham? Here. Bunch? Here. Kirk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor, would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everybody. We have the monthly finance report by Paul Becker. Paul?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of July. So that's month seven in the fiscal year. On a year-to-date basis, sales tax is down roughly 5% as of the end of July. Franchise fees are down 8%. They're a little softer than what we had anticipated. Building permits are up. They're up 18% through July. Intergovernmental
 services are up slightly. That's basically turn back from the state. Charges for services, the biggest driver charges for services are parks and things of that nature and are essentially flat to budget at that point in time. Now court fees are up 25% court fees and fines. Remember those have been soft over about the last two years.
 interest earnings are up there up substantially from what I had estimated there about double what I had anticipated going into this fiscal year because of the interest rates at this point in time and beverage sales are down beverage taxes excuse me are down about six percent as of now so the total city is down roughly two and a half percent
 at this point in time compared to budget which is in the million dollar range that between million million point two for the year-to-date at this point in time Street Turnback is down we're starting to see a little softness there in the in the sales taxes that
 that is allocated to the street fund and the motor fuel taxes. They're down about 2% compared to budget at this point in time. When I look at the other revenue, that's up about a percent. So all in all, the street fund is down about 1% compared to budget at this point in time. Parking, parking is a little softer than we had anticipated in the budget.
 It's down roughly 5% when we look at parking and parking fines compared to the budget at this point in time. Parks development, remember parks development started very soft. That's the HMR taxes that are allocated to parks. The taxes are right now flat compared to the budget. Remember, we were down pretty well for the first four months of this year, but that's catching up.
 Water and sewer, we're down about 1% in total billing compared to what we had anticipated at the beginning of the year. Trash and recycling is basically flat at this point in time. Recycling costs for recycling materials are down. And the actually fees collected are flat compared to what we had anticipated. The airport revenue is starting to come back a little bit.
 Right now, we're pretty close to even with budget. We're about 2% over last year on sales of gasoline, of jet fuel. Although flights up to this point in time are about 5% down compared to last year. We're going into football season, things of that nature. I expect it will probably pick up a bit. So that's my report for the month of June. I'll be happy to entertain questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council?
 anything all right thank you Paul thank you all right it's going to consent number one approval of the August 20th 2024 City Council meeting minutes number two resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $30,000 recognized appropriate revenue from the court automation fund for upgrades to court service service software
 computers and related technology equipment. Number three, resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $7,500 to fund public notification account to publish ordinances passed by the city council. Number four, a resolution to approve a right of entry and temporary construction easement agreement with CRP slash WRP
 D.P. Hazen owner LLC to allow the developer to access and make certain improvements to park land along Hamstring Creek east of Roof Road. Number five. A resolution to approve an agreement between the City of Federal and Prime Sanitation to haul and dispose of solid waste within City. Number six.
 resolution to approve a professional engineering services contract with Olson Engineering in the amount of ninety thousand seven hundred twenty dollars for the design of grading and remediation work associated with decommissioning and environmental cleanup of the old police department shooting range and to approve a project contingency in the amount of nine thousand seventy two dollars. Number seven,
 resolution to authorize the purchase of a Timco model 600 Street sweeper from River City hydraulics in the amount of three hundred sixty five thousand six hundred sixty five dollars pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract and to approve budget adjustment and
 number eight resolution to approve the purchase of a 2024 international cv515 utility truck brush truck centers in the amount of 109 955 dollars 67 cents percentage of source well cooperative
 purchasing contract and approved budget adjustment. Number nine, a resolution to authorize a generator maintenance contract with Cold War Power Systems through November 22nd, 2026 and any future renewal periods pursuant to a source well co-opting purchasing contract.
 number 10 a resolution to approve amendment number one to the professional services agreement with 120 water audits incorporated any amount not to exceed 47 thousand twenty dollars per year for additional services related to water service line inventory compliance number 11 a resolution to approve amendment number four to the engineering services agreement with mcclellan consulting engineers
 Incorporate any amount not to exceed $3,281,300 for the West Corridor Water Transmission Main Project and to approve budget adjustment. Number 12.
 a resolution to award bid number 24-35 an authorized purchase of two submersible jet variators from jack tyler engineering incorporated in the total amount of two hundred ninety eight thousand five hundred twenty six dollars plus sitting applicable taxes pray charges number 13
 A resolution to waive competitive bidding and authorized purchase of AMCAS firefighting rescue equipment from Precision Rescue in the amount of $42,598.50 for use by the Federal Fire Department. Number 14, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a state drug crime enforcement prosecution grant for state funding of the fourth judicial district drug.
 task force in the amount of 272 thousand three earned one dollars and to authorize mayor Jordan signed all necessary documents to receive the grant funds number 15 a resolution to award RFP 24 dash over six and Authorize a two-year economic development service contract startup junkie consulting to provide entrepreneurship and innovation consult services in the amount of two hundred fifty thousand dollars annually a
 will entertain a motion except consent agenda I would like to have a 14 full term consent please we will pull a 14 and put it at well we'll put it right now okay all right well then we will I'll entertain a motion to accept what is read on the consent agenda besides a 14
 so moved second we have motion second to approve the consent agenda except for a 14 care which please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, thank you all. All right, let's discuss a 14, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a state drug crime enforcement and prosecution grant for state funding of the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force in the amount of $272,301 and to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive the grants. Okay, Sarah, you're on.
 Thank you, Mayor, and obviously I welcome the Chief to talk to this. We've had ongoing conversations within our region. One of the things that I resoundingly go back to is that the origination and how the Drug Task Force operates is a direct result of the war on drugs
 which we say equivocally has been failed policy and oftentimes we're looking at other alternatives. You've seen diversions, things like drug court and other treatment programs that have come up. And so my concern in continuing forward with acceptance of this is that the focus on criminalizing drug use
 rather than really looking at it holistically, thinking about our quality of life that we're looking at for all residents in Fayetteville, is that it's a public health issue that is exasperated with the cycle of poverty, incarceration, and community destabilization. There's data from Drug Policy Alliance that shows
 that areas with high rates of drug-related arrest often experience increased social and economic harm, including higher rates of unemployment and family disruption. And these outcomes don't make our communities safer. They actually create environments
 where crime and substance abuse actually proliferate. And really also in relation as we've been talking a lot around our housing crisis that we face and we're a majority renter population, is that oftentimes individuals due to just lack of necessary income, they have to rent with many individuals who, you know, they may not be highly understanding what the interactions are of those, say, roommates.
 I'm very aware that unfortunately There are instances where you know one roommate might be participating in a certain area of something You know and all people that live within that that unit end up with criminalization You know based on those those items being present in that area Additionally, you know we've heard from
 Folks that have experienced domestic violence who oftentimes again because of our housing crisis are having to stay in situations That are non desirable with people that can be their abuser And so in those instances again where those individuals are present in those households We hear and I hear this firsthand that individuals have ended up, you know criminalized Because of that relationship that they have in that household.
 And so tonight I'm not supportive of this. I hope, I've heard lots of different conversation about Fayetteville being at the seat of this and holding it to try to create less harm. And so I understand that viewpoint, but my hope tonight is just to continue to talk about, especially going into our 25 budget cycle and as we look at other grants that we can participate in federally, that we look at the ones that help to reduce harm for all residents.
 Really admitting and looking at the fact that we have some of the highest overdose overdose deaths. I'm here in Washington County Fable being you know a big part of that and trying to figure out those ways that we can create public health and safety for Everyone so thank you for for hearing me tonight Okay Any questions from the council?
 Bob, you have your, okay. DeAndre. I just wanted to say thank you, Sarah, for sharing that. And to Chief, the last, it was last week, perhaps a couple of weeks ago, you gave a report on, I believe, meth. I'm sorry. If you can come up and kind of give a quick,
 review of those numbers and how when we talk about public health and quality of life how That is that that's that's dangerous I mean those drugs are dangerous and I think that the police department they've done their responsibility, right? I think that they that they've done that they are doing what they are
 are supposed to do and i think a lot of that other stuff that you're describing this that's an opportunity for the council to kind of look at but as far as their response to it based on what the information the chief gave us last week or maybe two weeks ago about the the amount of drugs that you have taken off the street i think that that's commendable so if you don't mind sharing
 those numbers again no i don't mind at all thank you councilmember jones for that so as i mentioned last week our fiscal year runs from july 1st to june 30th so if you capture that moment in time july 1 2023 to june 30th of 2024 i'm going to run through some numbers for you real quick so during that time
 The 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force seized 40 pounds of methamphetamine, 10 pounds of cocaine, 37 grams of heroin, and then approximately 11,484 fentanyl pills, along with 72 guns. And then one of those guns was stolen. So...
 You know, that's what we're seeing. You know, the biggest problem that we're seeing right now is fentanyl. No surprise to anyone. It's affecting all of us. It's affecting our officers, you know, having to respond to the overdoses that Council Member Moore mentioned. You know, our officers carry Narcan.
 with them. The state of Arkansas just came out with a law this year that our school resource officers also have to carry Narcan on their person at school because this is becoming such a prevalent problem. And I don't disagree with what Councilmember Moore says. It's
 You know, for us, we're always looking for, you know, what are the options out there, you know, whether that's drug court, whether that's treatment, whether that's prevention. You know, we're supportive of that from a law enforcement standpoint. But we also see ourselves as a cog in that wheel, too. Absolutely. You know, a lot of times I feel, you know, adamantly that there has to be some type of intervention that occurs.
 And certainly we have to advocate for the victims. And right now the victims are people that are being killed with fentanyl. And I mentioned last week that, you know, we're working overdose deaths. And we're holding those people accountable. And we're bringing families closures that lose their loved ones to fentanyl overdoses. I'll be happy to answer any more questions that council has. Chief, I appreciate that. Because about two years ago, I had a family member that died from a,
 fit no overdose and so I appreciate you know what the task force is doing and this is
 public this is health and safety for me and i think that the residents of favor will also agree and very appreciative of your efforts because every day this is getting worse so the role that you're playing is definitely is making a difference and we know that it's bigger than the police department but you guys are responding and doing what you can do and so i think that again it is the
 the responsibility of the council perhaps to look at other policies or other interventions but as far as policing i really appreciate what you guys have done and i believe i speak on behalf of numerous family members who've also and who've also been impacted by this i work at northwest medical and we see it and we hear it almost every day and so we appreciate you so much thank you
 Yeah, thank you. And just to add to that, I want to make sure that everyone understands that it's not all about enforcement when it comes to tax dollars. When we're talking about grant funds, if you look at Northwest Arkansas alone, if you're comparing just the Washington County and Madison County, the fourth judicial district drug task force, what's before you right now is $226,000 of grant funds. When you look at what's coming into Northwest Arkansas for treatment prevention, you're just under $5 million.
 So you look at the funds that are coming in, I think as a percentile, it's 96% is coming in for treatment and prevention in northwest Arkansas as opposed to 4% for enforcement. So there's a lot of tax dollars going for treatment and prevention. And certainly, like I said in the beginning, I'm open to whatever resources there are available out there to assist us in this fight. Scott. Thank you, Mayor. I guess I'm a little confused about the reason for pulling this off because, again,
 It would be different if we did not have one of the most progressive thinking police departments in the state or the region. They're actively looking at every possible scenario that they could do to get better. But we have federal funds here that have been directly responsible for pulling 40 pounds of methamphetamine, 10 pounds of cocaine, 37 grams of heroin, 11,000 drugs.
 fentanyl pills and Seven guns off the street what one of these items do we not want taken off the street? And if this task force is doing that I can't do anything but support it period and I see the Overdose deaths increasing every day and what I do And if this task force can help keep from that from happening, you'll get my vote every time
 Okay, anybody else? Yeah, I just want to say I agree with Council Member Berna and Council Member Jones, and I motion that we pass this resolution. I've got to take public comment. Oh, sorry. Okay. Okay.
 Let's take some public comment. Everybody has got one turn to speak. You've got a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber? Anybody on Zoom? No one on Zoom has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Now, Bob. Thank you.
 I motion we pass the resolution Motion a second to pass resolution And I will I will tell you this I meet with fire and police department every Monday morning and get these reports And I can tell you about How bad it is right now? So any support that we can give this police department keep these drugs and guns off the street We need to do it folks so I
 Kerwitch, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 All right. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-30 for approximately 6.62 acres located on North Future Drive between Weddington Drive and MLK Boulevard in Ward 4 from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to NSG, Neighborhood Services General, subject to a bill of assurance. This is left on second reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to third and final reading.
 So moved second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading here, but please call the roll Weaker, yes, arna. Yes Yes Yes Yes Stafford, yes Jones, yes more. Yes And in order to rezone the property described in a rezoning petition rzn 2024-30
 for approximately 6.62 acres located on north futral drive between weddington drive and mlk boulevard in ward 4 from rsf 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to msg neighborhood services general subject to a bill of assurance okay jonathan do you have anything on this one
 Yes mayor, thank you Jonathan Kurth development services department I do have an update on this item you may have or hopefully you have a copy of the revised Bill of Assurance in front of you if the council will recall The ordinance was amended two weeks ago to accept a bill of assurance offering 25% minimum tree canopy of
 be maintained as a standard for development on the property, which is the tree preservation percentage required under the existing RSF4 zoning district and 5% more than the proposed Neighborhood Services Zoning District. What the council has in front of you today is a proposal for a 35% tree canopy to be assured and have that be met onsite rather than through other options such as offsite preservation.
 As a frame of reference, the highest current canopy minimum canopy requirement we have anywhere in the city would be a PZD in the hillside hilltop overlay district, which would be 30%. So this is 5% beyond that.
 With that said, Mayor, I don't have any additional information. As a reminder, this is before the council as an appeal. Staff recommends in favor of it, but the planning commission had a split vote of 4-4 when they heard it previously. And I'm happy to take any questions. The council has Mayor Will Kelsstrom as the applicant on the item. All right. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening, Council. My name is Will Keltstrom here on behalf of the applicant. I have a copy of the original bill of assurance that was revised yet again one more time today because I found a typo in my own bill of assurance that I typed up. So I promptly corrected that and here it is. So I'll...
 So Jonathan did a pretty good job of summarizing what we've proposed in this bill of assurance, but essentially we have revised it to take it from 25% to 35%, and that will be with on-site preservation. Again, the amount required under NSG is 20, and this is actually higher than any bill
 zoning code or combination of HHOD that would be required under the code. So in that sense, the 5% above 30 was very much intentional. We really wanted to go above and beyond and put our best foot forward here and try to be good stewards of the land and to create connectivity with the lands that have been preserved around it already.
 So, again, we are asking to rezone this to NSG, which is a primarily residential zone. One thing that I didn't highlight last time that I wanted to point out here is that
 NSG requires a build two of 25 feet, which means the development has to be shifted up towards Futral, which pushes it away from the hillside and generally concentrates development away from that steeper topography. It allows for one, two, three, and four family dwellings. It does not allow for multifamily by right. It would require a conditional use permit.
 It does allow for general business by right. I misspoke last time and said it allows for no commercial, but I will point out that that general business that's allowed by right is use unit twelve B, which is limited to eight thousand square feet. So it'd be the only thing only business or commercial that would be allowed by right would be relatively small. And scale.
 So we think that the most likely thing to be developed on this property and probably the most fitting thing is a two to three story office building. Office is only allowed by condition. So if that was the most likely scenario, what we think is the most likely scenario is what in fact happens. We'll have to come back to planning commission to get a C.U.P.
 If you watched the Planning Commission video from when they considered it, you can pretty well rest assured that it will be highly vetted. They have a lot of concerns about this property as well. We'll have to come through with a CUP that will probably involve some renderings and a site plan, and I think that that will pretty well ease everybody's concerns about where the building is going to go on the property and what it's going to look like.
 So I sent to Jonathan earlier a site plan showing what thirty five percent preservation on this property would would most likely look like. So we had this drawn up by McClelland engineers who we have been kind of working with as a consultant through this.
 rezoning process and you can see that there are there's a drainage channel on the northwest side of the property and there's a drainage channel running along the east side of the property those are the logical places where someone would not want to touch and move dirt the places that have steep topography or already have water running through them and to add to that we added a border of 45 feet on the north I believe in 60 feet on the east to kind of wrap around the
 property and leave only the flattest land there now again this is just a proposal of what 35% would look like this is not any kind of guaranteed or promised site plan but again moving back to the fact that NSG is a urban oriented type zone and has a build to requirement of 25 feet the building will have to be shifted to that front lot line so it'll
 By a factor of the topography and existing natural features there, and by a factor of the zoning that we are asking for, you can pretty well tell where stuff is going to go if it's ever built there.
 So there is, I've said a couple times here and at planning commission that R. S. F. four is not the right zoning for this property. I think some of you agreed with me on that. The question becomes what is the right zoning if R. S. F. four is not right. So I think ut I think we can all agree is probably too high. It has a height limit of seven stories. It allows for all kinds of uses.
 Um, I think is probably not the best 1 either. We took it to planning commission and they didn't like it. So we can assume that that maybe CS isn't the best zone either. Um, moving past in SG, you have in a cell in C. R. I twelve and R. I. U.
 Those are perhaps too low a density for here, and you kind of run into the same problem that you have now. For that reason, I think that NSG is really right in the middle, or is kind of the happy zone that makes a good zoning for this property. And then when you add into it the fact that we're offering to preserve a lot of trees, I think this is really your best case scenario for how this property could develop. Okay.
 So with that, I'm here if you have any questions. And then my client, Ken Watson, I believe is on Zoom, if you guys have any particular questions for him. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or the counsel?
 I have several questions for Jonathan. First of all, thank you for adding the topography map in there. I really appreciate that, Jonathan. So if this is approved, they can have three and four family units. Can you provide an idea of the map about the maximum number of units that could be by right if this is passed using an NSG?
 Yes, good question. I think just taking a raw mathematical calculation of the amount of acreage multiplied by the density allowance on the property, it could get a theoretical calculation.
 119 units I think you you have heard me talk about development requirements how those curtail real realized density I think of this instance in particular you've seen the proposal for 35% tree canopy which dramatically reduces that area also you have parking and stormwater retention and things like that but for raw numbers let that about 119 is what could be theoretically built
 Thank you. My next question is, could you remind us what the infill score was on this site? Certainly. It is a score of four, and that's for, I believe it was fire response. The Hollywood Station to the south would serve this, especially because Futurals are one-way street running north. City Park gets a credit for that, for the recently acquired, I say recent, but it's been a little while now, the Markin Woods property that the city exchanged with the university.
 The paved trail, which is the Shiloh Trail, which bears noting is on the other side of the interstate. And also it is in a close-ish proximity of meeting our metric for proximity to a transit stop. There's a Razorback Transit location to the south at the Lindsay Apartments south of here. So 4 is what that leads us to.
 So, Jonathan, your criteria for the trail, I was kind of asking you about criteria for sewer last time, your sewer distance when you give a point to a particular rezoning. So how are your trail distances? I mean, it seems kind of...
 interesting that they're getting a point for the Shiloh Trail being across the interstate mm-hmm and I think it's a good good as time as any to remind that this is intended to be a tool to highlight those elements that could contribute to appropriate infill each one of these of course merits more scrutiny and looking at whether there are geographical or spatial
 Um, or or capacity issues that may, uh, make them less or or more contributing to infill. I think to your point, we spoke about water and sewer at the last meeting and how, uh, sewer is on this side of the interstate. But further south, the water is on the other side of the interstate. Uh, and so, uh, accessing that is, uh, not necessarily as straightforward as if it was immediately in the right away out front.
 Similarly, trails, it's as the crow flies. It's a straight line measurement, but that necessitates a further consideration when staff, the Commission, and Council look at it. We don't have, are the tools not sophisticated enough, I guess I should say, to outline exactly what a walking route would be to go either north or south to Weddington or MLK, then back to that Shiloh Trail?
 Okay, thank you for that. Thank you for that explanation. I appreciate it. I didn't quite know how that worked So I was kind of surprised that it got a point even though the info score is very low with only four But it maybe should be re-looked at to maybe have three in the future with Such a distance away to the trail You know, I as I kind of voiced a couple of weeks ago I
 really not supportive of this I appreciate the 35% that is going above and beyond what is required so I really appreciate that but you know the info score is very low this is a viewshed is it's been a real important item for us in past councils in this area the lack of connectivity
 Our potential connectivity is pretty severe here To the east you have the the conservation easement that's been preserved with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust Yes, there's one property to the north of here. But further than that is are the Markham trails and we've also had quite a bit of public comment and
 in opposition to this. So I know we'll take some public comment in a minute, but I really think that this should be something that we pass on. And this would be 119 units by right, not by a conditional use permit, but by right if this is approved, thanks.
 Okay, Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Scott? Okay, this is a question for Jonathan as well. Jonathan, if 8,000 square feet is the allowable commercial, that's per
 commercial building you could have more than one commercial building couldn't you that's correct the The concept behind that is to break down the size of the buildings in this zoning district to make it more neighborhood related So yes, you could have multiple buildings, but they couldn't exceed 8,000 square feet in size for non-residential use It's also worth noting in that use unit that does not count against residential use So if you wanted to do a mixed-use building you could have a unit above a business space. Okay. Thank you. I
 And Jonathan, I just wanted to clarify when you came up with that 119 number, was that taking into account 35% tree preservation or was that...
 uh pre that no i that that does not take into account our development standards uh i gave that number as a basis of the 18 units allowed by right as the density allowance and the neighborhood services zoning district multiplied by the the the property's acreage so just the total acreage so correct i think yeah if i didn't say it very clearly before realized density is usually lower than the potential density because of those development standards whether preservation parking
 stormwater requirements or otherwise but that is the the potential density that could be realized but you that would be hard pressed to do if you're saving 35 percent of the in my opinion yes yeah so that that number is kind of a a number that probably wouldn't actually be materialized i i see it being difficult or i've not seen any proposals that can do that okay thank you anybody else okay
 let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first they'll participate but then we'll speak after that is there anyone that would like to address this on this particular topic that's uh in the chamber you have anyone by them i have lisa orton okay go ahead lisa
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Talsal Road in Ward 4 and I would ask that you would vote against the upzoning of this property. I believe that the current zoning
 4 is far better for Fayetteville in these wooded areas rather than a higher density. And I agree with all the concerns against the upzoning identified by the city staff report to the planning commission. The property owner can still develop under the current zoning of RSF 4. And RSF 4, there's just fewer, there's less impervious surface
 Less deforestation of the area, less flooding and drainage issues that neighbors are currently experiencing from the development already on Markham Hill by specialized real estate group and the smaller density. There'd be less traffic issues. And one of the things that's important to me.
 is that RSF4 is a better transition from a nature preserve to higher density. You know, you don't want some high density thing right up against a nature preserve. It just doesn't make sense to have high density buildings with their people and noise and traffic and lights next to wildlife and nature preserves. You know, this conservation easement with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust and the Markham Hill Woods to the north.
 And the historic wooded areas remaining on Markham Hill that aren't deforested yet, I think are worth protecting in Fayetteville. And I think in general that the remaining forests, urban areas, urban forests in Fayetteville should be preserved and this infill should be done on already destroyed land.
 already commercialized areas like on its, you know, 71 corridor. I don't think we need to force infill on areas that are forested. I really would like Fayetteville to preserve our forested areas and I think that remaining RSF4 will help protect the woods here.
 So please oppose the upzoning. Thank you. Thank you. I have Ken Watson. Go ahead. Do I need to lower my hand? No, Lisa, we've got it. Okay.
 Mr. Watson? Okay. Yes, I'm sorry. I'm Ken Watson. I'm one of the owners of the property. And I understand the last speaker having some concerns, but I want to point out that twice now it has been mentioned or referenced that this development will flood the neighborhood on the other side of the hill. Okay.
 And it will not. I'm a little disappointed that the council person representing me did not make that correction two weeks last time.
 As far as it being deforested, this is not a forest. This is the property that we own. And somehow some of the residents have began to think that they own the property and they have the right to control it. I appreciate that they like the trees. I appreciate that they want to control to some degree what's there and the city. That's why we have come to you multiple times today.
 That is why the city staff for zoning are supporting this new zoning. So I would ask the council to,
 What do you want us to do with this? We have tried now for almost seven years, and we have gotten stopped at every step that we have tried. But yet we have not been given any guidance of what we can move forward on, only that it is a green space that needs to be maintained. It is not. It is our property that we can develop. So we're asking for some assistance. But at this point in time, it doesn't look like –
 Part of the government part of the City Council is willing to work with us. Thank you Councilmember Hertzberg just raised her hand. Okay, go ahead Holly
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, can you remind us what the tree preservation requirement is for RSF4 and what the requirements would be by right now for the property owners to develop?
 Certainly, thank you for the question. The existing tree preservation requirement is a twenty five percent minimum canopy. Uh, the proposed neighborhood services general zoning district has a twenty percent minimum canopy requirement. Uh, however, uh, perhaps it bears mentioning again that a bill of assurance was accepted at the last council meeting requiring. Or, uh, associating this request with a twenty five percent minimum canopy. If that answers your question.
 That does. Thank you very much. And the proposed bill of assurance now increases that tree preservation, right? Yes. If the council accepts the bill of assurance, it would increase it to 35%.
 Okay. I'm very in favor of the proposal with the bill of assurance. I think that there's going to be more tree preservation with this development along with the proposed bill of assurance. And so I would like to move that we accept the proposed bill of assurance first. I'll assume that is a motion to accept the current bill of assurance.
 Okay. Yes. Thank you. So I have a motion to second to accept the bill of assurance. Is that correct? The latest one for 35%. Okay. All right. Here, would you please call the roll? Beecher? Yes. Turner? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 okay all right we're back to it all right oh yes um i i personally think that the opposition to this is somewhat misguided i i believe that at rsf4 that if that was developed rsf4 that this hillside would be destroyed
 And what we've gotten even, you know, I supported this before the latest bill of assurance, but now we're assured of 35% tree preservation and to me personally I do believe, you know, from an investment standpoint that somebody probably is going to put an office space there, similar to what we see up and down on these access roads. They're generally turned into like a
 bold vision or some office space, it's gonna be somewhat low use. If it is turned into a little bit higher density development of residential, I still think that's gonna be way better than what you're gonna see as RSF4. I think RSF4 will destroy that part of that hillside. And so I strongly support this and I'll be voting for it. Okay, Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. The applicant kind of acted like they couldn't develop the property right now as it was. Well, they've certainly got zoning entitlement to RSF4, so I really want to make sure that they understand that. They can develop to RSF4.
 The second part is, Bob, there are apartments right across the interstate from this. There are a few office buildings, but there's also apartments over there. So we don't really know how it will develop. And by right, at least 100 units. Jonathan was gracious and calculated 119, but it will be quite significant.
 And we have in the past really taken into consideration the viewshed of that area and the approach to Fayetteville. And if you go up on Markham Hill right now, and I mean the top, and I mean the western, or excuse me, the eastern side of Markham Hill, it's an absolute mess. I have so many complaints up there about drainage issues.
 I don't believe that some of the commenters meant to imply that this would that this Rezoning would affect people on Markham Hill because the applicant is correct It's on the west side of Markham Hill, but if you go to the very top and you go to the east side It's a disaster area and there are so many problems up there right now that whole hillside that was so historic has basically been devastated by development
 So this is all part of the same hill. Yes, there is a separation from this property to the from the east side of the mountain, but It'll just kind of break your heart Thank you mayor I was on the fence on this because I do I do acknowledge the the view there's that area is beautiful and but I
 The applicant adding the 35 the bill of insurance for 35% is kind of solidified my thinking and the fact that they're doing everything they can do to to. No 1, develop their property, which is their right, but also recognize the importance of that. That area and the view that it gives our city.
 And so I have decided that I'm going to support this because I think ultimately a person has a right to develop their property. And if we as city council, if we have an opportunity to improve that in a way that –
 Obviously, it's going to be viewed differently by different people, but we are trying to protect that hillside as best we can because he can do RSF4. He can take that to 20% tree coverage on RSF4, Jonathan? 25%. 25. So 10% less trees.
 I just think it's probably the best use. He's made attempts, over multiple attempts, to develop that property, and everything's been denied. And it's almost like if we don't want it developed, if we're trying to prevent it from being developed, we need to pay the man, we need to buy his property, or the, you know, the true preservation requirements
 Organizations can can attempt to buy his property. I'm sure he would sell it, but he has the right to develop it So I think we need to try to do the best we think for that piece of property It's going to be a challenging piece of property It doesn't matter what we do to actually develop it because of where it is, but I'm gonna support this Yeah, well, I definitely agree with Scott just said there seems to be a tendency in this town where people you know when you I've seen this in other places as well where I
 Everything needs to stay the way it was when I bought my land and so that view I have Across the street of the undeveloped property. Well, that's somehow my view. Well, that's not the case You know just because something hasn't been developed doesn't mean They can't be or shouldn't be and the property owner certainly does have that right? I don't owe my neighbors trees I don't know my neighbors the view. I don't know the cows that are grazing in the field and
 I may like looking at those they may have been there when I moved in but that doesn't mean that that's the way it stays I strongly believe in the rights of the owners back to the drainage Yeah, this is the the west side. The west side is not going to drain to the east side that any drainage argument here is just As far as apartments versus RS4. I I personally don't hate apartments. I don't dislike apartments. I don't dislike dense houses
 We need this housing. We have a housing crisis. In the Bay Area, if you drive around the Bay Area to the north, to the east, to the south, where you're in forested areas, where you're in gorgeous, beautiful forested areas, they have apartments next to the reserves, next to the parks, next to the forested areas. There's nothing that says, oh, only people that live in big houses, like that that's somehow better.
 Next to a forested area. I is this just a false argument to me again Yeah, I'm strongly in support. Okay. All right. Thank you. Mr. Mayor
 The applicant has created a problem for us that didn't exist yesterday, so we'll find a way to get even with them. I agree with Council Member Turk that they can develop today. If they've been trying for seven years, they've been able to develop for seven years to RSF4.
 What that tells you is that it doesn't pencil out to get the utilities to the property. And so I would commend this owner for pursuing their bill of assurance and creating a problem for us. I can very well see how council members could support this rezoning. For me, the remaining concern is not the current owners, but when they eventually pass this property on to others because no one lives forever.
 what will the next owners choose to do with the zoning that we're being asked to create? So that's the one caution that I still have. I have no concerns about this current owner. I think they've demonstrated environmental sophistication to pursue this 35% tree preservation ordinance and
 They deserve serious consideration because of that one remaining concern however is the next owner So I'm curious about other council members because I could see how people could vote either way on this one. Thank you Yes, thank you. Mr. Mayor
 You know, I agree with all the comments we've heard tonight and especially Mike's because, you know, when it goes to the next owner, anything that's been talked about by this current owner, you know, we don't know what's going to go in there. But I would like to say, you know, it's not our job to ensure that a developer makes money on their property. That's not our responsibility.
 You know, put on my practical thinking hat and I know that even though it could be developed at four houses per acre, the likelihood of that is just not realistic. And saying that, oh, well, they have development rights now, well, yes, they do.
 But I don't think it's possible to, you know, like Mike said, it doesn't pencil out. And I, you know, I have to recognize that, even though I'm not responsible for a developer's, you know, making money. But still, I have to realize that that four houses per acre is not possible. And we're hamstringing the property if we leave it at that.
 The unfortunate part of this is that this family has owned this property for so long, everything has changed all around it. And now it's like now they want to rezone it and sell it to someone or do something with it. And it's going to be difficult, and we get pushback now because...
 of what is going on on Markham Hill and what is, you know, we want to maintain our tree canopy, we want to do all of these things, but we also need housing too. And I agree with Bob about the, you know, apartments are not the devil here in some instances because
 It's technically a smaller footprint. We get that higher density on a smaller piece of property. So I'm not really sure where I stand on this, and agreeing with Council Member Whittaker, I want to hear what everybody else has to say. Thank you. I think we're running out of time. Sarah, Sarah, Sarah, go ahead.
 Well, no, I wrestled with this as well and do agree with Council Member Whitaker that it makes it much more enticing that we looked at the 35% tree preservation. One of the other things that I do want to open up to my council members that I look at is, you know, as we've talked about our strategic planning of areas around town and thinking about.
 about how we work with the school district. The school district, there's a campus not very far from here today that's a junior high, however, which means kids who do not drive, kids who have different needs, but that campus is being discussed with the district as being potentially a high school specific education program in that area, or it could become something else. We don't know, right, still in conversations.
 And in that area, if you think about kind of looking at the general area of kind of affordable housing or accessible housing for families that might want to access that schooling,
 There's not a lot of it. It's pretty finite in that area and you've seen students encroach in that area. And so when I look at this, I'm also just taking that into consideration looking at NSG. My concern really is on the 12B unit. I've gone into the portal, I've pulled up the types of businesses that could come. I understand 8,000 square feet, but
 We've approved Vision Zero. This is an area that is incredibly hairy if you're a person who navigates through this area trying to kind of get through there, because I live, I can either get on the interstate or I can go straight on the access road to get to Weddington North and then access my home.
 And it can be really dicey. And so I really kind of decide my pathway depending on just how bad it is there. And so for me, that's something too, I guess I hope staff would weigh in is that,
 One of the things I saw in Yushun at 12b is like a dispensary. And I think about the flow of like a dispensary and the in and out traffic of that. And so again, not saying that that would make me say, no, this isn't a great possible, you know, place to go here, but just thinking through to the access management of coming and going, the frequency of trying to come out on what's become really a speedway, if we're being honest.
 that access road and just being concerned about the possible increase that we have of concern of community safety for pedestrians and vehicles alike just accessing the site potentially and that may exist whether it becomes housing or its businesses but oftentimes businesses are higher transactions so just was hoping maybe you could weigh into that a little bit potentially
 I'm sorry, I heard the concerns expressed, but I didn't hear a specific question. Sure. Just to clarify, looking at USHNA 12B in particular, being included as well in that, and just with this going to NSD, what the considerations would be about access management standards there, depending on, especially with our current process, just the fact that
 processes today how that would be looked at as far as like traffic studies or any other things trying to manage an area that you know connects into where we're looking at that vision zero project there at mlk right there where it's it's you know i i think i understand thank you i appreciate you clarifying further um
 i can hit on those i guess independently or intertwined i think we do look at the traffic concerns as a part of a factor in rezoning it is one of the one of the factors that the the city council can consider with the rezoning and the planning commission can with the development was whether a dangerous traffic dangerous traffic condition is being created or exacerbated
 And staff's findings of the current volume of traffic that flows on Futurall today did not represent a concern. Our access management is more specific to individual site access points, like where your driveway to a specific piece of property is developed.
 Um, where we get into those more system concerns is when we get a specific development proposal. That's when staff has the ability to require. Uh, a traffic distribution study, which shows how many left turns right turns what times of day and that can inform if there are offside improvements that are required on site improvement required. If we need to make signalization changes elsewhere.
 but speaking more towards the non vehicular vision zero element of it it is not likely that any development on this property would result in pedestrian connectivity all the way to Weddington or all the way to MLK I think you probably inferred that already just because of the distances involved but I thought that was pretty worth saying does that help I
 That does help me and I hope maybe it'll help colleagues as well that are listening So I guess for me I'm leaning more towards approval of it just because hope being hopeful that this might I agree you have to think about the future use You know future owners but being hopeful that this could be a housing solution knowing that area Is in need of it and thinking through with the school going forward? Okay, Teresa
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to read the definition of Neighborhood Services General since we were just talking about pedestrians. The Neighborhood Services General District is designed to serve as a mixed-use area of medium intensity.
 General promotion of a walkable, pedestrian-oriented neighborhood development form with sustainable and complementary neighborhood businesses that are compatible in scale and aesthetics and use with surrounding land uses.
 This is not a walkable area. This is a racetrack, like you said. I get on that street very often, cutting through from MLK to Weddington. There's not going to be connectivity, pedestrian connectivity through there, or it's very unlikely. So I don't really think that the zoning type really fits that location of the...
 where the applicant wants to rezone it. So I just think we should really think a little bit about that. And just one final note, the infill score is so low. I mean, really, it's a four, but it really should probably be more like a three.
 There's no the sewer is at least 600 feet away. The water is on the other side of the interstate So I I think RSF for or as you said Sarah, we're not We don't have to have we're not responsible for developers making a profit But that's the way it has been zoned for a very long time and it seems appropriate to me. Thank you Okay
 All right. We're ready to vote then. All right, Bob. I was just going to say, Admiral, we vote. Well, we're ready to vote. OK, Kara, would you please call the roll? Weecker? No. Barnum? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. OK.
 thank you all okay let's go on to new business a resolution to formally establish the community art wall project located at the decommissioned pump house at popular Street and the Razorback Greenway good evening mayor good evening council the reason I stand before you tonight is that this item the community art wall which has been a relatively
 successful pilot project that's been going on since November of 2023. This project has three goals that I'd like to share with you all, just so you have a better context for sort of why we do a project like this.
 It provides a space for our artist community to practice in large format. You might notice that Northwest Arkansas has a very prominent mural culture. One cannot join mural culture if you've never done a mural. In order to sort of apply and receive a commission for a mural in sort of a prominent wall in our city or in a neighboring town, you have to have some large format work in your portfolio. This is an opportunity for artists of all skill levels
 to go out and have a free opportunity for large format work. So that is one goal. Another goal is it allows our writer and street artist community to practice together in open space, both sharing their knowledge and sort of having a safe place to practice that art. And then finally, our hope is that it lessens the prevalence of large format tagging and graffiti in our cities. It's sort of a graffiti abatement strategy as well.
 So I just want to give you guys a little bit of a sense of the art. So next slide for me please. So there you can see a little bit of the art that's been on the wall. Next slide please. There we go. Oop, one back. Excellent. So over the last year we've had at least 17 full pieces on the wall. There have been also countless smaller works or throws as the writer community calls them.
 The artwork has included stunning graffiti, an appearance by El Barto, a 3D Mario world, a whimsical alligator's cruising in a car, a heartfelt marriage proposal for our community, and a draw your own cat wall all the way to a lyric from Alan Jackson's Chattahoochee.
 But as you can see, the artwork sort of is very, it's a very vibrant space. There's been a lot of participation by the community. This means that any piece that is on the art wall tends to only be there for two to three weeks at a time. And so there's a lot of turnover now. Pieces that sort of
 require more engagement and more investment of time by an artist might stay a little longer. Pieces that are beloved by the community or resonate with our community also may stay a little longer. So we sort of leave that up to the community to sort of manage how the art turns over. Next slide please.
 So we have received mostly positive feedback from the community. There have been two instances where artists have made staff aware that they've stepped in to cover art on the wall that they didn't think was appropriate, and then there have been some complaints from the community that have risen to mayor's office or possibly to your email inboxes as well regarding content on the wall. So next slide please.
 So with all of that in mind, the Fayetteville Arts Council recommends that we do continue the program, but that we also look at the guidelines and understand where the city is able to step in in a temporary space like this, where there is no expectation of permanence for any of the art on the wall. Next slide, please.
 So the Arts Council is recommending that adherence to the rules or the guidelines be in the hands of the community and that the city refrain from intervening whenever possible or never altering the artwork on the walls. That's the best practice of public art walls that staff has researched, including everywhere from Hamilton, Ontario to Eugene, Oregon. So across the country. Next slide please.
 So you may have seen that city attorney weighed in with a memo that sort of provided some clarity around what guidelines might look like. This is the language that came from city attorney. So basically it sort of outlines what are the actual rules that can be enforced by the city versus what are the suggestions that would go with a project like this. Next slide please.
 So with that in mind, you know, the expectation is that the city maintains the right to remove the walls or stop the project at any time, but we don't necessarily sort of weigh in on the content of the wall is sort of my understanding.
 And, you know, City Attorney's memo covers much of the nuances of that. But with that in mind, Fayetteville Arts Council felt it was important to bring recommendations for the program to Council, both for public discussion and to make sure that we are all on the same page with a sort of generally successful community art effort of this nature, which could yield art that was not approved by any governing body in our city.
 As far as what's next for the art wall, if council feels that they can support the program continuing in the manner in which it is moving forward, staff looks forward to establishing additional programming to schedule and add to the vibrancy of the project and make sure that it continues to be as active as it currently is.
 You know, basically the reason we are asking for you all to weigh in is so that we all are clear on what is enforceable in this space. So thank you for your time and I'm available for questions if you have any. Okay, Kit, do you want to? Mayor, I want to start off by thanking Joanna and also the Papal Arts Council. I think they have provided some good guidance here and I took that guidance and looked also at the constitutionality and the legality of this.
 and I think that probably we need to amend the former resolution which was not as clear as I'd like it and I think we need two different things one being rules which are to be followed and can be enforced by the city and
 The first would be for safety, where you keep it clean, dispose of waste properly, and use safety gear and non-toxic materials, and that came right from the Arts Council. I appreciate that. Again, keep it here with respect for the neighborhood and all the favor. Only place graffiti on the art wall, and that also came directly from the Arts Council. And then more from me, but to follow what has been going along, know that it is temporary.
 All artistic expression placed on the community art wall is temporary and will always be painted over by other graffiti artists. Older artwork may be painted over before newer artwork, but no artist has any right to have their artwork remain on the community art wall for any particular period of time.
 And finally, waiver of any artist's rights, any artist who places artwork on the community art wall thereby waives any right or expectation of property interests, long-term display, or any right under the Visual Arts Rights Act. And I think that ought to be on a separate sign
 entitled rules, not guidelines or anything like that, rules which the city can enforce. And I think constitutionally the city can enforce every one of those rules because they have nothing to do with the content of the art itself. Then on a second sign, I would recommend it not say guidelines or anything, but potentially recommendations or hopes, or maybe recommendations and hopes,
 And it would be only two things, both also taken from the Arts Council recommendations. The first would be keep it kind. Please refrain from any hurtful or hate speech. Please avoid sexually explicit art and partisan political messages. And number two would be keep it welcoming. Thank you.
 Please focus on artistic, artful expression that maintains a welcoming space for everyone, and please avoid any gang-related markings.
 Now this is not to be enforced by the city. This is for our local graffiti artists to monitor and to paint over something if they don't like it or they, you know, one way or another. But this is not something that the city can really have any part in the enforcement of because this is based on the content of what the art expression is and Supreme Court will not lend us
 have that kind of just general authority to say, I like that expression, I don't like this one. As the government, we really just cannot do that. And I don't think we need to, because if you look at the history of what has happened over these several months
 There have been very few really large objections to this, and I think that the local graffiti artists have themselves been cognizant of what is good to have on there and what might not be good, what might be unacceptable.
 too political or too explicit or too hateful, and I think that we should rely upon our local graffiti artists who have shown that they can be responsible in this area. And so that's why I recommended that we change the resolution to adopt both the rules that could be enforced and also the recommendations or hopes
 that would also be posted there on a separate sign. I don't even want them on the same sign, because I don't want people to be confused. But I would like to have both of them posted on the site where in places that are conspicuous so people will see them. And beyond that then, I think this project should continue as it is, as a pilot project,
 to make sure that everything's going to continue to operate as you would prefer and as our community would prefer. So that's why I wrote up that resolution which I handed out to each one of you here, sent it to you earlier today. I'm sorry it wasn't any earlier.
 But anyway, that's why I suggest that we amend the former one to this resolution. And of course, if people want to take longer to consider it or whatever, that's fine too, and just table it then. But if not, then I think this one is, at least from a legal point of view, very acceptable.
 Okay, let's get into this. Bob. Thank you. First, I'd like to thank Joanna for all her diligent and hard work on this, for reaching out to all the other communities that have done this to make sure that we're following best practices. I'd like to thank the Arts Council for all their hard and amazing work and the tough discussions we had around this. I think our meeting went a little long
 And I'd like to thank the artists of Fayetteville who have been amazing in their participation, amazing in, as Kit mentioned, kind of making sure, kind of watching what's on the wall and replacing what needs to be replaced. And I'd also like to thank Kit to make sure that we do this in a way that's proper and legal. And I would like us to, I motion to accept Kit's
 amendment of replacing the resolution with what it put in front of us today. Is there a second? I'll second. Or do you want to have more discussion before we get on into this? Did you second that? Unless we wanted to have additional. Well, that's what I'm asking. We've got a second or we're going to have some more discussion here. Second. Okay. All right.
 We have a motion and a second to pass Kidd's. To amend the resolution. That's fine. I'd say. Okay. To amend the resolution to what Kidd has brought to us. Correct? Yes, the one that I handed out and sent out earlier this afternoon. I got it. Care which please call the roll. Peter Kirk? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Erd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Yes.
 stafford yes jones yes form yes okay well let's start again bob i was just going to point out um i think by keeping this a pilot program too it addresses some of the concerns that my fellow council members had of what if what if it doesn't work out what if what if it does go awry i think by my kids suggestion of keeping this as a pilot that we can keep an eye on it and if
 If we need to adjust, if we need to reassess, we'll be able to do that. Thanks Joanna for the work on this and it kind of explaining and going back and forth. I, when we do projects in the city, kind of when I do projects in a non-profit, I always go back to the root reason of like why we started something. And so one of the things I think that this
 came out of was that we had graffiti ordinance that we talked about. We had areas in the city where people were expressing of all vast variety of artists, whether or not they even designate themselves in that way, but they were expressing themselves around the city. And so one of the things that I'm curious about that was talked about, and I don't know where it's evolved at this point, and I've been over to that area,
 was in some of the rules that we actually will enforce is around disposal of materials. And so I was curious if there are trash cans on site. I can't remember off my memory on that. There are trash cans nearby on the Razorback Greenway. And sort of in the sort of time that we've been out there, it's been remarkably clean. I think I have personally only seen one can, one spray can that I picked up over the last,
 yeah and i agree too i think it's been clean as well but i think we probably are hoping it'll get used probably even more and so just being mindful that often i've watched people bring their cars really close by to throw all their stuff in and i don't know how we feel about that too so that's a whole other thing um the other thing that came up during agenda session i believe it was talk of potentially programming in the area and so i wasn't sure if that
 was still something or planning to do if this was still a pilot yeah i mean so basically if if it's sort of if the program is going to continue then staff can look at programming um in a in a way that is telegraphed well in advance i think what is important for us to do is to make sure that we are saying you know on april 15th we're going to paint the wall and the
 out of a city activity, right? So that all of the artists in the community know and all of our community members know that it's not in response to anything on the wall, which is sort of, I think, the trick with a wall like this in other cities that I've learned is that sort of the programming needs to be scheduled well in advance and communicated well in advance. So no one is of the expectation that that art will stay there longer or that any art that was there is specifically being covered, if that makes sense.
 And then my other question was just about while we're continuing this as a pilot one of the conversations have been if we felt Good about this was talking about kind of the next step for additional areas and so I'm curious where we're at in conversation as we kind of think about how we Look at rules for this and how we might be looking at applying things in the future It'd be helpful to understand kind of what future thoughts are on other areas You know, I know there are
 areas in war two in particular and along the greenway that have just natural evolution of where honestly incredibly talented artists are out there displaying their artwork. You know some of it very political in nature which is the origination of graffiti really on protest points from the Greeks and so I'm curious if there are any areas that have been identified where we might be looking at expanding the pilot.
 I would say that we are actively always looking at the places that are getting that kind of activity. I'm keeping sort of a list of what I like to think of as the most loved walls in the city, where people, where the activity is, and sort of thinking about what a long-term solution for that looks like. That is either a place that public art could be installed in the future,
 or it could be a possible potential candidate for an expansion of legal spaces. Right now, one of the things that's really great about this particular space is its sort of connectivity and its activity. It has an opportunity sort of to get there by car or by trail, and the visibility is both there for the sort of the drive-by community as well as the trail users, which makes it a really unique and really exciting spot.
 Okay, thank you mayor. Thank you Joanna for all the work on this. I mean, I'm so happy that it's been so successful so I kind of wanted to go back to the theme of pilot versus permanence and Kid, I mean are there pros and cons? I mean clearly the city attorney would like to leave it as a pilot program it But if you all could explain your thoughts or the art Community's thoughts that would be helpful
 Yeah, I would say that one of the reasons that we're coming forward with you all out of Arts Council, I think was more in the spirit of making sure everyone understood what was enforceable and what was not enforceable in a program like this, so that we could make sort of educated decisions sort of as a staff, right? Because ultimately, in this kind of program, staff does not weigh in on the arts,
 The city doesn't weigh in on the art. The Arts Council doesn't weigh in on the content of the art. And that's really the reason we wanted to have this conversation. Whether or not it's technically called a pilot for another indefinite term of time, or whether or not it becomes a permanent program, I think the more important thing is the conversation and that we are all on the same page as far as how this kind of program works.
 Okay, thank you. That's really helpful. And then the, you know, I wonder if you've thought about the intervals of, you know, you kind of talked about advance notice when the city will come in and kind of basically create a new canvas, if you will, or at least that's the way I interpreted what you were saying. So, I mean, do other cities have a frequency of creating a new canvas?
 Quite often. Yeah, it really depends on on who on the particular community. That's that's running that That project the first graffiti wall in Sweden was painted every morning by a city employee I think that frequency is too much for us to bear But I do think that sort of creating sort of educational opportunities to sort of fulfill the goals of the program is
 over the course of a year, I think is an important and exciting opportunity for staff to sort of think about programmatically. But I would say that sort of refreshing the wall, looking at it nine months in, it would be really handy right now to go in with like a light primer coat because the wall has gotten darker and darker over time. So I think the best practice would be to go in with a white primer at some point, just so it's easier to paint over.
 If that makes sense. Exactly. I was down there the other day and I think it would be really confusing right now to display your new artwork. And I guess that's all I have. Thank you so much. No problem. Mr. Spiller. Thank you, Mayor. I had hopes of potentially tabling this issue tonight just so we could have some time to look at this revised resolution.
 I spoke the other night, not in opposition of the wall or the concept, but I have some concerns because I did get some emails from folks that were unhappy with a specific message that they deemed political. And so it concerns me a little bit that we're putting ourselves in a position where we've got no say in it.
 And I struggle with that a little bit, not with the concept of the art wall, but putting
 that we could be looked at in a negative light because we're allowing, and I don't care what side of the political aisle you're on, if it's a political message and it offends somebody, then it puts the city in a bad light. So it does give me a little bit of pause, and that's why I was hoping that we could hold on to this and let me talk it through with the city attorney a little bit more and with city staff and read this over a little bit more. You know, if y'all want to,
 proceed that's completely up to y'all but that was one of the things I was hoping to do. DeAndre? Joanna, thank you for your hard work and I believe you've got an Arts Council member or used to be a part of the Arts Council in Nevada. Olivia? Hey! The work that y'all have done together so I really appreciate that. My question is as far as the school district,
 Is there any conversation around a partnership with schools
 Yeah, so in this pilot phase we actually did a partnership with Ramey Junior High and the MLK Council. So back in sort of February they installed a piece from the middle school students, which was a sort of lovely collaborative work that they installed on the wall, and that's the kind of thing that we can continue to nurture and come up with more of those collaborations in this space.
 And as far as the state, will Fayetteville be the only city in the state that does this? This is the only legal wall in the state of Arkansas that we are aware of. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Is there anything else? All right. Now let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by then we'll speak after that uh hello i'm olivia tremble my address is 346 western circle um i wanted to talk a little bit about my involvement with this project
 So, as Councilmember Jones pointed out, I'm the former chair of the Fayetteville Arts Council. This is a project that many folks in this room have heard me talk about for years. I am a second generation sign painter and muralist. And that means that the murals that I put up, I've gained those skills as first being a commercial sign painter.
 So, any practice I've done has been part of my job, and I started small, and I painted signs or logos or pictures that got bigger and bigger and bigger. And they got painted on brick walls and stucco and horrible corrugated metal, which nobody wants to paint on. It's terrible. But the issue that I've always noticed for other artists is
 If you don't have an opportunity to paint a large-scale piece of work, you don't have a wall in your own backyard or a really trusting client, you don't get those skills. And I've been so privileged in having my own way of coming up through commercial signage. It's been important to get this project going. So we have the project. It's been really good. I've been sort of a steward of the Poplar House, Poplar Pump House.
 And when I went into this, I'll just tell you, I expected to be down at that pump house covering up offensive shapes or phrases all the time. And in the almost year that we've had this, I've covered up two things. And they were really minor. They were things that maybe could have slid by. There was an airing of grievances, though, that I hated to cover up because someone had broken up with their spouse. And it was a pretty good burn. But that one had to go, too. So...
 One instance that happened that was covered up that I wasn't involved in was when I was in the hospital recently I had just painted the Alan Jackson tribute wall. It was a really hot summer so it said it gets hotter than a hoochie-coochie and it was a really funny great thing and
 Another artist was out painting one night on a separate wall, and someone came along and tagged my piece with maybe an offensive phrase. They also, it was an offensive phrase, and they pointed out they had seen my painting on Pinterest, which was offensive to me on another level. But the artist that was there, as soon as those folks had put up their offensive piece over mine, she covered it up immediately. She took time away from her own work and covered it. And I, I
 I think that it goes to show that our community has ownership in this and they cover things very quickly. Olivia, I have to give you some more time. I'd like to give Olivia, what, two minutes if she needs it? Sure. Okay. Thank you. So, you know, this is a project that stressed me out personally because I've worried that there would be issues
 offensive things and I know that we had a big political situation on the wall and that was really hard to navigate and ultimately I chose not to cover it because I didn't want to censor someone else's speech, but in due time that controversial piece was covered and it wasn't covered because someone was like I don't like this It was just the dirt the turnover of the building. So I just wanted to sort of give my
 experience with the frequency of offensive items or controversial pieces. They haven't been nearly as many as I've expected. Another piece that we've included in our language kind of goes to the expectation that the art will be covered up. Some have maybe expressed concern that artists using the wall don't know that their work will eventually get covered.
 But like a huge piece of doing public art is the knowledge that the space that you're using is always changing and your work may go away. So I feel like the language that has been brought about that we may or may not vote on tonight from an artist standpoint makes sense. It's not anything that if I walked up to the wall as a first timer, I would be shocked by.
 and i just want to brag on our community for covering things up and for the most part making a really pretty space out of a previously like i loved i love the building i have a crush on it but not everyone has loved it until we um enacted this project so thank you thank you who else would like to address us send a check who do we have on zoom susan
 We have no one with their hand raised on zoom. Oh, okay Bring back to the council what y'all want to do? Mayor as soon as I said that Chloe Bell has raised her hand. Okay, go ahead Chloe can you unmute?
 I'm sorry about that. Good evening, City Council. My name is Chloe Bell. I'm the current chair of the Fayetteville Arts Council. My address is 1425 North Giles.
 I'm excited to share my support of this project and this proposal. I think it's been a really successful example of our community, and I'm very excited about the potential for it to grow into something much larger. I foresee it being a really awesome attraction for our community, which is known as a really amazing place to experience art, but not all arts events are going all the time that we do have visitors, so this could be...
 A PLACE THAT ANYBODY CAN STOP BY WHILE ALSO EXPERIENCING OUR TRAILS. AND TO ADDRESS SOME OF THE CONCERNS ABOUT OFFENSIVE OR POLITICAL MESSAGING ON THE WALL ALONGSIDE THAT TURNOVER WITH THE GROWTH, THERE HAVE BEEN PAST ITERATIONS OF THE PROJECT THAT WE'VE BEEN WORKING ON ADDING ADDITIONAL WALLS AND I THINK THERE HAVE BEEN SOME FLOOD CONCERNS, BUT WITH MORE SPACES AND MORE WALLS ADDED, I THINK THE, I THINK,
 Notoriety of one specific piece will be a little more muted by just the array of different works that are visible on site If this were to grow all so thank you so much for your support of this program so far And I encourage you to support this proposal. Thank you Thank you No one else has their hand raised mayor. Okay Yeah, okay
 All right, Sarah. Mayor, I'm supportive of Council Member Burnough wanting to table it just to think on it longer. I want to kind of offer an additional viewpoint in that I want to applaud and thank the city attorney for really thinking about the First Amendment.
 I hope on any of these where we're thinking about free expression that I think Fayetteville has really set the bar very high with precedents on different areas where we've really led in the state, things like our civil rights ordinance scenarios, and I think really making sure that we have incredible protections around First Amendment protections.
 is incredibly important. And I also think, you know, Fayetteville leading, which I really appreciate on having a space that's really inviting expression is incredibly important. And so as we look at any requirements we're making, I think,
 that the initial rules make a lot of sense of just being neighborly, being a good neighbor. I would just caution us and really think about the language and recommendations and hopes. Oftentimes I go back to the origination of what graffiti is, and oftentimes art and graffiti is very subjective to the audience.
 And so when we start talking about what's political, everything, our entire lives, our everyday things we interact with are political. And so I really struggle even with making that a rule.
 And I really hope when we get calls from residents, I would really encourage us to be able to dialogue with them about the avenue that that gives us to have deeper discussion in our community about why parts of our community feel that need to express that because it's a big opportunity for us to grow through that.
 And so for me, I hope too as we look at this that we're really talking about as well the recognition that as diverse as our community has become with the wide breadth of art
 artists, I really appreciate and I admire Olivia and her work and she's right, you know, she's had a direct pathway a certain way And everyone has gotten through Art forms or found found ways to potentially monetize that art in different ways. And so this is an incredible Avenue But it's one area of town. And so I really would encourage us There's lots of areas around town that are getting lots of expression that I think there's opportunity to create a
 a much bigger program on this and I look forward to that. My only other caution is on programming. We have bumped our heads. I know we meet, we're very well-meaning and we put lots of energy and effort and I really appreciate the programming and all the thoughtfulness that goes into it. But we are inserting ourselves into different parts of our community that have lived in different manners and have not necessarily had audience
 or had those levels of programming and interaction in those areas. This is an area, if you're familiar with it, that has a lower socioeconomic population that lives there. I mean, this is some of our more affordable housing. And there have been individuals, when they've come into that area of our community, that they haven't been
 is aware of the type of population that lives there. And sometimes they might feel fearful and reach out to law enforcement, et cetera. And so I just want us to be mindful when we go into those spaces that potentially, that it does change the fabric of that community and engaging with that community and how they might want to see
 programming or interaction because you know other things too are just you know noise and other traffic that happens in those communities so just being you know mindful in those pockets and if we're able to spread it out to different parts of the community thinking that that again spreads out all of that as well of how that interaction happens.
 I think Sarah was up first. Oh, are we tabling this? Because I'm ready to vote on it, honestly. But if we want to table it, I'm fine with that. We had a lot of conversation going there, so I wasn't sure. I would say if Council Member Berna and more...
 have concerns and that they would like to pay well I I would respect that I would but I would like to add that In our discussions at our council which there were many and many long conversations that where we had the same I
 uh, concerns and we mulled over them when we, you know, played devil's advocate and, and, and such, uh, and then, and then having Joanna look into best practices and, and reaching out and contacting the different communities and then reaching out to Kit and Kit weighing in and, and giving us his counsel and advice on, on how best to do this. I really do, I
 I know it's hard and it can be scary of just like, we're gonna let the community do this. But it seems to be that 100% of every place Joanne contacted, this is how they do it. By kids' advice, this is
 Board of Trustees Meeting, and I think that's a good way to start. I think that's a good way to start. I think that's a good way to start. I think that's a good way to start. I think that's a good way to start. I think that's a good way to start. I think that's a good way to start. I think that's a good way to start.
 bring a motion to table, I would respect that. Well, you can just table it if you want to table it. We don't have to have a... Someone would have to make a motion to table it. Well, I will say this. I'm not in opposition of the article. My only concern, I have voice. Kit assures me that what you have before us protects us in that way.
 I would just say to the Art Council and the artists there, every picture that was shown in these slides, they were great. I wish I could do something. I mean, I can't draw a circle correctly, you know, most of the time. But our goal is to be welcoming to everybody. And if we get a piece that is offensive, let's...
 Let's police ourselves. I mean or you guys police yourselves so that we don't get in a bad situation and and you know kid if you say that that you know, you're comfortable with this and and For expediency purposes, I'm fine with the art wall concept. I just want to make sure we're covered Well, I think that in reality What I propose
 the way of rules is about as much as you can do and you can't really make the very general rules that we have in
 that are for requests or hopes, because if the city tried to regulate that way, we wouldn't have a chance to prevail in court. We just don't have that right to regulate the free expression of ideas and pictures. And we've got a unique situation here that I've been educated on by the Arts Council and other members, that we have a group of local graffiti artists
 who have done very good work in order to maintain this arc wall in a way where it is primarily friendly and not with hate speech, not with partisan politics.
 Not to say that someone can't say everybody should vote, but I think it's probably wise not to let it just be filled up with pro and con candidate support, which now we're coming up to a general election and I'm afraid that if we said, oh, partisan politics is fine, we might see a lot of politics signs on there where really it's designed for the graffiti artists, for their expression,
 of all kinds of things but hopefully not just be dominated by by one type of expression that doesn't necessarily make it welcoming when you don't support the person that that is uh is being on there so i think i tried to draft it using what the arts council had in fact i stole a lot of their words i plagiarized them sorry but i felt like i should i looked at the memo that was given to me
 and are given to all of you. You've all seen that too. And so you realize that most of the words I've used and ideas that I've used really came from them. And that's good because I think that's the way it should be. They have been policing it, and I think that I presented it to you because I think this is...
 The best thing, especially in ensuring that all the artwork is temporary, nobody can have an expectation they get to keep it up there forever, and therefore things can be changed out regularly. It's going to happen. It always has happened. And so that protects us as a government from, number one, being responsible for it, because we don't. If we claim that we can be responsible for it,
 we're administrating it well then it is ours and also it's probably something we'll be challenged on so I do recommend this I don't want to push anybody to vote for it if they're not ready to I can understand that there would have to be a motion to table at this point there's not one on the floor okay I
 I'll withdraw my request to table and we can vote on it if everybody wants to vote on it. Because I was about to make a motion to table it to the next meeting. I was, but I could just as easily table it too. You know, if people have concerns, I feel like it's been covered, but you know, you weren't the only person that wanted to table it. That's true.
 well um with all that's been said um and one thing i'd be remiss uh i left a specific i left olivia off my thank yous and i want to make sure i had her and because she was instrumental in this whole discussion uh she helped us get launched this she helped us get off the ground she's been an actual uh minder of the space so i'd like to thank her and with that i'd like to motion that we move forward and vote on the resolution okay
 I have a motion to amend. You have a motion to amend? Yes. I'd like to, in Section 2.1, I'd like to amend on the keep it kind. I'd like to strike partisan political messages, please. And the reason I say that is because it's even any causes. So if you think about Black Lives Matter or...
 LGBTQ, queer causes, I mean, that goes into all of that expression. And so for me, I just, again, we're setting a tone and we're inviting everyone to the space. And so that's my question and wanting to ask that we are adhering to First Amendment freedoms as much as possible. Well.
 I'd like to respond and what I would say to that, and we had these discussions again at Arts Council because these were things, is the attention of the art wall is not a messaging wall. It is specifically meant to be an art wall. We originally had language of kind of like...
 try to stay away from messaging just in general, just any type of message. Like this is a, what we want and what we'd like to see is art, we don't wanna see politics. And I understand people have a right to free speech and people will put up political things.
 But we do not want to encourage messaging. We want to encourage community involvement, community art. And that's what we've seen happen organically. But it is what we want to encourage, and I would be against amending that language out. Okay. All right. So, sir, you have an amendment that you want to...
 Strike. The amendment needs to be a second. Yes, I'm fixing to get to that. So you have an amendment to strike the political. To just stop the Senate at please avoid sexually explicit art, period. OK. Is there a second on that? Well, it dies for lack of second. OK, we're back to the motion to pass. Was there a second? Yes. Yes, I had a motion to pass. I have a second. We have a second.
 All right, we have a motion to pass the resolution. Karen, would you, any final comments, anything? All right. I would say, if we make a resolution and we feel like it needs to be tweaked later on down the road, is that a possibility? You're the council and you sure can do that. Just wanted to make that clear. And right now, I'm wide open to that. Anyway. Mayor, one question to the city attorney. This resolution keeps it as a pilot program, correct? Yes, yes it does.
 Okay, everybody good? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? B. Dicker? Yes. Arno? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? No. All right. Well, thank you very much, y'all. All right. Let's move on to number two. All right.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 24-14 for property located at 1215 North Kings Drive, Ward 3 to vacate a .07 acre portion of street right of way. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of street right of way as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1,
 Any damage to a relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense. Number two, a 10-foot utility easement shall be dedicated with the existing gas line being the center of the easement. And three, the power pole and down guys at the northeast corner of the property remain outside of the right-of-way being vacated. Okay, John.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request includes about 3000 square feet of right away in East Fayetteville in Ward three. It's about two blocks Southwest of root elementary school on mission Boulevard. The specific right away in question, as you can see on the aerial here is immediately East or excuse me immediately West of King's drives intersection with Columbus Boulevard.
 As I noted, the request includes 3,000 square feet of right-of-way in question. The applicant would like to see this vacated to allow construction of a front porch, which is currently prevented because the excess right-of-way has the impact of pushing the setback further into the property, since the property is zoned RSA-4 and has a conventional 15-foot setback as opposed to a building zone – or a build-to-zone, excuse me.
 First, staff's first inclination when asked to vacate public right-of-ways to evaluate whether it serves any public purpose. This one took us back through a little bit of a journey through several different plats in the area, and sadly I don't have an answer for you, is the long and short of it. This was dedicated in 1954 as a part of the Edgewood addition and is the only lot in the subdivision that includes an excessive amount of right-of-way being dedicated.
 A subsequent plat three years later, Jackson's first addition, seems to suggest that there may have been an intent to extend a road, Columbus Boulevard, further west from there. And then 1960s, the Virginia Hills plat to the south doesn't include any reference to this property at all.
 So all that is to say, staff fell back on evaluating our master street plan, any existing utility plans, and found that there are neither in this location. Further, the utility or the franchise utilities that serve the city have all consented to the request. There were two conditions of approval specific to this property that Mr. Williams read. One is that there is an overhead power line on the northeasternmost corner of the right-of-way being proposed to be vacated.
 And the electric provider wants to make sure that that remains outside the right-of-way, which the applicant survey indicates it is. And then the gas utility wants to ensure a utility easement is dedicated back over their line that they have on the property. That would not impact the property owner's ability to build the porch out in front of the property.
 So with that in mind, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt at ease enough with it that they put it on their consent agenda at their meeting where it was approved unanimously by a vote of 7-0. And to date we've received no public comment on the item. I'm happy to take questions and Mayor Tommy Wise-Ellers was on the line last I saw as the applicant for this item. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Mr. Wise-Ellers?
 Go ahead. Yes, I think Jonathan pretty much well summed it all up. We just want to bring it up to current standards and the homeowner who just wants to add a lovely front porch. So with that, I just leave it to you all. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions for the app or staff? Okay. I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Let me take some public comment first. All right.
 Everybody's moving along tonight. All right. Everybody has one turn to speak. We'll take some public comment. You have one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone.
 from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating museum will speak after that is there anybody in the chamber that wants to speak on this topic is there anybody is that no sir okay mike take it away now may i make a motion we suspend the rules and go to the second readings second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading please call the roll
 Leaker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. An ordinance approved, DAC 24-14 for property located at 1215 North Kings Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a seven hundredths of an acre portion of street right of way.
 Well, I'll make a motion we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kermit, please call the roll. Winker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay.
 in order to approve the ac 24-14 properly located at 1215 north king's drive in ward 3 to vacate a seven hundredths of an acre portion of street right away any final comments from the council sir oh sorry oh okay all right please call the roll speaker yes verna yes yes yes yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Alright, thank you all. Let's go to number three. An ordinance to approve Vacation 24-15 property located at 210 West Ravenswood Lane in Ward 1 to vacate a .26 acre portion of street right of Kitts.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to South Fayetteville into Ward 1. More specifically, it's in the Country Club area on South Mountain. If you're not familiar with Ravenswood Lane, as you head up into the Country Club area, the street turns from 24th, I believe it is, to Country Club Drive. Ravenswood Lane is the very first right turn as you get to the top of the hill.
 This property was planted originally in 1970 to develop with three lots with three houses. And accordingly, a larger area right away was dedicated to serve as a turnaround that would serve those four lots, so they could have four driveways and be able to circulate in and out of the properties without any sort of conflicts.
 Ultimately, what occurred is a house, one house was developed in 1986 on all four lots and has been maintaining this unimproved right away for the intervening 40 or so years. The property ownership has not changed in that time. It is in a trust, but at this point I think their desire is to clear up some of these issues in the sense that they've been maintaining it.
 Staff has not found any public purpose that this serves since the four lots were not developed as individual homes that would need to be served by it. And we've also not received any concerns from our any of our city services, which includes recycling and trash about their ability to serve this since. Today as well, they don't have that area as a part of being able to pick up recycling and trash.
 The area includes about 11,000 square feet, which you can see highlighted here in yellow. This would maintain the right-of-way that exists along the southern boundary of the property, which allows properties further to the west to be able to still cross out into the public street system further to the east without falling afoul of any private property concerns.
 Given that we find this property or this right away serves no public purpose, and that the franchise utilities have all consented to it. Staff is recommending in favor similar to the last item. The planning commission felt comfortable enough with this to put it on their consent agenda when heard, whereas approved unanimously, we received no public comment and the.
 The distinction between this one and the last one is there are no utilities in this area, so the only condition of approval is our boilerplate one, which captures if something is identified as a part of the right-of-way vacation that it is accounted for at the homeowner's expense. And with that, I'm happy to take questions. And Mayor, I believe Zach Hickson is on the line as the applicant for this one. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Hi, this is Zach Hickson. I'm representing the property owner. Nothing further to add, but I can answer any questions you may have. Okay. Is there any questions from the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Beat you all to it this time. All right. We'll take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 stay on topic please give us your name and address those president chamber are allowed to speak first those participating business will speak after that so anybody in the chamber would like to speak on this topic obviously not wait who you got on soon nobody all right we're going to bring it back to the council
 mayor i'd make a motion we suspend the rules go to the second read second the motion second good second reading here please call the roll weaker yes yes yes hertsberg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes and the orange approved the ic 24-15 for property located at two uh 210 west ravenswood lane and ward one
 vacate about a quarter of an acre portion of street right-of-way married make a motion to spend the rules go third and final read second motion second good third and final reading care which please color yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes
 In your order to approve the AAC 24-15 for property located at 210 West Ravenswood Lane in Ward 1 to vacate approximately a quarter of an acre portion of Street Rite of Way. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Peter Kerr? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Homer? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number four.
 an ordinance to rezone the property describing rezoning petition rzn 2024-37 for approximately 0.32 acres located at 402 west isla street ward 2 from rsf4 residents single family 40 units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation yeah be it ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description, exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4, residential single family four units per acre, to NC, neighborhood conservation. And section two, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Mr. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to Ward 2, just north of downtown. More specifically, it's on the west side of Vandervinter Avenue between Louise Street to the north and Isla Street to the south. It includes about a third of an acre that is currently developed with but one single-family detached home that fronts onto Isla Street.
 As Mr. Williams noted, the request is to rezone the property from its current RSF4 residential single family four units breaker designation to NC neighborhood conservation. When reviewing the request from the land use compatibility standpoint, staff does find it to be so. The area is predominantly single family in nature. The RSF4 zoning district and the neighborhood conservation zoning districts are exclusively
 Single family and they're allowed by right uses the biggest distinction between the two comes in some of the lot area allowances The RSF or zoning district does require somewhat larger Lots at 7,000 square feet compared to the 4,000 square foot allowance and neighborhood conservation
 Otherwise, both zoning districts have identical height allowances of three stories, identical rear and side setbacks of five, or excuse me, identical side setbacks of five feet. Neighborhood conservation does have a slightly reduced one of five feet compared to RSF Forest 15.
 But perhaps the biggest zoning difference in regards to how the lot may be used is RSF4 includes a conventional 15-foot setback from the public street, whereas NC Neighborhood Conservation requires a 25-foot build-to zone, so the house needs to be placed within 25 feet of the street.
 Whereas in some neighborhoods this can create something of a disjointed pattern of development, in evaluating this request, staff identified a wide variety of building placements in this area. There are a number of houses that are within 10 feet of the street, and there are many houses that are more than 30 feet away from the street. So with that biggest distinction in how the layout would have to be, staff does not find it to be incongruous in any particular way.
 From a land use consistency standpoint, staff finds the requested neighborhood conservation zone district to be consistent with the residential neighborhood area designation and the future land use map for this property. That designation includes residential uses of many different types, but with an eye towards contextual use. Again, because this is a single family area and neighborhood conservation is a single family zoning district, staff finds those two to align very specifically. Thank you.
 However, with the very high number of info elements that are attributed to this property and staff size, it is appropriate to allow an increment higher of rezoning allowance, which it gets to the second biggest difference between the RSF4 and NC zoning districts. RSF4, as its name suggests, allows four units per acre, whereas NC allows 10 units per acre.
 When considering other items, including tree preservation minimums, they're the same between the – I'm sorry, that reads incorrectly. It should be – it will go down from 25% with RSF4 to 20% under neighborhood conservation, so I apologize for the error on my presentation there –
 There were some agenda session inquiries that I wanted to touch on briefly for those who were not able to attend. A lot of those had to do with questions about the differences between the two zone districts, which I already touched on. They both allow a three story height difference. They have similar side setbacks. Narrowed conservation allows reduced setbacks. And then the RSF4 zone district has a 15 foot front setback, whereas the NC zone district has a 25 foot build to zone.
 Getting into some of the differences, again, NC allows a greater density of 10 units per acre, whereas RSF4 allows four. And so what this can effectively turn out to be is if the existing single family home remains, rezoning this property allows for one additional lot to be created with an associated house and potentially an accessory dwelling unit or other accessory structures like a garden shed.
 If the existing house were to be removed there could be a theoretical three lots created on the property with three associated houses And lastly another issue that I wanted to touch on that I was not able to get to the slide is staff did Review the historic planning of this area Which is very similar to what was done in the mountain Lord area and other parts of further south and downtown during the the downtown rezoning that occurred about two decades ago and
 And a big piece of those is that many of our neighborhoods closer to downtown were platted on narrower lot widths than the RSF4 zoning district requires, and that includes this neighborhood. The Wilson Park addition was platted with 50-foot lot widths, which is narrower than the RSF4 zoning district allows. You can find examples of that on this block further west on Isla, just like you can find examples of wider lots. So this area has a variety of lot widths.
 And staff does not accordingly have a concern that a 40-foot lot width would be out of place in this location. Finally, we have received some public comments on this item. There was one inquiry that the reviewing planner received prior to the meeting, but there wasn't a substantive statement of opposition or support. However, at the planning commission meeting itself, there was a member of the public who spoke in favor of the request.
 With those findings in mind, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission afforded the City Council by a unanimous 7-0 vote. The main commentary was that they also found the request to be compatible with the area and concurred with staff's findings on the subject. And with that, I'm happy to take questions that Council has, Mayor. And Mayor Robert Rhodes is here as the representative for the item. Yeah, I'd like to speak for the Council. You have 10 minutes, Robert.
 Thank you. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall-Lestal and I represent Frank and Phyllis Head who are the owners of the property. They live in the house and maybe you were wondering, hmm, no public comment on Isla? How'd that happen? Well, if you live there 40 years you probably know your neighbors, right?
 And you probably once that sign gets posted people come up and say what's going on Frank? You know what's going on Phyllis and they've talked to most of their neighbors, and I think their neighbors are Pretty copacetic with what their plans are which basically is hopefully get this rezoning tonight And then do a single lot split they then will probably move out of the big house and downsize into a smaller house and
 The tree, it went from 25 to 20, I believe. They believe where they're going to put this new house, they will remove one small tree. That's it.
 I don't know what else to say except I think Jonathan said it all with with all of the rationale that that staff Supports this and hopefully you'll buy into that as well, but I stand ready to answer any questions that you might have What questions do we have for the staff? Thank You mayor I have one question I think for you Jonathan I
 Is there any other way to split a lot besides rezoning this particular piece of property under our current regulations? I don't think so. I'm trying to imagine what that would be. Some of our deeper and narrower lots in Fayetteville do have the opportunity to explore a tandem lot ordinance. This is because of the shape of this property, the unusual L shape, I don't see that that is a route that could be afforded to them.
 So there's no hardship or any other kind of mechanism that we have that would allow that lot to be split That's it. That's a good question And I think it's timely one as well if you've been paying attention to our Board of Adjustments agenda over the last month I
 They entertained a request about four blocks east of here for a similar situation. It was a property where it was larger than the RSF4 zoning district requires, but not large enough to subdivide into two. They submitted a request to the Board of Adjustment to create a second lot with a reduced lot width. I think it was for the new lot. Ultimately, that was denied by the Board of Adjustment.
 And so with that in mind, that is one of the two routes that we typically advise property owners who are in this situation is there's a policy route where you can explore with the City Council and ask to rezone your property and change its entitlements and its underlying zoning requirements. Or if you feel you have some sort of hardship that justifies it, you can visit the Board of Adjustment. Does that answer your question adequately? Yes, thank you. Anything else?
 OK, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this topic? No one on Zoom. OK, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mr. Mayor, if I may, I
 I'm stunned that we've not heard from neighbors expressing any concerns or any opposition, which tells me that everyone would like to live next to Frank and Phyllis. And we all wished that we could be that kind of neighbor in our own neighborhood. So I have to commend them for obviously being as beloved as they are in their neighborhood. Okay.
 Sure. You go ahead. Okay. No, I appreciate that you did do some diligence talking with your neighbors. I also, like Councilmember Whitaker, I haven't heard any opposition to this. I just want to say something to the owners too. This is a beloved area that my kids and I toddle by. We've enjoyed your property as we've looked at your foliage and it's such a well-kept property. It's been beloved to us. And it's hard to see those things change.
 I'm very happy to hear because you do have a lovely wooded area in the back that has some trees. And so I understand that we can only hold you to the 20%. But I also want to applaud that you're looking at, as you've been with many of the things on your property, very thoughtful in the way that things are placed and how particular you are about different things on your property over the years. And I don't doubt that you'll continue that with us.
 this project as well. So I appreciate it being a neighbor in your neighborhood. So I'm looking forward to supporting it. I don't have any concerns about it. I was just gonna make a motion to suspend the rules. Do the second reading. Second. Second. All right, we have a motion to second. Do the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Wiedeker? Yes. Arnott? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Warren? Yes. And your order is to rezone the property described in Rezoning Petition RZN 2024-37 for approximately .32 acres, located at 402 West Isla Street in Ward 2, from RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation. I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 And in order to rezone the property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 2024-37 for approximately 0.32 acres located at 402 West Isla Street in Ward 2 from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Any final comments from the council? No. Yeah. Thank you.
 sorry I just can't shut up tonight I know Frank and Phyllis they're great people no wonder none of their neighbors are concerned or complaining and I have great confidence that you all will do everything to preserve every single tree that you can on your property
 I have no doubt about that. But I did want to state for the record that oftentimes when we do a rezoning in a neighborhood, even though there's RMF 40 across the street,
 that it creates a domino effect. So that is my only concern, but I'm certainly going to support this rezoning, and I hope that we maintain generally the RSF4 neighborhood or the small NC footprint with this rezoning. So thank you all. No? No? Okay. Just checking everybody. Okay.
 Any final comments from council? Tara, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Furness? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay. Congratulations. Frank and Phyllis and I go back a ways. Good to see you.
 All right, any announcements? One announcement, Mayor. We're pleased that the Community Resources Division and about 10 different departments are going to be joining Yolanda and her team at First Thursday at the Arvest Bank. We have a welcoming week.
 celebration so that everybody who has different public engagement opportunities all of the different divisions will be there so Wanted to let everybody know it's at concurrent with first Thursday on the square all right There's nothing else we're adjourned