I would like to call the City Council meeting of September 17, 2019 to order. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Eddy? Scroggins? Present. Munch? Here. Turk? Here. Smith? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, under the first order of business we have tonight is under the reports we have the nominating committee reports there. I believe you have that. Yes, sir, I do.
 This was a nominating committee report for September 12th, 2019. Present were myself, Mark Kenyon, Sonia Gutierrez, and Teresa Turk. The mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment. Historic District Commission, Meredith Mahan, one unexpired term, 630.20. Jason Smith, one unexpired term, 630.22. Councilman.
 Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Hope Davenport, One University of Arkansas Student Living Off Campus, appointed by the mayor, term ending 9-30-21. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Donna Daniels, One Community Citizen at Large, term ending 9-30-21, representing Ward 1, 2, or 3.
 Animal Services Advisory Board, we have a vacancy there for one unexpired term for a licensed veterinarian or veterinary professional ending 6-30-22. Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, we have one vacancy there, one unexpired term ending 3-31-24. Environmental Action Committee, Jeffrey...
 Chavis, one unexpired community citizen at large term ending 6-30-21. Fayetteville Arts Council. Anthony Ball, one unexpired arts and cultural citizen at large term ending 6-30-21. Olivia Trimble, one unexpired working artist term ending 6-30-20. Joelle Storrett, one unexpired arts and cultural term ending 6-30-20.
 peg advisory board Caleb Talley won an expert expired term ending 6 30 21 vacant won an expired term ending 6 30 21 also public facilities board Kara Paxton one term ending 12 31 25. that's our report okay I will entertain a motion to accept the nominees for the city Commission committees Kyle so moved
 I'll second that we have a motion second to accept the nominees for the city committees Lisa Would you please call her up? Gutierrez yes Marsh. Yes Kenyon. Yes Eddie Yes, yes Yes, yes
 okay next order of business is the consent agenda but i would like to note that there has been a change in some of the wording on items two three and four to read allows the city to inspect all containers is that fair enough everybody good all right on the consent agenda number one a resolution to approve a short-term lease agreement with the arkansas fashion week for the
 airport hangar at 4578 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $1,000. Number two, a resolution to approve an agreement with Inland Waste Solutions, LLC, DBA, Orion Waste Solutions for the hauling and disposal of solid waste and recyclable material in the City of Federal. Number three,
 A resolution to authorize a two-year agreement with Waste Management of Arkansas Incorporated to haul and dispose of solid waste and recyclable material in federal with automatic renewals for two additional two-year terms. Number four, a resolution to authorize a two-year agreement with Hog Eye Manufacturing Company Incorporated DBA Hog Box to haul and dispose of solid waste and recyclable material in
 in federal with automatic renewals for two additional two-year terms number five a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with garver llc in the amount of 241 850 dollars for the design of full bright expressway access ramp relocation project and to prove budget adjustment number six a resolution to approve
 Amendment number one to the professional services agreement between the city of federal Arkansas and Jacobs engineering group incorporated FK a CH to him Hill engineers incorporated any amount of $3860 for additional travel and labor expenses and to approve budget adjustment number seven.
 A resolution to express the willingness of the city of Fayetteville to partner with the Arkansas Department of Transportation for a popular street railroad crossing signals improvement project with 10% local match in the estimated amount of $30,000. Number eight, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins Ware Engineering Incorporated in the amount of $54,220 for conceptual drainage design services and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of $346,700 for design services associated with a project to alleviate flooding within the Missouri Creek drainage basin and to approve budget adjustment. Number 10,
 a resolution to award bid number 19-37 to authorize a contract with Progressive Trail Design LLC in the amount of $51,600 for the construction of approximately 6,600 feet of natural surface trail, armored stream crossings, and overlook at Kessler Mountain Regional Park and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,300.
 Number 11, a resolution to approve a professional architectural services agreement with D max architecture pursuant to RFQ 19 dash one in an amount not to exceed $52,000 for design and construction administration services associated with the renovation and replacement of existing restrooms in multiple city parks and to approve project contingency in the amount of $10,000. Number 12,
 A resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement, Jacobs Engineering Group, incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of not to exceed $254,108 from biosolids master planning services associated with the City of Federal wastewater treatment options. Number 13, a resolution to approve the conveyance of access easement to adjacent property owners and a general utility easement to franchise utilities across real estate.
 property owned by the city of federal at the southeast corner of northwest Avenue and West Spring Street associated with the year squared project number 14 a resolution pursuant to 164.20 of the unified development code to approve a law split for property located at 2763 North Crossover Road and to authorize the construction of a public multi-use trail on the non on the non-conforming parcel I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read
 Sonia? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurd? Yes. Smith? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Moving on to unfinished business.
 Number one in order to amend 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the fit of the federal city code to convert portions of restricted residential only parking along Locust Avenue and Lafayette Street and portions of paid only on street parking along Vanneventer Avenue Lafayette Street and Church Avenue to mixed-use parking areas I will
 entertain a motion to go to the host table so we're on the third reading correct or do we need to entertain a motion go I think we need to go okay we need a motion in second go to the third and final reading so I moved you got a third and final reading do have a second cop second we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading Lisa would you please call the roll okay I just read a little fast I'm sorry
 Yes, Marsh. Yes, yes Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
 An ordinance amend section 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the Fayetteville City Code to convert portions of restricted residential only parking along Locust Avenue and Lafayette Street and portions of paid only on street parking along Vandiver Avenue, Lafayette Street and Church Avenue to mixed use parking areas. Okay. Justin, I believe you have this one.
 I would like to say before Justin gets started, I know that we did a parking plan that was voted on by the city council in 2016. And to be perfectly honest with you, I've challenged...
 Justin to bring the plan into some sort of working fruition. So he's worked real hard on this. First of all, I want to start by thanking you, Justin, for all the work that you've done on this plan. I appreciate it very much. Then I know in 2017 we developed strategies.
 and to increase the public availability of the parking supply. So Justin's going to provide you with those strategies and the numbers that goes with it. I know they went to ordinance review, but the ordinance review deciding to leave the ordinance as it is, correct? Okie doke. All right, Justin. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. So as Mayor Jordan mentioned, one of those recommendations from the parking master plan is to increase the available public parking supply. But I thought I'd take just a second to talk about some of the other most recent items that we've been working on associated with that parking master plan. We've installed some wayfinding signage in the entertainment district.
 consistent with the Northwest Arkansas regional wayfinding plan there are plans to incorporate that into the downtown parking areas here in the next few months we're working with experience Fayetteville and local businesses primarily the Dixon Street merchants Association to promote the downtown and
 highlight the convenient ways to find and pay for parking within the entertainment district. They've actually purchased some ads to promote the mobile payment application, so I feel like we're making some headway there. We've partnered with Walton Arts Center and Theater Square to offer their patrons prepaid parking and an option to actually bundle parking with their ticket purchases, and they get a reserved spot in the Spring Street parking deck.
 We're continuing to emphasize a customer-centric approach to everything we do, primarily in our enforcement attitudes and approaches to really be ambassadors for the city and go above and beyond.
 enforcing parking regulations, helping visitors, being sources of information for folks, helping beautification efforts within the jurisdictions that we serve. We recently implemented a new enforcement software so that got us off of an old, outdated
 legacy system. We can actually have real-time access to information, a person's history, which can help inform our enforcement approach and incorporate more friendly approaches to enforcement, particularly for first-time violators or visitors to the extent we can identify them.
 On the very near horizon, we're going to be implementing the ability to take credit card payments for our event parking. Currently that's a cash only operation, so crawling into the 21st century here. That's very exciting. Also working on a new permitting system that's going to have greater flexibility. It's going to streamline some of our permit options for our end users. Continuing to update and streamline signage, as I mentioned.
 And then multimodal improvements. So that master plan had several recommendations to improve pedestrian access and walkability, primarily to some of our remote parking facilities. And some of those projects are working their way through the queues internally.
 And as the mayor mentioned, increasing available supply was really a hallmark recommendation of that study. Several ways to do that. One is to focus on private lot operators, try to get them to open up their restricted parking so that it's publicly available, or partner with those that already make their parking publicly available and try to encourage them to mirror the city's regulations, rates, signage, et cetera.
 so that a customer has a seamless experience regardless of whether or not they're parking in a publicly owned or privately owned parking lot. And then the other way to increase available supplies to look at our own parking supply, parking regulations, and come up with ways to better manage our own supply, which leads us to this proposal. So again, in a nutshell, what we're trying to do here is
 Open up some of our restricted parking that's restricted to residential permit only and make it mixed-use whereby any member of the public can Park and pay just as they can in any other public parking space and those residential permit holders are
 would continue to have access to those spaces at no cost while simultaneously um making some of our other parking mixed use and increasing the number of spaces in our overall system where that residential permit would be valid so as mayor mentioned um we're
 This item was referred to ordinance review on September 4th and just went through some of the utilization data that I will very quickly try to share with you all here. So what we're looking at here is, and this is primarily focused on Lafayette Street. That's where we've had the most feedback around this proposal.
 So if we look at the paid portion of Lafayette, the portion that's open to the public between West and Campbell, there's about 41 spaces there. You see there has a peak on Sunday mornings, presumably churchgoers there at University Baptist Church. And then Monday through Thursday, it has a morning peak with it dying off in the evenings, presumably.
 That trend changes on Friday and Saturday evenings, where you see the daily peak convert to the evening utilization, right around 60%. So even during those peak hours, with the exception of the Sunday morning, we never exceed 60%, and on average, we're under 50% in that publicly accessible portion of Lafayette Street.
 Here's another way of looking at that same information. Instead of a day-by-day breakdown, it's hour-by-hour. And again, you can see that it's the morning peak, dips down throughout the day, and creeps back up there in the evening.
 We move to the residential-only portion of Lafayette. So this is the portion from Campbell to Forest that's restricted for residential permit holders only. We kind of see an inverse relationship. Their peak is during the evening hours, 11 p.m. and overnight. And again, the average utilization there, even at the peak, is under 40%, an average right around 30%.
 Again, same way of looking at that, or a different way of looking at that. Same information on an hour-by-hour breakdown. Thank you.
 And then I also wanted to share with you some data on some of the other residential only streets in the north zone near Lafayette Street. Now we're not recommending any changes to these, but just for context sake, I wanted to share their utilization patterns with you. You see Watson Street has about 19 residential only spaces and it's 90% utilized at its peak. Bowl Street approaching 80% utilization at its peak.
 Rolston Avenue 90% during its peak. We were also asked to examine the off-street parking supply along Lafayette Street, so we took a crack at that. I would note that these are estimates based on GIS imagery, what we could actually physically lay eyeballs on from the street.
 So if we walk through that again, looking at the paid portion between West and Campbell, there were four properties. Some of those are multifamily resulting in nine total units. Three of those four properties had parking resulting in five total spaces serving those nine units. Moving further down Lafayette into the reserve parking area or the residential parking area, 21 properties.
 nine additional units for a total of 30 units. 13 of the 21 properties have parking, resulting in 29 spaces serving those 30 units. Now obviously that doesn't mean that every unit has parking space. Some of those properties have multiple off-street parking spaces associated with them.
 And lest we not forget, this proposal does include changes to our south zone residential areas. This is Locust Avenue between Spring and Center Street, which is also being proposed to be converted to mixed use. And we see it has about a right around a 20 percent average utilization. If we looked at the...
 Total residential only spaces that are in this proposal, so the portion of Lafayette and the portion of Locust that are currently resident only, we see that they have about a 26% average utilization peaking out, again, around that 11 p.m. hour at around 30%.
 So as previously mentioned, this was referred to ordinance review, met on September 4th. We examined this data, we discussed alternative solutions, we talked about even amending out any changes to the north zone based on the feedback that we've received at previous council meetings. But after reviewing the data, the committee voted three to zero with one abstention to
 consider it as originally proposed okay what questions do we have for Justin okay all right we will take some public comment this is not the one where we have the presentation is it no okay thank you all right here's the rules for public comment everybody gets one turn it to Mike you have five minutes
 unless the city council by a motion in the second and a voting majority of the council decides to give you more time or if a council member has questions for you keep your comments to me don't engage Council member don't engage anybody from the public um stay on topic I think we all know what that topic is it's it's this uh changing residential to mixed use and um
 please give us your name and address if you get off topic i can assure you i will get you back on topic so let's all who would like to be first hello mr mayor uh can you hear me okay yes okay it's catherine corley my husband bill and i own a home at 80 west lafayette street i'm going to read a letter that i sent to the council members last evening so our home will be impacted by the proposed mixed-use parking
 We have sent several emails to our council members, Justin Clay, and have shown up and spoken at the city council meetings where this proposal has been discussed. Once again, we find ourselves writing and speaking out on this issue as it comes before the council again tonight.
 At the last meeting on August 20th, it was suggested a public forum be held to invite the neighbors to share with the parking management division and council members the plans and to hear more broadly about our concerns. No such forum has been held to our knowledge. We urge you to vote against this proposal due to the negative impact it would have on us, our neighbors, and the residential quality of life on Lafayette Street and adjoining neighborhoods.
 There are several homes on West Lafayette Street on the north side that are unable to have garages or driveways due to the steep incline of Mount Nord. There are approximately 13 properties that don't have driveway access from Lafayette Street. We rely on street parking for our family vehicles, visiting family and friends, and for delivery and service vehicles.
 The residents of Lafayette would struggle to find places to park if the spaces were changed to mixed use. There is tremendous traffic and demand for parking by Central Methodist Church, Washington Elementary School, festival and parade events like Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue,
 and Razorback football games. And as we just saw from Justin Clay, there's 90% utilization of other streets that are near us. So assuming that will continue to grow and there will be increased demand for residential parking. In the last couple of weeks, uh,
 We have had our neighbors on Mt. Nord that needed to park on Lafayette Street while their street is being paved. I have parked in the Methodist Church parking garage and found it dangerous crossing the street as there are many cars speeding up and down Lafayette. Several residents on Lafayette Street are older and it would be hard on them to walk far, fast, and at an incline to reach their homes. A point was made about choosing to live downtown.
 The example was Seattle. Context here is important. We live in Fayetteville for the exact reason that we don't choose to live in a major metropolitan city. Assuming that downtown Fayetteville would be remotely similar to downtown Seattle or Chicago or New York is a scary proposition. People are attracted to northwest Arkansas and Fayetteville for the reason they want the quality of life we offer as a small town. Another point was made that the council members have an obligation to manage the assets of the city.
 Yes, the parking spaces and the associated revenue of making them mixed-use would add more profit to the city coffers. However, there are other assets you are obligated to protect. The quality of downtown living, the residents of the neighborhoods, and the property values. Inadequate parking and rowdy patrons from the bars on Dixon Street stumbling to their cars at 2 a.m. in the morning will drive families out of this neighborhood and property values will depreciate.
 Finally, this is a matter of integrity and upholding the promise that was made to downtown residents in the master plan. You are pulling the rug out from under us and you will be breaking a promise if you vote for this proposal.
 We are the people that are here day in, day out, seven days a week, for 15 years, paying property taxes, investing in maintaining and improving our property, patronizing the local businesses and restaurants. We are not students, weekenders, or out-of-towners. Again, we urge you to vote against this proposal. The voters of Fayetteville have already approved the building of a parking garage in the Entertainment District.
 This is the best solution for all. An alternate solution would be to vote down this proposal and ask the parking management division to come back with a proposal that excludes the north zone, since the south zone residents do not seem to voice the same concerns. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening. My name is Gin C. Hale, and my husband and I live at 305 West Lafayette.
 Although I have nothing better to do on a Tuesday evening, I'm not here because I have nothing better to do. I'm here because the proposed changes to the parking regulations on Lafayette seriously affects my life, my quality of life. It threatens the value of my property, and more importantly, it breaks an established, longstanding promise from the city of Fayetteville.
 When the entertainment district was established and the parking plan was implemented nearly 10 years ago, we were promised by the parking department and affirmed by the city council that the parking spaces in front of our properties and the integrity of our neighborhood would be protected. Converting the parking space in front of my house on Lafayette from residential only to mixed use breaks that promise.
 There are basically three different aspects of the parking department's proposed changes to on-street parking. The three changes are independent with varying consequences. Each proposal needs to be addressed singly and voted on separately. Number one, the south zone proposal to change the designation from residential only to mixed use on locusts from spring to center.
 the south zone running from dixon to the square is totally different from the north zone it's made up of restaurants bars and here i'd like to give a shout out to maxine's tap room for being recognized as one of the top 10 bars in our country law offices bike shops city offices condos and homes the south zone is truly a mixed-use area
 The change in designation will have little impact on the residents. As such, there's been little or no opposition to that proposed change. Number two, North Zone, proposal to change the segment on Lafayette and Vindiviner in front of the Union Apartments from paid-only to mixed-use parking. This segment is located between the Union Apartments, the University Baptist Church, the Kappa Delta Sorority House, and the Frisco Apartments.
 This would open up parking for the tenants of the union apartments with city issued resident tags. This change might possibly reduce the number of union tenants and their guests from taking up resident-only spaces in front of our homes on Lafayette. Number three, North Zone. Proposal to change the designation from residential-only to mixed-use on Lafayette from Campbell to Forests.
 In contrast to the South Zone, this part of the entertainment district is primarily made up of single-family homes. Changing these spaces from residential only to mixed use drags our neighborhood into the Dixon Street fray, decreases the value of our homes, and breaks your longtime promise to protect our parking and the integrity of our neighborhood. Thank you.
 My husband and I met on a blind date to Maxine's tap room 46 years ago next month. One of us was almost 21, long before identifying markers were invented. We love Fayetteville, and we love Dixon Street. However, it's our neighborhood who defines who we are.
 We have made a huge investment of both time and money to live here. I respectfully request that you keep the city's previously established promise to protect the parking spaces in front of our property, and I will give you my word that we'll keep Fayetteville funky while working with the city and the parking department to find a long-term parking solution to our problem. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening.
 My name is Kay Weathers. I live at 305 West Lafayette. I have three generations that have been here in Fayetteville. My father graduated from the University of Arkansas, my husband and I, and our three children. I have walked up and down the campus. I've walked up and down Lafayette Street for many years. I've watched change happen. I'm for progress.
 But I would like to reiterate what these two women have just proposed, that you take in consideration the families, the people that live on West Lafayette and are raising their children, are living their lives, and are participating in this city. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 My name is Rebecca Burks. I'm with Specialized Real Estate Group. We are located at 15 North Church Avenue and we are just here to speak out in favor of the proposed changes. We're located between Center and Meadow, Locust and Church and in that area in our observation there are rarely cars parked in the resident spaces along Locust and our employees and our customers would certainly benefit from these changes so we just wanted to make that known. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Hello Mr. Mayor, my name is Sterling Hamilton. I live at 170 East Prospect. For the past three years I lived at 118 West Spring Street. I'd just like to offer a little bit of a different perspective, I think, from what's been heard. I lived in what's currently a mixed-use parking zone on Spring Street. So businesses
 entertainment district people, residents could park. We had a, you know, we have parking stickers on our cars, we parked there. It's still an underutilized space as far as I'm concerned, even with mixed use parking, which I think that one thing I've noticed with Justin is that he's working very hard to propose a parking space
 ORDINANCES AND RULES THAT WILL HELP TO MAXIMIZE THE UTILIZATION OF PARKING, EVEN IF IT DOESN'T MEAN WE'RE GOING TO GO TO FULL PARKING ALL THE TIME. I THINK THAT WITH MY EXPERIENCE, WE HAD BUSINESSES, WE HAD RESIDENTS, AND WE HAD DAYTIME USERS USING THOSE SPACES. I WAS IN AND OUT OF THE HOUSE. I WORK ON THE SQUARE. I WAS IN AND OUT OF THE HOUSE MULTIPLE TIMES A DAY. CARS ON THE STREET.
 To be frank, I parked in front of my house every single day in mixed-use parking. I didn't have major issues with You know all of a sudden because it's mixed-use parking. There's a bunch of people on my street. It made me feel safer Having people moving in and out during the day You know there were lawyers across the street And then there were people coming and going even to the extent that there were you know housekeepers I mean that's a fairly
 affluent area. There are a lot of residential, very high-value residential units over there, and there were a lot of people in and out every day utilizing those parking spaces. My opinion of it is, based on my experience, that the parking spaces are not always the
 A CHANGE TO ALL OF THE PROPERTIES OR ALL OF THE STREETS IN QUESTION IS A GOOD CHANGE. I DON'T THINK THAT LAFAYETTE IS GOING TO BECOME A DENSE PARKING LOT. I THINK THERE WILL BE A SLIGHT UPTICK IN UTILIZATION AND IT WILL MAKE THE DOWNTOWN EXPERIENCE A LITTLE BETTER. I ALSO THINK IT WILL MAKE LAFAYETTE SAFER.
 And this is just a pure, I guess, planning fact. When you have people parking, moving in and out, having activity on the street, and having more cars on the street, people should slow down. And that's a problem on Lafayette that parking is not going to solve. But I do think that Justin's proposal will move us in the right direction. So anyway, just wanted to offer a different perspective. Thank you very much for hearing me. Mr. Mayor, council. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? So now I'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Okay.
 we're on the last reading so everybody's thoughts here mark i think that people have heard me say this a million times and i'm going to start off with it again if you want to know how a neighborhood works and what the residents in a neighborhood identify as and what they expect and their understanding of promises made by us the city government then you go and talk to the neighbors
 These neighbors, especially the ones on Lafayette, are a tight neighborhood of single families. There's a lot of difference in age. There are older adults that live there that cannot walk five blocks with groceries, with packages, or simply walk five blocks.
 So you can say that you're having more parking spaces. I think if you ask the parking department, there is no underground parking in these spaces. There is no double-decker parking. There is no increase in parking. What we have is an increase in competition, and it's unfair to the residents because there's a low number of residents,
 competing with an unlimited number of people coming to park in the neighborhood. So therefore, we are moving the single-family residents that have invested and are part of the neighborhood into a competitive parking situation with a large number of competitors where they are restricted. That's one reason. I've got more that I'll bring up later if I need to, I think. But
 Just looking at this from a fairness point of view and a neighborhood point of view and Lafayette being a Part of the heritage of Fayetteville. I cannot support this I just I think that you cannot the thing that bothers me the most is when I hear they're Increasing parking, but they're not that's some kind of tomfoolery what they're doing is increasing the competition and
 So I urge my fellow council members not to support this change. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Anybody else? Kyle. Since we did take this up at ordinance review, I just wanted to share a little bit of the thought process that came out of that conversation. And I do think we need to listen to the neighborhoods neighbors, but I think that the data is also important to look at. And,
 We can talk about more competition, but we'll be charging for parking spots here at the same rate as the current zone of pay parking.
 and our utilization there, even where it's paid, is still not full. I don't think we're going to be inviting that much additional competition by charging the same rate for an area that's already underutilized. That's one of the reasons that we want, my understanding that we want to change that zone to mixed use is so that it also has more opportunity to be utilized.
 The thing that struck me in the numbers was that we could take the average utilization from the entire stretch of residential parking and put it in what's currently left over in the pay parking in a smaller area. That tells me that the two zones together have a lot of unused parking, even at their peak times. That's why I don't...
 have a whole lot of fear that this is going to to cause the trouble that we've heard predicted here. I think that the numbers indicate we're gonna be pretty safe, but
 Before we voted at ordinance review, I asked how long it would take to undo this. And that was what persuaded me to go ahead and support this in its original state. We could literally undo this in one night. If we're wrong, if the numbers are not what we expect, what the professionals have predicted, we could walk on a change, roll this back with an emergency clause at the very next meeting, and then we could
 Or heck, Mayor Jordan could call a special meeting if it were really bad and we could deal with it right away. That's how quick we can undo this. So I think that, to me, mitigates the risk enough that I'm willing to go ahead and give this a try. And if it doesn't work, I'll admit it and be happy to vote to reverse it. But for right now, I think we'll be surprised at how well this works out.
 Okay, Sarah. Thank you. In previous discussions, Justin Clay had stated that our optimized parking utilization is around 80 percent. Would that be correct? I'm seeing nodding and affirmation. And the only time that the data shows that we're approaching that 80 percent of optimized utilization is on Sunday morning, which would not be affected by this change.
 You know, this parking, it's public parking. It's part of our public streets. It's part of the public trust. And seeing it underutilized to the degree it is, I don't think that it's fair to continue to reserve that for the private use of people who live along that corridor. And I'm very familiar with this corridor. There have been four different points in my life when I've lived within a half a block of this specific area.
 So the other thing, you know, the data shows that we can clearly, we clearly need to better utilize these parking resources, but also, you know, we spend a lot of money on a mobility plan and we hired top experts in the nation to come in and perform analysis and make recommendations. And I have to wonder what is the value in doing that? If we are not going to at least try to implement their recommendations. Um,
 I think that we need to give this a try. Again, if we need to reverse it, we can do so quickly, but the data shows that it's the right choice. The experts have showed us that it's the right choice. And so I'm going to vote in support of it because I feel like it's our obligation to make the best, highest and best use of these public resources. Okay. Shalom. Yeah, I'll also be in favor of this proposal
 Basically, anytime I work at the U of A, and anytime that I can drive by the street, I've driven by the street, I have yet to see more than four cars parked in a row. I know that'll go up some when we add paid parking, but it won't be blocks. This is public. It's paid for by the city of Fayetteville. I think that we have to find a way that everybody can use it.
 I also agree that we're paying a lot of money for studies, and I have a big concern if we're going to pay money for studies and take what should be the easiest thing out of the study and then not be able to do that. If we can't move the easier stuff through, then I'm probably going to have to start voting against studies if we can't actually look at those.
 I agree that you should listen to the neighbors, and then when they tell you stuff, you should go verify. We're currently looking at two different parking situations, this one and then the one on Wilson. I know it's not tonight. What I've heard from the neighbors around Wilson matches up with what they're telling me. What I'm hearing from the neighbors...
 on Lafayette is not matching up and the data doesn't match up with it. And I think that we should verify what they say or if what the neighborhood says doesn't actually match up with what's happening and what's the data, that we need to go with the data and the recommendations from the surveys that we're paying for. So thank you. Okay, anybody else? Mark.
 We talked about data, and we talked about studies, and the previous parking study did not show that there was a shortage of parking in this downtown district. Am I right? Yes. Justin, it showed there was not...
 there was not a shortage for parking in the entertainment district from a space count perspective yes not from a regulatory perspective but if you add up all the spaces no don't leave yet in the mobility study and the master plan uh is there really i can't see it exactly a statement that says we should do mixed parking throughout the whole district
 The recommendation from the parking study was to convert all residential parking street segments to make them publicly available, which is not what we're recommending. We're starting with two street segments. The next thing is whenever we talk about if it doesn't work, we can reverse it. What does work mean? Work for who? I would say more parking utilization, more people parking in those parking spaces. Okay.
 when i'm looking at all of this and i did look through the mobility plan it just doesn't seem like there is an urgency as there are other things in that plan that are much more urgent and so i think that we can still manage the parking in this area the way it is the way we promised it and respect the the neighbors so i know that i am in the minority here it seems like but
 Perhaps the reason I know that we need this is because I do live in this area, and I know the impact of protected parking, especially for elderly residents or residents that have disabilities or residents that do not have the opportunity because of their property to have a driveway. These are all real problems.
 Circumstances in this area of town not everyone had a driveway not everyone had a garage They depended on street parking So I just want to mention all that because I think that it is important to look at it from the view of the neighbor Thank You mr. Mayor
 you know i've i've sat and listened to a lot of the discussion read the reports and you know i would definitely support splitting this into sort of lafayette and everything south i i think that that would be a more appropriate way to handle this doesn't seem like we have any opposition to um changing the mi to mixed use and the southern part of the area but in the northern part of the area we've had quite a bit of concern
 I'm a bit disappointed that we didn't have a neighborhood forum to discuss this issue. I think being able to sit down with, you know, we're in a small city. It's rapidly growing. But being able to sit down and talk with each other and try to hammer out an agreement I think is always the best way to go. So I'd really like to see that.
 Um, we hear constantly up here about our quality of life being impacted by new development. We've got a tremendous number of people that are moving here. More sororities are popping up all the time. That's affecting parking around Wilson Street. I'm convinced this will spill over into this area.
 And then if the city made a promise in its master plan to not change the parking, we need to honor that. You know, I've seen the city renege on several promises that it made 10 years ago, and I don't like to see that. I know things change.
 But a promise is a promise, and we need to keep that because if we renege on that, then nobody will trust us. They won't trust the process, and I think that would be a very poor thing to have happen in Fayetteville. So as it stands right now, I will not be supporting this measure. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thanks for asking for Justin to revisit the plan because I think that was helpful for me to see the mobility plan and kind of take that with the data.
 also want to thank the residents for coming to speak and voice their opinion. I think I really don't like when we have something there for people and then all of a sudden decide it's not the right thing. The fact that we're changing or growing as a community, I think we should have thought had the force, the
 the thoughts to think in the future and to be more future thinking. I don't feel that it's fair for some residents to have residential parking only on their street and others to have residential parking. So that's very hard for me to have some, give something to someone that take it away because which, which streets do we allow for parking and which do we not?
 Now, I think where I'm falling, even though I said this in the beginning about the promise that was created, what I really wanted was to take the data and look at the data and what is being used.
 Um, that takes the emotion out of it. How can we potentially look at sharing the streets? Even though I know that this is very difficult and challenging to get to your house. It's very, that hurts my heart because if my parents, if it was my parents and they had that space, I wouldn't like it. Um, so I'm in, this is a very tough situation, but I do think that we have numbers that we can base it on and not make it an emotional decision. Um, so I'll be supporting it.
 I guess I have a question. I don't know if it's for Kit or staff, but we're talking about promising. I'm a little confused how we can promise to private citizens access to publicly paid-for space in perpetuity. Is that something that we can actually do? Was that done at that point? No.
 10 years ago well you know nobody has a perfect memory but I don't remember any specific promises that the City Council made that once they instituted the parking program that no changes would ever be made you couldn't make that promise really because you can't tie the hands of the future City Council and I think if I had heard that I would have probably tried to caution that whoever might be saying that with those words that you cannot
 tie the hands of future city council remember on the Markham Hill rezoning there were statements made then about that certain alderman said you know I'm not going to go and change this again but the neighborhood also heard you know what a future city council can change that so no one none of you have the power to give a promise that what you're doing today is never going to change it
 It's beyond your power to do that. Great. Thank you. Sarah. Yes. This is an issue that I've been kind of back and forth on quite a lot mentally, and I have to say that I'm really swayed by the data that's been presented tonight. What it's showing us is that there are portions of this area that are not being utilized to their highest level, and I think I'm willing to...
 to vote in favor of the change tonight and with the idea that if it creates a huge problem for the residents we can possibly go back and revisit it thank you yes thank you mayor
 Bottom line for me is I, well first, I was one of the council members on the Ordinance Review Committee that was the one that abstained from the vote at that point. I did so because I wasn't really sure what I was going to decide to do. But seeing the data again, I have to agree, it swayed me as well.
 And I'll be voting in support of the ordinance. I live also on Spring Street like one of the commenters we heard from tonight in a mixed-use district and the block of strength Spring Street the light that I live in I mean, I don't have a good arm and I could pick up a pebble and hit the back door Maxine's from my back porch It's great for me. And it turns out that it's also not very hard to park on my street. I
 There's a karaoke bar and Little Bread Company and all of Dixon Street blocking the other direction. And still it's not hard for me to park on my street. It should be the hardest street to park on at almost any time of day because there's such a variety of uses that people are visiting at different times of day and different days of the week. But I swear to you, the only time it's hard to find a space is during the farmer's market.
 So I appreciate and have listened really carefully to a lot of the comments that we've heard, but I don't think that the predictions are going to bear out. And if I'm wrong, I'll be here and I'll admit it and I'll vote to change it. One thing that I did want to address was the notion of the broken promise, because I think that's such a powerful statement.
 way to frame things, especially when emotions might be running a little bit high. And it's hard for me to remember some details because that's been about ten years ago, almost to the month, I think, that we established the paid parking and the residential parking programs. And at the time, I was actually the sponsor of the residential parking permits.
 Maybe I'm about to burn all my political capital that I got from being the sponsor of that parking permit by voting to amend these streets tonight. But as I recall it, that wasn't framed or discussed or presented in the way that it has been discussed tonight.
 The way I recall it is that we had a lot of fear of the unknown from everybody involved, including the council, about what paid parking was going to do to downtown as a whole, both in residential dimensions and commercial dimensions. I mean, there was a lot of hand-wringing about it, myself included.
 I thought a residential parking program was a way to cancel out some of the noise in that discussion and in that effort while we figured out what the parking program was going to look like and how it's going to affect the city. I think personally that a decade later with at least one and maybe more than one relevant study
 including some detailed data like we've seen tonight, is a long time to wait actually before the program is revised and iterated upon. So I think the data tells a particular story and I am choosing to put my faith in that story. And in addition to the data and my experience on Spring Street, I'm prepared to vote for this with relative confidence.
 okay any other final comments from the council i would like to say a couple of things i know i want to go back to parkham hill for just a moment i made a promise to a neighborhood that i would never change my vote from the present zoning that it had before but i made it clear the night that i made that statement that a city council that i said there was nobody left on this council at that time but me i was going to stand behind that
 And I did, but the council decided to do the zoning, and I respect that because I know, as Kitty said, you cannot bind the hands of the future council. It's just the way it rolls. You can make all the promises you want, but at the end of the day, a future council can change the zoning, they can change the decision. And there's a reason for that because everything stays the same. I will tell you this, when I first
 When we first did this parking plan in 2016, and I can't remember the price tag on that, but I think it was around $100,000. Was that about right? And I said, I don't want this to be something that just sits on the bottom. We don't do anything. So we brought some things, and the staff brought this, and I said, I want you to show me that the utilization is not happening in that area.
 And they brought it to me and it showed around 70% of the time it wasn't being used. So I said, they wanted to bring it to the council, I said, let's take it to the council. And then it went from the council to ordinance review, and the ordinance review said the same thing. I could not get away from the numbers. And so at the end of the day, if this does not work out, I promise you that the council will be looking at this. We started parking, paid parking in 2010.
 And we were doing it from 10 a.m. at that time. And everybody had an absolute blow-up. Those of you that are left on this council remember that. So I called a special meeting. We brought it back to the council, and we changed it within six weeks or so after we implemented it. So, yes, if this doesn't work out within a few weeks,
 within a short time, I will personally call a special meeting of the city council. We will bring it back and we will make adjustments to it. All right. With that, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. All right. Thank you all.
 all right number two an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 19-67 16 for approximately 10.43 acres located east of 36 38 north front street from ct thoroughfare commercial to i-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to cs community services subject subject to a bill of assurance i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading so moved
 Do we have a second? Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? It's yours. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6716 for approximately 10.43 acres located east of 3638 North Front Street from C2, Third Affair Commercial and I1, Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to CS Community Services subject to the bill of assurance.
 okay Garner what do you have mayor I don't have anything thing to add the applicant is here and as you know we have a request from a neighborhood resident after that applicant to do a presentation okay like speak
 Yes, sir. Thank you. My name is Hugh Jarrett. I'm here for the applicant. I appreciate the opportunity to speak this evening. This is the third time we've been here, so I'm not going to get into, again, that this is the most walkable site we've ever had. I'm not going to get into that the streamside buffer along most of this property is going to be more than the streamside calls for. I'm going to delve into it a little bit, but I'm not going to go in depth about the fact that
 This rezoning matches every city plan that is out there. Transportation, future land use plan, city plan 2030, all of them. The city staff have a very difficult job. You know, Fayetteville is a growing town. The planning department has to look into the future and really work and put a lot of man hours into seeing what and how the city should grow.
 Along the same lines, city engineering has the same problem. We're a growing town. You don't know exactly what's coming up, but we have very good professionals that work in the city that take care of these issues and try to stay ahead of potential problems with infrastructure. I sent an email. Thank you.
 To all there's a question about traffic that I wasn't able to address last meeting so I sent an email with some of the information that I received from the City engineers they're ahead of traffic in this area They they understand that along with the same Street bridge extension that other interest road improvements are going to be required and Those are those are being planned for and as a reminder the residential use
 it will actually lower the traffic count in the area below what a C2 use or an industrial use would generate. So as an offhand remark, again, this rezoning fits with the attainable housing goals the city has. It fits with the future land use plan. It fits with the 71 corridor plan. Okay.
 City staff and you, the city council, have spent countless man hours going through all of these plans and trying to decide how our city will grow into the future. And I think y'all have done a good job with that. This rezoning we're talking about tonight, again, fits within every plan that the city has adopted.
 That's probably why we have staff recommendation for approval. That's probably why we had a unanimous vote at Planning Commission. And I would also like to point out that the only communication that we have had with actual neighbors of this property have been positive. The church on top of the hill, we've met with them, and they actually like what we're saying and do there. Okay.
 There's a big elephant in the room that nobody's talking about. And the elephant in the room, briefly, is that the presentation that evidently is coming after I sit down is not really about this particular rezoning. The people that are 600 feet away or more are talking about another piece of property. Their concerns are not this particular rezoning.
 We met with some of those folks a couple weeks ago. We heard concerns about height and trees. We tried to address that. Had a phone call with one of them last week, and their request was to donate the entire eight acres that is behind their houses, which is not a part of this rezoning, but donate that entire portion to a conservation easement.
 So none of the concerns that have been relayed to us have not been addressed or even touched the property that we are discussing tonight. From what it appears to me, the folks on the hill would like that. There's roughly eight acres. It's a little bit less than eight, but roughly eight acres that is zoned RMF 24. That's the big elephant in the room. It appears that they would like that property to be developed immediately
 by itself. Just, you know, when the same street extension goes in, that property is going to be developed. And if you develop it with the current zoning, that's about 180 or so apartment units at RMF 24, but it's only about an acre and a half of tree preservation at 20% of that acreage. If we can take a more comprehensive look at this, we have the ability to, which is
 what we try to do with the bill of assurance, we have the ability to provide more tree preservation on that area by grouping, grouping it together. We have an ability to provide more of a buffer than if the prop, when the property develops by itself. So it is really more of a win-win type situation where we,
 The city gets attainable housing in an area that has the highest concentration of jobs in town, and the folks on top of the hill actually would have more of a buffer and more of a lump of tree preservation with what we are proposing tonight. I appreciate your time. If there are any questions that you have, I would love to answer them. Again, evidently a presentation is going on. It's something that has not been addressed yet.
 comes up I would appreciate the opportunity to to respond to that if if appropriate thank you very much thank you all right I understand that we have a citizen presentation on this no yes ma'am we're ready for your presentation
 hi I guess I need to come back and see what questions the city council has going on in the public comment our presentations y'all have any questions awesome so we need a motion in a second to put the presentation up correct
 Yes. Okay, as long as you're gonna make, yes. Yeah, I was gonna ask questions as well. I think I'll wait until after public comment, so I'll go ahead and make the motion to allow 10 minutes for the citizen presentation. Mark? I will second that motion. Okay, we have a motion to second to allow the public presentation. Lisa, would you please go? Concierge? Yes. Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie?
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay So we have a presentation to last no longer than 10 minutes is that correct? Okay, ma'am could I have your name please? I'm Brenda Walner. I live at 3582 North Buckingham Drive and The slide presentation is going to be followed by me, but um my my
 We, as we've gathered together as neighbors in the last several weeks to explore the challenge of a highly density apartment complex that is literally a football field from our back doors. We've learned about zoning and how development occurs in our town. We've also come to appreciate the many factors that you as our city council must consider in order to make the decisions for the future development of our community.
 With that being said, it appears that the rezoning of the parcels should see us with even the bill of assurance, which we've been told that we're not talking about, which he said that they've given the bill of assurance, but we're not supposed to be talking about it. So we won't discuss that. But even with the bill of assurance.
 It is in direct conflict with the stated goals of the City Council, including the 2030 plan, the urban development, and the goals of multi-use. We also know that despite being told by the developer that the rezoning of these parcels will not be an impact on our neighborhood.
 After seeing the plans of wall-to-wall apartments, we know there is enormous impact, not just in our neighborhood, but to the city, to the beautiful wooded creek, and the wildlife. The large apartment complex would cause additional traffic nightmare in a part of town that is already experiencing some of the worst traffic in the state.
 These exasperated conditions will exist for years before the appropriate infrastructure is in place to deal with the additional burden. Sane Street will not allow for that additional traffic. The negative impact in...
 The effects of this development on our older established neighborhood will include quality of life, diminished home values, and all challenges that come with living adjacent to a transient community. We asked the developer, as you heard before, to discuss alternative options to preserve a portion, not eight acres.
 the land to help protect the sensitive rip riparian and urban forest habitat that is currently home to the wide variety of animals but we were told no there would be no meeting no conversation a yes vote to this rezoning request will permanently erase the possibility of more creative varied and visually pleasing development close to the 71 business corridor
 It will contribute to the impression that we, as a city of Fayetteville, are missing opportunities our neighbors to the north seem to be achieving with more desirable places to live and work. It has been stated to me directly that the CS zoning has many flaws. I know you are currently trying to work on those flaws. Please don't approve this zoning that is known with its defects.
 Fix the issue and come up with an alternative plan that's good for all of us. Please don't vote for this rezoning because it's believed to be the next best option. Let's come up with something that's good for the community. Please vote no on the rezoning request. And we'll start this now. Hold the timer until she gets there. Okay. Okay. I'm sorry. Are you going to do your presentation? I keep...
 So somebody come up and do the presentation. We need to roll this along. Okay, that's fine. I just got ten minutes for the presentation. I'm trying to fit it in here. Okay. And just for everybody, we have five minutes and 50 seconds left. Okay, good evening. I was told that when the presentation started that we could all speak. You can. But that's not going to happen.
 Yes, you can. But we got to do the presentation. I understood that the motion was 10 minutes for the presentation, which I thought you were going to do that. But you took five minutes up at the microphone. We can each person use their slides still. OK. Is the council OK with doing 10 minutes on the slide or what? Here. Is everybody good?
 so we don't have to do another motion you got 10 minutes to do these slides okay then we'll go back to public comment all right thank you mayor jordan my name is mike wolder i live at 3582 north buckingham drive and first of all thank you so much for hearing us again this evening that was the third time we've been in front of you kind of talking about this particular deal but
 As I was preparing for tonight, one of the things I did is I went out and looked at all the documentation and strategy that the city council put together about how to really do development of very thoughtful and sustainable growth in our community. And I'll tell you, when I looked at it, it looks good. A lot of things I could support. The concern that we have as a group is that we don't feel like this particular zoning change matters.
 supports the goals the city has put in place, whether it's Vision 2030 or Vision 2050. I'll just give you a couple of quick examples because I don't want to use up all of our time. I looked at the 7-1-B corridor master plan and I think that's up on the screen right now. That's page 62 and basically one of the things it calls for is a development approach that includes walkable blocks and streets, housing and shopping in close proximity, along with public access spaces.
 That particular area, if you want to, first of all, there really isn't much you can walk to down that area. There's a couple of shops and a Mexican restaurant. If you want to go to anything else, you have to venture across Joyce or College, which you've already identified as in that particular area. Pretty scary. In fact, if you're as old as I am, you know what Frogger means. I think it's dangerous enough to drive it, let alone try to walk across it. So I think that's probably flawed in its nature. I looked at the city plan 2030 plan.
 excuse me, 30 goals and I also looked at the 2050 goals. And there were six of those to begin with. And just to highlight a couple of them. One was appropriate infill and revitalization as its highest priority. High density apartments in a place of beautiful nature site, in my opinion and our opinion, is really not revitalization, it's destruction.
 Grow a livable transportation network. We've already had several conversations about that area. I know a lot of you try to drive that particular area, and it's a little scary, especially during the peak hours. Assembling an enduring and green network. I think replacing a beautiful canopy of trees and wildlife with apartments is probably the total opposite of that. And then to create attainable housing. Again, I think this rezoning of Coppola creates none of those opportunities.
 Let's see if I can figure out how to go to the next page. This is the 2030 plan I put up. I'm sorry, I've got to go to the next page. Future land use, GIS interactive map. And again, you can see the two plots in question have been marked for urban center area. And as I talked earlier, urban center is more than just apartments. It's creating a space for people to live, shop, work, entertain. And that does not do that.
 and finally we had some conversation about schools at one point and one of the reasons that people move and choose to fayetteville and surrounding communities is our school system and as councilman smith pointed out in our first reading a substantial portion of that proposed area actually falls in the springdale school district where people move into fayetteville they want to go to fayetteville school system so that in themselves a bit of an issue for us so so as you can see our concern is the proposed rezoning does not meet the city council goals of appropriate infill
 we're not opposed to development we just believe there's a much better use for land and under review and that then was being proposed so do you really want to cut down trees or replace them with apartments that's our question thank you good evening mayor craig curzon 1518 sussex drive at uh at the previous meeting there was some discussion about the um
 the cs zoning allowing for administrative approval and there was also as part of that discussion that if the development did move forward if the zoning was approved in the development move forward that it would follow a large-scale development process
 I just want to clarify that our understanding was that any zoning designation that allows for administrative approval is exempt from the large-scale development process. So that may require or may be good to have some additional clarification about that. But now there may be a, instead of large-scale development, there might be a site improvement
 which I think follows a different development review process than large-scale development. But it was our understanding that really this rezoning process was about the only opportunity that we might have as a group to voice any concerns. So that might be worth some additional clarification. And then also there's been discussion about the CS zoning being better than the current zoning C2 and I1.
 And I would just note that under both I-1 and C-2, you could have offices, you have restaurants, you could have retail offices.
 And so it's really all about, the density of those wouldn't necessarily be what the CF zoning could provide. So really it comes down to an issue of the devil being in the details, the actual development and how that takes shape. So you could certainly make the case, I think, that C2 and I1 could be better than the CS zoning.
 just just a point of clarification there and if if housing if residential and dwelling units are what is desired in this area if those commercial type uses are not what's desired under the current zoning if it's the dwelling units our point is that there is a better zoning designation than CS
 And these have been mentioned before, but there are other zoning designations that would create, that would better create a walkable environment along the creek and trail that would, other zoning designations would better promote ownership and compatibility with the surrounding area, and would also, I think, create better value for the city.
 So, thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I think, I don't know if I can start, put the slides up again. Do what? There we go. Thank you. Hi, my name is, okay. Go ahead. Thanks. My name is Jeff Reddicop. My wife, oh, first of all, good evening, Mayor Jordan, ladies and gentlemen of the council.
 My name is Jeff Reddikopp. My wife Leila and I have lived at 3567 North Buckingham above Mud Creek since 2010. I'm the one who scrambled down into the bush and rambled to take these pretty pictures for you, showing you some of the creek and the wildlife in our neighborhood group presentation. I'm up here at the podium tonight wonderingI'm sorry, I'll have to focus wondering if we might have already lost the rezoning boat.
 So really am I talking to you about deer and red fox and this little pristine part of Fayetteville could just be an exercise in utility, but let me try. Some of you may be thinking I'm just another one of the neighbors who are upset because we're losing our property values, getting our view taken away and our hiking and biking trails ruined by the building of these basic apartment complexes and parking lots. Yes.
 and I'm just another person who doesn't want change if it affects me personally in a way I didn't set in motion myself and I'm here to tell you sure but that doesn't mean we're wrong this move by the Lindsay company to erect so many apartments in this narrow area between a creek and a hillside is totally non-compliant to the goals of Fayetteville's 2030 plan notwithstanding what you've heard this is a case I think where instead of not seeing the force of the trees we're kind of missing the trees
 If they walk away tonight, Lindsay and company, with the council's blessing on this rezoning, they will have got everything they could possibly have hoped for right out of the gate. Few restrictions, minimum oversight, and maximum profit.
 What I'm suggesting to this council is that your no vote tonight won't stop the Lindsay company from coming back again before the city and eventually building in this area. But it will give them some pause, and I believe a pause right now would be a very good thing for Fayetteville. Your no vote will say to them that their current concept is wrong. It's too destructive for this little piece of Fayetteville along Mud Creek. A no vote says let's all take a breather and do the right thing for the future.
 And I'm sure Lindsay and company really wants to build on these properties. So much so that after a rejection tonight, should it happen, they will go back and take another look at their plans and then come back to the planning commission with something that might make a little more sense. Every time I see an article in money magazine or us news and world report that lists Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas is one of the top 10 places to live in this country. I,
 I swell with pride, but I cringe at the same time because I know glowing reviews are a two-edged sword. The hard truth is this. In 20 or 30 years, continuing population growth will have filled almost every nook and cranny of Northwest Arkansas. The only wildlife left inside Fayetteville's borders will be on Dixon Street. Except maybe for these little oases like Mud Creek that we managed to set aside for the children being born today to enjoy with their kids.
 I'll just say one more thing. Your voting no tonight on this rezoning request won't deprive anybody of anything. What it might do is make what's finally built something all of us can be proud we helped steward. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, City Council and Mayor Jordan. My name is Dave Lencho. I live at 3500 North Buckingham Drive. I've written each of you numerous times to express my concerns over
 traffic and infrastructure. Like the previous speaker spoke, Fayetteville, I came to Fayetteville from one of the largest metropolitan cities in the country. And I came here for a reason. And that was because it was small, it seemed like the city protected the ecotourism. We had nice bike trails that you guys all implemented, very attractive.
 Now that I've been here two years and I live in this corridor, I challenged each of you to go drive that corridor. I drive it numerous times every day. I also ride the trail every day. And I will tell you that it's probably one of the worst traffic areas that I've experienced. You know, like I said, I came from a major metropolitan area that moved a lot of folks. I just want to voice my opposition to this development.
 I'm here to support the other members of the community and I hope you'll take that under consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hi, my name is Ryan Billingsley. I live at 3113 Warwick. I'd just like to say that I came tonight to voice my opposition to, for this rezoning project.
 And kind of like generally speaking, things like on Markham Hill and behind Butterfield, it always bums me out. And I think the reason it bums me out is because it feels like, it kind of feels like as a
 I understand the concept that private land is going to be developed, and some of this is inevitable because Fayetteville is growing. But a lot of times it doesn't feel like this rezoning, it doesn't feel like the optics are good. It feels like it's quite clearly just doing a favor to the developer to make the destruction of the green space happen faster.
 I really feel like a lot of times, specifically for this section and specifically for places like Markham Hill, it's completely in opposition of some of our guiding principles, like the naturally beautiful city and the ecosystem preservation. And then as far as on the other side, on the city plan, it seems like the only thing it's doing is, for meeting our goals, is the attainable housing, which I also know is important.
 These decisions, I feel like, are... You can't go back. I mean, it's an important choice. And once we tear down some of our green space, there's no getting it back. So I just wanted to come tonight and encourage you to think really hard about this decision. I know you do every time we're talking about making it easier for a developer to tear down some green space. When...
 Revitalization is part of the goal and infill, but it doesn't have to always be right on top of the green space. We could... I'd like my city to fight tooth and nail for our trees.
 And I'd like to encourage the revitalization to happen on top of existing ugly parking lots or on top of existing old decrepit buildings that we could build an apartment on top of. And when it comes to green space, I'd be proud if my city would put on the face of fighting for the green space, even if some of the development is inevitable. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello. Hi, Mayor Jordan and the council. My name is Jessica Short and I live at 3588 North Buckingham Drive in the Brookhaven Estates. I am voicing my concern about worsening traffic. I know it's been voiced by other people here today. And if the current rezoning request is allowed to go through, I'm not only a homeowner, I also work
 in the potentially affected area on Millsap. And so I'm going to give you a little traffic study myself. So when I leave my work in the afternoon on Millsap, I'm not able to turn left to go up east to hit college. I have to take a right.
 to either go by the road that's North Plainview and take the road that goes by Lewis Automotive, or I have to go all the way down to the roundabout and then take the Fulbright Parkway to get back to my house that's a mile from my office. This is what is happening now, currently. This is not with any...
 other people involved. And the intersection of Millsap and College will have to be a main one for the proposed apartments. Imagine leaving my parking lot to get to my home less than a mile away if 870 more cars making 10 trips a day, which would be about 8,700 trips, are put onto College, Millsap, Front Street, and Joyce daily.
 A police report was pulled, and there have been 153 accidents between Harold and Millsap on College. This is three to four accidents per week on an average. We were going to have a slideshow, but anyway, we're going to show you a picture about the crash frequency, the master plan reports.
 And then also, we're going to show you a picture, about the average annual daily traffic from Rolling Hills to Joyce is between 32,000 to 37,000 cars, and that is currently. Also, and this, again, I would love that. Thank you so much. Maybe. Oh, here we go. There we go. Okay, we'll go through all this.
 There's a crash frequency, I'm not gonna, and then there's the average daily traffic. And this is the master street plan. And so,
 When you look at the Sainz Street extension that is needed, I think that will be a good thing, but the way that it is now with the current zoning, there's not gonna be any oversight. And it will basically be through a Lindsay apartment complex. So it's gonna be the way they have it formulated now, it's gonna go through their parking lot. And...
 This not only doesn't make sense, it becomes very dangerous for the residents and especially since this is a planned road to help take some pressure off of busy college and joy streets. So this is an example of behind Barnes & Noble where you have a road that goes through apartment complexes, but imagine that proposed thoroughfare going through the Lindsay apartments. My understanding
 is that a traffic study will only be done after the zoning goes through. I gave you a little example of my own traffic study leaving my office. As a layperson, I can't understand this logic and while we are waiting, okay. Finish with the slides, yes ma'am. Thank you for letting us do that.
 My understanding is that a traffic study will only be done after the zoning goes through. Again, as a layperson, I can't understand that. And why we are waiting to figure it out later, as other people have mentioned, after we allow this zoning to pass.
 And with the development that has been brought before us, being a high density rental apartment complex for the two parcels, I know we're voting on the zoning for those two parcels, but that's where they're going to put part of the apartments. Then I basically would urge the city councils as representatives of the people to be able to say no to this zoning and think through a better zoning alternative for these two pieces of land.
 All we are asking, is there a chance to formulate a plan with future input from the owners of the property, the city council, and community for these unique pieces of land? As stated repeatedly, the CS zoning that's been asked for does not allow. Time. Okay, sorry. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? That's me. Okay.
 Hi, my name is Diana St. Clair. My husband Kevin and I live at 3595 Belshire Drive. Okay, council, as you prepare, well, I'm supposed to address you. As you all prepare to go ahead and vote on this this evening on these two parts of the land, we all know it impacts the greater property that stretches across the entire, all the way over to almost Butterfield development.
 We we realize that it does meet the city goal of attainable housing but most of the other goals of your plans the 2020 and the 2050 2030 principles are realized with any number of projects and
 This vast swath of land that starts at Panera's and runs over to Butterfield will be clear cut. There will be some preservation around the creek, but these apartments will drastically impact the wildlife habitat and the beauty of the natural creek area forever.
 Now, we have no doubt that the developers have enjoyed enormous success in Fayetteville and the surrounding towns and states. And as a matter of fact, they've told us that they're the only game in town. This is true. We believe that this company has an even greater responsibility to entertain compromise and be outstanding corporate citizens. Nobody ever asked for eight acres of donated land, but we did ask for, could we improve on 20% tree canopy? Could we make that bigger?
 Please vote no for the rezoning request tonight so that potential of this unique and complicated property can be realized by balancing attainable housing with the concerns of the nearby neighborhood, ecosystem preservation, and what's truly best for the future of Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Sure. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Lawrence Gorski. I live at 1753 East Brookhaven Drive, also in Brookhaven Estates. I think over the last couple of meetings, we have heard some of the council members saying that this particular rezoning is sort of unusual in that we got the cart before the horse. Right.
 We don't know exactly what's going to be built there. I don't know if the council knows what's going to be exactly built there. We should do this right. They should submit detailed plans of what they want to do and then have it rezoned. So let's do it right. We heard what the promises are. And promises don't mean anything.
 So, again, I'm just saying let's do it right. Let's get the horse first. Let's get the specific plans and then do the rezoning. Okay. It's my understanding that the rezoning comes first, does it not, Kit? And then the detailed plans come after that. That's right. And with rezoning, you don't usually know for sure.
 In fact, almost never know for sure what is actually going to be built on the land. It's a rezoning decision just allows the different uses in that particular zones and what the density can be. And then later on, if they propose a preliminary plat or large-scale development based upon that zoning, then it must meet the zoning criteria.
 But we do have one zone that's called a planned zoning district that does show a little bit more of what the development might be, but that is purely optional with the developer or with the property owner. Most zoning is not that. Most zoning is like what is being requested here, community services zoning, which allows a multiple 
 number of uses and a particular size of unit and height and density, but that's all that city council knows, and really that's what we're supposed to be thinking about. That's what the Supreme Court has told us that we should consider, and we shouldn't consider
 projects because at this point in time there's really no project on the table you might have seen something it's really not for the City Council to try to determine anything based on that they're looking only at this single parcel and at the proper zoning which is in the best interest of the city of Fayetteville for this parcel so that's their issue that they're looking at okay anybody else any other public comment okay I'm gonna bring back to the council
 Okay, Slott. I'm not 100% sure how I'm going to vote. I've got a long list of questions for staff because we need to decide between I-1 and CS. That's what's kind of before us. I feel like a lot of the comments...
 are probably problems in either zone. So let's go ahead and go through some of these. What is the tree canopy coverage in I-1 versus CS? I-1 is 15%, CS is 20. So there's more tree coverage under CS. Okay. There is concern that there won't be a review for this. If a large scale development goes through that includes part of the RMF24, how will that be reviewed?
 the RMF 24 if it's over an acre it requires the Planning Commission to approve the large-scale development in the community services district staff can approve a large scale development with the proviso that it meets all the requirements of that district
 Planning Commission has the ability to grant variances and waivers as you know, you served on the Planning Commission. Staff does not. So the City Council, Pest City Council wanted to provide an incentive to use the farm-based districts and then certain farm-based districts, UT and CS, provided that incentive of administrative approval with the condition that it meets all the requirements.
 If there's a building that straddles the two zones. I believe that that would then, it would have to go through to Planning Commission. And if they're not asking for a variance and it meets all of our needs, I guess this would be a question for you. The Planning Commission has to vote yes? Yes.
 If they're asking for a variance, yes. However, the Planning Commission and Planning Department will be using the same standards to determine whether or not this meets all the requirements of the Unified Development Code. The Planning Commission doesn't have any greater discretion on approving or rejecting a parcel for large-scale development. They must follow the Unified Development Code and look at all the requirements for that. The discretion is at the rezoning level.
 And this is where you have discretion once property is zoned, uh, that gives the developer the rights to build what they want to do. As long as they follow all the rules, then it must be approved. Okay. Uh, is expected, uh, is there an expected traffic distance difference between I-1 and CS? Can you repeat the question? Is there an expected traffic distance between I-1 and CS? Um,
 That is a difficult question to answer. If you go to the most intense of those two districts, I believe, and Chris Brown can speak to it too, the I-1 would probably generate more. You would use, based on conventional practice, once you introduce the industrial retail and office uses.
 the assumptions probably would elevate the traffic generation. And that's before the bill of assurance that limits CS to three instead of five? Or I think I-1 is unlimited, correct? Yes, it is unlimited. There is a one-to-one requirement. It allows two stories with the base setback and then one-to-one height limit increase.
 as the setback increases, but there's no cap on that height. I want to also say that's why a traffic study is almost never requested for rezoning, because a traffic study really, to be valid, requires a number of...
 examinations of what is actually going to be built. Well, you know that was a preliminary plat or a large-scale development. You can see the structures, so you know how many units are going to be there. You know what type of unit. Is it commercial or residential? All of these generate different kinds of traffic. And so it's very rare that there would be a traffic study before a preliminary plat or a large-scale development is proposed because the traffic engineers don't know what to look for.
 They don't know how to measure it. They don't know exactly what's going to be built on that land, and that's why it would be extremely rare for a traffic study. That doesn't mean that you all cannot consider traffic and congestion in a rezoning decision. You can do that. The courts have said that. But you base that basically on the density that is allowed in that particular rezoning. So you can look at a worst-case scenario scenario,
 and you would look at both as you were doing what's there now, what is it zoned for now, as opposed to what it would be zoned for, and you can try to measure that out. I think the fact of the matter is that no matter what you're looking at, there could be a lot of traffic generated either the way it's zoned now or the way the applicant is asked to have it rezoned. I got one more question I may or may not ask.
 If we say no on the rezone based on wanting a third zoning, is that an issue? The city council, for the land that's before you, not for any other parcel, but for the land that's before you, the city council can determine that no, they just don't like the proposal and they actually don't like the current zoning and so you could actually use your legislative power
 to propose another zoning. Now, how many times has this happened in the 18 years I've been on the city council? I mean, as city attorney, I don't think I've seen it a single time because generally there's a lot of respect for the property owner's rights as well as the neighborhood's rights. And so usually if you don't like the proposed rezoning, you just vote it down. But I'm not saying that you do not have the power to,
 to do another rezoning because when we've done mass rezonings in the city, which we have in 1970s and then it might have been the last time we did actually a complete new rezoning, you didn't get consent of all the landowners to rezone it. I know I have some property on a dead-end road that was rezoned for apartments. Well, they didn't ask us about that. And later we had to bring rezoning action ourselves in so we could bring horses up and put it in our barn.
 Because it had been zoned for apartments. And hopefully we do better than that now. But the city council has great legislative power in rezonings. Okay. Like I said, I'm not 100% sure how I'm going to vote. I need to be convinced that I-1 is better for the neighborhood. Okay.
 than CS to not vote for that. And hopefully my fellow council members can shed light on that. We've heard a lot that we don't want trees down. I agree we don't want trees down. We've heard a lot we don't want traffic. I agree we don't want traffic. I would obviously rather look at a forest than an apartment or anything that is allowed in CS, but I don't think that's what we're voting on. We're voting on
 Is I1 better than CS or CS better than I1? And I think that's what the discussion needs to be on. Okay, thank you. Okay, other questions we have? We're on the third reading. What is the... Matthew. Yeah, I had a quick question as I'm gathering my thoughts. What's the tree cover of the parcels under question? 15%. Currently? Currently. Okay, thank you. Okay, sir.
 Okay, so we do have a bill of assurance, but the bill of assurance covers not only the proposed rezoned property or the property that is being proposed to be rezoned, it covers another piece of property that we're not supposed to talk about tonight. Right, which made it easy on me. Yeah. So can you pull up a map?
 that that shows how all of this property including the one that is already rezoned that has the bill of assurance on it uh can you pull up a map that will show how that lays okay determine my god this is probably the better best map i've got in terms of showing where the zoning districts are uh this is currently zone c2 this is i1
 and the RM 24 that is being discussed not part of this request is this is a brown area to the okay and Garner can you just kind of point out where the stream and the trail run kind of in relation to this the trail runs along but Creek okay okay all right thank you that's all I ever okay who else mark
 I'm going to say something that you've never heard me say before, I bet. If you want to know what's happening in a neighborhood, you go talk to the neighbors. No, I know that's getting old, but I do believe it. And this is, someone said that this was a complicated piece of property, and it is. The I-1 zoning, I don't think possibly could be developed with the acreage there and the terrain. I don't know. I'm not a builder. I'm not a builder.
 But there is certainly a more appropriate zoning than I-1, but there also is certainly a more appropriate zoning than C-2.
 I worked at the Bank of Arkansas at the corner of Frontage and Millsap. And I know all the back ways to get around up there by going down by the University of Arkansas's campus and then wheeling up through the church parking lot. I might have done that 150 times. I don't know. I do know that the problem at Millsap is critical. There were wrecks there. I think every week there was some kind of wreck there.
 With adding that piddly little Sain Street through there is not going to already, I mean, it's not going to relieve what is already happening. And I went back out there and tried to look at it and tried to get the vision. And traffic is a problem. It's not the main problem, maybe. It didn't in my books. The main problem is high density along Mud Creek, one of the most...
 traveled trails, I think, in the city. And there's a reason for that. It's beauty, but it's also an important stream that's going into the watershed. With 180 or so rooftops, we're not going to have, and everyone knows this, we're not going to have the protection of runoff. And also in a high density multifamily development, there's not a lot of
 You know, a lot of times multifamily is just all parking because you've got three levels and they're pretty close and everyone wants parking. And if you ever lived in a big 180 unit apartment, that's a lot of parking. This is not the place to put asphalt from one end to the other.
 Even if you have some very commercially beautiful flower beds with sprinklers, that's not what Mud Creek is anyway, and it's not going to do the job. I know there will be engineered management, but engineered management is not the same as the nature that is there right now that is protecting the area. It's very steep.
 on that south side. From where my office looked out over at the south, at Bank of Arkansas, we were very high. And it was not uncommon during a large rain to see a very large amount of water going from the church up there on the southeast, kind of of that, it is on the southeast of that property,
 Again, because it was paved and it was a large amount of pavement if it was a large rain It did come down across that hill at a pretty good velocity and certainly a pretty good volume So that's another reason I would not vote for this Everyone always talks about the vision 2050 and the city plan 2030 and these are nice documents
 they're not the gospel but that reminds me that people interpret the bible different too and i hear these two documents used to support two sides of an argument argument on a regular basis because everyone sees them differently what we've got to look at is the reality of what the impact of a zoning has not a development unless it's a pzd and you have to look at the worst case scenario because
 In the nine years that I've been here, there's been the switcheroonie, a lot of property. It comes in and everyone speculates what kind of pizza place it's going to be or what kind of beautiful tower it's going to be. And then before you know it, it's changed hands and it's not anything that it said it was going to be. And we kept listening to an imaginary...
 rather than looking at the worst-case scenario of a zone because that could happen without any... You know, there's nothing really you could do about it. This is the wrong zoning for this property. That's the bottom line. I think that it can be developed into a beautiful residential multifamily development, but I think it's going to take coordination with the neighborhood. It's going to take coordination with...
 individuals that have a vision to respect the natural beauty along Mud Creek. And we really need to protect Mud Creek. And just because there's a document that says you need a riparian zone of so much, right? It doesn't mean that that is a perfect calculation. In this situation,
 area where you're getting the large amount of water come already it's already a large amount of water coming off the church parking lot it's a lot of pavement up there and rooftop and then it's going to go down and it's going to accumulate with the the unpermeable uh pavement of 180 maybe this would that could be that's not even the worst case scenario
 So anyway, I'm not supporting this. I'm going on and on and going in circles. There's a lot of reasons this is the inappropriate. I don't think I-1 is necessarily appropriate, but I don't think it will ever be a developed I-1. It could be, I guess. But if you look at the property and where it's located, I don't think that that's it. Thanks. Okay. Okay.
 Trace. Thank you, Mayor. Um, Carter or Susan, could you pull up the map that shows the floodplain of the property, that area with the floodplain in the back, please? From my point of view, we are not really looking at, uh, I was thinking the one, actually, uh, I was thinking there was a different one. I think there's one past that, because this one, the one I have on my screen, um, I don't
 This does show the flood way and the 100-year flood plain. The 100-year flood plain, if you can follow my cursor, is... Okay. There's a... Yeah, I can... If you want me to, I can go to that. It shows the same thing as this slide. I think it just illustrates it a little bit better, clearer. Okay. I have to come out of this slide show and go to the agenda packet to get that one. Okay. Thank you. I think what we're really not...
 we kind of skate around all the time is climate change we have got to start thinking in the context of climate change I know I kind of harp on that but if we're looking down the road 10 20 30 40 years our 2050 vision we should have something in there about top priority is ensuring against climate change because it is happening and it's happening quick
 And so I see these pictures from the 2011 flood. That's not been that long ago. That whole area was flooded. I just question our sensibility in allowing anything to be built there. I know that tonight we're not really considering that, but I think we should be thinking about it in the backs of our mind and how we move forward. There it is, thank you so much.
 Because so much of this property is right in the floodplain. That's the 100-year floodplain where that blue is. So a huge chunk of it is in there. We've been talking a lot about stormwater runoff. There was a mailer that went out yesterday.
 I've already gotten an unhappy response from one of our citizens saying that we've created the problem of the storm runoff because we've built too much. We have too many impervious surfaces. And so the downstream neighbors are experiencing flooding and they shouldn't have to pay a fee because of that flooding that we, the city, created. And I have some sympathy about that.
 And here we are tonight talking about a huge development with a huge amount of impervious surface that is going to affect our downstream neighbors. So that's just one, that's one issue. But I think in my mind that's probably one of the largest. The other thing that people have talked about tonight is the traffic. It's terrible around there. And I do not think that the addition of that new road is really going to take much pressure off of it.
 So, for those reasons, I am definitely going to vote against this and I really would like to see us have some other ideas about how we deal with planning and building in the future in these floodplain areas because we don't have much control over climate change and we don't have any control over our geology and the topography of this area.
 Our hydrology is such with cars that we have flash floods, often it doesn't take very much. And so again, we need to, just like Los Angeles builds with earthquakes in mind, or Seattle does with earthquakes in mind, we need to build and plan within the context of having flash floods and climate change. So thank you for listening to me. Thank you. Sarah. Yes, excuse me.
 I'm going to ramble on just a little bit here, and hopefully I'll bring it full circle, hopefully. I think of all the reasons why this might be a preferable rezoning.
 You know, as Mark said, I doubt that this is going to be zoned, I mean it's already zoned I-1, but I doubt that anybody's going to build the things that they could build there, the worst case scenarios there. Just because of the way the land is, the way it's in the flood plain, all of those things. But I think about this as an area for apartments, where people might want to live.
 You know, it ticks a lot of boxes for me as far as letting a person, you know, letting a company buy property and use it to its fullest extent. If we have housing there, I think that is preferable to a factory or something like that. Right.
 I also feel that for someone who would be living in an apartment, this is a great location. You can easily get to, you know, you're not far from the trail system. You can get on the trail. If you worked at the hospital, you could ride your bike to the hospital. You could, on your way back home, stop and get a beer or go to the grocery store or any number of things like that. And it...
 In a lot of ways, it could take a lot of cars off the road, if you look at the ability to connect to trails and stuff like that. Okay, okay. I'm not done. Okay.
 Okay. I'm not done. Y'all. You need to listen to what I'm about to say. That's right. Everybody listen to y'all. Now you need to listen to the council. That's fair. So in a lot of respects, I think that this would be a great place to provide housing for people. You think about, you know, a lot of comments have been made about it.
 it's lindsay we know what they build we know what it looks like and that sort of thing and we're not really looking at that we're just looking at is this an appropriate place to put something that is more in line with what the property next to it is already zoned now that being said i think
 I think about what type of parking will be in there. With a large number of apartments requires a large number of parking. That poses a problem for me when I consider runoff right on the creek. And this is a really, this is such a weird piece of property because it's just tucked right up there between the creek and this fairly steep hillside. So...
 that that the runoff is an issue for me I was on water and sewer committee for a long time and I'm on the the committee looking at the storm water management for our city these these are big concerns this is an area that has had flooding in the past and I think when you it is buildable with I believe two feet of
 build up is that correct that is correct so that's the regulatory elevation right building up in two feet in elevation i think was what it what's required so then i think well what do you know what do you build when you build a side up what do you use you use red dirt usually which is you know i think of this running into the creek and that sort of thing too um the traffic through there
 Right now is is really it's a terrible intersection at Millsap It's it's hard to get around through there I used to work at Coldwell Banker for a long time and I just you know when I got to that stoplight I would just kind of go, you know When I when it was like green I like everybody else was doing the same thing, but It's it's a traffic is a nightmare in there. That is correct. I
 And I think that because of where this property is laying, it requires a more subtle approach. We have a bill of assurance that ties all these properties together. And that's good in a way because you look at what we're not talking about is the property that's already zoned, but it is tied in with that on the bill of assurance that's already zoned RMF 24-7.
 You know, you can build some pretty heavy-duty stuff on that right now, right now. So what I want to look at is just the property that we are talking about rezoning. And I just don't feel that this is the best option. I think that we, and I may be wrong. Someone could come in there right now and build something, you know, that would be an I-1 zoning that you really wouldn't like.
 and we couldn't really do much to stop them. But I'm not feeling that this is appropriate zoning. I think we need something, a little more subtle approach to this. And the bill of assurance I know is supposed to assure us that they're not going to build something huge, but I still feel, I'm just not feeling that this is right, and I won't be voting in favor of this. So now you can laugh. Okay, okay. I'm not sure. Okay.
 Okay, sure. Thank you. I've really struggled with this one because the last thing I want to see is another Lindsay apartment complex, especially built in a floodplain. But on the other hand, I do believe that the CS zoning is superior to the existing I-1 zoning.
 And we absolutely have a need for workforce housing. You know, if we're going to have an economy with a lot of minimum wage jobs, we need to have housing that minimum wage workers can afford. And that's generally about a housing expense of about $400 a month. Those are not single family homes that we all want in our neighborhood. That unfortunately is some high density apartments that are pretty cheaply built. I'd rather see us raise wages, but we don't have the authority to do that.
 I'm concerned about the lack of connectivity in this area. I don't really think the Sane Street extension is going to do that much for us. I voted against it in the Transportation Committee meeting. I feel like it's a transportation solution for the last century instead of this one. But it's approved and it's going to get built. And there's not really much we can do from this point forward.
 But the floodplain is what is getting me. I do want to see some level of development on this land. I do want it to include workforce housing. But I also think it needs to include some other neighborhood services so that this is a mixed-use neighborhood. Okay.
 And I do believe that you can build responsibly in a floodplain, but I don't believe that our codes are going to require the level of responsibility that is really needed in this sensitive area. So based on the stormwater issue, I want to see a PZD. I think that we need to be looking at this in depth and working with the neighbors and being responsible in the face of global climate change.
 So, yes, I want to see some development on this lot. I definitely don't want to see it I-1, but I agree that we're unlikely to get the worst case scenario or have it built out. I do believe we have a developer that wants to do the right thing and would like to develop this parcel into something that is appropriate for the neighborhood and for our economic reality.
 SO I THINK I'M GOING TO VOTE AGAINST THIS AND HOPE THAT WE SEE A BETTER PROPOSAL THAT MEETS MORE OF OUR COMPREHENSIVE LONG-RANGE GOALS. OKAY. KOT. THIS ONE'S TAKEN A LOT OF THOUGHT, BUT I CAN'T SAY THAT I'VE EVER BEEN CONFLICTED ON IT. I THINK I'VE HAD A PRETTY...
 I had a firm expectation of how I was going to vote on this one throughout. I just want to share a little bit about the process that I've gone through on this one. I made a commitment to myself, at least, when I got up here that I was not going to turn away a better decision or a better situation holding out for a perfect one.
 When I first saw CS, where there was a previously, or is currently, industrial and C whatever at this point, I was pretty firmly in support of this. It is the potential for a high-density project at, and I think I said this two weeks ago, at the terminus of the expressway in California
 What is, we like to complain about the traffic over there, but I think it's better to plan for traffic in the future than traffic now, and I see us actively planning lots of solutions for this area. The same street as one. It's not a silver bullet. It's not going to fix the problems at Millsap by itself.
 but we're working on other things down college that I think funnel into this and aggravate the situation. Those aren't going to be fixed maybe by the time something gets built here, but I think we are actively going that direction. It is the opportunity to put people near an existing trail so that they can use more trail, and I thought that's hard to turn down.
 And Mr. Jarrett said at the beginning, pretty plainly, that the neighborhood concerns have not been so much about this property as they were about another parcel that wasn't brought to us. And so I'm pretty good at playing the black box planner game. If you tell me I'm not allowed to consider that, I can pretend I'm locked in a dark room and I can look at the project in front of me.
 Then Mr. Jarrett brought us this bill of assurance and stuck a big old wedge in the door and let the light in. We have no choice but to talk about the RMF 24 portion next door because it's included as part of the conditions on this property. And that got the whole thing muddy down by Mud Creek. That, whether it's...
 legal or a good idea it just it's it's a messy arrangement to consider and on top of that it's limiting to the portion on the west side as as appropriate as that bill of assurance may be on the west on the eastern property that we're not considering i i don't think it's the right set of limits to put on the the eastern part and then i hear all the floodplain stuff too and i
 Question whether or not what I would like to see here could ever be built here but I concur with fellow council members here that this is Not the not the better option from what we have right now but I'm intrigued by where this conversation started when councilmember Scroggins asked if We could pick a third option because
 that means that I may not have to choose between what's better than what we have now and what we have now. I might be able to find that perfect option, that opportunity may be in front of us if there are suggestions about what that third option might be. I've heard PZD tossed around a lot and I think I mentioned it two weeks ago. I would love to see that. I think that's appropriate here. I guess I have a technical question.
 If we don't like the zoning that's there, and we don't like the zoning that's proposed, we like the PZD process here, can we zone something PZD without a plan and with the expectation that somebody will bring a plan in the future? That's an easy question to answer. No, no, you can't.
 That's what I expected the answer to be, but it was worth having that answer out there, so nobody has to wonder. We can't zone it that and demand that. Well, PCD has, you have to create all of the requirements, all the setbacks, all the density, all the uses. Right now, if you try to do PCD, there's nothing there.
 okay so they could build nothing and nobody knows what to do and so no i don't recommend so doing that would be akin to taking away all of the entitlements on the land we're buying the land basically okay well let's not do that then um but i i think i will i will join the group here in voting no on the plan that's in front of us in hopes that a better one comes forward
 One that is actually better than what we have now. Okay. John? A couple things. I know we're talking about the environment and climate.
 We've known since the 60s that grouping people densely together, if you have the same amount of people, is far better for the environment than spreading them out. You can just go look at heat maps of carbon emissions per person and we'll find
 before we would say, hey, New York has a lot of pollution. But once you go, what's the pollution per person, it actually completely flipped. So I am interested in having something that has density here. I'm interested in having something that has residential here. It may not be mixed use, but it will make the area mixed use. I'm glad that PZD was mentioned a couple times before I had to mention it. I am also interested in PZD.
 that does not mean it derails the project. So if they come up with something that's reasonable and high density, I'm probably gonna go vote for that if it's reasonable. So hopefully we can all be part of that process.
 And if it's just a whole bunch of no's from the neighborhood as they go through different iterations, I'm probably still going to vote for it if it's actually something reasonable. But I will be voting no today for a PZD. If Kyle had not asked that question, I would have answered it. By saying that we want to switch to the third option to a PZD, it's not really a third option. It's kind of killing it here, and it's going to have to come back.
 Well, I could suggest, rather than just voting no on this, is to potentially table it and give the developer and the planning department a chance to maybe come back with a better zoning, something that the city council would be more likely to accept and maybe the neighbors would like also better. So I would suggest that maybe you think about that. It would have to be zoning. I mean, it had to be a tabling plan.
 at least a month maybe a month and a half before you could expect anything that would be viable that might come back so that's another option if you would prefer that rather than just a no vote here um I know the neighborhood wants us to vote in some way that it just kills it until a couple years down the road um I'm really concerned that we're going to miss his own stuff
 Just so we push development past so when we're talking about 15 years from now at some point It's going to get developed at whatever where zone it is I'm pretty sure I won will actually get developed as soon as that row goes in So we need to make sure it's zoned correctly And not just let's zone. It's something that the applicant doesn't want so it goes away. I
 uh that that would not be a good way uh to move the city forward i think i think we have to make sure we get the the zoning right um and not just vote in a way that makes it difficult to develop so i'm definitely interested in a pzd i will make a motion to table later there's obviously a lot of other people on the speed so thank you okay
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. I feel like from the beginning, the land was inappropriately zoned, and so now we're having this conversation in this very sensitive area. So I don't really know how we...
 prevent that in the future, it seems like to have commercial on a creek is a terrible idea, especially in a flood plain. So now here we are with this conversation, of which I've been visiting a lot of sites that have a lot of flooding issues around town. And what I missed in some of those maps, but I can imagine it because I know the area, is there's this very steep topography. So the topography lines, if they were up there, there'd be a whole bunch of them
 And that would just be a catchment. I mean, that's just, it's helping to relieve flooding from the street and the restaurants that are there. So, and I think we're only anticipating that potentially getting worse. So, I don't want to worsen the problem. And if anybody moves in there with apartments, they're going to need to boat. That's what's going to happen. And so...
 I just can't, I'm already having to visit people that have a lot of flooding issues, and we're talking about potentially worsening that. So I will definitely not be supporting it, and it's just because where we are, this is the conversation we have. It's not the best, to me, the best zoning that we can have to keep it at commercial, but that's the decision we're making. Now that it sounds like we may be headed towards a,
 motion to table I'm curious what the the renotification requirements are for tabling to a date certain or tabling indefinitely when it does come back up how how would the neighbors be renotified or would they just have to watch agendas may I suggest that you might take some consult with the applicant whether that is something they would entertain or
 because if we're talking about a planned zoning district, it will take more time than the city attorney mentioned. We can certainly look at conventional districts, but the planned zoning district requires very specific plans that have to be put together, which probably takes more time than that.
 But you could table it for that amount of time and see what happens and then we can come back and you could add some time or you could table it indefinitely.
 It might be something the applicant might have some advice on if you wanted to listen to that. So I guess I was asking about notification. If it were tabled to a certain date, there wouldn't be a new re-notification. If it were tabled indefinitely, would they have to re-notify before it came back up? I believe both would be re-notified. Okay. Thank you. And it's 15 days for both. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I have a few comments written down, but first I'd like to ask Mr. Jarrett a question. Yes, sir. I heard what our Development Services Director just said and counting votes up here, it looks like we're going to get voted down tonight. So I wanted to ask you, would you prefer that it be tabled or would you prefer you get a clean no?
 If we tabled it for two months, realistically from an engineering standpoint, we would have to have that amount of time to get the level of detail Mr. Stahl is talking about. We would probably prefer that. But we're not the only ones in this ballgame. We'd have to get an extension from the actual landowner. Understood. Thank you for answering my question directly. So I had a couple of thoughts.
 I'd say the bottom line for me is I think community services is a fine zoning compared to what's there and is even appropriate in the grand scheme of things. I wasn't on the council then, but if I was, I might express some regrets tonight that the third parcel is zoned RMF24 because I don't think that that's the best zoning for that property and I wish it was a part of our deliberations so that we could talk about it and negotiate on it.
 um but with respect to the two parcels there i do think community services are are generally fine i'm not particularly concerned like some of the other council members are about i1 i agree with council member scrogg and that when the roads complete all the land is likely to be developed even if it never gets rezoned but i see the bigger threat in the near term is c2 which is what all of the frontage street now has been developed under and most of joyce itself
 And right now there's nothing preventing something like another bread company or another fast food restaurant or anything like that from going in on C2. That's really what that zoning designation was created for. And I see that as a bigger threat to the long-term health of the area. I really appreciated the comment about thinking of things in terms of per person metrics.
 And that's really what in terms of traffic in terms of runoff in terms of just about everything Leads me to support something like this in a in a central location but I do have concerns about floodplain development more generally and I would suggest that if something could be developed to be proposed to us in the coming weeks and
 that dealt more specifically with floodplain management that it might go some distance with the council and perhaps even with some of the neighbors. I think in particular, personally speaking, I would love to see a commitment to low impact development techniques and flood control above and beyond what's required in our current ordinance, which does manage peak flow, but does not manage for the duration of the peak flow. And so I'm proud that our current ordinance
 to be more specific will prevent flooding from being worse but i'm cognizant that it doesn't prevent flooding from being longer and i see that as a as a legitimate concern of the of the property um very interested in seeing a better tree preservation and i think the zoning actually accomplishes that but not in terms of the rmf 24 parcel that isn't a part of what we're considering and that's a big reason i wish that we could consider it when it comes to the traffic um
 Kind of held my nose and have supported the same street extension although I've come around to believe that it's a good In a general sense for the transportation networks of the city. I do believe like everybody else It's not going to solve all the problems It never could for a little bit of history those problems exist because of the Fulbright Expressway itself and
 There's no way to get from north of the Fulbright Expressway to south of the expressway except by using College or Gregg and I believe it was a mistake for the city to build that expressway. There was a competing idea at the time that would use the same federal aid dollars to establish a north and south and east by west grid in the same area and we would not have the problems that we have today if that had been the decision. It's a terrible mistake and we're dealing with it every day.
 One of the reasons that I'm really keen on seeing apartments in this location or higher density housing in general is that I do believe retail follows rooftops. And when I read our plans, I see that this calls for this to be an area with a little bit higher or a little bit more mixing of uses. And even though the current proposal is by an applicant that's pretty unlikely to develop commercial uses,
 and retail retail following rooftops is just a fact of the way cities work it's fundamental to the way cities work and crossroads and the marketplace works and the addition of a couple hundred more households is surely to inspire more investment for commercial amenities on either end of the same Street extension so I see that as
 the mixed use as an ecosystem, as something that will be accomplished on a variety of parcels across what we might think of as a district. It's been some time, but about five years ago, I actually wrote a grant to do a demonstration project for water quality treatment on Mud Creek, and we didn't get the grant, but
 The status for Mud Creek hasn't changed. It's formally designated, unless something's changed recently, it's formally designated as an endangered waterway with respect to pollution. And all of that comes from, well the lion's share of it comes from parking lots that were developed on C2 parcels. Almost all of it, almost all of it.
 And that's the first flush effect of stormwater and pavement, where the first hour of stormwater runoff from pavement is actually more polluted than our sewage system. And that is the biggest threat to Mud Creek today, is the continued development of C2-style properties.
 So anyway, that's been a long way of saying, I'm generally in support of the intent behind CS. I'd love to work with somebody to have better floodplain management rules for all developments across all of the floodplains in Fayetteville. I'd be eager for that. I'm hopeful that in the next couple of weeks, we might see some commitment to that, and I might also suggest a consideration of
 some of the other zoning designations we already have in the books but i'll leave it there i'll support the tabling okay so uh i'm gonna be uh making a motion to table i do want to ask the applicant um unless sarah has something that she okay i was gonna table your motion or second your motion if it was to table indefinitely table my table i'd like to ask the applicant what time
 do you think is best? And I guess I'd also ask staff that. We would need two months, realistically, to be able to turn the engineers loose and then get it back, get notifications, and go forward. I think two months minimum. I had two months in my mind. I just wanted to make sure y'all are okay with it and feel like we're tabling. I mean, obviously, if we'd table at six months, that'd be inappropriate. But I feel like a table of two months is appropriate. That'd be the fastest we could move.
 Okay, so I make the motion to table for two months. Do I need a specific date? November 19th. Awesome. November 19th. I'll second that. We have a motion and second to table for two months to November the 19th. Okay, I think we've said it all pretty much tonight. I do want to give one little, I appreciate the discussion on the PZDs. I will tell you why.
 When I first came on the council, the PCD helped avoid what we have right here tonight. Kit Williams remembers that time. I used them all the time in Ward 4, particularly on the west side of town where we were developing.
 We would put the developers and the neighborhood together, and we would work it out. I'd call special ward for meetings. I mean, I'm not telling you all how to run your business, but I'm just saying it worked for myself and Shirley Lucas because everybody got in the room, everybody compromised, and eventually you worked something out. That might take a little bit of time, but we invested that kind of time in our ward.
 Now, we got away from PZD. We got into a lot of form-based code, and it was quicker and faster. But we're starting to rub up against neighborhoods now, and they're concerned about exactly what's being built around them. And I would certainly encourage the use of the PZD because we used them all the time when I was in my early years as a council. Little by little, we got away from them.
 because they took a long time to do they just do so on one hand you don't want to hold development up and on the other hand you don't want a quick flash from a neighborhood and we found that the pzd's accomplished sort of both but the pzd's a long process but you come out with everybody on pretty much well not everybody maybe always on the same page but most everybody on something
 I just wanted to say that before we voted. And with that, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Table. Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Okay. So we're tabling for two months, right? That's correct. Okie dokie. Moving right along to number three. Okay.
 making great time it's barely eight o'clock mayor not bad for two items okay but I'm not going to read the title on this next one I'm gonna have Devin give a report on the entertainment district and what he has done because I need some more time to work on this if we read the title that we're automatically going to be on the third reading right kit
 Yes, we would be on the third reading unless you table it before it's time for us to do the reading. So I guess let's listen to Devin and see if he can make some good points. If anybody's here to speak on the entertainment district in the public, we'll hear that too. But we need some more time on this. Yes, we'd like a month. Well, why don't you give your report to the council? Last time we talked about the last council meeting, Council Member Petty and the mayor discussed business involvement.
 The businesses asked us a series of questions. I want to recap some of the concerns, just refreshing everybody's memory on it. That it would be a potential slippery slope to a permanent district being established or these special events rising in popularity where it becomes, by default, something that's quite regular. General liability, that was not our question to answer. That was the state, specifically ABC. How it affects their liquor license, something not ours to answer, ABC's.
 sanitation, safety, etc. Thankfully, Blake actually had a conversation with ABC's legal counsel. We were referred to him by our local agent and we do have some answers and while we have the answers we want to make sure while we have an open dialogue with ABC that is this exactly what they wanted to know? Is there anything else?
 We're not in a rush, as Mayor Jordan indicated last week. We'll take our time. The mayor has also asked us to ask what the public thinks about this. Our sidewalks, our streets, our downtown, it's theirs too. And we'd like to get their opinion on how they envision this potential ordinance working out.
 And I will do my best to speak to what ABC said, and Blake, please feel free to clarify. But in regards to that, the alcohol permittee's responsibility has not changed. That was an assumption that we made initially, but we do have that in writing. And what I mean by that is one of the concerns that was brought up is if a business chooses to participate in an event,
 and they serve a cup of alcohol. They work very hard to protect their environment, but what if that adult walks out and hands that to an underage minor? A business isn't liable unless they knew that that cup was going to a minor. And so we do have confirmation that that line of liability is the same.
 ABC also did admit that that component of liability is going to make it very difficult to prove that their ABC is going it's going to make it very difficult and they're gonna have a hard time finding and also Persecuting permittees that over served because it's going to be very hard to trace this back to an establishment You look at what other cities have done with this the city has controlled that the cup and the invisible identifier have looked like so that it
 It doesn't have that business's logo on it so that they can control the flow of that. We do have that in writing as well. We'll be sharing that with businesses and we'll call them back together. We know of some other meetings that have been set up that are next week that we'd like to be present at. Again, the same consensus, sidewalk cafes, everybody's excited about that. We're also going to look at what areas can we actually deploy that and maintain ADA working with Garner's office.
 But the big thing is going to be public comment. And we'll be working with Susan's team in communication. We're going to set up a speak-up page, get a survey rolling, and see what feedback we can get. And we'll report back in a month. I'd be happy to answer any questions if I can. We'll have questions. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for doing a little bit of research, Devin, and helping out the rest of the team. I did have a couple of questions. Yes.
 First, I was wondering if you could describe the nature of the districts that other cities in Arkansas have established and whether or not they're event-based or open or require street closures or don't, or just a little comparison and contrast. I have some fantastic notes a few pages back, if you'd let me find them, that actually details what exactly other cities are doing. All right, perfect. Perfect.
 So Mountain Home was the first city to adopt an entertainment district. Is that a comparable to Fayetteville? No, we're not Mountain Home. But for respects, I will go through this. In Mountain Home, it is 4.30 p.m. to midnight every day, their entire downtown. Now, their entire downtown is a block of ours, essentially, a little bit bigger. So that is extreme. That is extremely generous of the city. And we can go down to Little Rock.
 Little Rock is doing both. They're not only set up kind of a permanent district, but also an events-based approach for other parts of the area like that the ordinance on for that you're considering is looking at. Specifically Little Rock's Friday, Saturday, Sunday evening with specific times. Their ordinance also designates holiday hours, specific dates throughout the year, and it does a permit approach. Now the permit approach I believe they'll probably going to bring back at another ordinance and I think I took that from the ABC's email that that's not finalized yet.
 And then Fayetteville. So if you look at Fayetteville, what is being proposed is sidewalk cafes through the conditional use permit process where we work with Garner's office, but also event-based. So that it has to go through the event review process with police, and then ultimately the mayor is the one that signs off on that event in a closed street environment. And so essentially, as Garner's original presentation showed, we showed beer gardens.
 And that beer garden, if you look at on the Block Street Block Party that was originally referenced, a participant would have been able to walk in that closed area, not leaving said district, instead of just the beer cage where everybody was congregated.
 Those are the ones that have been passed to my knowledge. I do know other cities are working on them too. Did Fort Smith get theirs passed? Not to my knowledge that I've seen, but I know that other cities would. I think Murphy's Archdurch might have passed theirs yet. I'd have to look to be accurate, though. Just one clarification. I know it hasn't meant this, but the sidewalk cafe is not a conditional use. Council changed that a couple of weeks ago. Just a permit process through your office. It's by right use.
 And that big change being that barrier that goes around that outdoor seating area, being able to serve with traditional glassware, not in the designated cup, but somebody being able to have a meal, have a glass of wine, and a wine glass at that table. And we think that's going to look at opening up businesses' space, but you look at something, too. It talks about public right-of-way, the parklet on Dixon, et cetera.
 Thank you. And I would be really interested in hearing about anybody that adopts another ordinance in the meantime. I assume Fort Smith was celebrating theirs based on my Facebook feed, but that's the only data I have. And maybe we'll do more research on the existing cities. So I'm happy to take more time, but I also want to voice some thoughts of my own and relay some thoughts that I've heard from multiple businesses at either end of Dixon
 This is street concerns that I've heard so far seem to stem around only one thing and that's that the street is required to be closed And I honestly don't see the logic in requiring the street to be closed. I understand there's a concern about public drunkenness But I don't think street closures fix it. None of the other cities that have passed this require a street closure None that we can tell none of the other cities across the country that have a
 districts like this require the streets to be closed that I can tell maybe there are some some exceptions so I think that's a solution without a real problem you know a lot of people leaving the bars today without a cup in their hands are already in a state of inebriation and so I don't think there's much of a change whenever we have an open container situation
 personally also I think that we're being a little bit timid by restricting this to events only I really admire Little Rock's approach where they have a permanent district where it's obvious where it would be and they allow this to be done via events in other locations I think that's
 an elegant solution to the kinds of activities that are already taking place on the river market and the kinds of activities that they hope to take place in other areas of their city as places like South Main are revitalized.
 So in the next month, I expect you'll hear some real similar feedback from the public and from businesses. But I hope that the council will consider doing this in the way that other cities are doing it. I think there are important tourism implications, and there are important quality of life implications for those of us who already live here and might take advantage of these opportunities.
 uh and uh you know i think in fayetteville i think if other cities can um crack the nut on responsible public drinking so can fayetteville okay tracy thank you mayor um hi devon i think um i think texarkana passed something so it'd be really interesting to see what they came up with um there's about three or four of them there's texarkana and i was thinking
 And then I'm also wondering if you could look at college towns across the country and what they've done. Because I think we have a really different situation here than the other towns that we've been talking about. We have a vibrant college base. There's others of us that frequent Dixon Street too.
 you know i i'm i uh i actually um have an alternative opinion than council member petty but i'd like to it would be nice to see what other college towns that are very similar to payable that already have a really good thriving area and how they've been able to control that or enhance it but not overdo it be happy to thank you welcome okay
 Anybody else? Yes, slide. I actually worked in security at a bar. I found it was the non-university students that were actually more likely to end up in fights and throw down instead of the college students.
 I think the fraternities usually take them to other places, the ones that would cause a problem instead of Dixon. So that's just what I observed. Anybody else? What public comment do we have on this? We're going to table it for about a month, or we're going to hold it for about a month. Do we have anybody that wishes to speak on this? Just to clarify, if you're going to table it, then I don't have my hand up.
 we're going to probably tell you I'm going to ask the council hold it for a month we need a little more input on this as I'm finding out as I go along
 um i'll make the motion to table and i'll for one month and i'll do that now i would request that if the ordinance can be separated so that the sidewalk cafes portion can be passed in a clean version that we we do that if not tonight uh at the next meeting i don't see any reason to hold that up but i'll make the motion to it's october 15th yeah so uh second did you actually make the motion i feel like i did yeah we've got a motions table for a month
 Are you going to say I'm waiting for a, okay. Teresa, do you have something else? I just want a point of order. So are we making the motion to table both pieces or are we going to separate them out? I don't know. That's a great question. It's really, you know, it's one ordinance now and it's you're tabling the ordinance. So on the 15th, we can certainly have a separate one for the sidewalk cafe, but
 To table half an ordinance for a month and then the other for two weeks when they're not really separated yet is probably not very parliamentarily possible to do. I think it would be great to see them come back as two separate pieces. Okay. So what do you all want to do? I see Devin motioning that he'd like to speak. I'd like to bring him up. Yeah, sure.
 Um, if the comeback is separate, that would enable us to get communication out because in order to activate that rule of the entertainment district, we have to designate an entertainment district and adopt it. And I'd like to get some communications to the business community so that they don't think that, you know, we're jumping the gun, that we're going to do this in two phases. Um, and I think it would potentially be okay to do it at the next meeting on the sidewalk cafes. I just like to talk to them. Okay. Thank you.
 I can assure you all I'm not in any hurry. I didn't really get engaged in this until about a month ago, and it has been quite an education for me in the last month or so, visiting with all the business owners and all. So we need a little more time. So we need to vote, don't we? That's right. All right. Lisa, would you call the roll, please? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 uh yes and we're missing our huh the thing the voting thing that's why I always prefer paper yes oh there we go there we go I'm still a yes okay yes yes yes all right thank you all
 We'll have something in a month. I think we might be able to pass this one, Mayor, but we're going to need an amendment before you probably read the title because we had, as you remember from the last meeting, Mr. Nyander pointed out that the amount needed to be changed. I have handed out to the council the changed ordinance, and so once Tim explains this to you, then we need a vote to amend it. There you go. Okay. Okay.
 you want me to read the ordinance well probably after the the current ordinance has the wrong amounts okay so it'd probably be better to let tim explain unless amend it and then you can read the correct one all righty go ahead and explain thank you mayor well if you remember we held on the first reading at the last council meeting because our engineering estimates
 for the installation of a 12 inch water line between Tannier Drive and Weir Road, came in at $206,070. When the bid from the contractor came in, it was $262,153.40. Additionally, we had a 50% contingency, which went from 30,900 to 39,323.
 Still again with this cost share the city of favor would benefit from this as it would provide an extra 12 inch grid to the system to Complete it in a future date and will provide ample future capacity which will be necessary for this area and Construction will be less expensive and less disruptive if done by the developers contractor during the construction of the road and of the subdivision and
 so i would suggest with that explanation someone moved to amend to the ordinance we handed out tonight that has the correct figures on it sarah i move that we amend to accept the proposed language okay theresa i second that we have a motion to second to amend to the proposal this is what you call the road
 Gutierrez Marsh Kenyon Eddie Scroggins Turch Smith And now
 an order this way the requirements form competitive bidding and to approve the cost share agreement with buffington where llc for the installation of a water main along a portion of grupo road with the estimated amount of 262 152 dollars and 40 cents to be paid by the city of federal to approve a project contingency in the amount of 30 320 and to approve a budget adjustment yeah well
 You could suspend the rules or I can go ahead and read. Okay, hang on. I'll entertain a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. So moved. Second. Well, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you call the roll again, please? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes.
 And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding, I approve a cost-share agreement with Buffington Weir LLC for the installation of a water main along a portion of Rupert Road with the estimated amount of $262,152.40 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville to approve a project contingency in the amount of $30,320 and to approve a budget adjustment. Okay. Okay.
 Once again, the city will benefit from this project as we will be less expensive and less disruptive than done by the developer's contractor. Okay. Any questions for Tam? I just want to look at a clarification because I don't know if the numbers are transposed, but the one that you handed out, that's the corrected one? That is correct.
 Because it's got $30,320 and not $30,900. The project contingency, the figures I was given was $30,320. Is that not right? $39,323. $39,323. $39,323. That's what we've got in the package is what you're saying.
 I'm just confused which one is which, the correct one. That's just not right. It's $39,000, right? $39,323. That's not right. Okay, then we need to amend the ordinance to the $39,000 figure. Yeah. How much we got now? $39,000 what? $39,000.
 320, just 39,000 instead of 30,000. I'll just put me a nine in there. This government works. Okay. This is a cursed project. So we're going to do an amendment. Yes, Sandra. Okay. So I can make an amendment? You sure can. Okay. I hope you do. Okay. So I'm in that we correct the project contingency to 39,320. That's a contingency. That's correct. All right. I'll second that. Well, there we go.
 We have a motion and a second to amend again, to announce again, to $39,320. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Kateris? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Okay.
 i'm going to bring back to the council we might have something we can pass mayor it's looking good it's looking good kyle if everyone's done proofreading then i'll motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading yes motion second go to third and final reading lisa would you please call the roll yes marsh yes
 Ginnion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes.
 And, Your Honor, it's the way the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Buffington Weir LLC for the installation of a water main along a portion of Rufo Road with the estimated amount of $262,152.40 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville to approve a project contingency in the amount of $39,320 and to approve a budget adjustment. Any final comments from the Council?
 Everybody good? All righty then. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Teres? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, moving along to new business. Number one.
 An ordinance to amend 114.02 Farmers Market B expanded Saturday use of the square to close Center Street to vehicular traffic. Whereas in 2013, the City Council authorized the closing of one block of Block Avenue and Mountain Street, as well as maintaining the closure of East Avenue around the square to almost double the space for farmer market vendors and to move pedestrians into the streets instead of on the sidewalks.
 And whereas closing one block of Center Street north of the Old Post Office to vehicular traffic would open additional spaces for farmers market vendors and move pedestrians from the sidewalk in front of the Old Post Office and Fountain into Center Street. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 114.02B1
 By repealing the first two sentences of Section 114.02 and enacting two replacement sentences as follows, quote, the four streets around the square, east, mountain, block, and center, shall be closed to vehicular traffic immediately before and during the operation of the farmer's market on Saturdays.
 The exterior parking spaces for these four streets around the square shall be available for vendors and exhibitors pursuant to subsection 3 below, as assigned by the Rural Mountain Producers Exchange Management by closing these streets and parking spaces to non-vendor vehicular traffic.
 Section 2, that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, are hereby amend Section 11402B3 by repealing its first sentence and enacting a replacement first sentence as follows, quote, subsection 3, exhibition spaces, a minimum of 28 feet,
 on either side of all four closed streets, shall be set aside, integrated, and managed by the Rural Mountain Producer Exchange Management as exhibition space for non-profit charitable corporations and free speech entities, including issue campaigns and candidates, unquote. Okay. Matthew, I believe...
 uh yes mayor um did a good job with the ordinance title i think um it explains clearly what it is i did want to give the council a chance to hear dane eifling present his research and the background on the ordinance and then i understand we also have a member of the farmers market board here who would like to speak okay
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council Member Petty. For those of you that don't know me, my name is Dan Eifling. I'm the Bicycle and Pedestrian Programs Coordinator for the University of Arkansas. And I'm the Bicycle and Pedestrian Programs Coordinator for the University of Arkansas. And also I'm contracted to work as a staff representative for the City of Fayetteville. This proposal that I've been working on for some time was called for.
 COLLABORATIVE EFFORT BETWEEN THE FARMERS MARKET AND CITY STAFF TO A CERTAIN EXTENT, WORKING WITH GARNER STOLLE AS WELL, TO LOOK AT THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS OF EXPANDING THE MARKET ONTO CENTER STREET. CENTER STREET RIGHT NOW DOES HAVE A FEW PARKING SPACES, 13 PARKING SPACES THAT ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE FARMERS MARKET. PATRONS, HOWEVER, THOSE SPACES SEEM TO BE FAIRLY STATIC, NOT A LOT OF TURNOVER. THE STREET IS PRETTY CRAMPED FOR VEHICULAR
 saw some opportunity there to open it up if you look at our mobility plan and some of our visions for you know creating a more walkable community making those the prime destinations and prime events as pedestrian friendly as possible is a high priority saw this as an opportunity put together a proposal that i think was circulated in part of y'all's packet that you saw and i did put together a couple visual aids here just so everyone can get a sense of the space that we are talking about
 The Fayetteville farmers market is very busy. I'm sure as anyone can tell you that's been there on a Saturday. So looking at Center Street, this is just kind of a three dimensional representation of the space that would be affected. And also just wanted to bring a little bit of attention to the space that it also connects, the Arvest Plaza and some of the adjoining sidewalks while they are open to pedestrians during the farmers market, they're separated. So the next slide Garner kind of
 We'll show a little bit of that, or the top one, number one. So this slide here is existing conditions, if you will,
 You can see that the that that harvest positive space and the parking is separated by that area that's available to cars so there's not a lot of crossing of that street by pedestrians and the other Illustration there will show you What the open space open street space would would represent? If you could please go back to the
 This would be the, under the proposed ordinance change, this is more the configuration that the Saturday farmers market would be under. So with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. No questions. Please.
 Hi. It was, first of all, it was kind of hard to hear you, so I'm not sure I caught everything that you said. Sorry, I guess I'm the first timer here. So what was the impetus behind this idea, this research that you conducted? How did the idea get started? That would be helpful for me to know. You know, it's been a long time in the making.
 I believe it was just through some informal conversations between myself, the farmers market staff as well, and through the farmers market board, talking with them and then bringing the idea to the development services director who advised me to put together a proposal. So did the board actually, the farmers market board actually meet and approve this plan and have a long lengthy discussion with the members about it?
 I would defer on that topic to Chuck Rutherford, who's here to speak on behalf of the Farmers Market Board. Thank you. Any other questions for today? Okay. Okay. Thank you all. I guess we'll bring up Chuck. I think everybody knows Chuck Rutherford. He's a city employee, but tonight he's representing the Farmers Market Board. In fact, he's chair of the board.
 Yeah, I'm a member of the, I am also a Farmer's Market vendor, have been for many years. I'm on the board of directors for the Farmer's Market. There is some members or vendors on our market that does not want to see Center Street closed to cars. And we have a membership meeting twice a year.
 And we have one coming up on Saturday, November the 16th. And we are going to vote on this, have the full membership vote on this. And so I would like to ask the council to table this until after we have that meeting in November. That'd be November 17th, I think. 19th, excuse me, 19th.
 I'm I think it's fine to table it I'm curious if you have a personal opinion or if you've had any formal discussions with your membership up to this point we've discussed this at the board level for about a year the question was has the board actually voted on it it has not been a formal vote it's been in discussion and the board as a whole is in favor of this
 motion to close Center Street for safety for issues that's been brought up the the sidewalk on Center Street gets so congested at certain times if we have a couple of people on wheelchairs on that street or a couple of people with their strollers to stop and visit or people stop to admire somebody else's dog and I get calls periodically
 about Center Street or they'll say where can I find this product and I would say well on Saturdays it's on Center Street they said well I don't go down that street because it's so crowded now some of our membership they think that's a positive thing for it to be so crowded like that so we'll have our vote on November the 16th and asked to come back to the council after that
 This isn't necessarily a question for Chuck, but maybe for staff. I've heard reports that our square is not particularly ADA accessible. How will this proposed change impact ADA accessibility of the market? Well, Dane has talked about...
 if it passes and the street closes one of the things that we'll be looking at as a performance market board is how to utilize it to the best interests of you know the vendors and the customers and the public and maybe the like one of the intersections which are flat maybe that could be design because the road will be closed to cars maybe that could be designated as a loading
 for people who need assistance or whatever. Not a place such as an ADA parking space, but a place to actually stop and exit your vehicle or get back in your vehicle.
 Because it appears that the existing condition, it would be challenging for people with mobility issues to navigate the tight crowds and the grade changes to transition from the portions of the market that are on street to the portion of the market that's still on the sidewalk. And so I'm just wondering if there are any benefits in improving accessibility by making this change.
 Dane can address this too. We talked about it this afternoon. There are certainly some challenges right now, particularly with the crowded condition on the north side. There are also some things that need to be done. If you do choose to close the street, we think it will be a net improvement in terms of ADS accessibility.
 Thank you. It would give more, just being in the street would give more space for people with disabilities to travel and not be in such a tight area. Questions from Chuck. Okay. Thank you. What public comment do we have? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'm going to make a motion to table, but first I did want to say that the public comment
 This is something that I have believed would be a benefit to the market and to citizens of Fayetteville for a long time. And when I last brought a similar proposal forward several years ago for Block Avenue, there was a lot of deliberation. We actually worked out quite a few things that I appreciate have been mirrored in this proposal so that we don't have to reinvent the same wheels.
 When it comes down to it for me, there is an obvious safety issue on the street every Saturday morning. And the last time that we talked to the other proposal, Block Avenue, we had one council member, who's Marty Schottmeyer, was insistent that we close Center Street. He couldn't rally the support to do it all at once.
 I think that the problem he identified has really only gotten worse. It's only gotten worse. I really appreciated something that was, a quote that was put in the paper, Mr. Eifling's quote, and even today we've talked about closing the street over and over again, but I really think it's more accurate to think of this as opening the street to vendors and to people, people on foot, people in wheelchairs,
 people who aren't in cars. The parking spaces that would be converted into vendor spaces are not giving us any benefit at all to the market. They're parked very early in the morning. People who are going to be there all day are virtually useless to us during the market hours. So for me I can't think of any compelling reasons I wouldn't support closing the street. Committed to
 hearing from some of the people that we've heard from in the last couple of days people that have businesses on the street and want to know a little bit more in getting the farmers market to talk to their whole membership even after that though I'm going to need a pretty compelling reason to reverse a safety issue first and foremost I'll put that on motion to table for the November 19th meeting second motion second to table I see Kyle is
 i just have a question before we vote the table um is this
 Mandating that the street be closed on Saturday morning or just authorizing the the farmers market management to close it Well, I think it actually mandates it to be closed during the operation of the farmers market Okay, and I think it would be the not the best thing if it was closed sometimes and open sometimes that would be Dangerous, I don't disagree. I just wanted clarity before for tabling on on there Okay, thanks
 i have concerns about tabling it um i think this is a change we've been needing to make for a long time and it's a known safety challenge um it presents uh you know the existing condition is presents barriers to accessibility and i'd really like to see us just do it tonight and and get it done because um you know safety first
 We're supposed to be a welcoming city, and it's important that we welcome people with all levels of ability. So I'm going to vote against the tabling request, but I would really like to support this ordinance.
 Okay, Salon. I'll also vote against the table. I think this is needed. I know cities, once people want to go to the center of a city, that actually closing it off generally is associated with higher revenue for that area. Obviously, you don't want to do that before people come, but we know people are coming to the farmer's market. Mark. Mark.
 I think there's a compelling reason to table it, and that's I've got a lot of calls, I don't know if you have, with people that want a clarification, and they also want to have their voice heard. They don't feel like they've had their voice heard. I don't know, I wasn't there. I've heard them because they've called me, and I appreciate that, but because they did take the effort to call me, and they wanted more information, and they wanted to,
 have the opportunity to speak out i think it is okay to table it well council let me tell you about my saturday morning oh yeah well mine too i got to the farmer's market saturday morning i had five or six vendors come from a right from behind their uh booze and wouldn't know what i was doing thinking about closing the street off
 I got to where E Street is, and I got another dose of about four or five. And then I got down on Center Street side and on that sidewalk, and I got a dose of another four and five. So I told them we would hold off on it until  I was told that the board was not in favor of  I'll just be honest with you. They told me the board wasn't in favor of closing the street right now because they hadn't had a final vote on it. And I'm 
 I'm just telling you what happened I didn't really know but I got again a pretty good education in just about an hour's or in half two hours of time so there's a bunch of upset fingers I will tell you that because I counted 16 just going around that square so you can do what you want but I'd suggest
 you know chuck is going to be taking it to his board to get so we will know exactly and i'm not saying one way or the other about the street but i just will tell you what happened saturday so there was several of them and i think city attorney might have received the call as well was that you kid or maybe it was garner received the call so it's not just everybody's happy
 And I think if you don't get everybody on board with this, it's just going to, I mean, you can push stuff on through, but if you do it without getting some input from some folks, I think you're going to make a mistake. That's just my opinion. Kyle. Thank you for that experience, Meyer. Did any of them? I've had better experience. Yeah, right. Did any of them articulate why they're opposed to it? That's the part that I feel is kind of missing here.
 yeah they did some of the vendors were concerned about other vendors being on the street because they felt like it took away from their business competition that's true that's a fair statement that's what was said but the main thing that they brought up and said that they did not feel like they'd been heard
 that they didn't think that the board was in support. I don't know. Chuck could answer that better than I could. I never tried to. I just tried to survive. Come on up, Chuck. I can address your question about some of the concerns of the people who want to keep it open for the vehicle traffic.
 There's vendors over there that's been there for 30 years, and that's the way it's been. And they don't want the change because we tried this a couple of times as a special event closing Center Street.
 A few of those vendors on Center Street weren't happy about that because they got turned around and it had to have been the hottest day of the year that we did that. So it's warmer when they do that. The shade trees are right there in the cooler area. Now not all vendors on Center Street wanted to stay closed. There are vendors that also would like it to be like the rest of the market.
 but when when this came up on Block Street were there similar concerns mm-hmm yep where did any of those play out as far as how they impacted business in fact I think from what I hear about the businesses all the businesses supportive
 Closing the street and I guess I'm at business to the vendors at the market on Block Street when it when it opened today Experience a change one way or the other well you're gonna hear both sides, okay? You know say here's something that'll say yes there They're doing better than they were before and you're gonna hear something to say they're not Chuck is it true that the vendors get to select their spaces by a
 How much they sold and that usually the scent the spaces along Center Street are the ones that get chosen first that's correct, the the corners are the largest spaces now and Those are the first ones chosen because we're on a point system and we do that once a year in the spring and then Center Street is the first street to completely fill up under that point system. I think some of the other I
 The comments I heard from them, they felt as though originally it was made for farmers, and a lot of those felt like they were being somewhat pushed out. I'm just telling you what they told me. So that was some of the concerns I heard. I don't think that's anything. I mean, I told  I conferred with Chuck that morning about what he thought it had to do. You heard all the same things I did. You heard all the  yeah, we heard the same thing. So 
 I'll leave it up to you all. Sarah? This is an ordinance, and I believe this is our first reading, so there's also that idea of do we need to table this, or we could just leave it on the first reading. Chuck wanted to wait until his board could vote on it in November. I mean, I'm  yes, Dan? I just wanted to touch on one more point with this ordinance changes that 
 With the ordinance change, we're not mandating that more vendors come in. We're not forcing any decisions to be made by the board. The farmer's market is able to program that space as much or as little as they would like. So the ordinance change doesn't necessarily mandate them to run their business any differently. It just enhances the pedestrian space that's available.
 and improve some safety aspects as well, as Mr. Petty touched on. One thing tabling might do is give the city a chance to look at the actual safety issues there, have the police look and see what kind of accidents have occurred during Farmer's Market on Center Street to see what the real safety issue is, if any. I don't.
 I've been in the farmers market a lot. I have yet to see a traffic accident on Center Street. It doesn't mean that it hadn't happened because I haven't been there all the time. But this way we can get some actual data rather than everybody's impression about whether it's safe or not safe. Okay. Let me take public comment on this. Okay. Well, we're back here now. So what would you all like to do? I guess we're ready to vote. It's a motion to table, I think, is on. Motion to table. So Chuck can go back to the board and get it.
 vote one way or the other right okay all right Lisa would you please call the road it's yours yes Marsh no Ginnion yes Petty yes Scroggins no Bunch Turk yes Smith no
 Since well, let's say we have eight people there still so mayor if you wish to vote you can Okay, it has been tabled I know we have eight get a majority you got to have five Anyway the motion table did pass
 Number two, a resolution expressed the willingness of the City of Federal to partner with the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the Highway 112 Truckers Drive to Van Ash Drive improvements project and the Highway 71B improvements project. Chris?
 yes thank you mayor this title is a little bit misleading but i'll go through it um to start with the background we're talking about highway 71b between the fulbright expressway north and the fulbright expressway south this this facility is also known as schools school avenue archibald yell and college avenue
 So we began discussions with the Highway Department. Really we've been talking about this for many years, but they began in earnest as we were going through our Highway 71B corridor study. Began discussing with the department taking over that facility.
 So we met with the highway department and were asking about what the provisions could be and what kind of agreement that may be. One of our first items was to discuss the potential for them to contribute toward the cost in order for us to take over Highway 71B.
 They did, are proposing to make $1.5 million available for maintenance funds in order for the city to use really however we want to for that project. The other part of the agreement is the Highway 112 project as we were discussing the 71B
 We talked about that as another item to include in the agreement. It allows us to expedite the Highway 112 project. This is between Trucker's Drive and essentially the city limits of Fayetteville. It allows us to get that project expedited and get the vast majority of it paid for by the Highway Department. So just to summarize this agreement, under the agreement RDOT will make $1.5 million available to the city
 for improvements to 71b and again we can use those any way we would like rdot will complete the widening and improvements to highway 112 between truckers drive and the city limits we do have some language including the agreement about the cross section having a having a median cross section also the bicycle and pedestrian facilities
 that we would like to see. The devil's in the details on that. There are some more work to do, I think, in order to get that cross-section the way we would like. But...
 Uh, other provisions, the city, we have about $280,000 in federal aid money that was allocated to highway one 12. So we would contribute that to the highway department for highway one 12. Um, and then the, uh, the last item.
 minor detail, but the city will take over six and a half miles of Highway 71B between Fulbright Expressway South and Fulbright Expressway North. So this is obviously a very big decision, it's a very big investment.
 that we're receiving from the highway department, but it's also a very big investment in the city in order to take over 71 B be able to do some of the things that have been envisioned in the 71 B corridor plan and really have full control over that facility and kind of
 Reshape it in the way that that the citizens would like for us to see So staff is recommending approval. This was also Presented to the Transportation Committee in August and the committee recommends approval and with that I'll answer any questions Hi Chris, thanks so much for bringing this forward. Um and
 I think it would be super if the city took these two highways over. My concern is long-term maintenance and how that's been budgeted into the future with, I assume, with a capital improvement fund or some. How have you planned for the future to be able to maintain? Sure. So just to be clear, the Highway 112 section will remain under the jurisdiction of the Highway Department. They're.
 they're building that and will retain it. So we're really only talking about six and a half miles of 71B. A large part of that roadway has been overlaid recently, so it's in relatively new condition. The $1.5 million was the amount of money that the Highway Department
 uh represented to be the cost to get that into like new condition so um that's that's the funding that they provided we don't have to use it for maintenance but um but that is would be made available um
 Right now, the city maintains the signal system. We maintain all of the sidewalks that have been built, all the trees that have been installed along the roadway. So we already do a lot of the maintenance tasks along the roadway. We're really only talking about pavement maintenance. To overlay that from one end to the other in today's dollars is about a $2.5 million project, but we would not do that
 all in one year, we would put that into our pavement maintenance system and do maintenance to the to the facility as we need it. So it would, the short answer is just be incorporated into the transportation division's budget and they would maintain that roadway as necessary.
 But that's still going to be an increased cost down the road. That has to be budgeted in within, so there'll have to be an increase within that maintenance budget to maintain that in 10 or 15 years or whenever it needs a little TLC. Right. It'll be included, and again, as necessary, we'll do surface treatments or overlays or whatever may be necessary. Yes. Another factor that council may want to consider while is maintenance
 If we make this a more livable corridor and we encourage housing, we encourage jobs, and we encourage retail, the tax base will go up. And I think the potential for the ad valorem taxes to exceed the additional costs for maintenance are excellent. I don't think you're hanging out. The issue here is that the transportation department has a mission.
 That mission is to move traffic. The community's goals are much broader than that. The community wants this road to be safer more attractive And more usable for all modes of travel and the community community Actually that top priority for the community is to see more investment more private investment along this quarter Any other questions for Chris? Any public comment on this?
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. Let's see. Sarah. Thank you. I am so excited to see this finally coming before us. You know, that state highway has been such a barrier to economic development, to the livability and the health and well-being of our city, and to be able to take control of that...
 Is huge and for us to actually be able to grow a livable transportation network, um, that is inclusive of multiple forms of mobility. And it's not just limited to single occupancy automobiles, which seems to be the predominant, um, trend.
 mode of transport on that road it's just it's an exciting possibility um this is our opportunity to improve stormwater with lid stormwater management practices to um incorporate art to into our streetscapes and make this a place for people instead of just cars so i want to thank the staff for all the work that they've done on it and um i think this is one of the most exciting uh
 Things that we've undertaken, at least since I've been on the council, we've done a lot of exciting stuff. This has the potential to really transform our community and make us a much more livable and enjoyable city. So.
 Yes, I want to reiterate everything that Sarah said and very excited about seeing 71 Business kind of being transformed into a more friendly place for people to cross and live. I was going to move to approve, but I think I see some other people having questions, so I'll wait. Okay, top. Okay.
 We have a lot of bad roads in this town and the hardest thing that I've learned being up here is To look at somebody complaining about a bad road and say yeah, there's nothing we can do about that because that belongs to somebody else and
 and this is an opportunity to take our biggest bad road and be able finally to do something about it and that that is exciting i hope that this is not the last it's not the first and i hope it's not the last of these arrangements that we get a chance to investigate because i think it is while it will cost us more
 It should pay out, like Garner was saying, so much more in our ability to transform the streetscape in these areas. And I think I've been saying since I was out there that I don't want Weddington to turn into another college. Well, finally, we get to fix college. I hope we can fix Weddington. I want to make a motion to approve this, and y'all can talk to me. Thank you.
 I'm excited about this I've talked to people who do executive searches and they mentioned the difficulty of flying somebody in to Drake and then having to show them 71B and I know that we're losing talent
 because of 71B that you have people that are looking to join our startup culture and then they're like here is this highway so I'm very excited that we have the opportunity to make these changes I'm aware that there is a cost to that but I think it will pay dividends so I'll second the motion. Thank you mayor well first I'd really like to congratulate Chris Brown and his team on
 for working on this and pulling it off. I mean, I don't know how long, I've personally been dreaming about this, but it can't have been much shorter than my very first election. And when, for the first term, it was just a pipe dream, and I thought, well, I'm gonna talk about it anyway, because even if people think I'm crazy, at least it'll start the conversation. And to be here tonight and doing it is,
 It's one of those rare moments that I'll always cherish, you know, even after I'm out of public service. I don't think I'll ever forget actually getting something like this done and it wouldn't have happened without the team that we had and the team that started believing that it was the right thing to do. You know, I was looking at the maintenance numbers and even if we
 overlay the road every 15 years, which would be pretty darn aggressive for our road maintenance schedules. That comes out to only needing about 200 grand in additional tax revenue from the corridor each year to accumulate those funds. And that's really not very much. It's really not very much when you look at a six and a half mile corridor and the kinds of developments that we want to happen there.
 And one of the things I'm most excited about is, despite all the nuanced arguments that we make to try and convince one another of our positions on rezonings every two weeks, I think almost everybody up here, and almost everyone in the city agrees that the college corridor is one place that we can be rather aggressive about supporting development.
 And I'm really excited to see that with the changes that we are going to vote on tonight and the changes that I hope will be forthcoming to follow on to this jurisdictional transfer, I'm really excited that that actually might be some of the most exemplary development that the city has ever seen.
 For me, this is an incredibly momentous occasion. It's a bigger deal than the Walton Arts Center in the 80s. It's a bigger deal than the Cultural Arts Corridor. It's almost as big, although I won't go so far as to say it's as big, it's almost as big as getting the university here right at the beginning of the city being a thing. Everyone, everyone who experiences Fayetteville, Arkansas experiences College Avenue, everyone.
 we're finally going to get a chance to change that for the better i couldn't be more proud and excited of pulling it off i'm excited to vote yes well i think it's pretty exciting too i know that uh chris and garner and myself spent a lot of time traveling to little rock to talk with the highway department and i actually want to give a kudo to the highway department they were they
 Pretty easy to work with on this project. They really were they were ready to let the city take it over and they were When we were talking to them It was pretty easy to work with we're actually partner Got put them maybe with some other stuff on south into town as well, which will be Pretty pretty big deal if we can pull that off Yeah, Chris done fantastic Garner's fantastic job
 staff's done very very well on this i want to give kudos to chief of staff he was there on a lot of these kind of negotiations did a fantastic job um but it's uh it's again one of those historic moments that we're seeing in this city and tremendous accomplishment and and i i want to thank the city council for your support on this kind of stuff too because anybody can play in the safe zones
 Anybody can say, well, we've done enough or we're all through here. You've always got to be on that cutting edge because I can assure you everybody else in this region is on the cutting edge. And so we're all and we are truly in competition with one another. And I like to think we're the best of the best.
 So, sure. I wanted to just mention just a couple things more about what this does for my ward and Sonia's ward and Ward 1. This is going to allow us to heal Archibald Yale Boulevard and reconnect that neighborhood with downtown and enable kids that live in that neighborhood to walk to Washington Elementary School, which is something that we have needed to do for a long time.
 This is also going to allow us to right-size South School Avenue and finally make a place where pedestrians can walk with dignity, instead of just in ruts on the weed barriers on the side of the road. This is huge, and this goes all the way down to the Fulbright Expressway.
 You know, we've been in our master plans for a long, long time. We've identified the need to improve South School Avenue and Archibald Yale Boulevard, and this is going to enable us to make those much-needed improvements. So let's make a Main Street we can be proud of. Okay. Any other final comments? Sorry. One last thought, and this is not placemaking or transportation-related.
 And I probably will never, ever say again that I'd like to see the rest of our state government take a tip from the Transportation Department in favor of local control. Because I guarantee you if they would give us a few more opportunities to run with something and show them what we could do, they'd be impressed. Okay. Anything else? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 T.R.S. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. All right. Ah, the beating got so much louder. All right, number three.
 An ordinary street zone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6748 for approximately 0.21 acres located at 203 East 13th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 that the City Council City of Fayetteville works I hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Yes mayor, this is a one lot rezoning on the south east corner of Washington 13th Street It the surrounding zoning is all neighborhood conservation There this is definitely a mixed-use area and there are some
 precedent for our Riu from the City Council when this neighbor plan was done and the neighborhood conservation district was used to implement the plan the Riu district didn't exist so and the major difference is it allows narrow lots and a wider variety of residential uses so it
 it is in the complete neighborhood area it encourages a variety of residential building types and it's a farm-based zoning district no issues were identified at the planning commission level and the staff and planning commission recommended approval happy to answer any questions i believe the applicant's representative is here if you have questions would you like to say something to the council or you good or
 my name good evening mayor and council members my name is Tommy Davis and I am 106 North Willow but also the property owner and I am here to
 say in the interest of the property to request that you bless us to go on and make this happen it's definitely within the i think it fits the walker park improvement plan um and other properties in this area like you were saying they've been rezoned or i use i get real excited when i hear things that are going on in this area that they certainly
 it's certainly something that I want to be a part of this is just a part of it this is just a question to a council I've not received any public comment on this issue okay I haven't either what public comment do we have you know right back to the council was there any public comment at Planning Commission I
 okay i wonder if the applicant knew she was going to be here for four hours when she started this uh i'm ready to motion to spin the rules and go to the second reading second motion second go to the second reading lisa would you please call the roll tieras yes marsh yes indian yes eddie yes scroggins yes turk yes smith yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property is cried in rezoning petition RZN 19-6748 for approximately .21 acres located at 203 East 13th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. I move to spin rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second to go to third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 yes marsh yes kenyan yes eddie yes grogan yes yes smith yes in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 19-6748 for approximately a fifth of an acre located at 203 east 13th street from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban any final comments from the council okay lisa would you please call the roll
 Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes Scroggins yes Turk yes Smith yes okay number four an ordinance rezone that property described as under petition RZN 19-6787 for approximately 0.60 acres located at 3313 West Mount Comfort Road from RSF
 residential single family four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit A and a legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF for residential single family four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Yes, Mayor. This is also a one-lot rezoning request. It's east of Salem and Mount Comfort on the south side of Mount Comfort. It is presently occupied by a house. The lot is, and the applicant expressed a desire to use a portion of the house for office use.
 So it is designated residential neighborhood in the plan and it's zoned RSF4 presently. The surrounding zoning, most of the property is owned by the two churches in this area which is the large P1 area both to the east as well as to the south. Residential neighborhood area is the designation in the land use plan.
 No issues were identified at Planning Commission level, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval. And I think the Coopers have been patiently waiting, and they are the applicants. Okay, would you like to say something?
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor. My name is Andrew Cooper. My wife, Selena, is also here. Tonight we present to you a request to rezone our property to Neighborhood Services General. We went a few weeks ago before the Planning Commission and got unanimous approval for that, and we're excited to be able to be available to answer any questions or to listen to you dialogue about the property. Okay. Do we have questions for that? Did you enjoy the first four hours of our meeting? No.
 Yes, yes, my wife brought a sandwich and we enjoyed that out there. But I very much appreciate what you all do. There's a lot of planning that goes into this as well as these meetings can really stretch out. But I can see that you all put a lot into it. All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Thank you. Maybe we'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Powell. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? No. Erk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 an ordinance reason that property described in the rezoning petition rzn 19-6787 for approximately 0.6 acres located at 3313 west mount comfort road from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general okay it's long uh i know it's probably impossible to build it but would a gas station be allowed in nsg no sir okay thank you uh i'll motion this has been the rules and go to third and final reading
 second motion second to go to the third and final reading Lisa would you please call the roll Terez yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Petty yes Scroggins yes yes Smith yes in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6787 for approximately six tenths of an acre located at 3313 Westmount Comfort Road
 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general okay do we have any final comments from the council okay lisa would you please call it up
 Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Ginnion yes Eddy yes Scroggins yes Turk yes Smith yes okay thank you all number five in order to approve vacation 19-6768 property located southeast of South Armstrong Avenue and Happy Hollow Road to vacate a portion of the general utility east Kitt
 whereas the city council has the authority under aca 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the following described portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo, Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or
 or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. This is part of the maintenance campus with a variety of city uses. The city has a need for a truck wash facility and there was a blanket easement on this lot that is outlined in my slide. There was no identified need for this easement from any of the responding agency.
 and staff and planning commission recommend approval we haven't answered any questions the questions we have regarding a public comment that we have on things i move to spin rules and go to second reading second we have a motion second go to the second reading please call the right yes marsh yes kenyan yes eddie yes yes yes smith yes
 In ordinance approved, VAC 19-6768 for property located southeast of South Armstrong Avenue and Happy Hollow Road to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. So moved to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? It's yours. Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 19-6768 for property located southeast of South Armstrong Avenue and Happy Hollow Road to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 yes yes thank you all number six an ordinance to approve vacation 19-6 775 property located at 2621 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of the general utility easement kit
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo,
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense.
 yes mayor this is located at mission and crossover the Eastman vacations outline there's a bank at this location there's a restaurant under construction here the plan is to build a restaurant in an office building large-scale has already been approved the there were no need there was no need to identified for this particular Eastman and staff Planning Commission recommend approval I think the applicants represented might be here
 hi i'm joe pfeiffer with craft and toll i'd be happy to answer any questions if you have okay do you have any questions from council on this okay any public comment on this one no okay bring it back to the council there we go uh move to suspend the rules and go to second reading screen left me for a moment second okay we have a motion to second to go to the uh second reading
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Dearest? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. And your order is approved. VAC 19-6775 for property located at 2621 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. So moved to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Terez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. In order to approve VAC 19-6775 for property located at 2621 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council on this? Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 gutierrez yes marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes kirk yes smith yes okay number seven your ordinance to approve vacation 19-6782 property located southeast of west mcmillan drive and north pam angus drive
 to vacate portions of an electrical easement and a general utility kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of an electrical easement and a utility easement are not required for corporate purposes, and therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas
 Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of an electrical easement and a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's agenda memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3 that
 This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Number two, an additional easement shall be dedicated along Pam Angus Drive toward the public right-of-way, converting the drainage easement into a general utility easement.
 Mayor, this application is at the intersection of 49 and Weddington. It's across the street from a fitness center next to a church in a developing area. And the request is to facilitate the construction of a hotel. No need was identified for these easements and staff and planning commission recommend approval with the conditions in the ordinance. Happy to answer your questions.
 Is the applicant here? I believe he is. Good evening. My name is Dylan Bentley with Engineering Services. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Do we have any questions for the applicant or staff on this one? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. What? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Burke? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance approved the AC 19-6782 for property located southeast of West McMillan Drive and North Pam Angus Drive to vacate portions of an electrical easement and a general utility easement.
 Move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Torres. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Croghan. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC 19-6782 for property located southeast of West McMillan Drive and North Pam Angus Drive
 to vacate portions of an electrical easement and a general utility easement any final comments from the council on that please would you please call the room yes marsh yes kenyan yes eddie yes yes yes
 Okay, thank you. All number eight, an ordinance to amend Ordinance 6168 to authorize the payment of applicable freight charges associated with replacement of a rotating assembly and repair of a motor drive in an fluid pump used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Okay.
 be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby amends ordinance 6168 and authorizes the payment of applicable freight charges in addition to the purchase price of 22 929.95 from electric motor center for the replacement of a rotating assembly and the repair of a motor in an influent pump used at the nolan wastewater treatment facility
 Thank you, Mayor. When this ordinance was approved earlier in the year, it was for the purchase of an influent
 The specific wording included the cost plus the applicable taxes. We did not include the wording of the freight. So we need to bring this back to the council with an amendment to include the freight charges so we can pay this. This will bring the purchase price of the pump from $25,194.97 to $25,494.84. If you have any questions. We have any questions from the council?
 Any public comment on the motor part? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Nobody interested in that one. Sonja. Will we spin the rules and go to the next reading? Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. We'll go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes.
 And order to submit Order 6168 to authorize the payment of applicable freight charges associated with the replacement of a rotating assembly and repair of a motor drive in an influent pump used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Okay. We need to, we need to, here we go. Precinct. I make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Please call the roll.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. And your ordinance amend ordinance 6168 to authorize a payment of applicable freight charges associated with the replacement of a rotating assembly and repair of a motor drive in an influent pump used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Any final comments from the council? Yes. Move we approve. Yes.
 No, we're there. We're there. Okay, great. We're ready to go. We are. There's no more readings to be had. This is Paul's fault because he wants to be 100% accurate. All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sears? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Number nine, an ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Petal, Arkansas for the year 2019. Fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the...
 Federal Public Library operations and 1.2 mils for the Federal Public Library expansion and certifying the same to the county clerk in Washington County of Washington County, Arkansas kit
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the year of 2019 to be collected in 2020 for the following purposes at the following rates. The purpose, general fund operations, 2.3 mils. Fayetteville Public Library operations, 2.5 mils. Fayetteville Public Library expansion, 1.2 mils.
 policemen's pension and relief fund point four mil and fireman's pension relief fund point four mil for a total of six point eight mils section two that the real and personal property tax so levied and the rates provided therefore are hereby certified to the County Clerk of Washington County Arkansas to be placed in the tax book and collected in the same manner that the county and school district taxes are collected
 Section 3, that the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this ordinance in the office of the county clerk for Washington County, Arkansas. Well, Mayor and Council, it's been a long night, so I'll be very brief. We discussed this at the agenda session, although it looks like we're going to go into reserves for the general fund operations in the 2020 budget. The mayor is not recommending property tax increases included.
 For the 2020, we're keeping the levy at the same rate. That levy for the general fund will be 2.3 mils. All the other rates as approved by the council will be the same as last year. So the bottom line is the mayor is recommending we keep the property tax rates at the same values that they were last year. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have to Paul on this? Yes, Sonia.
 now can i move to that we go to the next reading i think we've run them all out mayor what public comment do we have on this item okay now then i'll bring it back to the council i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion the second to go to the second reading listen would you please call the row cheers yes marsh
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. And your next living attacks on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2019.
 fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion, and certifying the same to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas.
 I move to submit the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Tiras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance living attacks on the real and personal property within the city of fayetteville arkansas for the year 2019 fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension relief fund the
 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion, and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. All comments from the council. Slump. Okay. All right. Seeing none, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. All right.
 that concludes our business well done you all what announcements do we have i have an announcement the ordinance of you committee members that wanted to be sponsors of some of the bills i have the agenda request item for you all to sign please before you leave and also have something for you theresa oh okay anything else yes sir um we do have a few announcements from the administration um i
 Really wondrous thing has happened in our IT department in our utility billing We have paperless billing finally here. So customers can now Receive their bills via email and pay So that's a big deal I want to really thank even his team and all the utility billing folks for working really hard on that project all of the details we found on the website and
 going out to customers on a targeted basis so that everybody's getting repeated communication about the ability to do this new thing. We'll save lots of money. It's going to be great. And in case you didn't know, this week is Welcoming Week Across America. Yes. And it's a time in which we make sure we take time to welcome our immigrant families and businesses. We're participating in several events around town and we're going to be doing a lot of
 continuing to advance the long-term and short-term goals of the city's welcoming plans we do have bulky waste cleanup this Saturday from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. and the next one will be October 12th these details are all on the website
 Not yet on the website, but soon to come will be the Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue announcement about next week when the event is in town. We'll show road closures and the typical types of activities that will be cautionary for residents traveling around town. So that's one event we know is coming, and we'll be getting something out this week. Business licenses are continuing to be renewed through October 1st.
 And then finally there are two new or two events still on our speak up page One is a new event or a new public feedback opportunity with the
 Short term rental study that's going on that the council authorized Garner and his team to do in July There will also be a public meeting September 30th Monday here in City Hall 530 to 730 in room 111 to discuss short-term rentals and the other item is the
 stormwater utility I know a couple of you have mentioned that this evening but Theresa mentioned the mailers that went out that some people have received that try to explain the current status of the study and the proposals that will be coming to the council but right now there's still an opportunity on speak up page for residents to complete a questionnaire and voice their concerns should they happen.
 That's what I have. Thank you. Anything else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.