It's going good. Sandra, are you ready to go? I'm ready. All right. I'm going to go ahead and call the City Council meeting of September the 15th to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenant, Schottmeyer, Latour, Long, Gray, Marsh, Kenyon, Petty, Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Allegiance to the flag.
 of the united states of america is a republic for which it stands one nation and justice for all all right good evening everyone um the first thing that we have tonight is the uh nominating committee report mark i believe you have that and i don't have it in front of me you have a copy of it well usually it is here
 Senator, do you have a copy of that? I do not, but I can get you a copy if you want to go on to the next order of business. It wasn't in the packet. I can find what I sent in. Do you want to come back to that? We can come back to that. Everybody good with that? I can go ahead and do the consent agenda, and then we can come back to the nominating reports. Everybody good with that? Sure.
 Okay, I'm gonna go on to the consent agenda. We'll come back to nominating report after the consensus Okay, well here it is Mayor I have all right. Okay for the nominating committee again. We had a lot of really good applicants. However We were disappointed. There were some boards that we received no applications for so I want to encourage individuals on a quarterly basis to
 to look at openings and see if there might be something that you're interested in. Those individuals that didn't get selected this time, I hope that they will consider to reapply. We see a lot of reapplications. And for this slate that I'm nominating this evening, for the Board of Adjustments, we have Steven Clowney for one unexpired term ending March 31st, 2016.
 The Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals, there were no applications received. The Energy Improvement District, Cameron Baker, one term ending December 31st, 2017. The Public Facilities Board, there were no applications received. The Town and Gown Advisory Committee, there were no applications received for the Ward 1 representative.
 for the Ward 3 resident, term ending September 30th, 2017, Theresa Williamson, and for the Walton Arts Center Council, Doug Cummins, one unexpired term ending June 30th, 2018. Mayor, I submit this slate for consideration. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the nominating committee's recommendation, correct? Any discussion on that?
 All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Luture? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all. On a consent agenda, number one, approval of the September 1, 2015 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution authorized the purchase of 36 kennel doors from Mason Company of Leesburg, Ohio, in the amount of $19,554 plus split taxes to replace the existing deteriorating kennel doors at the Federal Animal Shelter. Number three, a resolution to approve a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey
 Geological survey for water quality sampling of the West Fork of the White River at a cost of the city of $7,000 to approve a memorandum of agreement with the Beaver Watershed Alliance to fund the city's portion of the joint funding agreement and to approve budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution of Ward bid number 15-46 and to authorize a contract with Tomlinson Asphalt Company Incorporated in the amount of $301,201.16 for the construction project.
 of the Lake Federal Trailhead Parking Lot project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $30,000 and approve a budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 15-49 to authorize the purchase of aluminum shoring from United Rentals North America Incorporated in the amount of $29,561.54 plus applicable taxes for use by the Water and Sewer Division.
 Number six, a resolution award bid number 15-50 and to authorize the purchase of 17 mobile computer systems from Future Link of Illinois, Link of Illinois, Incorporated, in the amount of $80,556.50 for the use by the fire department to authorize the purchase of additional mobile computer systems as needed through December 31, 2015, in an amount not to exceed $17,000 and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize acceptance of the 2015-2016 Selective Traffic Enforcement Program Grant, in the amount of $112,900 in terms of budget adjustment. Thank you.
 8. A resolution to approve a two-year lease agreement with Arnold L. Hollingsworth for the hangar located at 4568 South School Avenue and office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of $4,687 per month.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve T-hanger lease agreements in 2015 and through 2016 at the current rental rate or as adjusted upward by the airport board for all T-hangers rented at the federal executive airport. Number 10, a resolution to authorize a contract with Real Assets Incorporated to represent the city in selling approximately 1.25 acres of city-owned real property on the property
 Old Wire Road near Gully Park for a 6% commission. Number 11, a resolution authorized contract with GovDeals Incorporated in Montgomery, Alabama, pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance purchasing agreement for the provision of online auction services for the sale of surplus or obsolete city property. Number 12, a resolution authorized the acceptance of a 9010 Assistance to Firefighters grant from the Federal Government
 emergency management agency in the amount of $65,883 for the purchase of washer extractors and drying cabinets for the fire department and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 13, a resolution to adopt the pre-hazard mitigation plan for Washington County and the City of Federal as required to qualify for future federal
 emergency management agency pre-hazard mitigation funding. And number 14, a resolution to approve a six-month extension to the contract with the Federal Chamber of Commerce for Economic Development Consulting Services in the amount of $82,500 and to approve a budget adjustment. I would accept a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as read.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Lutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Hattie? Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to amend section 172.05 of the Unified Development Code to remove minimum parking standards for non-residential uses. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Thank you.
 we have a motion second to go the second reading sondra would you please call the row shotmeyer yes mature yes long yes gray yes kenyan yes heady whereas removing minimum parking standards for non-residential uses will advance city plan 2030 goals of reducing sprawl prioritizing infill development and promoting traditional town form and whereas minimum parking standards were primarily developed based upon parking surveys that measure peak demand and whereas
 And whereas requiring a minimum number of parking spaces based upon a limited number of times a year when a parking lot will be completely full is a wasteful use of valuable land. And whereas landowners and developers are periodically denied the ability to adaptively reuse their property due to parking minimum requirements tied to specific land use categories. And whereas the potential economic development opportunity and streamlining of city code is a benefit to the city's development climate.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 172.05, Standards for the Number of Spaces by Use of the Unified Development Code, by repealing and replacing it with Exhibit A. Okay. Okay.
 Chairman, what do we have on that? Mayor, as discussed at the last meeting, there were requests by the council members to have this at three full separate readings, so we would request this be left on the second reading. I will note that we've been working on a new version, hopefully combining the city attorney's office and our language in some way, and we'll have that for you by the next agenda session for review. Okay. Any questions from the council for Chairman?
 do we have any public comment on this we're going to be looking at this obviously next week and two weeks as well so it's any public comment on this okay seeing that i'll bring it back to the council council okay we're leaving it here yes okay all right let's go on the new business
 Number one, a resolution to approve special needs assistance program grant agreements with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in the total amount of $414,161 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. Delonda, I believe you have this. Yes.
 Yes. This would actually be approving the grant agreement so that we can administer and complete grants that were started by a non-profit. And so they would be assisting homeless residents of Fayetteville to actually have housing. And so this would cycle through different individuals to help them get back on their feet. Do you have any questions? Yes. We have any questions for you, Law Enrollment? Anybody? Mayor. Yes, John.
 I always like to discuss HUD projects. I find HUD a very fascinating organization and the scandals that has beset that organization through the years under Republican and Democratic administrations. So tell me exactly this $400,000
 How will these funds be dispersed into our community? Will someone file an application with your office? What will happen is that there will be, of course, an application process. The goal is to obtain housing for individuals. It's actually three grants. One of the grants actually will help individuals with tenant-based rental assistance, so that will be assisting them with their rental payments, and that would be for homeless individuals.
 Then our second grant, which makes up the total, is for leasing and payment of leasing for individuals that are homeless and disabled. And then we have a third grant which basically would help, of course, with the whole leasing component, and this would be units throughout the city working with landlords to provide homes for the homeless, and this would be for the chronically homeless and disabled.
 How do, if I were a homeless person, or if I had a friend that was a homeless person who wanted to avail himself or herself of this money, how would they go about doing that? Well, we would work with them. We'd have to have a case worker to determine what their status is, what their needs are, and then of course to qualify them as homeless individuals and meet the criteria. And at that point we would have to go out. And I think there are already some individuals, this was a program that had already started,
 so there are individuals that are already working with the non-profit and so we would continue those relationships and then we would try and get the homeless folks that need help and they would cycle through the program and hopefully they would come back into society and be productive citizens once again i guess what i'm trying to get at is there any potential for discretion on the part of the administrator where you might have
 a thousand people apply or a hundred or whatever the magic number is that might exhaust the funds how would you distinguish who should get money and who should not get money there there are only a certain number of slots so you can only help a certain number of people at a time
 Then they're allowed to be in in those positions for a certain period of time So then once they cycle out then you're getting new people in so the goal is to help people get back So, how do you distinguish if there are only so many slots and all the slots are filled What do you tell the people who aren't in those slots try again next time? well, it's going to be challenging I think to find a
 places that will continue to work with us. So if you're saying to me, is there gonna be like a waiting line of people into these homes, I don't think that's gonna be the case, because we're gonna have to make sure that we get those individuals, they're ready to go into the homes, we have a place to house them, because the goal is for them to progress, and not everybody's gonna be at that same spot at the same time.
 I can understand. Individuals are different. Yes. Their goals, their achievements, etc. Well, I'm naturally skeptical of HUD and their programs. I don't like giving people a handout. I like giving people a hand. I know of situations personally where in the fifth, sixth, and seventh generations of families living on government payments,
 I don't think that's a good thing. I think that's a new form of slavery, if you'll forgive me, for that comparison. But I want people to be independent. I want people to produce for themselves, instead of depending on government assistance.
 I understand if our program is just to temporarily help someone get on their feet, fine, but I don't want it to become a dependency sort of thing. That's not the goal of this program and that's why there are slots and people cycle through and there's case management. It's an ever evolving working with an individual to get them back to the point that they're standing on their own. Very glad to hear that. Thank you. Any other questions from the council on this? I have a question. I'm a member of the board.
 Okay. What public comment do we have? Please introduce yourself when you come up to speak, and everybody gets one turn to mic, unless a council member asks you, and direct your comments to myself, and if you have questions, we'll try and get those answered, basically. Okay? Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate the offer to be able to speak on this, and I share John's skepticism about things of this nature. I am a very generous person by nature myself, and I'm very grateful
 And one of my concerns, and I don't know how it would be determined, but one of my concerns is the administrative cost. You know, what portion of this will be consumed by administrative cost? And I echo John's concern about how it's determined that, you know, people would be eligible for it because I don't know how thorough the
 a background is check is being done and things of that nature but i would like to to think that we're being very judicious judicious in the care and management of this without using too much of it for administrative funds thank you so much thank you mayor yes mark in the packet and i i know you don't have a complete packet but you can go online
 The three grants that are administered under this program are broken down in services and administrative costs, so you can go down and see what is spent on administration in the programs. I apologize, Mayor. I forgot to identify myself. Lorraine O'Neill, 3001 West Weddington, Apartment 82 in Fayetteville. Sorry. Sorry. It's fine. I should have reminded you. Anyone else like to address us on this?
 Okay. Yolanda, do you want to address the administrative costs? I know Mark has mentioned it to you. Do you have anything else you want to add to that? Again, just echoing what Mark has stated, that there are limits and caps to what is utilized for administrative purposes. So I want to assure you that we would meet all of those. HUD does do their monitoring and, you know,
 We have never had any issues with our administrative costs on our other federal grants, so I'm happy to say that we have been in compliance for many years. I've been in charge of our CDBG programs, which are HUD programs now for 15 years, and we have never had any issues with over-expenditure on administrative costs. Okay. Thank you, Alonda. Anyone else like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 Mayor, I would just like to say that I'm very happy that we as a city can take over this particular grant and administer it so that we can help the homeless people of our city.
 The nonprofit that started it cannot complete it, but I'm delighted that we can step in and take over. So I'm very supportive of this. Thank you, Della. Anybody else? Any final comments? Move to pass resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass resolution. Any final comments? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTour? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Okay, number two. In order to enact Article 28, City Board of Health and Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions and Authorities of Federal Code. Chief, I believe you have this. Oh, I'm sorry. Blake, I'm sorry. I apologize. You've got to read that.
 Whereas the City Board of Health was first created by Resolution No. 02-03 on January 7, 2003, but those provisions have never been codified. And whereas the current City Board of Health recommends that the City continue to fill the position of City Health Officer even though it is no longer required by State law and that the City Health Officer serve without compensation.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals Resolution No. 02-03. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby enacts Article 28, City Board of Health in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities, as shown below. 33.400, Composition, Membership.
 The City Board of Health shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor, at least two of whom shall be physicians of good professional standing. Members shall serve during the term of the Mayor who appoints them. The Mayor shall also serve as an ex officio member of the City Board of Health.
 33.401, City Health Officer. A city health officer who shall be a competent physician of reputable professional standing who is legally qualified to practice medicine in Arkansas shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city council. The city health officer shall serve as the chairperson of the city board of health during the term of the mayor who appoints him or her.
 The city health officer shall have those powers and duties conferred by state law or city ordinance, but shall not be required to treat patients, prescribe medicine, or do anything else not statutorily required pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated Section 14-262-103. 33.402, Powers and Duties. The City Board of Health shall have those powers and duties conferred by Arkansas Code Annotated Section 14-262-102. Okay. Chief? Chief?
 Well, I think Blake said it all there the law in 2003 under which the resolution was passed creating the Board of Health for the city changed later that year and There's a hundred dollar honorarium in that resolution and that's been declined by all of the City health officers
 And this would bring the Board of Health under the City Code and make it under, updated under the current law. Okay. Do we have any questions for the Chief? We sat on that board together and they wanted to make these changes so we thought it was important we bring it to you. So, do you have any questions for the Chief or any public, okay, any public comment on this? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the Council. I move, we move to the second reading.
 Second. Thank you. We have a motion to say and go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Hattie. Yes. An ordinance to enact Article 28, City Board of Health, in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fable Code.
 i move to go to the third and final reading and motion second go to third and final reading sondra would you please call the shot my yes yes long yes gray yes kenyon yes petty an ordinance to enact article 28 city board of health in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the fable code any final comments from the council on this okay
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Loutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, number three. An ordinance for zoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 15-5148 for approximately .20 acres located at 402 East 7th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RMF 12 residential multifamily 12 units per acre. Blake?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RMF 12 Residential Multifamily, 12 units per acre, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jeremy? This property is located at 402 East 7th Street in the Walker Park neighborhood. It is currently zoned NC, which is our neighborhood conservation zoning district. It's approximately a quarter of an acre. It's undeveloped. The property is requested to be rezoned to RMF 12, which is residential multifamily, 12 units per acre.
 There's a surrounding mixture of single and multifamily residential uses within this area. Therefore, we find the zoning to be compatible with that request. The Walker Park Neighborhood Plan seeks to preserve single-family neighborhoods while encouraging additional housing types, including multifamily, and a mixture of uses. So, therefore, we find it consistent also with the Walker Park Plan. The Planning Commission forwarded this item to you with a vote of 8-0, and staff is recommending an improvement. Would the app like to say anything? Are they here? Please come on up.
 Hi, my name is Zara Niedermann, and thank you for having me. I want to answer any questions you may have. I also want to just comment and say thank you with regard to the parking with commercial, since it's related that I fully support reducing the—
 Limiting the commercial parking requirements and since I'm up here along the same lines. I'd like to also Give my encouragement to think more about the parking requirements for residential particularly I see a lot of need for People one one one car households and You know single singles who are one in their own place, and so I'd like to encourage more dense development. I
 Do we have, does the council have a question for Mr. Niederman or Jeremy? Yes, John. I'm just curious, .2 acres, what are we going to build there? What's the purpose? Thank you. The plan is to build two townhouses, or two units of townhouses. Currently under neighborhood conservation you need 80 feet of frontage and with the
 0.2 acres, so it allows for two units. The requirement is 60 feet of frontage, and this property has 65 feet of frontage, so neighborhood conservation won't allow two families currently. Thank you. Any other questions? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Seeing none, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Schottmeyer? Yes. Loutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5148 for approximately .2 acres located at 402 East 7th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RMF 12 residential multifamily 12 units per acre.
 I'm sorry, did you say the staff did recommend this? That is correct. Thank you. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5148 for approximately .2 acres located at 402 East 7th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RMF 12, residential multifamily, 12 units per acre. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Lutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 The ordinance passes. Okay. Number four, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5149 for approximately 1.27 acres located at 2975 Old Farm Street Road from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre, as shown on Exhibits A and B, attached here to and made a part hereof.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jeremy. Thank you.
 This property is located on the south side of Old Farmington Road, just east of One Mile Road, which is west of I-49. It contains two parcels containing approximately one and a quarter acres. There's one single family home on the property currently. The request is to rezone the property from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre.
 In staff's opinion, the rezoning request is compatible with surrounding land uses, which are single family homes on a variety of lot sizes. This particular zoning district would also allow single family homes, the minimum of 5,000 square feet. The lot sizes in this area range from 6,000 square feet to the south and north, and then larger parcels to the east and west.
 This is a residential neighborhood area in our city plan 2030, which supports a wide spectrum of residential uses and encourages density in all housing types. We feel it would be a compatible addition to this neighborhood and would also continue to expand on the diversity of single family lot sizes within the area. Staff is recommending approval and the planning commission agreed as well with a vote of eight
 Okay. Is the applicant? Yes, you sure may. I just wanted to explain that I'll be recusing from this vote with an interest in the property and having filed the application. Do you have somebody speak in your stead? I do. Okay. Yes. My name's Michael Ward. I'm working with Enfield Group on this rezoning request.
 Thank you for considering this request. As Mr. Pate alluded to, staff supports this, and we're pleased with planning commissions and unanimous approval of the request. And I have no new information at this time. I'm here for questions if you have them. Do we have any questions for the applicant or chair mail on this? Okay. Any public comment on this? So you're not going to bring it back to the council. I move that we go to the second reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Mayor, you may vote to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. I'm going to vote to suspend the rules. Second.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5149 for approximately 1.27 acres located at 2975 Old Farmington Road from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I second it. Okay.
 So I'm going to want you to please call the roll. Schottmeyer. Yes. Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Mayor, you may vote. I'm going to vote yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5149 for approximately 1.27 acres located at 2975 Old Farmington Road from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre.
 Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Sergeant, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Loutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. The ordinance passes. Okay. Number five. Yes.
 An ordinance living a tax on the real and personal property within the City of Federal Arkansas for the year 2015, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils for the Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund, and 1.0 mil for the Federal Public Library, and certifying the same to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. Good evening, Mayor and Council.
 like you got to read it real quick i'm sorry blake be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the city of fayetteville arkansas for the year 2015 to be collected in 2016 for the following purposes at the following rates real and personal property purpose general fund operations levy 2.3
 Purpose, Fayetteville Public Library, levy 1.0 mils. Purpose, Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils. Purpose, Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils. Total, 4.1 mils. Section 2, that the real and personal property tax so levied and the rates provided therefore are hereby certified to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas, to be placed in the tax book and collected in the same manner that the county and school district taxes are collected.
 Section 3, the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file certified copies of this ordinance in the office of the county recorder, county clerk, county assessor, and the county tax collector for Washington County, Arkansas. Okay. Paul. Okay, Mayor and Council. This is a recommendation for the millage for the 2016 budget.
 Again, the request is 4.1 mils. Now that's one mil more for the general fund than was levied last year. I gave an expanded presentation at the agenda session last Tuesday and would encourage any members of the public who wish to view that for a little more information.
 go out on our website and view that agenda session for more information. I'm not going to go over that exact presentation at this point in time, but I'm going to hit some of the highlights. The highlight of the general fund budget is it, the request is an increase of $3 million from $38.1 million to $41.1 million. Basic reason for the increase or the large portion of the increase
 is due to the request of putting on an additional 23 positions that were previously unfunded. 19 of those positions would be in police and fire. This would allow the police to add an extra beat, which would be six additional positions. Also allow one motorcycle patrol officer and the addition or restoration of one dispatcher that was frozen back in 2011.
 It would also include four other positions in various departments, one in parks, one in budget, one in the prosecutor's office, and one in building safety. So this would be 23 newly funded positions. In addition to that, the budget needs to be increased by a million dollars,
 and that is because of the raises that we granted last April. So that encompasses both the salary increases, also the insurance associated, unemployment compensation, things of that nature. In addition to that, the funding request is also to increase...
 our payment to the emergency ambulance service a hundred and eighty five thousand dollars that is so they can meet the metrics of calls that they have they have established also a hundred thousand dollars included in the budget for compensation study and that study
 was authorized by the council to be done every four years. And I think that's an important study, because that tells us whether or not we're being competitive in wages. And it's very expensive for turnover here at the city, especially in police and fire, because it takes a long time before those police and firefighters can in fact function on their own. A lot of training, they have to attend academies, things of that nature.
 So the key reason that we're asking for this property tax increase is for the addition to public safety. And I'm going to stop there and allow any questions. However, I am going to indicate that the police chief and fire chief are going to do presentations to explain their particular needs to you and how it will respond to maintaining the current metrics for calls here in the city.
 do we have any questions for paul or do you want to hear the police chief yes john all before the presentation by police and fire speaking legally legal authority once this tax is passed and it goes into the general fund is there anything that binds the city to spend the money for police fire and public safety no
 Nothing. No, it funds the entire general fund. Okay. So for us to sit here and talk about the needs in police and fire, there's nothing binding in this ordinance that makes us spend the money on police and fire? No, but the fact that we put them into the budget means that those positions will be there and expense will be created. Can we take them out of the budget? The police and fire? Sure. These additional positions, yes.
 Sure. Mm-hmm. Okay. I just wanted to be clear what we're voting on here. We're voting for an increase in the general fund spending. It may or may not go to public safety. We're talking about going to public safety, but there's nothing binding in this that makes us put it to public safety. Okay. The council is going to finally approve the budget before December where required or the mayor is required to come forward with his budget in December, that point in time it
 contain the request for these positions. We vote on budget adjustments every meeting. Yes, that's true. Budgets get adjusted. There's nothing binding here. Just so we're clear on what we're voting for. Absolutely, John. Nothing's binding here. Good. Okay. Any other questions? I don't want us to play the smoke and mirror game. I'm not playing it. Here's what we're voting for when really it's just general fund spending. That'll be for you all to determine. Yes, Adele. Yes. I would just like to say that
 I feel that it's our responsibility as the city council to decide where the money goes. And all the nine years that I've been on the council, that's the way it's been. So I don't see any chance that it's going to change. Anything else?
 I'll echo Adela's sentiment. I think there's a certain amount of public trust put in our elected officials that are sitting here at this table. If that's what we say it's going to go for, then I think that if we vote for it, the public should trust that we're going to do that or vote us out of office the next time. That's correct. The one thing I guess I should have made clear are these are almost what I would call fungible assets. They're moved together and once that revenue comes in, you can't determine which dollar
 So it's been on general fund purposes, but we certainly discussed the intent. Okay. Chief Day-Ranger, would you like to present your presentation? Yes, I would. Thank you, Mayor, Council. Thanks for this opportunity to demonstrate to you the impact of Fed Bill's population growth on the fire department's ability to save lives and property. I'll try to keep this under an hour and a half for my presentation. I'll do my best.
 As the population grows, fire departments impacted in four basic ways. Call volume increases, that's the demand for service increases, response times increase, survival rates and cardiac arrest decrease, and the amount of property we can save decreases. This is a history of the population of Fayetteville.
 So it shows in 1985 there was a population of just under 40,000. Last year, Fayetteville had over 80,000 citizens. Some estimates put the population's growth in 2020 at over 88,000. This is a map showing the density
 The population in the location you can see it's contained mostly right here in the center of the city and there's some up here in the northern sector and then out West so those are the. The most dense areas of the city's population darker shades are the more dense areas this is a map of the city that shows the first in response area for each of our 7 fire stations as indicated by the thick black lines.
 The colored areas surrounding each fire station, if you can see, is a that's a mile and a half drive time around each fire station. And the areas outside of the colored areas around each fire station is outside of a four minute drive time. And this is significant because our benchmark is to try to be on the scene of an emergency in six minutes or less.
 90% of the time is the national standard according to the National Fire Protection Association. So, the six minutes is significant because one minute of the total response time is for call processing at the dispatch center and dispatching the appropriate units.
 Another minute is for turnout time for the firefighters to put on their protective equipment and get on the fire truck and get out the door. And then the four-minute drive time to put us on the scene in six minutes or less. That's what we'd like to do. This is our call volume increase from 2004 till 2014. So in the 10-year period, we've had a 58% increase in our total call volume.
 And in the past 5 years of 30% increase in this puts pressure on our emergency response system. This map shows the call volume density within the city. So you can see that the population density areas are the same areas where we have the majority of our calls. So on this map green is good.
 The yellow and the red and the orange are where the most calls happen. So again, it's right here in the core of the city in that northern section and then over here out west. This is the call volume over the 10-year period on emergency calls only.
 So while we responded to 9,250 total calls in 2014, we grade our response times on the time-sensitive calls only, like fires, medical calls, motor vehicle accidents. What's not included are the service calls and the utility checks and mutual aid and test calls. As you can see, we've gone from 5,025 calls in 2004, emergency calls, up to 7,387.
 in 2014. This map is a six-minute response time areas. So here the red is bad, the green is good, the orange and the yellow are the areas where we do not arrive on the scene within six minutes. So this is a collective figure from all of the fire stations, all the fire companies. So the
 the red a lot of the red areas pastured so of course it's going to be red because we haven't been there unless there's been a brush fire there but the the core areas are the places where we still have trouble because that's the most calls we have trouble with these companies being out of pocket and then these outline companies like engine five out of here and letter three and letter seven have to come into the core of the city and
 and therefore they're not in their area to respond to the next call that they're going to have. So why six minutes for fire suppression? When responding to structure fires, the primary time constraint for first arriving companies is prevention of flashover. Flashover is defined as the transition from a growing fire to a fully developed fire in which all combustible items in the compartment are involved in the fire.
 During this period, temperatures may reach 1200 degrees Fahrenheit and it eliminates any chance of occupant survival or of rescue by the firefighters. Although each structure fire presents a unique set of factors for fire development, it's generally agreed that flashover will occur in a structure seven to ten minutes after ignition.
 So these are the unknowns the time of ignition and when the fire is discovered so that time period is unknown once the 911 is called they have a minute to process the call dispatch the units.
 then the units have a we try to get out of the house in our bunker gear and out of the house in a minute and then four minutes drive time to get to the scene and get water on the fire as rapidly as possible to prevent the flash over once the flash over happens we've lost the structure 99 of the time so that that's our critical point to be able to save the property so our response times in under six minutes
 from 2004 to 2014 you can see it's gone from 70 percent of the time we were arriving at the scene in under six minutes in 2004 until it's gone down steadily in 2014 we're only arriving on the scene 62 percent of the time this slide shows the property loss and the property saved up here at the top the orange line is the property saved and this is the percentage of the property saved
 out of the number of properties that we encounter. So a threatened property is one on fire or flood, and the property we've gone from 98.3% of saving the property that we encounter down to 95.5% of the threatened property that we've saved in 2014. And property loss mirrors that. We've gone from saving 1.7%
 or lost, this is property lost. So we lost 1.7% of the property we encountered in 2004. 2014, we've lost 4.5% of the properties that we encountered. This slide shows the chain of survival from the American Heart Association, the American Medical Association. In the event of a cardiac arrest,
 We need early recognition and the call for help. That's over here. Then citizen CPR, early CPR, once the heart stops. This is when the fire department arrives with the defibrillators and shocks the heart to try to get the circulation going again. And this is the advanced paramedic life support that arrives on the scene with the ambulance. So this is an ideal chain of survival in which someone has the best chance
 opportunity to survive a cardiac arrest. So with cardiac arrest, why six minutes? The American Heart Association and American Medical Association have established this industry standard for emergency response to cardiac arrest. Cardiac arrest, the highest hospital discharge rate, has been achieved in patients whom CPR was initiated within four minutes of arrest and advanced cardiac life support within eight minutes.
 Early bystander rescue breathing is CPR intervention and fast emergency medical services responses are therefore essential in improving survival rates and good necrological recovery rates. That's from the American Medical Association. Now here again, the heart attack occurs. There's an unknown time until it's discovered. Then an unknown time
 for when 911 is called. Once 911, the dispatchers are notified, they try to process the call in a minute. Firefighters try to get on the truck and out the door within a minute, four minutes to arrive to the scene of the cardiac arrest and get in the house or up the stairs to the patient, hook up the defibrillator and we try to do that within eight to ten minutes or there's a biological death.
 This is the cardiac arrest save rate that we've experienced from 2007 until 2014. As you can see, in 2007 we had a survival rate of 37% and in 2014 the survival rate has decreased down to 22% of cardiac arrests. So we're not saving as many people as we did when they have cardiac arrests. So rapid response saves lives.
 and the response times and the save rates are related. This chart plots the call volume increase per year from 2004 through 2014 and then projects future call volume numbers based on that level of increase. So the numbers in the red boxes are the number of calls that we have this year, each year. And then it's a 4.81% growth from 2004 till 2014 and from that point
 On it's projected to be 4.81% per year out through 2020. Now the in 2004 we had 70% arrival time in under six minutes. The last time we placed a new fire company in service was 2005 when station 7 was open.
 Right here. We did build a new fire station in 2008. However, it was, we relocated the fire company at that time. And so in 2007, our save rate in cardiac arrest was 37%. Come up here to 2014, 62% response in under six minutes and save rate in cardiac arrest down to 22%.
 Now, this trend's gonna continue. The pressures on the public safety systems in the city are gonna continue if the population continues to grow. So this is not a one-time fix for what's happening. This is a public safety infrastructure that we're gonna have to continue to address periodically toward the future. And so here's what we're requesting in 2016, is to add a rescue engine company
 put it down at station one over here on center and move the big ladder truck there down to station six over behind the McDonald's on Hollywood. So this shows adding a ladder in 2018 and then in 2020 adding a new engine and so we would have added then three new units into the system
 between now and 2020 to try to level off our level off and improve our cardiac arrest save rates improve our amount of property saved and address our increasing response times so what we're requesting in order to address the service demand from our citizens the fire department recommends creating a new fire company and unfreezing our two frozen positions
 A fire company is 10 firefighters with a fire truck. And we can, this will create a company in the core of the city so that the outlying fire companies can stay at home, not at home, but stay in their first-in areas more often. And so that should improve the cardiac arrest survival rates. Our response times will improve, and we'll be able to save more property. Thank you.
 Now the other position that we want to unfreeze is the Safety and Supply Battalion Chief, and I've listed some of that position's duties that we need to be unfrozen that are currently being done by the Training Chief. And he—some of these things are—none of these things are being done as well as they could be with someone dedicated to the safety of the department. So with that,
 That's all of my presentation. It was under an hour and a half, I know, but I'm ready to answer any questions you might have about it. Do we have any questions for the Chief? Yes, John. Chief, thank you for your presentation. I'm very much in favor of public safety. I'm very appreciative of the job you and your men do and your women. Thank you. Everybody on the fire department, every time you get on that truck, every time you put on your boots and pull over your safety equipment, you put your life in your hands.
 In my job, if I make a mistake, I flip my pencil over and erase it. In your job, if you make a mistake, the rest of us go to a funeral. So thank you. Thank you. I have the utmost respect for you and the fire department. I suppose what's haunting me in the back of my mind is this council was discussing giving the Walton Arts Center $50,000 earlier this year, and I raised that very issue of unfunded frozen positions.
 And you stood here and told us you didn't need them. You had everybody you had. You needed. Now you're telling us the opposite. What's changed? One position is not going to impact the response times. It takes a unit, and the response times are number one priority. And one person, which we're filling right now and can continue with overtime, is just not going to impact that. It takes a fire unit, which is the 10 members, to really impact that. Thank you.
 Thanks, Chief. Chief Tabor. One second. Don't let him take credit for it not being an hour and a half. We told him we were going to tase him if he took more than ten minutes. So you can thank us for that, not him. First of all, let me apologize for my speech. I've been having a lot of dental work done. I promise I haven't been drinking, okay? It's due to dental work. So if I sound like I can't pronounce my S's, it's probably because I cannot.
 Just a little reminder, everybody but Mr. Latour will remember this. Last year, about the same time, Alderman Long brought up us adding five new police positions. We looked at that.
 Some of the things I'll talk about tonight in more detail, Code Zero's response times were ticking up a little bit at that point. I think that was in the second, maybe toward the end of the second quarter of last year, maybe about the same time this year. We just didn't feel like that was enough to make a trend. At that time, we told you guys we would promise to watch that, which we have continued to do.
 And I'll give you the results of what we found since basically about the second quarter of 14 to now. A little more history I want to give. The last time the police department received any new personnel was the budget year of 2016. We added 10 new personnel at that time, which put us to a total staff, total sworn staff of 120. Not 2016. I'm sorry. 2006, sorry. 2006. Okay. Okay.
 You got my dates wrong. In 06 is the last time. We added 10 officers, moved us to a total staff of 120. That's what we have today is 120. We've been up and down a little bit between 06 and today due to freezes and grants and some things like that. So we are exactly the same amount of sworn personnel that we had in 20, I was about to say it again, 2006.
 We were able in 2009 and 10 we froze four positions due to budget constraints. We were able to get those back and
 One was through a grant from the state. The other was a federal grant where we added three SROs. So that's how we were able to get the four positions back. So I'll start in my presentation now. Talk just a little bit about what we think is attributing to our increased workload, code zeros, and response time. First is the population of the city. Those numbers will probably be a little different than what you're used to looking at. They're definitely different than chief day ringers.
 We get our population numbers from the FBI. The FBI gives us those numbers and they do it the same way across the country. That way you're comparing apples to apples when you're looking at population and when you're looking at the crime rate. So what you'll notice is a dip in 2011 right here. So what happens is up until 2010 the FBI gives us an estimated number and then once the census is done,
 they kick it back to what the actual number is. So that's why you see a dip in the population between 10 and 11 is because of the actual census number that was given.
 Here's one of the big ones. As everyone knows, the enrollment at the universities went up significantly. And what I've done is I went back to 2005, since this is the area last time we received new personnel. Obviously between 2005 and the numbers that just come out a few days ago, the university has seen a 50% increase in enrollment.
 Of those 26,000 you see the number here 5,700 live on campus. Now the remainder of those all do not live in the city of Fayetteville. I'm sure we've got students that live in Rogers, Springdale, West Fork, Perry Grove, everywhere else. But what we do know is they come here to go to school. So at some point they're on our roads, eating at our restaurants, and being entertained. So at some time we're dealing with them where there's a traffic accident or those types of things.
 Next is square miles, and what we're talking about is inside the city limits of Fayetteville, a 10% increase since 2005. You know, every time Jeremy's division sends us a sub-development that's being talked about, we usually say, hey, building 10 houses today.
 in some subdivision is not going to have that much of an impact on us as far as call load goes. However, what happens is when you do that 100 times, 50 times, 1,000 times, then it does start having an impact on our calls for service. Also, there's much...
 difference in building a new subdivision with single-family homes on the east side of town and building the View, the Domain, the Cardinal, the Maple, and all those things. Obviously, those are very different types of developments. So over time, those developments do impact us. One might not, but over time, they definitely impact our calls for service. Go ahead, Mike.
 Road miles, same kind of thing, 10% increase. I thought that was kind of interesting. It was pretty much the same amount of increase as the square miles that we have. Once again, you know, if you add a block of road, it doesn't have much effect, but as the years go by and those add up, that's just more roads we have patrolled, more roads that have accidents on and those types of things. So we'll get into a little more specifics now and talk about our call load.
 These are broke out by quarters because everyone knows a summer in Fayetteville is different than a fall in Fayetteville because of Bikes, Blues, Barbecue, Ballgames, University, and those types of things. You will notice the blue bars are 14 and the, if you're I guess a Texas fan, the burnt orange bars are 15. So you can see in the first quarter between 14 and 15 we had a 2% increase, not that big of an increase.
 Second quarter creeped up a little bit, 6.9% increase. And then in the third quarter, even though we're not through with the third quarter exactly yet, we estimated that based on how many weeks we were into the third quarter and estimated that out for the entire quarter.
 So as you can see, certainly be a big, big increase there, 19%. And then on the fourth quarter, obviously we're not in the fourth quarter, so we made an estimate there. And how we estimated that was we took these three percent increases, averaged them, and come up with that number. So that's just a scientific guess is the best we can do for the fourth quarter. But as you can see, pretty steady increase. You know, when you look at the fourth quarter, you've got to start talking about things. College kids gone for Thanksgiving, college kids gone for...
 break, weather, all those kind of things. So as you can see, the fall, end of summer and fall is definitely the busiest time of the year for us. Mike, go ahead.
 These are our priority one calls. I'm sure everybody we've had this discussion before. Priority one calls are life and death type situations. They're the most serious calls we have. It typically requires at least two officers to go to those calls. Sometimes the mayor went with me on a call last Wednesday or Thursday night and we had every single person working that was there. So sometimes it takes eight, ten, twelve officers, but they at least require two officers
 Two officers on priority one calls. Once again, same scenario. Blue bars were last year.
 The orange bars are this year, as you can see, stepping up pretty significantly as we go. Once again, this is an estimate based on these numbers. So a 27% increase in one year is a pretty significant increase in the amount of Priority 1 calls we've had in that third quarter, if once again that estimate holds true. And I don't have any reason to believe that it wouldn't based on everything we're seeing. Response times.
 Once again, this is for Priority 1 calls, and this is, you'll have to bear with me, this is maybe a little complicated here. I think I can explain it. So this, we're not comparing quarter to quarter. We actually just put them right in order. So as you can see, you know, jumped up a little bit, a little flat, jumped up. Now you see this decrease between the first quarter of 15 and the second quarter of 15. And to try to explain that, what we've done is we've done,
 Alderman Long had this idea, I think, put it in our head of adding this extra beat. So what we've done is we've done a trial nine beat starting at the end of May of this year. And basically we didn't have really enough manpower to do that, but we paid the overtime and done a trial nine beat
 So when you look at this three months of this 9-beat, five weeks of that three months is actually in this second quarter of 15. So that's why you see this decrease from 520 to 508 is because part of this trial 9-beat, five weeks of it, is over in this quarter. Everybody making sense to everybody so far? Yeah.
 And so what we had hoped to do is we wanted to come to you not with just saying we think this will work by adding a ninth beat and adding a motorcycle. We wanted to see if we could in fact prove it would work.
 And I think we've done that. As you can see, when we've done this trial 9-beat for one quarter, basically our, because I don't think we can really use this number because that's not a real number. We really went from a 5 minute 20 response time down to a 4 minute 58 second response time.
 Wi-Fi minute response time, we really don't have anything like the fire department where you've got flash over or cardiac arrest. They need to be the hospital. That's a standard we've used for many, many years. Far back as I can remember, that's the standard we've used. If you look at some Department of Justice studies, some of the worst cities have in the 10-12 minute range in the country. Some of the best cities have about four minutes.
 Would I love to be at four minutes? I'd love to be, but I think if we can stay around that five-minute mark, that's a metric we've had for years, and I think that's a pretty reasonable number to be at. Go ahead, Mike.
 Code zeros, remind you what code zeros are. Code zeros are any time that we have a priority one or priority two call come in that an officer is not readily available to send to that call. You call and say, my house, somebody's breaking in my house and all the officers are busy. We do not have somebody to send to that call. Once again, this is in quarter order. As you can see, it was, you know, fairly flat here. Took a jump here.
 And then the same scenario applies. So this number being lower is, I'm assuming, all in part because of this trial 9B, five weeks of it was in that quarter there, which lowers this number. I'm quite confident if we hadn't tried the trial 9B that this 44 would have continued in an upward trend. I feel quite confident. Go ahead, Mike. Talk about the motor officer for just a second. Okay.
 I'm sure you guys have all seen them. They are basically what we use for traffic enforcement. They work all the accidents. They can work and accidents are probably the most time-consuming thing that an officer does out there. So what it does is it frees up an officer to answer those other calls where we can drive that response time down, where we can drive those code zeros down. Each motor officer, we currently have three right now. We were down to two.
 because we had one injured and what happened was when we decided to do the nine-beat trial we went ahead and took an officer and made a motor officer out of him once again to make sure that if we added a motor officer we could see those numbers go down so that's what we did. Each motor officer works about eight percent of the total accidents and so if we had four that'd be 32% of all the accidents in the city they would work and
 and what that does based on the average time to work an accident it would save about seventy hours a month for patrol officer to not be working that accident and to be out once again answering those calls driving those code zeroes and that response time down
 They do a lot of other things besides accidents, but that was the one thing that we could actually put a time on. They handle most of our parking complaints and other time consuming things. Alderman Long, you know, we've had a huge problem over at Holcomb School just in the last two, three, four weeks, and the motor officer was the one that handled the biggest part of that. So once again, by adding that motor officer, not only does it free up all this time and
 time of 70 hours that they can, that a patrolman can be answering calls, they cover lots of other things that if they weren't out there, they would have to be, a patrol officer would have to be answering that call.
 Talk about the beat map for just a minute. This is the current beat map. It shows up. And when I say 8 beat, 9 beat, I want to make sure that y'all understand that that's a minimum number, not a maximum number. So there's times, you know, depending on vacation, sick leave, training, court, FMLA, all those other things that we could be over that amount. This is a minimum amount.
 This map was put in place in the fall of 2009. We switched to 12-hour shifts in 2009, and this new beat map was devised then.
 It is based on, you notice obviously, you know, this, the east side of town, the areas are much bigger than they are here in the center town. It wasn't done based on the size of the area. It was done based on workload. It has an equal amount of workload in each area. So hopefully what that does, I think you guys have heard me talk about obligated and unobligated time.
 Obligated time is the time that an officer is going on a call, answering a call. Unobligated time is basically the free time the officer has to drive around, patrol the neighborhoods, get out in the parks, talk to the kids, go to the Yvonne Richards Center and those kind of things. So this is based with the theory that if they have an equal amount of workload, then they will also have the same amount of unobligated time.
 It also gives the same percentage chance that every officer in every area will be available for a call when one is available in an area.
 We do not what's called cross beat dispatch in all scenarios. So for example, if I'm working zone four and a call comes in in zone seven, the only way dispatch is sending me across town to answer that calls if it's a priority one or two. If I'm in zone seven and I had my Halloween decorations stolen last night, dispatch is not going to send someone clear across town to answer that. They're going to wait till that
 BEAT 7 unit is available to do that. And so that's another reason that the more we can keep people in their areas, the more it reduces response time. Because what happens, as soon as you send this guy down here to Zone 7, well guess what, you get a call up here, now he's having to go all the way from here back to there, which increases response time. So the more we can keep people in their own areas, the more it helps on response times. The next one is the proposed 9 BEAT map.
 It's done in the very exact same scenario based on workload and with the theory to have the same amount of obligated and unobligated time for each officer. You can tell it moved all the boundaries around just a little bit, but basically what it done is it changed most of the area right here in the center town. So obviously that tells us one, two, three, and nine are where probably most of the calls are occurring. Okay.
 It did, like I said, it made eight a little smaller. It made one come over here a little bit. So it does change some of the boundaries around. But like I said, it's completely done on workload and the theory that the officer would have the same amount of unobligated time versus obligated time.
 I want to make it clear that these officers we're asking for, we're not asking to start a new unit. These officers are to go to patrol to keep up with the amount of workload we have. It's to drive the code zeros down, it's to drive the response time down. You know, one of the best things you can do from crime prevention
 uh is to have an officer out there meeting the public greeting the public in a non-enforcement type situation so the more free time these officers can have i think the better job we do and we drive crime down by having officers out there talking to people shaking hands in the neighborhoods going to the parks and interacting with the public in a non-enforcement way so hopefully this will help do that also anytime you put more officers on the streets they should have more time to do that and
 Talk about the added dispatcher for just one second. That dispatcher position was frozen, and obviously in 2014 we're going to have about 43,000 calls
 In 2015, we expect to have about almost 46,000 calls, so there's a significant increase in the amount of calls. So that's one reason to add to dispatcher, just the increased calls. And I'll try to talk about the fire department here in a second, so Chief, if I butcher this, come save me. When the fire department has an actual structure fire, their on-scene commander goes to a different radio channel so he can talk.
 to his people that are actually at the fire. If we don't have enough dispatchers available, the ideal situation is for one of our dispatchers to go to that same channel so dispatch can follow what's going on on the fire grounds. If we don't have enough dispatchers available, then
 We don't have they're not able to switch over to that fire channel and that fire commander is having to listen to his guys On one channel and it switches radio channel and relay that information back to dispatch, which is obviously not an ideal situation I thought you did that real well And it's happening more and more frequently because the we're actually the number of fires we have are actually going up so the shift commanders have a
 I've been talking about it more and more often. So it is a dangerous situation that this would help address. And I think that concludes it for me. I'll try to answer any questions that you have. What questions do we have, Chief? Anything? Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right. What public comment do we have? Okay. Bring it back to the council. I would prefer if we would leave this on this reading this week. I'm sure there's going to be more discussion on it.
 Anything else? Yes, Alan. If we could, I'd like to have copies of those presentations. Absolutely. If there's anything you want. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Yes. I just want to reiterate, I appreciate Chief Tabor and Chief Dayringer and the jobs they do, but remember what we were told at the beginning of the presentation. There's nothing legally binding. We can change the funding any time we want to. The City Council can. We're not committing these funds to police or fire. We're increasing the tax on our citizens. We're increasing the tax on our citizens.
 without a public vote, I think it would be very fair to let the people vote if they want to pay the extra tax or not, instead of us imposing our will on the people. This is coming out of their pockets. It may make a $200 a year tax difference. It may make $100 a year. But for the guy who's living paycheck to paycheck, $10 a month more on his mortgage payment into his escrow account to pay those property taxes, it's going to be hard to sell to them. That's where my heart lies.
 Those of us who are fluent, who have college educations, who have good jobs, $100, $200 a year doesn't matter much to us. But there are a lot of people who change our oil at Walmart, who hang our sheetrock or paint our houses. They don't have that privilege. They'll probably never set foot inside of the Walton Arts Center, but they're going to be paying for this additional tax. So I would urge my colleagues on this city council to think of them when you vote.
 and think about are we really committing this money to public safety. I agree, you do have to trust us with your tax dollars, how we spend them. I'm just concerned that our police and our fire don't have a designated mill like our library does. I would think that the fire department is at least as important as the library. As far as I know, the library doesn't save any lives. It educates us, the firemen, to save our lives. Why don't we give them a designated mill?
 so then it takes it out of our discretion and designates it for public safety that would be a true public safety vote i'm afraid what's before us right now is not a true public safety vote thank you you're welcome paul you want to address any of that
 Yes, I just will make a comment. This is discretionary millage. There is no authority in the statutes to allow a specific designation that is required to public safety. So there's nothing in the statute that really authorizes that. And Blake, you can correct me if I'm wrong.
 When it comes to discretionary millage, it is the discretion of the council. So statutorily there's no authority for a designated millage for public safety. This has been raised before and I just wanted to make sure that was clear. Now, Paul, when we talk about how much of this millage would go toward public safety?
 We talked about the additional positions being $1,450,000. If we take out the positions that aren't directly public safety, it's about $1,200,000. So almost the entire amount would go to that. However, if we also want to factor in the $200,000 or $185,000 actually, that would go to emergency services.
 the emergency ambulance service, almost the entire amount would go to police, fire, and the central AMS system. And that will be in the budget? That would be in the budget, and it certainly is the council's authority to approve that budget, so that would be up to the council. We could not, as an administration or a staff, decided we wanted to use that on some other purpose.
 The city council does, in fact, approve the budget. That would be my only comment to that.
 And Mayor, along the lines of Alderman Latour's comment, the Arkansas Constitution and statutes authorize several different types of millages that can be levied against personal and real property. It can go to general government activities, which is what this is for, bonded indebtedness, library maintenance and operation, library capital improvements and construction, and police and firemen's pension funds. And those are the only categories that the city is authorized to levy a millage for. Thank you.
 Mayor? Yeah. Again, I'd reiterate, I don't want us to be confused about what we're voting for. We're voting for a general tax increase on our people. There's nothing that requires the money to go to fire and police other than those of us up here who vote to put it there. We just spent over $300,000 on a special study for single stream recycling, over $300,000. We just spent $35,000 or $40,000 holding a special election.
 We spend a lot of money here, and I realize running the city is not like running my household, but it bothers me that we spend all this money, and now we can't make our budget. We have to increase our tax. And let's be clear, we're going from 1.3 mils in the general fund to 2.3 mils. That's a 77% increase. That's a very hefty increase. Chief Tabor showed us our university population over 10 years increased 50%. That's a big increase.
 we're increasing this tax and with one vote 77 that is huge i would think that we could cut some spending somewhere mayor yes more if we're going to be absolutely clear here i want to be absolutely clear about funding if we have 300 000 that goes to a study that impacts our solid waste stream that comes out of an enterprise fund not a general fund and so it's irrelevant to put it in this as a point
 because our enterprise fund is Operated quite separately than our general fund Paul. Is that correct? That's correct Mr. Mayor when we set our prices for our enterprise funds They're set what we're charging our customers for trash collection recycling for water and sewer and all the services we provide and
 Those prices are set to allow for that $300,000 to be spent. If we weren't spending that $300,000, we could lower our prices, and people would have more freed-up income to pay the higher tax. So I would have to disagree with Alderman Kenyon. It is not irrelevant. It's still money coming from the public's funds, whether it be an enterprise or general fund. So don't be confused by that.
 If the public's paying it, it's coming from our money, the public's money, not the city's money. Yes, Matthew. I went back to college. I got a degree in math for some reason. And I have this book at home, which wasn't one of my textbooks, which I really like. It's called How to Lie with Statistics. It's a great piece of satire. Yeah.
 You know, this comment that we're raising taxes by 77% reminded me of that book. You know, you could really spend this any way. I think our total budget is somewhere around $140 million. You know, it's just as fair for me to say that we're raising tax, taxes by, what, .6 percentage points? I mean, you could really take this to any extreme you wanted.
 I think what's important to note here is there's only one way to pay for new police and new firemen. There's only one way, according to state law. This is the way to do it. We need new policemen. We need new firemen.
 To the extent that this doesn't bind us, that we could use this money for anything, you know what? That's absolutely true. I'd like to ask any of my colleagues to raise their hand and volunteer to commit political suicide by baiting and switching the public with a vote for new taxes for police and fire and then doing something else with them. The fact is we just need it. It's the only way to do it. Okay. Well, we're going to leave it right here and then we'll be back in two weeks. All right.
 Okay. Well, I believe that concludes our business. Does anybody have any announcements? Yes, actually. I've got to get my calendar out. We will have our Ward 4 meeting September 28th. That'll be in room 111 of City Hall at 6 p.m. Anybody else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.