I would like to call the order of the September 19th, 2023 City Council meeting. Karen, would you please call the roll? Berna? Here. Bunch? Turr? Here. Erzberg? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag, to the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, the first order of business that we have tonight is the nominating committee
 Mike, I believe you have this one. Yes, Mayor, thank you. The committee is comprised of council members Sarah Bunch, Theresa Turk, and myself, and we would make the following recommendations to the full council. For the Environmental Action Committee, we would recommend the name Grimsley Graham for a term to end December 31 of 24.
 For the Fayetteville Arts Council, we would recommend Mary Sue Price for a term ending June 30th of 25. For the Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, I'm not really sure we'd make a recommendation, Mr. Mayor, but we did interview, and you know you're looking at Tricia Moore for a term to expire December 28th of 26th.
 For the Town and Gown Advisory Committee, we recommend Annie Dowling for a resident at large for a term to end September 30th of 25, and Brandon Gibbons for an off-campus student whose term would end September 30th of 25.
 For the Urban Forestry Advisory Board, we would recommend Bethany Douglas for a Tree Service Community Representative with the term ending December 31st of 24, and Carlo Bertani with a term to end on December 31st of 24.
 And finally, for the Walton Arts Center Council, we would recommend Barry Bryan with the term to end June 30th of 24 and Claire Kohlberg with the term to end June 30th of 25. And that's the full recommendations from the nominating committee. I will entertain a motion and a second to approve the nominees of the nominating committee for all the committee. So moved. Second.
 the motion in the second care would you please call the right burner yes bunch turk yes herzberg yes jones yes moore yes we did correct yes okay thank you all next is the consent agenda number one approval of the september 5th 2023 city council meeting minutes
 Number two, a resolution to approve change order number one to the RFQ 22-07 contract with Carlston Heavy Contractors Incorporated for the Midtown Corridor Project Phase 2 in the amount of $14,600,772. Approve a project contingency of $300,000 and to approve a budget adjustment for this 2019 transportation bond project.
 Number three, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize federal aid carbon reduction program funds in the amount of $400,000 for the LED lighting and video detection improvements project to approve a city match of $100,000 for the project and to approve budget adjustments. Number four, a resolution to approve a
 budget adjustment any amount of eighty six thousand five hundred dollars recognizing additional revenue and associated expenses for certain parking facilities and services number five a resolution to award bid number 23 dash 28 and author and authorizing the purchase of salt brine making equipment from Duttmer sales any amount of seventy eight thousand dollars plus sales tax and
 Number six, resolution to approve change order number 10 to the construction manager at risk contract Flintco LLC for the police headquarters project in the amount of $29,624 and to approve budget adjustment of this police headquarters bond project.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the 2023 Community Development Block Grant Plan and Home Investment Partnerships Program home agreements and to authorize Mayor Jordan to execute these agreements for 2023 when received in the amount of $1,277,184. And number eight, a resolution to waive competitive being and to approve a contract with the
 Ozarks ago LLC for the construction and installation of fiber optic conduit and fiber optic cable in an amount not to exceed 576 thousand dollars I will entertain a motion except consent agenda spread so moved second Motion second except since in this way here, which please call the roll Yes, yes, sir. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, I
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to unfinished business.
 Number one, an ordinance to amend 51.136 monthly water rates and 51.137 monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates is recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Beach. This was left on the second reading, and I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carabinieri, please call the roll. Erna? Yes.
 Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. In order to amend section 51.136 monthly water rates and section 51.137 monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates as recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Veach. Yes.
 Mayor, I know that we normally only allow 10 minutes for a presentation, but this issue is fairly complicated, complex, and I'd ask that maybe we allow this discussion to be a little bit longer, maybe up to 20 minutes, so that the public can fully understand and appreciate all the nuances and the hard work that's gone into drafting this rate study. Do we have a second? Second.
 Second. Second. OK. 20 minutes, right, Teresa, and then we'll see where we're at in 20 minutes. OK. OK. Kerridge, please call the roll. Who was the second? That was Hull. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes.
 Okay, Tim. Thank you here. We're going to give a Presentation I was going to start to give an overview of the utilities department Followed by Anna white the principal consultant with black and beach to talk about the details of the rate study And a follow-up with CFO Paul Becker on the rate study next slide please
 So we get our water from Beaver Lake through Beaver Water District. We pump it in for storage and distribution, send it to our customer, and after they use it, it goes into wastewater collection and then treatment and discharge into the natural outlets. Next, please. Our purchased water, as I said, does come from Beaver Water District in Lowell where the water is drawn and treated from Beaver Lake. Next, please.
 We have 800 miles of water lines, 15 storage tanks, and roughly 50,000 water meters.
 Besides providing water to the citizens of Fayetteville, we also provide water and distribution system maintenance to the City of Farmington, the City of Goshen, the City of Greenland, the southern portion of the City of Johnson, the Wheeler area, and the Round Mountain area. And we do provide water to a single point of connection to the City of Elkins, the City of West Fork, and the Mount Olive Water Association.
 We have 600 miles of sewer lines which are piped to the two wastewater treatment plants. Our treatment plants are operated 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days per year.
 We do provide sewer service and collection services to maintenance to the city of Farmington, city of Greenland, and the southern portion of the city of Johnson. And we do receive and treat wastewater from a single point of discharge from Elkins and the City of West Fork. Next. Paul R. Nolan,
 Wastewater treatment plant treats an annual average of 6 million gallons per day and it discharges into the White River, which goes to Beaver Lake. Last major upgrade of the Nolan plant was in 1988. Next.
 The Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant averages annually 9 million gallons per day discharges in the Illinois River. And it was built in 2007-2008 and put online in 2008. So the questions are, why do we perform a rate study? Go ahead, Jonathan. Thank you.
 We provide a rate study to ensure that the rates provide adequate revenue and to operate our system in a safe and lawful manner and to cover the maintenance expenses now and as our system grows. We perform rate studies to ensure that the rates are equitable and that no customer segment carries a disproportionate burden of the costs while ensuring that the city is able to meet demand for delivery of reliable services needed today and in the future.
 We provide regular improvements through essential capital improvements to the utilities infrastructure for a safe and healthy water sewer service. And last but not least, we're required by state law to perform the rate study every five years. So the operational cost for water distribution and sewer collection in 2022, our O&M budget was $23,556,000 to provide these services to our customers.
 In 2023, we anticipate the cost to be $25,990,362. And in 2024, we expect it or estimate it to be $28,109,350.
 Our wastewater treatment operational cost in 2022, it cost Fayetteville $7.6 million to provide wastewater treatment to our customers. In 2023, we anticipate the cost to be right at $8 million, and in 2024, we're estimating the cost to be about $8.5 million.
 customer classes and number of customers in relation to the volume. So on the water side our residential customers account for 89 percent of our customer base and they account for 58 percent of the volume of flow. The non-residential customers are
 20% of the of the customer base and are also 20% of the flow Irrigation is 9% of our customer base and they're also 9% of the flow industrial is About 7% and they account for 8% of our water flow and our whole sales customers account for 5% of our water flow and
 on the sewer side the residentials are 61 of our customer base and they do 62 of our volume non-residential uh is 22 and of customer base 22 of the flow industry is 10 of the flow and the wholesale customers are six percent of the flow on the wastewater side and that's a short
 presentation of our infrastructure. Has anybody got any questions on that? If not, I'll turn it over to Ms. Hannah White of Black & Beach. Okay. Good evening everybody. It's my pleasure to be here in person with you tonight to continue the conversation that we were having a month ago on this topic. My
 Presentation tonight is going to focus mainly on wastewater. Some of the things I talk about are applicable to water as well, but we're really going to focus on the wastewater numbers and the process that we used.
 So this slide is just an overview of the process. I know that you've seen these three steps several times, but we're going to go through them just one more time with you. So step one is when we project the future revenue and revenue requirements for each utility, and then we determine whether the revenue under existing rates is adequate in order to fund those revenue requirements. So that's basically where we come up with,
 Do the rates need to increase and if so, how much? And if they were just looking at a revenue increase, like 3%, 4%, what's that gap between revenue and revenue requirements? The second step then is to allocate those costs, those revenue requirements, to the customer classes so that we can determine the cost responsibility for each class. So the total cost of service for sewer is a little under $27 million.
 23 million of that is allocated to the inside city customers. As Tim was just talking through about the number of customers and the usage by the different classes for water and sewer, inside city residential is your largest class. We also want to allocate those costs to the cost components, and that's what we use to develop the unit rates that are used to develop the proposed rate schedule.
 The third step then is when we develop that rate schedule using those unit costs. So here we want to make sure that we're recovering the costs, the revenue from each rate component, for instance the monthly base charge as well as the volume charge appropriately and also recovering appropriate amount from each customer class.
 Okay, next slide. So I just want to emphasize that we followed the industry methodologies for doing a cost of service rate study. There's two manuals. There's one for water and there's one for wastewater. All firms that do this type of work follow the methodology in those manuals, and we did so with this study as well. Next slide. So the main purpose of doing cost of service, that's the second step out of those three steps.
 It's to apportion the costs in an equitable manner that reflects the differences between the customer classes. And that's what's really most important about doing that cost of service allocation step, is to recognize the difference in the services that customers receive and how they use the system. And we do that so that we can then develop rates that recover the appropriate amount of revenue from each customer class.
 So as an example, there's different service requirements for residential customers versus industrial customers. So industrial customers contribute high strength flow into the system, right? In terms of BOD and suspended solids, depending on what kind of industry they're in, the flow that's coming from those types of customers can be very polluted.
 Residential customers do not contribute high strength flow. It's very low strength flow. So that's an example of what we need to take into consideration when we do those cost of service allocations is what's the flow that's coming from each of those customer classes, and how do we need to recognize the difference in the flow so that we make sure that each customer is paying its fair share. Okay, next slide.
 So this is a representation of the wastewater cost allocation approach. And this is typically what's followed in the industry standards. So we have the overall revenue requirements. That's that blue bar at the top.
 and how they're allocated to the different sewer operations. So you can see those operational cost centers in green. So we have the collection system, where we're collecting the water that's now wastewater, we're collecting that flow, it's being pumped through the system, it's going to the treatment plant, and then there's also customer-related costs as well in terms of billing and collection and customer service.
 So the functions then below in the yellow, that's how we recover those costs in terms of rate components. So as an example, costs that are associated with the collection system, we're talking about interceptors, force mains.
 Those costs are recovered through the volume charge. That's because those assets are sized based on the amount of volume that's going to go through the pipes and needs to go through the pump stations. And when we're talking about the amount of volume, we're talking about the contributed wastewater, that's the water that's being returned back to the plant, as well as infiltration and inflow.
 So that's the water that's coming in through connections in the system, little joints that aren't quite tight enough, water that's just getting into the system. So we're talking about contributed and I&I flow, it's what is called infiltration and inflow. It's coming into the system so that those assets, the pipes and the lift stations are sized to recognize both types of flow.
 So we want to make sure that we allocate the costs to those systems, the lift stations and the mains based on flow, and we recover those costs through the flow, through the volume component. Another example is the costs associated with high strength flow. Again, there's parts of the plant that are designed specifically to treat high strength. So we want to make sure that we identify those costs and we recover those costs through the surcharge.
 I want to point out that Elkins and West Fork, those are the two wholesale customers on the sewer side. They are allocated costs associated with the force mains, with pumping, treatment, and treatment. Those are the three. There is no allocation of INI being allocated to the wholesale customers, and we'll talk about that here in a little more detail in a minute.
 So this is a simplified representation, kind of what Tim was talking about in terms of where the water goes to the customer and then how it comes back. This is just discussing how it comes back to the Fayetteville system. So the wastewater system.
 The Fayetteville wastewater system here is shown with the kind of the green checkerboard background. That's Fayetteville system What we're showing there to the left is where Elkins and West Fork come in Okay, so what's in orange there that is what that is Elkins and West Fork's system So they have their own um
 sewer service lines, they have their own pump station, their infiltration and flow, their I&I, comes in through their system into their lift station and then that flow is then delivered to Fayetteville system. So you can see that's where it enters the green checkered box. From there it goes through Fayetteville system
 lift stations, interceptors, goes to the plant, goes for disposal, to the river. So that's Fayetteville's piece of that. So what's kind of outlined there in kind of the orange, supposed to be a circle, but the orange boundary there,
 for Fayetteville's system, those are the parts of Fayetteville's system that are used to serve Elkins and West Fork. So they are allocated a portion of the costs for those processes that are kind of outlined in the orange line. Next slide. So this just summarizes then what exactly is being allocated and what is not being allocated to the wholesale customers versus the retail customers.
 So on the left, wholesale customers are being allocated pumping and conveyance costs from the point that the flow enters Fayetteville system, treatment and disposal, administration costs. These are kind of overhead O&M administration and management costs that are allocated to all customers in proportion to other costs.
 And then wholesale metering and billing. I don't think there's really any metering, but billing the two wholesale customers. And you can see on the retail side, we have the sewer, sewage collection system, as well as the forced mains. Again, on the wholesale side, that sewer collection system is owned by Elkins and West Fork. Therefore, they're not being allocated anything, any costs associated with Fayetteville's sewage collection system.
 Infiltration and inflow is also being recovered from the retail customers, and again, it's not being recovered from wholesale because that flow is already included in the flow that's coming from the lift station from those two customers into Fayetteville's system. Retail customers also pay pumping, treatment, disposal, administration costs, and metering and billing costs.
 So following the meeting from a month ago where we had acknowledged that we were not aware that the infiltration and inflow was included in the meter volume coming from the wholesale customers, we went back and corrected that so that we are not adding any additional I&I.
 to the wholesale volume. We still incorporate I&I for all of the other customer classes, we're not incorporating it for wholesale because it's already in there. So the impact of making this change is what's being shown here. So the allocated cost of service to wholesale to both Elkins and Westport combined was a little under $100,000. So a decrease of about 8 1⁄2%, so that is significant.
 Elkins decreased by about 46,000 and West Fork about 53,000 is how that was split. So what that did with regards to the proposed volume charge is it was decreased by 53 cents per thousand gallons. And so that's a decrease of about 8.4%. We'll see what that rate looks like here in just a minute. Wholesale is not charged a monthly meter charge. So that wasn't impacted by this change.
 So, since we decrease the costs that are allocated to wholesale by $100,000, we have to recover those costs from somewhere else, and so that's the remainder of the customers, the retail customers.
 So, in order to make up that difference, it was recovered from both inside and outside city customers and it resulted in an increase of three cents per thousand gallons for the volume charges proposed for inside and outside city retail customers.
 percentage wise this is about a half percent increase in the inside city volume charge and a little less for the outside city volume charge and there was no change to the base charge the meter charge based on on this revision okay if we go to the next slide so this is just a restatement of the proposed base charges that were presented a month ago and again there's been no change based on the revisions that we made
 to the wholesale customer cost of service allocation. So this is the same as what was presented a month ago. The next slide is where we can see the change. So this is the volume charge. So what you'll see there for residential, non-residential, and major industrial customers, what's circled there in green, you can track it from the left. That's what we showed a month ago. And track it over to the right side, which is what we're proposing now. And you can see that those rates all...
 that the volume charge decreased or i'm sorry increased three cents for the retail customers and then you can if you look at the red for wholesale and track it from the left to the right you can see that it decreased based on this change and so again
 Because of the decrease in one customer class, we have to recover the total revenue requirements for the system. Therefore, that revenue has to be recovered from all other customer classes. And you can see there was also a slight increase in the surcharge rates. So the schedule on the right is what is being proposed, and Paul is going to talk about that a little bit more. Okay. Okay. All right. There is, we're just about up to the...
 20 minute mark Here I'd like to ask that we allocate another five minutes so that we can hear the updated rates from from Paul Becker Is everybody agreeable to that? Do we need a vote? Paul go ahead. You have five minutes With this as rapidly as I can for brevity purposes But Diana told you what the final correction was made as the last time we came forward and said we were looking at the rates to make some
 correction based on what we thought hadn't been anticipated before so let's take a look at what this means to the current rates now remember when it comes to the water side we're looking at paying for between 85 to 90 million dollars on the water side for the new line new 48 inch line coming down from from beaver water from up around
 Springdale on down to the city so that's going to drive the rates up because of that capital improvement if we look at the proposed fixed rate fixed base rates now there are two components in the cost study one a fixed charge which pay on a monthly basis and to a quantity charge of paper usage so there's a cost simply to have access to the usage and there's another cost for the actual
 used. So if we look at these fixed base charges inside the city, we're seeing that on a monthly basis the costs are going to go up about 6% for most of the residential. Most of the residential accounts are in the 5-inch to 3-1⁄4 inch
 uh... right area and you'll see that's where most of our customers and looking at the outsides of the city it's going to go up about six percent for the residential customers at that point in time as your meter sizes get larger you get into your non-residential
 your classification and your industrial. But all in all, the average going up for the monthly rates is 8.9%, an average for outside of the city of 20.8%, and that is because of the cost of capital embodied in the outside city rates.
 can you go to the next one please now if we're going to look at the actual usage charges we look at them we're going to see for the city of Fayetteville inside the most residential customers those rates are going up about 2.3% the non residential rates those are going up 17.4% that's because of the study and we look at the
 the cost of the classifications of different classifications of customers and what their percentage of use is. So it's going to impact the non-residentials more than the residential rates. Major industrial uses is going to increase by about 6%. And irrigation on the smaller uses, it'll go down a little bit and it'll be up about 5%.
 for irrigation. If we look at the outside of the city, we can see the differential is going to be about 12% for most of the residential customers. It's going to be 23.8% for non-residential and about a 2% increase for major industrial. Most of the major industrial are embodied in the city of Fayetteville. Irrigation for them will average about 7.2%. So as we see, the water costs are going to go up
 And that's driven by that line, as we discussed. Next one, please. Now if we look at the wholesalers, the wholesalers, Elkins and West Fork, both they have for the fixed charge on a monthly basis, they have a four-inch meter. And that will go up 6% on a monthly basis.
 The outside quantity fee is going from, at peak demand, $3.20 up to $3.30. That's a 3% increase. There was at one time impacted in the rates. It
 discount for over the upper reduced peak for very large usage that as we discussed with the water and sewer committee we felt that we should pay each individual should pay for exact usage and not be discounted if they go into a large usage so that has been taken out the average of that is 9% but major impact is going to be about 3.1% as long as they stand at that level
 Can you go next one for me now? What are we going to look at at the wastewater? Now the wastewater we're going to look at a little differently because we were able to reduce the capital demand for the wastewater section.
 because of the biosolids, we feel we have a solution that's far less expensive than what we thought our solution was when we originally proposed these rate increases. So if we look at the wastewater, we're gonna see a little difference. We're gonna see some major decreases on the monthly fee.
 for wastewater for the residential both inside the city and outside the city we're going to see some increases on the wastewater going forward again most of those larger ones are non-residential rates so we're going to see overall a decrease
 in both outside the city and inside the city. Remember, the other factor driving the wastewater side is Farmington. As we discussed when we originally started with this, they were going to pay 8% of the operating costs of the west side plant. We changed that contract, so they're not going to pay that. They're going to pay for usage. Do you want me to stop there, Mayor? How much longer will you take to do your name and call?
 I shouldn't be more than three, four minutes max, maybe five. Let's do another five and call it an evening. All right, go ahead.
 I'm sorry, where were we here? We talked about the fixed basis. Let's look at the usage charges, please. Next one, please. And here we're going to see, because of that shift in the Farmington, because of that shift, and we also shifted the cost of capital, we've reduced that because the committee thought that was, that charge could be reduced, that it was a little high.
 And we had discussed that before with with City Council as we see we're going to see some increases in the residential waste wastewater for the city of Fayetteville
 for the city of Fayetteville users but if we say it looks like a large percentage 13.6 percent but it's going to be 59 percent for some cents for a thousand gallon for the first up to 2 000 gallon over the over that it's going to be 79 cents so even though the percentages look high it's going to
 It's not a lot in dollars. Now, if we look at the outside of Cityside, we're going to see something dramatically opposite. When we talk about the residential customers, we're going to see a decrease. And that's because Farmington is not picking up that 8% of the plant. And so more of that is spread on the city of Fayetteville customers.
 So can I see the next slide please? And here we're looking at Farmington. I just want to show you what it would look to at Farmington with that adjustment. Their residential customers are going to go down where they were going up dramatically before. And as far as their usage, it's...
 It's 0.9%. So there was a dramatic impact on Farmington and Fayetteville when we changed that contract. And that contract is fair to all of us, actually, because we're not guaranteeing any part of that plant. And most of the growth in Fayetteville on the west side is going and being processed by that plant. Can I get the next one, please?
 So I could go through a couple of what we wanted to do is show you what we thought the impact was going to be on some of these customers billed. And we picked out a 4,200 gallon user and I had my utility billing people do some estimates. And actually it looks at that category actually will be down a little bit. So it should be pretty flat to everybody for the residential users. Next please.
 Now if you look at the non-residential users, and we use a consumption basis of 24,900 gallon, it's going to be up about 5% inside the city of Fayetteville and a little under 1% for outside of the city. Go ahead to the next one, please. Jonathan, thank you very much.
 If we look at the industrial, we're going to see an impact on the industrial users, and that's because that class is using more and consuming more than they were before. That will be up about 17%. And if we look at the wholesalers, as the wholesale comes down, what the billing on the monthly billing looks like for West Fork will be up about 11.8%, and Elkins would be up 21% if they continue to grow.
 to transmit as much flow, wastewater flow to us at that point of time. But that's dramatically different than what we had had before. We made several adjustments that we thought were fair. And again, these were all calculated by Black and Veatch.
 doing the rate study and they're the rate study analysts and experts in the area. And with that real quick thing now, these rates are all going to vary depending on how much people use, but the basis of the committee and the basis of the thing we're bringing forward to you is you pay for what you use. We're not going to give discounts for major users.
 It's all about economy, and it's all about conserving our precious resources as much as possible. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay. All right. What discussion questions do you have for Black and Veatch and staff? I know this has been through the Water and Sewer Committee.
 I wanted to make sure that you all were . And Mayor, with that, the basis of my presentation actually was that in front of you, you will have an amendment.
 And I'd like you to look at that amendment. That would be the amendment that we need to adjust the ordinance to the rate study that Black & Veatch has presented, the last rates presented to you pursuant to their slide.
 So I'm asking that amendment be made. So you need an amendment to adjust the rates? You can make that amendment now or you can make it after public comment, however you choose to do, but eventually probably the new rates as proposed by the Water and Sewer Committee in Black and Beach would need to be amended in exchange to the one that was there previously.
 maybe to adjust the rates is that right okay hang on i'm just writing it down make sure i got it right uh i'd like to move that we amend um the rates uh to the september 19th uh rate schedule that is proposed second okay what discussion do we have on this care which please call the role bernard yes bunch yes turk yes earthsburg yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay, what's that date again, Teresa? September 19th. Thank you.
 Mayor, if I may, I just want to let the public know that the Water and Sewer Committee met last week. We had a long discussion. We talked a lot about the numbers and how much review had gone into that. And so Black & Veatch has assured us that they have double checked and triple checked all of their calculations.
 and information. So I believe that I speak for the Water and Sewer Committee when I say that we're really confident with this information that's been provided tonight. Okay. Thanks, Teresa. Any other questions or before we take public comment? Everybody good? All right. All right. We're going to take some public comment on the rights, the
 one one turn to speak you have a five minute duration five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber
 Okay Thank you, I just want to mayor West Fork I want to say thank you for taking the time Oh Heath Cottle mayor of West Fork. Sorry. I feel like I've been here enough times. We're friends now Not real happy with my friends, but I am saying thank you for taking the time to address the concerns that I brought forth Again
 alderman whedeker and i've exchanged a few emails and he assured me i may not be happy with when this is over and i'm not i still think that we should be getting a wholesale price reduction i still do not understand how a city that's wholesale and not taking up any of the
 the maintenance, the improvements, all the various things that go into the cost of a water and sewer system. I don't know how we can pay more than a city such as Farmington or Greenland when we're not asking for you to provide those services to us. So that being said, I'm not happy, Alderman Woodacre, but
 I do appreciate the time that you guys have put into this. The fact that you went back, reevaluated that, I'm much happier with the rate that we're going to end up with, it looks like. But at the end of the day, I still have some questions about it. And I know you're confident that this study is correct. I still have a little bit of lack of confidence in it. I haven't been able to review the study.
 But the fact that we got five years in and still had some missing data that hadn't been considered does bother me some. But at the end of the day, I am thankful very much. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. Who else would like to address us? Okay, you have anybody on Zoom? Yes, please. Terri Bell here on the West Fork.
 So I appreciate the eminence, and I appreciate what my mayor is doing, and he brings up a good point. When we're doing more, you're charging us more, but giving to people that are doing less. So I highly disagree with this. This world, Earth is made mostly of water. Our bodies are. I think it's poor that we all have such high tariffs and want to up, up, up, up, up. That's all. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it to the council, back to the council. This is an ordinance. Did we move to the third reading on this? Thank you. All right, so...
 This is an ordinance that's on the final reading now. What discussion would the council like to have, or what action would the council like to take? Well, we're there. What final comments then would you all like to make? Yes.
 I wanted to thank the Water and Sewer Committee as well as city staff and the neighboring communities who've been in conversation. I know this was a conversation that was happening before I came on council. It's very complicated. There are a lot of data points going into it, and you're right. At the end of the day, no one's totally happy, but the truth of the matter is that there are increased costs. The only thing that I would like to kind of be on record for us to really watch out for is
 really looking at the households who have struggled to pay at our current rates and as we move forward really being mindful and monitoring how that changes. We know that we are faced with growing poverty unfortunately in our community and so we might have to look into mitigating factors in the future to help folks to afford their water and so that's just something I want to put a kind of a pin in for us to continue to look at. Anything else? Anybody?
 Okay. Carriage, please call the roll. Burnett? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go to number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 23-017 located near North Truckers Drive in Ward 2 for approximately 20.23 acres from RPZD residential planned zoning district to RMF 18 residential multifamily 18 units per acre. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading.
 So moved. Second. We have a motion to go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, it's described in the rezoning petition RZN 23-17, located near North Truckers Drive in Ward 2 for approximately 20.25 acres from our PCD, Residential Plan Zoning District, to RMF 18, Residential Multifamily, 18 units per acre.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kerth, the Development Services Department. I did have one update tonight that I alluded to at agenda session. There'd been a question at the previous meeting about previous entitlements on the property. I wanted to run through real quick what that looks like with keeping in mind, of course, that those entitlements have expired at this point, and that's part of why we're having this conversation about rezoning the property.
 Taking the PZD as it was approved, it looks very complicated. There were over a dozen planning areas associated with it. Narrowing the focus of what we're talking about tonight includes just over 20 acres currently being proposed to rezone to RMF 18, residential multifamily 18 units per acre.
 When looking at the previous entitlement, there were four planning areas that made up the majority of this 20 acres. Planning areas 15 and 10 were intended as a plaza gathering space for people and also a green space following the creek that, or the stream that has previously been discussed that runs north-south among the western third of the property.
 More prominently, however, was Planning Area 4, which is described as a courtyard and multifamily portion of the development, which had a density allowance of four units per acre, taking the approximately two acres of land that's within the scope of this proposal would allow approximately 87 units.
 Additionally, Planning Area 11, which straddles the planning area intended for protecting the stream area, allows 24 units per acre and totaling about 14 acres of the property. That would result in about 341 units per acre as the allowance.
 And to summarize that in more tabular form, Planning Areas 10 and 15 don't have any housing allowance. Planning Areas 4 and 11 under the previous PZD had respective allowances of 87 and 3041 units, permitting about 428 units, which is significantly above the approximately 350 that would be allowed under the proposed RMF 18 zoning district.
 And lastly, since it's been a minute since we discussed the Planning Commission staff, when considering this, we did our recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission also forwarded it to City Council recommending favor unanimously in that time in between, which I didn't include here. The Environmental Action Committee considered the item as well and recommended the property be rezoned to residential agricultural instead.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions, and I believe there are members of the Gilbert team here with his applicant and For questions mayor. Thank you. What do you have to like speak for the council you have ten minutes? Good evening again. Thank you for having us Kelly Comer on behalf of the applicant We want to thank the council for the good conversation that we had last time and some of the questions that came out of that We wanted to go ahead and address here tonight and Jonathan do you have the slide
 So I believe when we left you all last time, there were a few questions related to what this proposed site looks like, what it looked like with the park west, which is on the left, and then what it looks like today. And so we just wanted to provide you with that visual to see that overlay. And I know that Jonathan spoke about a little bit more in detail. And with the linen site, you can see all that's been developed around it.
 It's not part of the Park West development per se, but up there north of 112 you can see where there's some housing that's been developed. You can also see the church and then you can see the Grand Village community centered there to the south. Can you flip to the next page?
 And here I also wanted to do a little bit follow up with you guys about some of the rezoning that's occurred on the adjacent properties that was discussed. So I went back and looked at the city minutes for the, when this council considered the Fellowship Bible Church application and then the Grand Village at Clear Creek applications and that acreage is there. You can see that the Fellowship Bible Church was rezoned to community services and then you can see that Grand Village at Clear Creek was rezoned to RMS 12.
 Both of those passed in one night. All three readings were heard in that first discussion and there was no further discussion or environmental concerns raised when those were discussed. So I just wanted to kind of give you some comparison of the surrounding properties and what was considered at those city council meetings.
 Again, I want to point out some key points for you all. This is an immediate housing solution for a housing crisis that the city currently faces. Again, as Jonathan said, that this is recommended for approval by staff and the Planning Commission, and that this has satisfied the rezone requirements, including those requirements
 the compatibility with the city's future use goals, and then what the current surrounding property is being used for. And with that, I'm going to introduce you to John Gilbert. He flew in from Houston. He's with the developer, and he's here to speak to more about the project and can also answer any questions that you have. Thank you. Thank you all for allowing me to speak. I'm John Gilbert from Houston, Texas.
 And I just want to give you a little background on our firm. We specialize in building Class A apartments in secondary and tertiary markets. We've identified Northwest Arkansas, specifically Fayetteville, for our project because we think it's a perfect fit for what we're doing. When I begin processes like this, one of the first things I do when I come to a city is try to meet the city councilor in that particular location.
 Ward in this case. I was told it was Miss Turk and so we met about a year ago to discuss the project and she expressed concerns about drainage for that part of town and and
 understanding that and we have met with the city planning department over four times over the past year and have massaged our site plan with that in mind and everything that we're doing isn't going to be in compliance with the city of Fayetteville's codes and ordinances. We've engaged the top one of the top civil engineering firms to design the project as ESI has designed a lot of projects around here.
 I've also met with Council Member Moore a few months ago to also discuss our plans. One of the things that we do know is there is a need for quality housing in the Fayetteville market, and that's what our project is going to be.
 uh these when we met with the city and we knew it was incompatible with the 2040 plan they also recommended for this site and what we were going to do in the arm our mf18 units per acre um we've
 done many different site plans during our meetings with the city for several reasons. One being the two-acre detention pond that we're going to have on the south side of the property, which the water will drain into, so it won't just be flowing off our property. Number next is
 The city came to us about six months ago and said that they need a 50-foot easement on the northern part of our property for a 48-inch main water transmission.
 transmission line. We immediately agreed to do that and again designed our site plan for that. One other note, because of where the site is and the future plan, that we've agreed to pay for the extension of the connector road between Dean Solomon and
 and Truckers Lane, excuse me, Truckers Drive, and we're gonna extend Truckers Drive up to where it will intersect with that road. The adjoining property of the east, it's gonna be their responsibility to connect that road to 112 whenever they do their development. Just wanna say again, thank you, and we're excited to be a part of the community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Any questions? Yes. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Anything? Okay. All right. Let's take some public comment. Do you have any discussion you want to talk about this? Anything? Okay. Yes. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Please stay on topic, give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by then will speak after that. Yes, Fran. Fran Alexander, Foxhunter Road, Fayetteville. Fayetteville needs ordinances that address soil types and the land use impact to residents who build on the variety of these soils in the city.
 To prevent loss to homeowners and cost to taxpayers because of poor or non-existent guidelines for building upon wetlands, which exist in Fayetteville, they're just not as obvious as our hillside slopes. Planners should have strict definitions describing the consequences and cost to the city for allowing building on dubious soil types and the harsh geology on which they sit.
 I took part in the early efforts to save Wilson Springs from massive development. What was parceled off for non-development was hard won, but the hydraulic, the hydric soil of the wet prairie land didn't magically dry up when we got a political agreement to save a portion of the land from development. The reason this land was discussed tonight was not included, I repeat, not included.
 because it is significantly different from other hydric soil in the area, but because of a political compromise. The only way at least some of it could be saved at that time. Listen to your Environmental Action Committee. The City continues to plan and approve land use based on infill of structures, but the land must be suitable. The compatibility must include land characterization.
 Infill is sponge fill in places like this. I wanted to remind you of crossing, the Chandler Crossing at the intersection of Zion and 265. They're filling it in now. It's also wet prairie. The more you increase pavement rooftops, the larger a floodplain will become. Wetlands, for wetlands it is important to know where the water comes from.
 how much water there is, and how long it stays on or under the surface. There may be enough water for it to collect on the surface, or all of the water may be underground. You need to understand the land by studying the plants upon it. Wet prairies have plants that have, for thousands of years, been adapted to that sort of environment. Some wet prairie, or wet prairie rather,
 plants can go as far as 12 feet deep to reach water and to stay alive during the drought. Your Environmental Action Committee has given you a very concise and very well studied statement. I encourage you to read it again and again. You have such a committee to warn you of mistakes like this and the impact of
 bad land use can have on city taxpayers and worse to the functioning environment we all sit upon. Please listen to them. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening, council. My name is John Marquette and I represent Fellowship Bible Church of Northwest Arkansas, which includes the campus that's just to the north of this property. We support this development. We like the idea of having rooftops next to the church.
 We've seen the development. We think it will be a nice addition to the area for us. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello, my name is David Fortner. You can take your mask down if you wish. Okay, that's cool. And I live in Fayetteville. I just wanted to say that I agree that some environmental concerns should be taken into account. But other than that, as a Fayetteville resident, I'm definitely in support of more multifamily residential plans. That's all. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Okay. Do you have anyone on Zoom? I have Margaret Britton. Okay, go ahead. Hi, I'm Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville. I don't think it's been mentioned in these discussions that the density suggested here, 18 units per acre, is higher than any of the densities in the adjacent properties. But aside from that,
 You've heard from the EAC, the Ozark Land Trust, Fran Alexander, et cetera. They make a lot of good points. I want to talk about what you will give up if you do this. You will give up ecosystem services to the environment, to humans, to Cobble Creek, which, of course, flows into the Illinois, and, of course, to Wilson Springs most immediately. Just a reminder that ecosystem services are things
 that the ecosystem does that benefit us. Think of them like getting some of your household utilities with no cost. You will be giving that up for the city now and for the future. The ecosystem services that this piece of land gives us right now include being sort of a big sponge,
 It's historically been very wet, as Fran Alexander mentioned. It is a wet prairie remnant. We know that because there are hydric soils there. That's very clear. That's in your data. So we've got the sponge. Holds a lot of water. We're going to give up water filtration, water purification, groundwater recharge, sediment control. And we're going to give up something which the Ozark Land Trust mentioned.
 this land helps to slow the flow of the water into Wilson Springs which is very important to the survival of the Arkansas Darter so as you come to a decision about whether or not to support this please think about what you will be giving up for the future thank you good night thank you who else no one else is their hand raised mayor okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council
 we are now on the final reading so what discussion would the council like to have or what final comments would they like to make threesome then deandre go ahead deandre oh uh this question is for jonathan jonathan what um what did you say the vote was in support of this the planning commission supported it unanimously uh the environmental action committee i believe had a split recommendation but the majority recommended it be rezoned to residential agricultural
 Thank you, Mayor. I really want to echo what Margaret Britton and Fran Alexander and Marcia Nance had to say. He was here, I think, a couple of weeks ago. Wilson Springs is really a gem that we have, and I fear this development will actually add significant water, significant volume and runoff to Wilson Springs.
 There are just certain areas that need to be protected. This is a wet prairie. There are prairie remnants off to the east there a little bit. This is a wet prairie. It is sponging up a lot of that water. So I am pretty confident that this will, and you heard from the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, that this will be detrimental to Wilson Springs.
 The Arkansas darter is there, that's an endangered species. So again, we need to really consider more broadly how we move forward in development. There are other areas that are more suitable to this kind of development. I know we have a housing crunch here, absolutely, we have one nationwide, but there are other areas that are available for development such as this.
 And again Margaret mentioned that all the other adjacent Properties that have been developed are at our of RMF 12 or lower So consider that we are up zoning in a very very sensitive area Of our city. Thank you Anybody else? Okay. There's not any final comments then care. Would you please call the roll? Yes, yes, I
 Turd? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, moving along to new business. Number one, an ordinance to enact section 33.044, establishment of fire department within Article V fire department in 33.044.
 departments boards commissions and authorities of the federal code whereas ACA 14-53-101 states quote the governing body of a city shall establish fire departments and provide them with proper engines and other such equipment and
 as shall be necessary to extinguish fires and preserve the property of the city and of the inhabitants from conflagration unquote or may enter into a contractual agreement with an existing fire department and Whereas the formal establishment of the Fayetteville fire department is not well documented but according to historical documents including 100 years of Fayetteville 1828 and 1928 by William Campbell and
 The first fire chief of the Fayetteville Fire Department was George Albright, starting just after the end of the Civil War, and that generally accepted date of establishment is 1869.
 And whereas Article 5, Fire Department, in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville City Code, created the office of Fire Chief and prescribed certain duties and powers of the Fire Department, but makes no provision for the establishment of a Fire Department. And whereas neither the Fire Department nor the City Clerk have been able to locate any ordinance establishing the Fire Department,
 and whereas the formal establishment of the fire department is necessary for the center for public safety excellence accreditation now therefore it be ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby enact section 33.044 under article 5 fire department in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities as shown below section 33.044 establishment of fire department
 recognizing and affirming that the city of Fayetteville established a fire department with a historically accepted date of establishment of 1869 and pursuant to the requirements of Arkansas code annotated 1453 101 there is hereby established the fire department of the city of Fayetteville
 Section 2, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, also everybody determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because this provision is required for the fire department to receive its accreditation, which is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Okay, Chief Hart. Good evening, Mayor and Council. So the Fire Department, as he just said there, we've been providing fire protection to the citizens of Fayetteville since 1869. We're good at firefighting, not so good at documenting. And it doesn't appear that we've ever taken the time to officially establish our department. And with this ordinance, we're asking to establish our fire department.
 And so that's pretty much the gist of it. I'd be happy to answer any questions. You've been too busy putting out fires I see well what questions do we have? Thank y'all Okay, let's take some public comment we everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration and
 don't engage anyone from the public or any council member please stay on topic give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first and they'll participate by zoom we'll speak after that is there anyone in the chamber would like to address us on this okay
 Susan, do you have anybody who doesn't? No, sir. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion would you like to have and what action would you like to take? I'll make a motion. We suspend the rule. Take the second reading. Second. I'll make a motion to second. We'll go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Verna? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. In Ordinance to Match Section 33.044, Establishment of Entire Departments within Article 5 within Section 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions and Authorities under the State Code of Conduct. Mr. Mayor, I'm sorry, I didn't quite hear that.
 hear what what what kit read I mean oh okay because I forgot to turn on my mic let me read that again so thank you for noting that in order to enact section 33.044 establishment of fire department within article 5 fire department in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the fatal coat
 Okay. We have a motion to suspend the rules and go third reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go third and final reading. The carriage please call the roll. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiederkirch? Yes.
 And ordinance to enact section 33.044, establishment of the fire department within article 5 fire department in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the Fayetteville code Any final comments from the council? Okay, please call the roll. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Yes. Okay. Congratulations, council. You've just made history. We now have an official fire department. Mayor, that did have an emergency clause. Yes. They may want to put out some more fires. That needs a separate vote to be able to pass. I move we pass the emergency clause. Second. The motion is second to pass the emergency clause. Here, please call the vote. Burner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Aye.
 Kirk? Yes. Erksford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? No. Now we've made history. All right. And that did pass. Yes. All right. Let's move on to number two.
 An ordinance to amend 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims of the federal code to enable the city council to exceed the $50,000 limitation on compensation when large pressurized water transmission lines fail and cause catastrophic damage and to declare an emergency.
 Whereas the limitations for compensation with 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims are sufficient for almost all claims and ensure that our ratepayers revenue will be conserved and whereas 36 inch diameter and larger pressurized water transmission lines carry so much greater amount of water under pressure that
 that failure or rupture of such a large water transmission line can cause catastrophically greater damage to houses and businesses just that those owners might need to be voluntarily compensated by the City Council at a higher maximum level than currently allowed by Section 39.10 .
 and whereas a city may wish to contractually retain an experienced and competent insurance adjuster for most claims that may likely exceed $25,000, and then rely upon such adjusters' professional analysis to establish possible compensation rather than requiring each claimant to obtain bids or quotes for all items damaged or destroyed by water or wastewater system issues.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 39.10, Water and Wastewater Damage Claims, by enacting a new Section C-5 and moving the current C-5 to C-6 through the C-6 position. The newly enacted C-5 shall be as follows.
 If damage to a residential or commercial property is caused by the failure or rupture of a 36-inch or greater pressurized water line, and water from such failure or rupture causes catastrophic damage to residential or commercial property that exceeds the $50,000 limit of the current 39.10C pour,
 Such claim should be investigated and reviewed by an experienced and competent insurance adjuster hired by the city who shall report and certify to the city council the estimated total loss actually suffered by such claimant.
 The City Council may rely upon such certified estimate and by two-thirds vote may then decide to authorize payment to the claimant up to $100,000 as a further exemption from the normal $25,000 damage cap. In Section 2, Emergency Clause,
 The City Council the city of Fayetteville arch are hereby determines that in order to protect the peace health and safety of its citizens This ordinance needs to go into effect immediately upon his passage in approval and be applicable to all Pending and future claims pursuant to section 39 point 1 0 or the Fayetteville code Thank You mayor, I think we all sit here what might have two months ago when miss Simpkins and
 came before us and made a passionate plea about Trying to get her home repaired from the catastrophic water line break and at that point We we pretty much had her hands tied on what the ordinance stipulated If my memory serves me correct I think her claims were somewhere just under a hundred thousand dollars and we were capped at fifty And I don't think anyone felt good about that considering the damage that she had faced so
 I think we all promised her we would look at, you know, alternatives. And I've worked with Kit as well as Tim with water and sewer. And I feel like this particular ordinance is well put together and it takes into consideration, I think, Council Member Moore and Council Member Hertzberg's concern about water
 open the door too wide and so we We tailored this where it is Basically taking care of the high pressure water lines And it does not open the door to the already the existing 8-inch lines Which we feel like the present ordinance is still adequate just to give you some
 Some basis for this included in the packet was a map of the high pressure lines and where they run through Fayetteville I worked with Tim and Tim provided me with some some information about how many miles of water line we have but we have About let's see here it is
 We have 24 miles of 36-inch water line and 10 miles of 42-inch water lines. With the proposed 48-inch water line from Beaver Lake Water District, we're adding approximately 12 miles. The average age of the water lines are about 30 years old.
 Do we have this situation occur very often? Certainly, fortunately not. So it doesn't appear that it'll have a drastic increase budgetary to us, but I think it is important for us to address it. So what this does is it takes the maximum allowable from 50,000 to 100,000 only on, when we're talking about the high pressure lines. And then it also involves the use of adjuster
 to outside adjuster that the city can contract with to identify the concerns, identify the damage, and expedite. This cost will
 be on average of 300 to 600 dollars per occurrence and it's much less than probably Involved with city staff time and they were already experimenting with this Presently so I think this is a good ordinance. I think it's good for our citizens, and I hope you'll consider it Okay, any questions from the council on this? Okay, then let's take some public comment.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this that's in the chamber on this topic? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading.
 What action would the council like to take? What discussion would the council like to have? I was just going to say that I would like to make the motion that we advance to the second reading. Okay. I'll second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Burner? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Okay.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes.
 In Ordinance Amendment Section 39.10, water and wastewater damage claims of the Fayetteville Code to enable the City Council to exceed the $50,000 limitation on compensation when large pressurized water transmission lines fail and cause catastrophic damage and to declare an emergency. And I should note the biggest difference between an 8-inch main and a 36-inch main.
 Is that a 36 inch main carries more than 20 times the volume of water so when it breaks It is much more of a flood than any 8 inch main could make and that's why That's probably a different factor for you all to look at and why to approve this Okay We're on the When the second reading I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Second we have motion second go to the third and finally care which please call the roll. I
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 and your order's demand section 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims of the fail code to enable the city council to exceed the fifty thousand dollar limitation on compensation when large pressurized water transmission lines fail and cause catastrophic damage and to declare an emergency any final comments from the council uh yes mr mayor yes it's sarah over here yeah sure i keep losing you sir i keep looking to my left
 I know, I'm sorry, I'm not there in person. I would just like to think that, you know, I really appreciate the efforts that staff and Scott went to to try and craft this and to come up with something. I appreciate that we focus on the high-pressure lines and the really big lines. I think this is an excellent choice here, and I really appreciate your work on that. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. Thank you.
 Did you have your platform? I was going to say the same thing. Thank you all for your work on this and making it very reasonable and yes, expanding that 20 times what an 8-inch line is, it's huge. So when we have damages like this, more compensation is needed. So thank you, Scott. Any final comments? Okay. Caravans, please call the line.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Downs. Yes. Moore. Yes. Wiedeker. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now let's go to number three, a resolution to address with urgency the affordable housing crisis and to request that Mayor Jordan apply for a Housing and Urban Development Pro-Housing grant.
 Up to four million dollars to fund housing supportive changes to the federal land use and zoning ordinances Sarah Thank You mayor. I'm
 We've had a lot of conversations over this last year in our retreat in June, was looking specifically at housing. And so tonight I tried to, at agenda session, compress down in a few pages a summary of this very expansive HUD grant. But I have a few slides that maybe we can bring up. The first slide, I'm not sure.
 this will come up but I just wanted to kind of go over an overview first of what the grant is what it can do you know what how competitive could say it will possibly be and then I want to address you know there were hurdles and you know there are some opportunity areas and so I just wanted to kind of address on those and answer any questions but first I wanted to
 you know, really remind us too that a resolution is not, you know, binding as far as you must do this. It's just a suggestion. It's encouraging city staff and the mayor to look at this with more diligence to apply for this.
 And so I want to get into exactly kind of what the grant can cover. This is not exhaustive because again it's a very large program, but particularly to some of the conversations that we've had, we can actually hire staff over the several years, the four plus years of this program that can help to assist with grant applications
 the rewrite of our Universal Development Code to implement our growth concept map for the anticipated 2050 population growth that we're going to see coming. We've heard talk to and long-range planning presentations.
 Additionally, there's the investments that can be made in our community around development activities, things like financing the construction of affordable housing, acquisition or disposition of land for development of affordable housing. That's one of those housing land trusts that we've heard talked about and mentioned across the region.
 Additionally, infrastructure, we can install new utilities for development or preservation of affordable housing. We've done some of that here locally, so we obviously have expertise in that. An increased community resilience by nature-based solutions to mitigate impacts of weather to preserve affordable housing. We can go back in our memory banks pretty quickly thinking about the ARPA monies that we spent about the West End apartments that were flooding.
 while we've worked to mitigate in that space.
 you know for the neighborhood on Valley in that area we did lose those 50 units and we haven't been able to add those back as entry-level housing we additionally have the opportunity to do a preservation activity so the acquisition or subsidized subsidization of at-risk housing for the purse purpose of preserving affordability so again not exhaustive but those are some of the pockets and some of the conversations that we've had over time
 You can move to the next slide.
 So, you know, how is Fayetteville competitive? One of the conversations we've had in regard to this grant was the concern that there are certain geographies that have been identified as at-risk areas based on a formula that was come out of HUD that ended 2019. And unfortunately, our area wasn't identified. And that's a score area out of the possible points that we do have a little bit of a downturn. We're competitive because
 We've already shown demonstration with our 2040 city plan that we have a commitment that we have identified That we're seeing affordable housing go to under-resourced areas contributing to sprawl and we've identified growth areas and
 that we can actually place denser housing in resource rich areas. And that's an area that the HUD grant speaks specifically to. We've also demonstrated our ongoing commitment to funding that goes towards these identified opportunity areas like our upcoming 71 corridor project and what we put in the 24 and 25 CIP for our downtown master plan to build density in those resource rich areas.
 Additionally, we've championed other co-changes that have been recognized as national leaders and gotten recognition for that. That makes us quite competitive. And also, our latest long-range planning outlook really created the picture of what an acute state we face over these past several years and really lay a strong argument that we have demonstrated need in our area.
 So I absolutely can't talk about how much this grant can do without really talking about the hurdles that staff has been so willing to talk in conversation about what could be possible, but here are some trip-up points.
 It is a tight timeline. The unfortunate thing was that this was released in a very quick turnaround. It got out to us about the first week of August. It's only recently gone into the grants.gov website in this last week. I did confirm that today, thank goodness.
 But we would need to have a completed application to show to the public by about October 10th. I mean that's about three weeks from now. So it does have a tight timeline. We had the HUD folks have compressed the normal public comment period. It's typically 30 days. It's been compressed to 15 days. So we'd need a 15-day public comment period.
 You know, the way that we really have the ability to overcome this hurdle, I feel very strongly with all the folks that have reached out to me, is with local community members. We have experts in the field and we might hear from them tonight. And we have organizations that have shown their willingness to assist. Also there are community advocates and organizations that are exploring the possible, possible
 possibility of a grant writer partnership that could help to expand staff capacity. So understanding that staff would still have to play a role, it would be an integral role in what we would apply for and how we would map out that plan. However, having someone that would help to put together a narrative, to chase the missing pieces and to also help to coordinate with community experts as they're able to weigh in as well.
 Another area that was identified as a potential sticking point for us in an area for scoring was community outreach. And so I wanted to address that. You know, there's scoring areas that are specific to the interaction with the public. And I think this very unusual collaborative process with this comprehensive process is
 press timeline of kind of all hands on deck has lends itself to the fact that we can take ownership, we can actually use that to our advantage and our scoring with the way that we'll interact with the community going forward for this application.
 And then there was an area about leverage that was mentioned in regard to 10 points for this section in regard to the amount of funds that are dedicated towards this. Matching funds are not required to apply.
 But showing other funding that's committed to the efforts does go into the overall score. I think this is an area of exploration that especially looking at what we've put into our CIP going forward for downtown master plan and other partnerships about being able to put that in to get points on those areas. So again, recognizing just like every other jurisdiction, we all are faced with this compressed timeline, but really identifying
 that we feel very strongly with many folks across the community that have looked at it that Fable is poised to be a very strong applicant in this process even with some of the hurdles that we face.
 And so I would just ask you tonight as you're considering whether or not we want to support, you know, exploring this and making an application, that sometimes as much as we want to have perfect, it's progress over perfect. And so, you know, we haven't, we don't have the perfect situation as far as we don't have exhaustive tax funds to be able to.
 move forward with every single project that we want to undergo. We have very active citizenry, and our citizenry is telling us, you know, the timelines that we're seeing for some of these projects are going on too long. Our current proposed budget, you know, we're not able to touch some of those growth centers over the next year, year and a half.
 Then whenever we were looking at the CIP and we're still in that budgeting process for 24 some of the unfunded were about housing due to our budgetary restrictions and this grant speaks specifically to being able to do some of those things and
 And then additionally, you know, the community has expressed through the city plan 2040 the input that they really are reimagining these growth areas around Fayetteville. They've shown dismay and I know that all of us have heard from the community in regard to, you know, the rules that our planning and our staff are having to abide by.
 you know allowing for projects like gas stations in places that maybe don't the community doesn't feel are desirable or car washes and drive-throughs this grant allows us to step up into a more advanced position to be able to go and look and address those things with more urgency and at this time
 I do not see another opportunity that is here for $4 million plus for us to look into. And so given all the hurdles and the constraints, I'd really ask for consideration based on our community's energy around this. I think that our staff is incredibly talented and has the ability to rally in conjunction with the support from the community. And I'd ask for your support tonight. Happy to take any questions. Thank you.
 okay what questions do we have councilman moore okay susan has the staff that you've looked at this before and we've had yes sir like our third meeting on this we have y'all changed we still feel the same way that we have expressed in the past and i would ask jonathan to go ahead and elaborate again in case there are some things that might y'all might have missed the last time
 Thank you. Certainly I'm happy to speak to it. I appreciate Council Member Ward describing this as a very large program. I think that cuts both ways. It's a lot of opportunity, but it's a lot going into it to make it happen.
 I think staff still has a lot of serious concerns. I think the most prominent one is that there is no clear project definition. I appreciate the outline of all the things that the grant could cover and may cover, and we may want it to cover. But ultimately, what we have to be able to put together in the next.
 30 to 40 days is a clear project definition that includes an outreach plan again, which councilmember more did acknowledge Establishing performance measures and then also being able to understand how this scales for a lot of people throw out the four million dollar number that is not assured and
 If you are awarded a grant, it could be as little as $1 million. Conversely, it could be as much as $10 million. So, again, something that cuts both directions. Also, the topic of competitive disadvantages. I think Councilman Moore identified, Chelsea, you spoke to a lot of our advantages. One that I've touched on in a couple instances at this point is we are not a priority geography. There's tens of thousands of...
 of geographies that HUD has identified as a part of this, counties and cities, and there's over 11,000 that are priority geographies, which gets you 10 points out of their 100 point scale right off the bat. Unfortunately, HUD is not deemed Washington or Fayetteville to be a priority geography. Similarly, you lose 10 points if there's no matching opportunity. And lastly, there are concerns for the implications for current projects that staff is currently working on.
 Whether this application process or administration falls on development services or other groups, I can speak for development services, and we currently have several projects going, and there are several that we also support. Some that you see very clearly, like when Britain Boston comes and presents housing numbers to you or the preservation plan. Some that will be forthcoming. There are some large or one particular larger rezoning. We hope to bring forward to Council by the end of November as a part of implementing 71 B and city plan 2040.
 We're also in the midst of offering comments on our climate action plan, our urban forest management plan. That larger constellation of issues ultimately puts me in a position where I don't support the proposal to make this resolution at this time. I'm happy to also take questions. Thank you. Okay. Do you have any questions for staff or Sarah?
 Sir, just a couple quick questions. Considering that this is going to be involving a lot of staff time, has there been any staff involvement in getting direction on what you want to do? I see that in the handout that you gave us last week,
 For like a better word. It's a kind of a budget like 2.8 million for staff staffing potential adjustments have you consulted with staff to get their take on those proposed? Ideas, I've shared it with staff For their feedback on whether or not that directionally would be you know appropriate if we were to undertake a
 And so I could sense Jonathan's here. I can let him weigh in on that. But it was really a starting point to say, you know, what would we define together as council, community, and staff to say is our, you know, our project definition to dial it in more closely together. And so I think, you know, in the additional diligence that the staff has done, I think they haven't come back with something just because I think they decided that we weren't
 going to apply at this time. So I don't think there's been back and forth in that regard. Susan, has there been? I think it would be difficult to react to that particular number without a project that has been defined. And that's what Jonathan was, one of the hurdles that we see is that there's not a project defined, so we wouldn't know exactly who would be working on it in order to create a budget. OK. Yes.
 uh council member moore thank you for bringing this forth um i too have received a lot of um feedback concerning this resolution and there's something that you said and i wanted to and if you would please provide clarification you mentioned that there are
 maybe citizens who would be willing to collaborate? Can you explain that? Because I've been receiving a lot of, again, feedback relating to how the citizens are definitely eagerly supporting this, and so how does that look if a nonprofit, if you're referencing a nonprofit,
 Is it possible that a citizen-based nonprofit could perhaps collaborate with the city to help us meet the demands of the grant?
 Well, I appreciate the question, and I recognize, you know, we're in an unconventional time, and I understand this is kind of an unconventional approach. And so I think, for me, the reason I've continued to feel like this is a potential solution and why I feel like this is an option that we really should pursue is because I've seen a growing interest in individuals who have very full plates
 who have said I'm very willing to lend my expertise and despite, you know, I can, you know, charge for these hours or I could take on another client, that this is my city. And so I won't speak for individuals, you know, that potentially could participate, but I will tell you, yes, it's been nonprofits. Yes, it's been people who've written federal grants.
 Yes, it's been individuals that are at the top of their industry for doing this type of work. And so I have never honestly seen a rallying around something like I have this. And so that's why I've continued to bring it forward. Absolutely. Thank you for that. And I'm hearing very similar, again, comments.
 statements and perspectives from the community and I feel like and I'm not sure Mayor Jordan if this is something that we have done that we've ever done before but I do know that the citizens of Fayetteville have spoken loudly that they are in support of this and I feel like the only hurdle that the biggest barrier
 that I'm hearing is that's involving perhaps manpower as it relates to putting the grant together. So I'm definitely going to support it because I don't,
 There's no, and someone said it perfectly, that it's not perfection, but it's progress. And I do believe that since we are experiencing a housing crisis, that we should do everything that we can to alleviate that. But my, the concern, the perspective that I wanted to voice now, exploring
 those individuals and those nonprofits as it relates to perhaps providing some type of assistance to City staff to help so this grant could become a reality because again it sounds like to me that a majority of the concern is City staff having time to do this and so if we have and I am aware of a few
 individuals and nonprofits that you somewhat referenced. I see this as an opportunity to collaborate. What else? Anybody got anything? Okay, we'll take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 please stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by then we'll speak after that who would like to address this first hi my name is delaney bartlett i live at 325 south gregg i'm also with the citizen group fayetteville strong and i want to express our deep deep support for this
 And also to point out that one of the things that this grant could do is to help alleviate the problem of understaffing for this. So, you know, it's like we're at a log jam and this could be a potential to find that nick in the logs to break this log jam and hopefully
 get us at least closer to solving the massive housing crisis that we're in right now. Thank you. Thank you. Oh and also we're willing to help. Hello my name is Corey Covey. I live at 495 North Coral Canyon Loop in Fayetteville.
 Rental prices in Fayetteville are rising dramatically beyond the ability of many residents to bear. A recent report from the Democrat Gazette revealed that 30% or more than 40,000 residents or households in the city are considered financially burdened by housing costs. Currently, the vacancy rate for apartments in Fayetteville is a shocking and unsustainable 1%.
 According to this article, a healthy rate for leased homes and apartments is somewhere between 5 and 8% vacancy. This funding will allow our city to dramatically increase the capacity we need for residential development, specifically for renters. One in three Arkansans rent, and renters most often fall into low- and middle-income communities that do not have the financial mobility or resources to stay afloat.
 In addition, I'd like to add that I have some personal experience with the lack of affordable and available housing. Since June 21st, a close friend of mine has been searching for housing and has yet to find an apartment that is both available and affordable. She has been forced to couch surf for months due to a lack of housing. She's had to sell or give away most of her belongings due to the lack of room to put them.
 When she finally finds a place, she will have no bed to sleep in, she will have no dishes to eat on, and no furniture at all. She had these things before. Despite saving up for the move, the rising costs of housing and lack of available units has left her mostly homeless. Women like her deserve better, and you have the power to do that. Expanding housing will drive costs down, offering people like her not only more options, but cheaper options. No one wants to live couch to couch, slowly losing every belonging they've ever worked to have,
 and accessing this funding will make situations like this less common and rise the total quality of life in our community. I know that some of you might be mothers or are married to mothers
 I am a mother, and I know that being a mom is really hard. It takes a lot of time. You put in long hours. You're up in the middle of the night sometimes. And what I'm hearing is that might be the reality some of you working on this might face, is that it's long hours. It's hard. It takes a lot of your brainpower, and you might go to bed just spent.
 I am saying that for me, when I'm facing that probability, I remember that my son's future is the most important thing to me, and I think that is something that you need to be thinking about as well, is that this Fayetteville, this town, is full of children who deserve homes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Thank you very much. My name is Beth Coger. I live at 3661 Embrey Drive in Fayetteville. I want to thank Council Member Moore for bringing this and I really appreciate what Council Member Jones said a few minutes ago about collaboration. If there's even a chance that we can get this money, it would be such a shame if we don't take that chance.
 We can do hard things. And if we could start, maybe we'd start a wave of community and the city collaborating on issues like this because we all know what a dire situation we're in with housing right now. I was fortunate enough to move here in 2015. I could not afford my house that I live in now. And I know a lot of people who are going through a...
 homelessness right now and we all know that homelessness leads to incarceration incarceration leads to homelessness and that's one reason we have so many people sitting in our jail right now that's a whole other issue but I just wish that we could at least try this it's an opportunity that I see that would be a shame that we don't even try it like I say we can do hard things when we work together thank you thank you who else would like to address us
 Hello. My name is Mitchell Baker. I live on Micah Street in West Fayetteville. I'd like to piggyback on a comment made by a previous speaker about a lot of renters being low income. I'd like to add that a lot of these are also people with disabilities, both physical and mental. I work for a local nonprofit that works with people with developmental disabilities, and most of our clients are low income on Section 8 and are low income.
 very limited in where they can live. In fact, a few of our clients last year had to move from their housing because the apartment complex wanted to remodel blue section 8 so that they could charge more money for other renters. And so not only do we need to help just any able-bodied citizen, but also those who cannot help themselves. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening. Hi, my name is Monique Jones. I'm a resident of Fayetteville, Arkansas. I want to thank Councilman Moore for presenting this tonight. And I want to start by saying I moved here in 2012, joined the COC, which is
 continuum of care in 2010 and their goal then was to resolve homelessness in Fayetteville, Arkansas by 2020. We're in 2023 and we're not even close. But I sat and watched. I, as a community member, joined
 the ranks of supporting the work around solving housing and homelessness. I also joined the Fayetteville Housing Authority Board for a couple of terms because I wanted to be part of the work to really work towards this.
 and watching what was going on with homelessness, housing, and the funding for HUD, I see this as an opportunity for this community. So as I stand before you I express my strong support for the city's application for a HUD grant to fund housing and supportive changes. As you know our city is facing a serious housing crisis.
 Many of our residents are struggling to afford a safe and decent place to live. This is especially true for low-income residents and people with disabilities. HUD grants can provide much needed funding to support a variety of housing initiatives such as building or renovating affordable housing units, providing rental assistance to low-income families, supporting services for people with disabilities and other special needs, addressing homelessness,
 I believe that a HUD grant would be a valuable investment to our city's future. By supporting this housing change, we can help to ensure that all of our residents have a safe and affordable home to live in. I urge you to vote in favor of applying for the HUD grant. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Taylor McKinney. I live at 2821 Cottonwillow in Fayetteville.
 I don't know when any of you last searched for housing as a young working professional in Northwest Arkansas, but I recently have and it is nearly impossible. After months of searching, I was lucky to find an available rental unit that wasn't anything fancy or egregiously spacious, that was close enough to my place of work and made me feel safe and put together for the first time in my adult life.
 This apartment costs more than half of what I make in a month and I narrowed my search to the cheapest of those units available. I, like so many, could not afford to live in Fayetteville without a roommate to share costs of survival with. I cried of relief when I received the keys to this new unit because the apartment complex I was moving out of had been overtaken with roaches.
 Thanks, Lindsay Management. And I knew I would be able to sleep soundly for the first night in a long while.
 This is the bar for most working class Fayetteville residents. We just want a safe and affordable place to live. With this ordinance, Fayetteville has the ability to put its money where its mouth is and show up for the everyday people in Fayetteville who are doing their best to get by and are the backbone of what makes Fayetteville so wonderful.
 All of this to say, we desperately need immediate relief for the housing crisis and this grant would be a great start in working toward a solution. Please vote yes on this resolution. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hello, my name is David Fortner, I came up earlier.
 I'm a student here at the University of Arkansas, and everyone I've talked to about housing, about getting a house, somewhere to live, has a lot of concerns about affordable housing. Of course, we're a college town, which I'm sure brings in a lot of income, but one of the downsides of that is an increase in housing price.
 And I think that, I think Councilperson Moore mentioned prevention as being one of the things that we could do with this grant. I think as some of the other speakers mentioned,
 Community resilience is something to be focused on too. There are a lot of poor, disabled, at-risk residents who will be impacted negatively, who will be probably even made homeless if housing prices continue to rise.
 Fayetteville is a very fast-growing city obviously and Thanks to the planning decisions has made many steps already towards affordable housing so both of those things taken into account, I think that we have a good chance of Being competitive for this grant. I would definitely advise optimism with this I think it's
 As the other speakers have said, it's definitely worth trying. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello. My name is Landon Scorse, currently living at 3001 West Weddington Drive, and I've come here today with Arkansas Rent-A-United in favor of this resolution.
 i'm here to speak in favor of councilmember moore's resolution tonight for the same reason i was here a few months ago to speak in favor of further limiting short-term rentals in the city fayetteville renters need help the public outpouring for support tonight is evidence of that federal approval for this grant would alleviate some of the stress from the renters struggling the most here in our community
 Federal government has already made this money available using taxpayer money, and our city should at the very least apply for a portion to help fund the initiatives of affordable housing and rezoning that the city has already committed to. As Council Member Moore stated, the city has until October 30th to apply for this grant. With shrinking affordable housing options, the lack of zoning capacity for housing, and a functionally full housing market, this funding is urgently needed. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello, my name is Gracie Foreman. I live off Chestnut Avenue. I'm in Ward 2. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to tell you all a little bit about my experience living here for the past five years, beginning as a student and now as a resident of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and a young working professional. And then I'm going to give you a little bit of the recent facts that have been released from 2023 studies of Northwest Arkansas.
 So to start, I moved here. 2019 was when I first got my own space. It was a two-bedroom. My rent was $550. It was incredible. I had enough money to pay my utilities. I worked as well. I had enough money to pay for my classes, and I had enough money to sustain myself. As I moved forward, that rent...
 Increased from 550 it went to 800 which was a big jump and now and Starting in 2022 my rent was fourteen hundred dollars now my rent has increased in that same space to fourteen hundred and twenty five dollars I have a heating and cooling unit from 1999 I do not have any smoke alarms any carbon monoxide alarms in my space. I
 I moved into a space that was empty for two years because it is owned by somebody who is out of state, who lives in Seattle, Washington. And so I arrived home to a spider and ant infestation, which then was not taken care of by the maintenance management company based out of Rogers, Arkansas. My income monthly is a little bit over $2,200.
 So $1,425 is a lot of money to not include my utilities. And then a little bit about the facts. A recent study was released that showed that about 254 students, high school level students, middle school students, children are homeless in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Whenever they get off the bus, they don't have a home to go to.
 Additionally, a study was actually released today and the study is actually titled NWA Gets a Raise. And then whenever you look into that study, you see who actually got a raise. Households above $75,000 and $100,000 got increases. ALICE households, asset limited income constrained households.
 actually decreased from 2019 to 2022. I am one of those households that decreased, and I am suffering as a result of this housing emergency in Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I'm not asking that you are perfect. I'm not asking you to get it all the way right, to even win the grant, but all I'm asking you to do
 as a resident here, as someone who does not know if I'll be able to stay here going into next year, is try. And I'm asking you to put in the work. And it's a short timeline, but I don't know when this opportunity is going to cross your desk again. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello, council. I've got some slides if it's possible to pull up. I think Ms. Moore sent this in today. I am Allie Thurmond Quinlan, and I live at 1101 North Woolsey.
 You may have been used to seeing my face up here a little bit more often, but I'm currently in the shut-in era of Young Leatherhood. For those of you who know me less well, I'm a licensed architect and a licensed landscape architect. I'm a College Avenue small business owner with a design practice with a team of 10. I'm also a small developer and a former planning commissioner here at Fayetteville. I serve on the Nonprofit Incremental Development Alliance Board, and I work with cities nationally to align development codes with their communities and their goals.
 As Mr. Kurth can attest, I'm also your resident planning history nerd in Fayetteville. I offered to come here tonight to offer some context on what it is we're asking you to change in replacing the Unified Development Code. And I could not support this effort more, but I do hope that you'll direct a much more clear work plan to structure this grant to fully replace the existing UDC.
 No city I'm aware of has done this with in-house staff and the national path for this code replacement is pretty well defined and this grant is specifically geared to replace city codes, city zoning codes that are creating housing crunches. It's known as the YIMBY grant in planning circles and in terms of bang for your buck there's not a single thing that you can spend money on in this city that's going to have a bigger impact on housing costs, on housing availability and on our environmental preservation than rewriting the UDC.
 We desperately need that impact, as you guys have heard every night, right? Not just with speakers here. Our population is slated to double, which means that half of our city has not been built yet. And our challenge in terms of units is made incredibly more difficult by our really small city household size. 71% of our households in the city are one or two people living alone, but our average house size is more than 2,500 square feet on a quarter acre lot.
 The base code that I'm asking you to replace starts back in 1968 with our urban renewal plan and the same consultant who wrote the urban renewal plan two years later wrote our 1970 zoning code, later wrote the 1990 zoning code. So the bulk of our city is currently zoned under wording that was written coming out of urban renewal as a ethos and so you know 11% of new houses have one or two beds and
 We've pulled some, kind of our next slide, is from that urban renewal plan which we digitized in 2015. It was current, you know, previously one document in the library so that was digitized and made available and the document itself really puts
 puts forward an idea that Fayetteville itself is obsolete. It doesn't have enough parking. There aren't people who come downtown because there's not enough parking, so the businesses here can't succeed because there's too many people here parking too many cars here, so no one can come, which is this kind of silly idea that it suggests that we fully tear down most of downtown Fayetteville and that we only build new format of auto-dominated separated housing outside of the city.
 So as we scroll to the next slide, these are just some items taken from a very long document. But the things that you'll see, this is the way our code works. This is the kinds of projects that you see because this is the law that we have decided to still operate underneath.
 Measuring blight, the urban renewal plan measures blight, which then called for demolition and relocation of citizens based on census data, primarily the age, race, and sex of the inhabitants of the house. And the maps that were used in this urban renewal plan were later used as the baseline for the zoning code that again still covers most of the city. If we scroll to the next slide too,
 There is also an enormous impact of both retired citizens, where regardless of the condition of their home, they were labeled as blighted because they didn't have a high income. And in spite of housing conditions, most of the residents that were slated for relocation stated that they liked their home and did not want to move.
 So next slide you'll see too what they call out as the conditions of housing prior to this passing is that there's a surplus of affordable housing units, they have too many affordable housing units. There's a balanced amount of medium modest income housing, there's a shortage of housing units at middle income and there's a very severe shortage of luxury housing.
 So that's the way that we naturally were building prior to the adoption of our current code. If we come to the next one, as the Plain Commission stated during the passing, do you want to encourage large homes, large lots with nice homes? Do we want to discourage low-cost housing? They wrote a code to eliminate low-cost housing in the city, and we're trying to subsidize our way out of the system.
 We can see too from the next slide the way that the city developed prior to the passing of our current code and the way That the city developed after if you see why we're crunched right why we're struggling with building on our most sensitive lands This code is why The next slide 2 shows that the 1970 zoning code map is our current zoning code map We are operating under a system that is designed to do the exact opposite of what we're trying to do the next slide shows our actual population growth in the city and
 The slide after that shows it overlaid with our urban tier centers. We are seeing no development in our tier centers. Thank you Thank you. Who else? What addresses? Mr. Mayor. Yes. This is Sarah over here I would love to hear some more from Miss Quinlan if that's agreeable to everyone How much time would you like?
 I was thinking the same thing, if we could hear just a little bit more. Five minutes? Good. Yeah, I was going to say two, but that's fine, whatever. Y'all know I have a hard time keeping it short.
 All right, so the next one we just overlayed our tier center with the percent growth that we're seeing in the city. Right, so the way that this is designed is to push growth to be auto-dominated and not dense at the edges and to be expensive, and that's what we're seeing. We can't subsidize our way out of that problem. Also, the number of, you know, the amount of money it would take to provide some affordable housing units, a fraction of that cost could replace the code and have this massive change citywide. If we can come to the next slide, please. All right.
 So that's our tier centers. Next slide. Our current Fayetteville housing system is not broken. It's not, it's working exactly the way it was designed to work. And until we replace it, we are choosing to have this system.
 And there is a grant available that is specifically designed to solve this problem. We're not the only community in America who has this problem. But we do have the availability of funding immediately to solve this. And I think that Fayetteville has led the way in terms of some really incredible code changes. We make national news over and over again in terms of the codes, the work happening here, the kind of growth that we see, the community activism that we see. And so I think...
 we have an opportunity to not just replace our zoning code, but to do this in a way that can then be tailored to other cities that other cities can learn from that can have a bigger outside impact. I think that approach can really make an application more competitive because HUD can see this kind of investment
 turn around and go in different directions. And Fayetteville's codes already have been taken by other cities and taken up. And so we have that baseline expertise, we have that baseline reputation as a city. And working nationally, it's always really fun that people have this expectation of Arkansas that is, I joke sometimes, that the worst thing about living in Arkansas is telling people from the coast that you live in Arkansas. Everything else is great.
 But we still have this reputation in planning circles as having a really incredible planning staff, an incredible city government, and we need to be leading the way on replacing our UDC so that we can see the kind of housing that we need and that citizens need and that matches our demographics and matches our environment. Thank you guys very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Anybody? Okay. Okay.
 My name is Micah Chaney. I live on Bel Air Drive. I'm just here in support of adopting the resolution. I think it'd be great and just because it would be hard doesn't mean that we shouldn't try. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening, my name is Billy Cook. I live at 1151 East Shepherd Lane here in Fayetteville. I believe the funding our city could receive as part of this pro-housing grant would be a helpful and useful stimulus for our city's efforts at expanding our housing options. The Democrat Gazette recently published an article which refers to our city's long road of providing enough housing to meet demand as daunting.
 WHICH ADEQUATELY DESCRIBES THE SITUATION AS IT STANDS. THE SITUATION WILL NOT CHANGE UNTIL WE CHANGE THE WAY WE APPROACH ZONING AND LAND USAGE. TO CHANGE THIS STATE OF AFFAIRS WILL REQUIRE INNOVATIVE RESOLUTIONS, REALISTIC APPRAISALS OF REAL HOUSING NEEDS, FORESIGHT TO PLAN FOR THE FUTURE, AND DECISIVE ACTION ON THE PART OF CITY GOVERNMENT.
 Tonight, we have yet another opportunity in front of us to bridge the gap between where we are and where we need to be. We have a fantastic chance to prepare our community for the massive growth we all anticipate to see, and to make sure the people who move here will have as many reasons to love this city as we do here now. Let's work to show our region and state that we can rise to the challenge and face complex obstacles.
 I urge the City Council to pass this resolution tonight and support all of the wonderful housing efforts that are being conducted to expand opportunities here in Fayetteville. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm a resident of Fayetteville at 950 North Lindell. I'd just like to start by addressing... Can you pull the mic a little closer? Sorry, I'm not always aware of the volume on my voice.
 I'd just like to start by addressing a concern about the viability of Fayetteville as a candidate for this grant. I recently presented Fayetteville in a presentation with a lot of HUD officials with Arkansas Vendors United and our housing needs have been brought up recently. We worked with, we actually even had some DC lawyers in on a hot springs call recently. We worked together with
 Ethan Handelman and Don Billingsley. And Don specifically described the conditions which DeAndre Jones has witnessed firsthand as abhorrent. And that's what our city is being described as by national head officials. And so I do think that Fayetteville has a better chance as an applicant than we realize.
 And three weeks for $4 million. I mean, college students get way tighter deadlines on way less incentivizing things. I mean, put our best foot forward. Don't we believe that we can do good? Don't we believe in ourselves? Come on. That is a very big amount of money to say, we don't have time for that. Like, when is this coming across your desk again?
 back to what i was intending to say prior to hearing everyone's statements reclaiming our tax dollars our federal tax dollars especially for one of the most important issues in our city is only common sense with the comments from the federal government it seems like our city would make a prime candidate according to a press release from the white house quote funding can be used for planning and policy activities to allow for higher density zoning and rezoning for multi-family and mixed-use housing
 Streamlining affordable housing development and reducing requirements related to parking and other land use restrictions, which have specifically been mentioned here tonight. Funding can also be used for infrastructure activities necessary for the development and preservation of housing. As has already been stated, almost three-fourths of Fayetteville is single-family residential and a lot of us are not those single families in those residential homes. I mean people in my generation can hardly dream of the word home.
 we can make a strong case for our taxpayer funds to be put to good use, if and when it's allocated to us. It's true, we need more multifamily housing that's walkable, especially given the high projections by 2045. If we're thinking about this 2040 plan, don't we want to be thinking about how we're going to fund it? And don't we want it to come out of the money we've already paid instead of some new taxes? This is our federal money we've already put there. Let's take it back. They're literally giving us a chance.
 In early 2023, Fayetteville reaffirmed its commitment to the City Plan 2040, a comprehensive land use plan for the City of Fayetteville, encouraging development patterns to prioritize the creation of affordable housing and walkable neighborhoods. The City is pursuing this grant, hopefully, fingers crossed on a yes tonight, right, with the opportunity that will give us...
 a clear path on how to keep us in line with the goals of the 2040 plan and move us another step forward and making it a reality, which like we need. Much of Fayetteville's zoning policies, as we've already discussed, and as was just showcased very thoroughly, are outdated and from, I mean, way before the 1970s.
 And they do not reflect our current development needs. It's working as intended. And it's not working for us, especially given our rapid growth projections. We don't want more urban sprawl. We can't afford it. Like, we have a climate crisis on our hands, regardless of anything else, like...
 I know it seems kind of insignificant, but like whenever we are one of the biggest cities in our state, we really have to be responsible with what we're like putting on our citizenship. And not only is it super expensive to drive back and forth, it's also super unnecessary. And y'all have the power to make it even more unnecessary by just giving us walkable neighborhoods. You want to lower the obesity rate in Arkansas? Let's get some walkable neighborhoods. Let's up our heart health. Come on, you know, let's look out for each other. Maybe we'll see some more people at the farmer's market, right? It'll be nice.
 Okay, thanks. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us? Who do you have on Zoom? I have Robert Stafford. Can I go ahead? Hi, can you hear me? Yes. This is Bob Stafford, Ward 1, 527 South Sherman Avenue.
 Thank you, Sarah Moore, for bringing this forward and thanks to DeAndre Jones for his vocal support. We are in a housing crisis. We are in a housing crisis. If you don't know this, you're not paying attention. I had recently lost two members of the Arts Council because we are in a housing crisis. One of those members is why you have a vacant seat in the horseshoe tonight because Sonya had to move.
 out of the ward because she couldn't find affordable housing in the ward. The 2040 city plan is a great plan, but unfortunately with our existing zoning, it's an impossible plan. And I think this grant could help us at the very least identify changes that we need to make to our UDC, to our Unified Development Code, to find a way to realize the
 Now, this is just a non-binding resolution, and there's nothing that says the city staff must do this even if you pass it. It's just a resolution. That said, the city should do this. I believe it would be a dereliction of duty to the taxpayers of this city to leave millions of dollars on the table and not try and not even try to get these grants. For why, I don't know. I just don't know. We may not get it.
 is a horrible reason not to try. We haven't made a plan yet is a horrible reason not to try. There's lots of people that want to help you with this. Fayetteville Strong, among other groups, Allie Quinlan, among other people. We can do this. We can at least try. So please vote yes on this. And to the city, please follow through and do it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Who else do you have? Meredith Kasten. Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Hello, my name is Meredith Kasten. I live at 1372 East Century Drive in Fayetteville. I support...
 For the high pro housing grant, I have lived in other rapidly growing cities where new and affordable housing product projects have not kept up with demand and the results are always the same. Teachers, nurses, physical therapists, artists, and other vital members of the community are pushed out and unable to afford to live there. Asking you please don't let that happen to Fayetteville. We need to do something now if we want a sliver of a chance at correcting our affordability crisis.
 but a four million dollar grant would give us a lot more than a sliver of a chance
 Moving forward, it is unrealistic and unfair to expect existing planning staff to continue to take on more and more projects as we see this explosive growth in our population. This grant would support hiring additional personnel to support the very people who are already working hard and doing an excellent job. But we can't avoid doing this one challenging project for the very reason that getting this grant money would fix lack of lack of person.
 Lack of manpower. I also want to note that I am a professional content writer and I've helped out with grant writing in the past. I'm also very good at pulling all-nighters and working my tail off for a good cause. I will go on record tonight as offering my volunteer time to help with this project in any way possible. And I also...
 professional grant writers, one of whom recently retired. I'm already working on her to try and get her involved. Lastly, I am a member of Fayetteville Strong, and I know many of our members would jump at the chance to help out to meet this deadline. Thank you all so much for everything you do for Fayetteville and for giving me the opportunity to speak tonight. Kyle Smith. Hello, Mayor.
 This is Kyle Smith at 2801 Dove Drive. Tonight I join you from my freshly vacated classroom after parent-teacher conferences. Over the last nine months, I've heard this council say more than a few times about grants that it's free money and it's a no-brainer. I hope that we'll remember that tonight.
 I wanted to address some of the technical issues that have been raised by staff. The emotional pleas and the need is well established, so I just want to look at some of the nuts and bolts. One of those is the compressed timeline. I just want to point out that it is a very short timeline, but it's the same timeline every other applicant is on.
 In fact, on August 1st, that's seven weeks ago, Mayor, I put information about this grant physically in your hand personally, and also Mr. Kurth's. The timeline definitely feels tighter now than it did seven weeks ago, or even two weeks ago when we could have had this on the agenda. It's true that we are not a priority geography. I think staff has presented housing info at your agenda session that proves we should be a priority geography.
 But that priority geography category is 10 points on the scoring. Twelve points is proving previous efforts so far at the goals of the grant. And I think Allie laid out several of the things we've done. But when you Google parking minimums or accessory dwelling units,
 Fayetteville comes up in the top of the search results in articles celebrating what we've done and other cities copying our approach. We were the first to do some of these things. We have a track record that we're known for. We should leverage that. Staff has said that there's limited capacity. And this grant is tailor-made for our already approved comprehensive plan.
 when staff says they don't have the capacity to develop a 40-page application that to me is the absolute best argument for why we need to try to increase our capacity and be able to do more out of their office they've objected that there's no project proposal but it was also asked is the proposed budget amount okay when staff says
 They don't have a project proposal to evaluate whether the budget is okay, but you can't put together a budget without their input as to what would constitute a realistic plan. This really starts to feel like bureaucratic doublespeak, and that's a major disappointment. Mayor, you have said numerous times that we have a housing crisis, and now it's up to you to lead us through it. You don't just have a staff.
 you have a whole city of resources that are here tonight begging to be led there's an effort they want to put put in the energy to it they just need someone to in the position to take charge and say yes we're doing this if we aren't taking ambitious swings when opportunities like this taylor made for us when they present themselves then there i'm asking you to answer maybe if we can't do this what is your alternative plan to addressing our housing needs
 I'll have a final statement. Thank you. Alan Vinson. Okay, go ahead. Hello, can you guys hear me all right? Yes. Yes. Okay, good. Sorry. I'm in my car. I'm actually coming home from work. I'm Alan Vinson. I live at 2359 North Covington Park Boulevard, and I am speaking in favor of
 you know, applying for the funding, because, you know, I'm 24. I have actually recently graduated from college back in December. It's been nine months, and I have been unable to find any housing, any apartment that I am comfortable spending money on. I make twice what the average Arkansan makes, and yet, you know, the average apartment here in Fayetteville costs $1,000.
 at minimum a third of my income um that is not including any kind of uh utilities or any gas or anything groceries food um you know that's just the apartment itself i work in bentonville that's a 30-minute drive every day and it's worse in bentonville and so i i have to spend probably more than what the average person may have to spend on gas alone
 And I get a bonus at the end of every month. And with that bonus, that's still a third. And so I'm here urging you to at the very least apply for this because, you know, it's like what your parents may have told you when you're going to ask out your high school crush. The worst they could say is no, they're not going to take money away from us. They're not going to humiliate us in front of the rest of the country. They're just going to say no.
 So, you know, I implore that you please do something to fix this housing crisis. Because if, you know, look at how many people have stood up today who are young people and can't afford housing. If they can't afford housing, you know, what makes you think that their kids are going to be able to afford housing? Or...
 you know, anybody who isn't, you know, working as a doctor or, um, you know, in, in, in government or any kind of high salary job. And I, I just, I want to know what you can do for me. And most
 I beg that you please do something about this because it's getting to the point where it's not only concerning but it's utterly ridiculous. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Evelyn Stafford. All right, go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I also wanted to thank Councilmember Sarah Moore for bringing forward this resolution. I believe this is a unique opportunity that does not come around very often.
 There's two stories I want to tell tonight, if I have the time. One is that back in January, I'm sorry, I should tell, I'm Evelyn Ria Stafford. I live in Ward 1 in Fayetteville, 527 South Sherman. Back in 2020, in January of 2020, I used to be on the Housing Authority Board before I was Justice of the Peace. And when the city was deciding where to put the parking deck,
 I know the Housing Authority was pushing to include some sort of affordable housing component in the arts quorum. And in January 2020, we gathered together in one meeting, representatives from the City of Fayetteville, the University of Arkansas, the Housing Authority, and the Walton Arts Center. And at that meeting, I went around to each organization and I asked,
 Will you please make a serious commitment on partnering to create affordable housing? And every organization said yes, the city, the university, everyone around that table. I looked up the Democrat Gazette article about it to jog my memory. It quotes me asking that question. It quotes Jonathan Kurth.
 Jonathan Kurth, Senior Planner with the City, said the City's goal of creating opportunities for attainable housing has been somewhat of an afterthought. An update to the City's overall plan, called City Plan 2040, recommends methods such as zoning, capital investments, reducing regulatory barriers, and establishing partnerships to achieve this goal, he said. Well later that year, the City went on to pass that 2040 plan. It's an excellent plan.
 You guys readopted it earlier this year. However, in those three years that have passed since that meeting, much of the zoning around the growth centers that were identified in that plan along the 71B corridor, much of the zoning has remained unchanged. And it is yielding development plan patterns that undermine the goals of the plan. I support applying for this grant to update these so that we can meet the goals that we laid out years ago.
 As a justice of the peace, as a county official, I'm seeing the impact out in the county. We're seeing, you know, we went on a county road tour. County Judge Deakins took all the JPs around to see where the road department crews were working. The summer is when they make hay while the sun shines. That's when the road crews do most of their work. While we're on that tour, I asked our county road crews
 Is there some part of the county where you're doing more work than others? And they said, oh, yeah, out on the west side, just beyond the Fayetteville city limits out there, they can't get the roads paved fast enough because there's so much sprawl happening out there. Because the folks, developers can't build affordable housing in Fayetteville because of COVID.
 We haven't updated the codes, so they go out and build it in the county. But when they do that, county zoning is one home per acre. So we're talking serious sprawl, we're talking miles of infrastructure. We're talking sure people can afford a home, but what are their transportation costs are gonna be? What's the wear and tear on their vehicles gonna be? We also saw increasing numbers of
 Vacant lots out in the county where folks are squatting. They're pulling storage sheds from Home Depot and living in them out on undeveloped land in the county with no water, no electricity, no sewer service. And so this is some of the unintended consequences that are happening outside the city limits. So decisions that get made in the city also affect things that are happening outside the city.
 The ability for human beings to have a roof over their head should be fundamental. I know we talk a lot about this issue. The city should be looking for these opportunities before it needs to be brought to them. And I urge everyone listening to my words tonight to please take action. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Jessica Llewellyn. Okay. Go ahead.
 Hi, this is Jessica Llewellyn on Maxwell Drive in Fayetteville. I just wanted to quickly add my voice to the support of this resolution. I've lived in Fayetteville for over 25 years. I'm a member of Fayetteville Strong and I'm also a practicing architect. I want to thank the council members and the citizens before me who have spoken up.
 And just echo what Ms. Quinlan shared about zoning changes that are needed in our city. And the opportunity for this grant to use the funding on things like that or staffing really gives a lot of flexibility. I think we all know this one grant is not going to be a silver bullet that's going to solve everything, but it is a bullet in the arsenal to fight the good fight.
 And yeah, I've also seen and heard a lot of significant support from citizens about this resolution. And I personally would be someone willing to volunteer some of my time to help get it done. Yeah, that's it. Thank you. No one else has their hand raised, Mayor. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 Mayor Jordan, I want to add to what the comments have been made tonight, and I do appreciate everyone's comments. I've been on the city council since 2021, and this is one of the very few times that a resolution or an ordinance has come before us and there was no opposition.
 Everybody that spoke tonight spoke in favor of this resolution, and it's because we are experiencing a crisis. As you all probably know, last Thursday, I held a town hall meeting to discuss this very same topic, affordable housing. And I heard horror stories, stories very similar to the ones tonight and different.
 As representative of Ward 1, I have to do everything that I can to promote affordable housing. Every opportunity. We talked earlier about, and I do, again, I appreciate you so much bringing this forth, and the fact that citizens of Fayetteville are willing to volunteer or to help in some capacity to make sure that this grant is reality. I remember...
 Maybe a year ago, I was working with the, helped the police department write a grant for social workers. And I believe I didn't leave that night until about 2 a.m.,
 and that was one i think that that's that is one of the best things that i've ever done as a council member because that is protecting the best interest of all of fayetteville and so i'm willing to volunteer any my my um my skills and my talents and help in any way to make sure that we
 apply for this grant because again we are experiencing a crisis and we have to have all hands on deck and I remember two people saying this once before we don't need any new ideas We need the political wheel. This is not about Sarah if this is not about a progressive agenda this is about Fayetteville and I want to go on record by letting Fayetteville know that I
 I put politics aside, we put politics aside, even if there are personal feelings, putting those aside and looking out for the best interest of Fayetteville. And I know that it's a challenge with the time crunch, but as Ms. Coker said, we can do hard things. We've done hard things before. This is not the first time and it won't be the last time. And this hard thing is, if we're going to do something hard, it has to be in the best interest of Fayetteville.
 We know that we are experiencing a housing crisis. It's hitting closer to home for some more than others. But as an elected official, having empathy is part of my job. I'm very fortunate that I don't, I'm not sharing those experiences, but I feel the pain of so many people who are. I hear this day in and day out. How can I represent the city of Fayetteville with,
 empathy and with the mind of equity when there is a grant that's right before us and we've heard the need to at least apply for this grant I know that there is a time crunch absolutely and our city staff I don't work for the city as a staff member and I know that uh I'm sure that you guys you all are over are overstaffed or I'm sorry
 Understand thank you. Thank you, but there are people here tonight that have committed to help in any way that we can To at least make the application if we don't win What have we lost, but if we win what did we gain? Thank you? Okay, who else anything nobody has any other comment yes, I oh so many I Don't think
 Well, let's start at the beginning. The real issue is not the grant. I don't want to be distracted with that. What we're describing the issue is, is that we have a document that we call the 2040 plan, which I call the 2040 aspirations because I don't like the word plan. And then we have land use zoning code and maps that are parcel by parcel.
 And so the issue is the lack of congruence and the difference between the aspirational document and the actual entitled land use that exists today. That's the issue that we're addressing. The grant is simply an opportunity to compete for funding
 I'm not encouraged by it given our status not as a favorable community, but it doesn't mean that the grant would not be a step towards addressing the Incongruence that exists it's going to take money to do that down the road Whether we fund it through our own budget going forward whether we fund it through our fee resolution we have
 A fee study underway right now. I just want to remind us all that that's the issue. So I have to say that the issue has probably arisen because of a single land use project that's proposed. And that has sparked people's attention to say this incongruence has set us up to be
 in which we can have a gas station, a car wash, a drug store, a bank, or an oil chain shop on every key significant retail corner. And retail corners are critical in communities. I think the other issue that we would be confronted with if we don't address it is the notion of single land use zoning versus mixed use zoning.
 I think a lot of what's been expressed tonight is hopeful, aspirational, and panacea in the sense that we are wishing things were different.
 and seven percent interest rates say that we can have any land use we want but if a developer cannot go to the bank and borrow cannot acquire land for 20 of the cost of their project then they're going to be in able to develop anything that's going to meet anyone's definition of affordable
 We can build housing. It's not going to be affordable housing. Fayetteville land costs are a third of single-family homes today, not 20%. So we're talking about the need to build multifamily housing. Okay, so the challenge is that that's already allowed. That's already permissible. Why is that not happening? Mixed-use development is already allowed. Why is that not happening? So
 I think the people who spoke tonight should be commended for participating in democracy and coming out, but I think we have to be very cautious that we don't set ourselves up to say we're going to get a grant that, I mean, we're 113,000th on the list in need in the United States.
 But we are a competitive community because of the caliber of work that's been done in the past, the caliber of staff that we've had, the caliber of volunteer that we've had participate in the drafting of our documents. I simply think we've overstated the case of we're spending money we haven't got yet. The one cost we don't count is what's our cost to prepare and submit this application? Who's going to stop?
 doing what they're doing, whose application are we going to stop processing to work on this because someone's project is going to sit in abeyance. Because as much as we all want to volunteer and help, someone from the city is going to have to sign off on those documents. Someone is going to have to participate and be liable for that work plan going forward. So I
 I don't want to be the cautionary tale. It's not fun to be the cautionary tale. I'm not saying I'm opposed to the application. I'm simply trying to give us that dose of reality. There is no magic wand and this is both an uphill competitive process and again when we change zoning
 There is no guarantee that someone's going to borrow the money, risk their capital, and build what we wish they would build. They're going to build what's profitable for them to build. So, Mr. Mayor, that's gone on too long. That's all I have to say about that. Okay. Well, then, I'll...
 Thank you Council Member Riedeker. I think those are really good points and to kind of add to that, my concern weeks ago and the reason I didn't vote to add it to the agenda at that time and my concerns today are the lack of clear project definition and competitive disadvantages so I will be siding with staff in my lack of support for this resolution. Thank you. I'm sorry I didn't quite catch all that. I will not be supporting the resolution.
 Anybody else got any final? Yes, sir Dionne I just wanted to add Thank You councilmember Whitaker because you are right The problem it's it's it's it's not the the grant is not the problem I think the problem is that this is a proposed solution when nothing else is being proposed and we're having a crisis and
 What I hear tonight is, and what I've heard, and Council Member Moore will probably co-sign, that the people are bringing forward a solution, because unfortunately, y'all, as leaders, we haven't. Okay. Sarah, did you want to say something? Sarah Dodge? Yes. I, sorry about not being at the meeting in person tonight, but, you know, I, I, I, I
 I agree with just a lot of what's been said tonight, and I agree with Mike, but the grant itself is not the problem. And what I know about our staff, there's been, you know, some, I think, really unfortunate accusations made about staff not really wanting to try. What I know about our staff in Fayetteville is they will do whatever we ask them to do.
 They'll put their nose to the grindstone and they'll try to get it done. And it is a big concern that we don't have some of the things are not defined yet. And we are asking staff to stop existing projects and work on this. That is a concern of mine. But I am actually, you know, there's been a lot said tonight that I agree with.
 And I agree that some of our zoning is maybe needs some tweaking, needs some work. But, you know, when I think of things that were allowed, you know, I've lived here a long time and the mayor can probably remember what the square used to look like.
 Before a lot of it was torn down to build some of the new stuff that's there. It was really really cool looking so But I'm kind of on the fence about this You know, I do kind of agree that it's a challenge to staff It will probably delay other things. I don't want to do that, but I do kind of agree that I
 you know, maybe we should give it a shot anyway, even if we are missing those 10 points there and, you know, some other stuff. So I'm kind of on the fence about this. I want to hear what other members of the council have to say. Thank you. Okay. On the surface, this looks like, as it was said a little earlier, someone on Zoom, a no-brainer. And this goes back to the grant itself
 a great deal you have to weigh when when I have staff telling me that they number one do not feel like we will qualify due to or potentially not qualify I don't want to say definitively that they say we won't qualify but we're starting out
 Minus 10 on the fact that we're not in the region that they they classify They also say that it could be counted against us that we are not matching funds That some some cities are that definitely would be matching funds We don't have a project We certainly have cities that are going to be
 Filing grants that have shovel ready projects in the chute ready to go. We don't have that so I guess I fall on the side of Absolutely believe we have a housing crisis in Fayetteville Absolutely 100% believe that Will this fix that problem? No, I don't think so
 If I'm brought something that I realistically think can utilize staff time and we realistically have a potential of getting that grant, I absolutely 100% would support it. I just, I don't think we're in that situation with this grant. I think there's too many things stacked against us.
 We're going against cities that are a million population that have a hundred staffers in place for their planning department you know we don't have that and We don't you know it's it's I believe we're understaffed I personally believe that but it is what it is right now And I don't feel like we can pull staff off other projects and
 to this project without a clear definitive plan now mayor if you if you tell me differently and you think you can handle this then maybe i changed my mind but at this point i'm pretty much feeling like i'm not going to be able to support this okay any other final comments from the council tracy
 i'm not sure i can add much more to the conversation other than um i'm very concerned about staff time i mean right now we don't even have enough staff to support our short-term rental ordinances so uh and pulling people off of their current workload with permitting and all sorts of other issues
 to quickly draft something that has not really been reviewed by us. Okay, so what kind of plan do we have? We don't know. It's not available.
 I certainly would want to take a really hard look at whatever was drafted and review it and ensure that it does meet the goals and the needs of our population here. And I know, I do think we have a housing crisis, and I do believe that everybody that spoke tonight and on Zoom is well-intentioned, absolutely. But because of the short time frame of this grant,
 All the other things that other council members have said about our lack of really being competitive in this game and that we don't have a plan I just cannot support this in good conscience. I can't support something that's basically a blank grant pulling
 pulling all of our highly qualified, dedicated, hardworking staff off to kind of chase this. Yes, it's a really great seeming opportunity, but I would really like to challenge us and to say, since we're not unlikely that we will go forward with this grant,
 Let's work this year to draft a plan that is highly competitive, that's fully reviewed, and takes everything into consideration that will help ease our housing crunch in this city. Thank you. Okay. Senator, do you have final comments?
 appreciate all of the folks that spoke tonight and who've reached out over the preceding weeks and I appreciate the council's comments tonight you know and I do take those to heart however I think it was brought up earlier with the
 Without the potential of another solution, yeah, this is not the magic silver bullet necessarily, but we do have a huge looming gap. And we're going to discuss it at more length, you know, as we go in the coming months about, you know, budgets and how we spend CIP and
 But I don't see a magic eight ball that tells me that additional monies are coming to rescue us or someone's coming forward to come make an incredible plan over the next year. I hope that that's the case, and I'll stand up just like was said by Mr. Jones to say that I'll put my labor forward as well and want to be a part of that. Arkansans are scrappy.
 I think there was a comment earlier about a mom. I'm a mom, and I really identified with that. Small organizations that are the backbone of our community, nonprofits who held us together through the pandemic,
 They've been duct taping things together. You heard comments tonight where individuals were saying, you know, we're doing a lot with a little. And so I want to recognize that staff is carrying a big burden. And I'm going to look for every available option to relieve some of that burden and to carry some of it with you. It may not always be conventional. It may not always have a beautiful bow on top of it.
 But I do think that we can be scrappy together, we can make a better Fayetteville. And so I hope that you'll reconsider and you'll support this because the thing that you don't apply for you definitely don't get. And I don't think any of us has the insight with this particular program to know who will apply and what our competition looks like. But I believe in this city and I know we can do it. Okay, everybody done? All right, I have a couple of thoughts.
 Now this is the third reading where my staff shared their recommendations against pursuing this grant this year. Now, I trust their judgment and their expert opinion. I do. My staff works real hard. We're probably a little on the short staff side and I agree with all that. So we're adding more staff this year even than we did last year. So that's going to help us address some things.
 Now, as far as the document that was handed to me by Kyle Smith, I turned that, I read it, turned it over to Susan Norton. She said she was going to get with Sarah Moore, Council Member Moore. They were going to discuss it. We turned it over to Jonathan, and their recommendation was not to pursue it this year, right?
 I know that you turned it over to me and that I did talk with Councilmember Moore about her ideas. I don't know that they're with the same ideas. They look very similar. And I talked with Mr. Kurth about his ideas about what was handed to us. So I did read that document. I did turn it over to the staff and had them please look this over. Now I also want to say this about myself and my staff. We view housing as the priority.
 And we're working on that. Britton Bosick is working out stuff right now, and we'll have everything she's going to be written what will be Presenting what is it 26? Yes, Britton has a three-part series which is intended to try to answer some of the council members questions and hopefully identify gaps and some policy analysis that will help you all make a decision about the direction to go and
 And I think the grant is a good-looking grant, but I really do not have the staff or the time to take, pull them off the priorities. We view this as a long-term issue that needs thoughtful, well-researched approach to be successful and meet federal's needs.
 My staff is focused on clearly defined projects. Jonathan mentioned some of those, about 71B. And we're going to have to learn that everything's not going to be in RSF4. We're going to have to work on the zoning. And we've got to build up instead of out. We are land. We're not landlocked, but we're kind of close.
 And my staff is focused on clearly defined projects that have been vetted through our planning process and community engagement standards. And I do not intend to direct my staff to stop working on those priority projects to attempt a last-minute application for a grant. And that's where I am with it. Kara, please call the roll.
 Mayor Jordan, this is a resolution the housing and urban development pro housing grant. I've not heard a first or second Motion, right? I'm sure First and second motion to approve second, okay? Yeah, here. We just call the roll. Berna, no Yes, Turk no Hertzberg no Jones yes Moore yes Whitaker yes
 Mayor, the vote is with four affirmative to pass the resolution. It requires five. Do you care to vote? I'm not going to vote. Then the resolution fails. All right. Let's move on to number four. An ordinance to approve Vacation 23-06, property located near North Shiloh Drive, Junction,
 at shallow 363 and Ward 4 to vacate a .39 acre portion of a multi-use trail easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following ascribed portion of a trail easement is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of a multi-use trail easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance to be certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following condition.
 Number one, the applicant and developer shall dedicate additional right-of-way and or trail easement sufficient for Shiloh Trail. And number two, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the expense of the applicant or developer.
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in northwest Fayetteville. Excuse me in Ward four, just southwest of Interstate 49 intersection with Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard. It's between the two sections of Shiloh that currently don't connect coming from north from Weddington and south from Mount Comfort.
 Council saw this property first time in May of this year during a large-scale development appeal. That project's Planning Commission approval was ultimately upheld.
 More recently, the project came back before the council two weeks ago with the proposal to vacate a utility easement on the site. It is before council tonight with a proposal to vacate a portion of an existing multi-use trail easement that runs along the future extension of Shiloh.
 Putting it in terms of the development site plan that you all have seen a couple times at this point, the trail route or the easement existing is intended currently to run, or runs in a not particularly linear fashion. This was dedicated with a lot split in 2019 when there was no certainty about how the property would be developed, but staff wanted to ensure that a trail easement was received from the property owner to assure some form of alignment into the future.
 In survey terms, you can see it's fairly comparable in its alignment and route. It includes about 0.39 acres overall. Staff has not identified any issues with the request, with the caveat that we do recommend two conditions of approval, the most prominent of which is the vacation of this existing trail easement is predicated on the development dedicating either adequate right-of-way to
 parallel trail easement to accommodate it so in other words an easement will be accommodated or a trail will be accommodated in one of those two forms or fashions throughout the city we see trails sometimes in access easements or trail easements and sometimes we see them in right away where acquisition is an option
 The second condition of approval is much more a standard one that the council sees with easement vacations, and that's that any damage resulting to facilities due to relocation or vacation will be at the developer's expense. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has, and I believe that Libby Topping is online as the applicant for this item. Yes, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. She's gone. Okay.
 Hi, this is Libby Topping with Craft and Tool. I don't have anything to add, but I'm happy to answer any questions. Any questions? Yeah, go ahead, Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. So, Jonathan, can you put back up that slide where it shows the current trail is right now?
 Yeah, that one right there. Thank you. So I guess my concern is that if we vacate this without another alternative location for a trail that's been approved by, I don't know who approves it, the Active Transportation Committee through us, how does that work exactly? Because right now, aside from that little bump in the road, I mean, it's pretty straightforward and lined up with the trail.
 That's a great question. There are some other nuances in this area, some major water. I believe it's water, not sanitary lines that run along this area as well. So as part of the street construction, there are some other constraints that aren't readily visible with this request.
 As for the second part of your question, how do we have any degree of assurance that the trail alignment or trail will be built? That's fundamental to that condition of the approval here. The ordinance is not enacted or take effect until that condition is satisfied. And how that looks in the development review process is prior to building permits being issued for a project, but after grading permit has been approved.
 The city requires what's called an easement plat, and that's a document that is evaluated by all the relevant staff, including our engineering division, which includes further our trail coordinator, who is charged with curating our active transportation plan. And they evaluate and make sure that those easements are captured on that document and dedicated and signed by all the relevant city employees and public utilities as well. And that's required to be recorded prior to building permits being issued. Thank you.
 Thank you for that explanation. What happens if the city engineers or the review committee does not find an acceptable route? I mean, you know, this could be a big jog or I'm just, you know, has that happened before?
 Not to my knowledge in this particular instance, the project has progressed so far that they know the alignment will work. I mean, that was a precursor. One of the many things that was reviewed as a part of the large scale development was the feasibility of a new trail alignment.
 that large-scale development included a condition requiring them to go through this process so we're setting up a sequence of requirements that ensure that must be satisfied prior to the easement being dedicated which will ultimately include development of the property but also construction of the trail
 And have they actually shown you all during that large scale development where the trail may go and you all have already had a chance to kind of review that and kind of at least you know get an idea about where it might be? Certainly. If you may have to squint a little, I'm not sure if I can make it larger.
 One piece of that realignment is that we'll actually cross Shiloh here, and that has a lot to do with those major utility conflicts that are running under the current alignment. So this will put it on the east side of the road, wherein it will tie into the existing trail further to the south before connecting to the west. So it's just slightly east of where it is right now. Is that what you're saying? Slight relative. It will be on the opposite side of the street. Okay. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you for that explanation. Certainly.
 Any other questions from the council? You think? OK. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on top. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Anybody on Zoom? No, sir. OK.
 uh we're on the first reading it is an ordinance i would move that spin the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion in the second to go to the second read care which please call them ron yes bunch yes yes earthsburg yes jones yes moore yes we did hurt yes
 In order to approve the AC 23-06, we're properly located near North Shiloh Drive in Ward 4 to vacate about a 0.39 acre portion of a multi-use trail easement. I would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Here, please call the roll. Turner? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In Orange approved VAC 23-06 are properly located near North Shiloh Drive and Ward 4 to vacate about a .39 acre portion of a multi-use trail easement. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Mayor, please call the roll. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay. All right, let's go to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 2023-0020 for approximately 1.34 acres located at 741 East House Road, Ward 1, from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre, CS Community Services. Kip?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from RSF-4 Residential Single Family 4 Units per Acre to CS Community Services. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This particular site is about four-fifths of a mile southeast of the downtown square. It's on the south side of Huntsville Road, just one property east of the intersection of Huntsville and Morningside Drive. It includes about 1.34 acres of land and is currently developed with a single-family home and an outbuilding with access directly onto Huntsville.
 The request before council tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family four units per acre, to CS, community services.
 When evaluating the request from a land use perspective staff does find it to be compatible It is just east of an important local intersection amidst a wide variety of housing types The Park Meadows subdivision is currently in various states of construction to the south and east There's multifamily Construction or multifamily units have been approved to the west where you can see purple on the map here further beyond that is additional multifamily and
 Additionally, the property is positioned about equidistant between the downtown area with all its services and amenities and the city's commerce park with its wide variety of employment opportunities. When considering the request from a land use plan perspective, staff does find it to be consistent with our goals and measures.
 Taking the infill rating first, this site does have a variety or varying score of five to seven. It gets credit for being adjacent to water and sewer, fire response from the station on Happy Hollow. Having access, I'm sorry, that says city and trail, it should read park and trail. In fact, this is one of the only sections of trail left unbuilt along Huntsville Road or one of the, in this area of Huntsville Road where the Park Meadows subdivision has constructed much of the rest of it.
 Additionally, the property lies on a transit route and it also gets credit for its Future Land Use Map designation, which is city neighborhood area. Staff finds that the Community Services District is complimentary of this designation. It's intended to support a wide range of housing types and non-residential uses, all of which the Community Services Zoning District allows in the form of single, two-, three-, four-family and multi-family housing, as well as the opportunity for restaurants and offices.
 I would evaluate in the request that there are a few issues that staff are non land use plan and non compatibility issues that staff contemplated. Um, one was a matter of street improvements. A large portion of pencil road is still fairly unimproved and not built out to its master street plan designation.
 However, this area of the street has seen improvements in association with the Park Meadows subdivision that allays staff's concerns. There's left turn lanes that have been built coming north on Morningside to allow traffic to also go south on the Morningside as well.
 Similarly, there are questions about connectivity opportunities. There is not a readily available option to tie into the Park Meadows subdivision, but given the state of the multifamily construction to the west, that could be incorporated in that project. Oregon does have the opportunity to tie into Huntsville Road itself.
 Lastly, an item to bring to your attention that occurred after both staff's report was published and the Planning Commission meeting was a query that came from the public. I forwarded that to you all about, I think it's been a week or two now at this point. It was from a resident who recently purchased property in the Park Meadows subdivision and had questions about what could be done there. Hopefully you also saw Jesse Master's response, the city's lead planner, answering some of those questions. We've not heard anything since then.
 With all that in consideration, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission did not have much discussion on it other than to agree with staff's recommendation forwarding it to City Council by a vote of 8-0. Again, I apologize that that clause we usually include in your staff report wasn't included. Hopefully you saw my email to that effect last week as well.
 I don't have anything additional to add. I'm available for questions and I believe a member of the Jones family is here to speak on the applicant's behalf. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Good evening. My name is Bert Jones and I think Jonathan's done a great job of identifying our case and I'll be available for questions if you need. Thank you. Do we have any questions from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 Okay, then let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this on this topic in the chamber? Who do you have on Zoom? Bob Stafford. Okay, go ahead.
 hi this is bob stafford ward 1 527 south sherman avenue um this property is just up the street from us on huntsville road we're right off of huntsville road on sherman and um as you know that the whole area around that and that has been redeveloped uh with the ross coleman development and that corner lot on morningside has already been rezoned uh community services uh
 So, it would be really odd to me if this didn't get approved. I think it should be. I think it totally fits within the use of the neighborhood. The 1 issue about. Uh, the condition of Huntsville road, I don't think that should be considered. I say, I think that says more about the condition on road and how we need to address that. And not why we need to deny this. So, uh.
 I strongly support this project and I hope you all do too and vote for its approval. Thank you. Great, thank you. Who else? Evelyn, Evelyn Rial Stafford. Okay, go ahead. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Evelyn Rios Stafford, 527 South Sherman, Ward 1. Yes, we live just only probably less than a quarter mile to the east of this property. And I support this longtime neighbor's right to upzone his own land. And hope you'll take that into consideration for all the reasons that were already stated.
 And also just wanted to echo that I'd definitely love to see some upgrades to Huntsville Road. Thank you. Yes, thank you. No one else, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading of what discussion or what action would the council like to take?
 i'll make a motion that we advance to this the next second reading second all right have motion to second go to the second week cameras please call the wrong time bernard yes bunch yes yes turk yes herzberg yes jones yes more yes we did yes
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2020-23-20 for approximately one to third acres located at 741 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to CS community services. Let's suspend the rules and take it to the third reading. Third reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Care which is called the roll. Burnham?
 yes church yes Hertzburg yes Jones yes more yes yes and your nits to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZ and 2023 that's 20 or approximately one the third acres located at 741 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RSF for residential single-family for use breaker to CS community services
 Karen, would you please call her up? Berna? Yes. Sponge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay, let's go on to number six. Yes.
 a resolution to approve an ozark regional transit line expansion for an additional on-demand transit service for the south federal during the fourth quarter of 2023 sarah i believe this one is also yes thank you mayor i have some slides i don't know if you can
 So I bring this forward to you tonight because I had one of the community services down in South Fayetteville who brought forward that on the weekends, there are families that are south of Huntsville in the South Fayetteville area that struggle to be able to do things like go and buy groceries, especially some of our more
 mobility-challenged individuals that live, say, off Morningside aren't able to kind of hike the distance that's needed to get to the existing service. And so I spent some time with Peter and with Chris Brown, as well as with ORT. We've got Joel here tonight. Thank you for hanging out all night to answer questions.
 But what I'm asking for consideration tonight is for us to pilot a new on-demand line. We are looking at budgets going forward for next year, and so with the outlay of the expenses for this, I thought we might get a good gauge on what the ridership would be, what kind of service levels happen. And so I'll go to the next slide on why I'm proposing this.
 So I think we all saw that on our, and Joel can speak more to this if we're wanting to bring him up, but current ridership last month had an all-time high since the pandemic. And I'm actually talking to people from, I attended the award meeting for ORT, and one of the things I think Joel said, or maybe it was in a follow-up conversation, was that transit's for everyone. It's not just for specific parts of our population. Yeah.
 And I've actually had conversations with individuals in our community who've been trying to use their automobiles less. And I've actually been trying to get some of those rides and actually have them not be available. So it's a good problem to have, but we are bumping our heads on that. And I kind of alluded to this earlier that those that are south of Huntsville have had hurdles with transportation on the weekends. You have some of our areas like Grandview on 24th.
 You have people at the Washington County Complex that's down in Clydesdale, that's the Washington County Jail, the beer distributor, there's a manufacturing plant and other employers in that area.
 The new lines can allow for better service of the other existing on-demand routes, and that's another thing Joel can talk more to. As we continue to try to have less outages for residents when they do request, we think this additional line would help to even out some of those outages.
 And then this aligns and continues to put us forward with some of our longer term sustainability plans as we continue to work towards reducing automobile travel as our population grows.
 in the resolution itself, the couple places where we've got that in some of our plans regionally and locally. On the next slide, if you're like me, you probably didn't know exactly. I've been educating myself and learning about transit, which has been actually quite fun. But the current on-demand line, and I apologize if you can't see that map very well, but I believe that's two lines. Correct me if I'm wrong, Joel. I think that's two on-demand lines right now. Two, yes. Okay, good.
 And so you see the service for those. And just to level set you too, because if you're like me, you didn't know this. I don't use the bus very often. I'm sorry, Joel, Peter. I'd like to use it more, but the fixed routes go Monday through Friday, and the on-demand goes Monday through Saturday. Okay.
 So that's the reason I'm looking at on-demand versus the fixed route is because specifically we were having issues with weekends when people were working during the week and moms needed to get to groceries or needed to take a child to a doctor's appointment. They were struggling to find transportation. So this is how our coverage looks today. And on the next slide, you will see the map that I used.
 talked with ORT about that would help to make sure that we can get to some of our You know most kind of vulnerable community members that are in South Bay able to get to employment To be able to get them from you know, some of our denser apartment complexes and places like Seven Hills
 High Point on Curtis. Nantucket is, if you're not familiar with it, is where some of our seniors live. It's an incredible place that they live. But, you know, they can't walk three-quarters of a mile to get to on-demand transit up closer to Huntsville. Many of those folks, you know, struggle to kind of walk across the parking lot.
 and so that would solve that and so I believe gone off the top of my head it's in the resolution it's about $75,000 that we'd be looking for a budget adjustment to be able to test it for October to December. The reason I'm coming to you with this now is that
 they make the adjustments to the company that changes our lines each quarter. And I know that we're going to come into inclement weather. And so when this was brought to my attention, I didn't want to wait till January to potentially make that change. I also thought it was a great opportunity to just
 tested instead of saying we're going to do a year to just see what a quarter looks like and see what ridership looks like and see you know if we feel comfortable with that spin so it's just dipping our toe into the water and so if there are any additional questions though I'd be happy to answer them and again Joel's here and I'm sure he'd be happy as well and I see Peter so thank you. So are you going to bring up Joel or what are you going to do?
 I mean, you brought him here, right? Well, he's here in the event to answer any questions, unless you want to highlight anything I glazed over, Joel or Peter. My name is Joel Gardner. I'm the Executive Director of Ozark Regional Transit, and I think you did a wonderful job. But I'm here to answer any questions anybody has. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So how... I have to say I used to take the bus quite a bit before I moved to Fayetteville and I haven't taken the transit system since I've been back. So forgive my ignorance of how this works. So
 resident on Saturday that maybe has mobility issues calls you all up and and and you would be able to come to their door and pick them up I mean kind of walking through how that works no ma'am on a Saturday the zone earlier
 The purple-ish colored zone that was shown earlier, people that live within those areas actually use an application on their phone. It's akin to Uber, that's the best way I can describe it that people know about. You download the app and you schedule, basically say I want a trip now, it'll tell you that the bus is coming within five to ten minutes.
 12 minutes, 18 minutes. It can tell you when the bus is going to be there. It can tell you that there's not enough seats available. Or you can look at it and go, well, it says it's going to be 20 minutes. This is an unacceptable proposal, and I don't want to take the trip. It's all app-based, and the rider drives it themselves as far as when they're going to be picked up. It's no more scheduling with on-demand transit. The old scheduling is ADA paratransit, which coincides with the regular fixed routes that we do.
 Thank you for explaining that clearly. I am still stuck in the 20th century. So, thanks. So my next question is, I mean if we were to fund this, do you have enough capacity to expand this in terms of your organization and and drivers and all the other support features that are needed? Operators and vehicles? Yes, ma'am, we do.
 Just as a point of interest, we were recently able to get $936,636 federal dollars from Conway, which wasn't, they were going to allow the money to lapse. We were able to secure that funding, so we were able to buy seven new vehicles for use in this type of service. Excellent. Thank you very much. Yes, ma'am.
 Any other questions for Joel? I do. What's your ridership ratio from fixed routes to on-demand?
 that's a number that I would actually have to calculate in my head at this point in time but in Fayetteville and Springdale I'm gonna say it's about a 60-40 split at this point in time with 60% of the trips being done on on-demand transit 40% of the trips being done on the traditional fixed route. Okay and have you had requests apart from this request to
 to expand this particular service? On on-demand transit, I constantly get requests in all four cities to get expansions. We've got another expansion that's going to go on, actually a two-legged expansion that's going to go on in the City of Rogers during the same fourth quarter, and if this one's approved, we'll submit this one. Thank you. Yes, sir. Sounds like a great idea, but how is it sustainable?
 this is probably what sustainable as a long term if if this is um uh successful which i'm i'm sure it is i mean correct me if i'm wrong but basically it's a free uber on a bus oh yes sir okay so i would think that a bus picking up individuals to a at a residence or at a location financially is in a bus is financially
 less conceivable than say in a van or So how explain to me how you plan to keep this sustainable going forward? So I would ask you first take the picture of a transit bus out of your brain cell step it aside Transit vehicles are being provided right now through Ford transits
 They're being provided through Dodge, oh my gosh, the Pacifica Voyager now is a new one, Dodge Ram Promaster, Chevy Cutaway, which is like people refer to them as the church bus, and then also the full-size transit bus. So if you're thinking about it, if the picture in your brain cell is a full-size transit bus,
 That doesn't work anyways. We use the smaller Ford Transit Dodge Ram Pro Masters for this type of service. It's a much more efficient vehicle. And is your board presently studying how to make this a bigger, better process or bigger, better program? I mean, I'm assuming this is fairly new, correct? We're three years into on-demand transit.
 and and is your board looking at how to make it better uh well i've got scott i've got some here and there okay i've got yolanda they can talk i know peter sits on the board as well all right peter and then yolanda you might talk about some of the programs that we have
 Mr. Peter Neuengarten, I'm one of the City of Fayetteville board representatives on Ozark Regional Transit Board. We've certainly, you know, we saw on-demand transit get piloted first in Rogers and saw it be successful up there.
 And we had low ridership on a route route 30 up in North Fayetteville in 2021. And so we approached Joel about converting the dollars the city was spending on that low ridership fixed route to on demand transit that expanded a much larger area of East Fayetteville. And that proved successful. And so then in this this current fiscal year,
 we we converted another fixed route along College Avenue to on-demand transit to expand the service because what we saw happening was as soon as we When we added that first on-demand transit route all the capacity of that bus was quickly gobbled up and we saw a quick rise in unacceptable proposals or proposals that were unable to be met when we added the second bus and
 Same story. And so what we have been discussing as a board as a strategy for trying to manage the demand side of the service, because again, it's basically free Uber, is looking at a way to charge for the service.
 It's free because it came out of free fixed route service. And follow me, fixed route has a defined route that it's going to follow, but on demand has a large area. And so what happens is that capacity for the bus to serve or the buses to serve that area is quickly gobbled up.
 And then the ridership demand cannot be met. And so we've asked for a look at what charging for on-demand transit would look like.
 and are scheduled to discuss that, I believe, Joel, at our October board meeting and try to understand what those options are for charging for the service. And not to say we would want to charge a huge fee, but some small fee to help manage on the demand side and bring revenue back to support the service. So basically, it'd probably end up being like income-based...
 That's definitely something we asked for is, yeah, what would that look like from a tier to graduated income perspective. So is that the way you see this program as being sustainable moving forward? I think I do. I think it's, well I'm not sure yet I guess because we haven't seen the proposal. We haven't tested that. But I think that the
 Every time what we've seen so far every time we expand the service the the capacity of the service quickly gets gobbled up by the demand and so I think prior to expanding the service we really ought to have a better understanding of what our options are for Charging for the service or other options to demand to manage the demand for the service I've got another question so
 And this may be for Joel, so the cost figure, obviously there's wear and tear and additional mileage and paying drivers, but that's the price whether we have one rider for the quarter because we're just purchasing potential for a zone, an area in the city. And if we have 10,000 riders or one rider, the cost is the same.
 Correct. We've gone ahead and split out our costs for Ozark Regional Transit across all modes to a flat rate per hour. It's easily digestible, and it covers everything from the lights turning on to the fuel in the vehicles, regardless of fuel type or mileage type. Thank you. Yes, sir.
 Yes, Commissioner. Maybe this is for, I don't know, for both of you all. When is your next meeting when you're going to discuss this potential option to charge a fee? And at your next meeting, do you anticipate having a decision? It'll be October 26th, 10 a.m. Do I expect the board to have a decision? I will never speak for the board. Okay. All right. Thank you. I know how that is. Yes, sir.
 Anything else for Joel? Not necessarily for Joel, but I guess it's for city staff. Do we presently have anything? Wanda, anything I'd like for you to address? Anything that might mirror this or come close to it? I mean...
 Yes, we do. We have a transportation program right now. We have individuals on a taxi program. We provide coupons at $30 worth of subsidized transportation. And it's basically for our seniors and individuals that are physically challenged. But at one point we were actually buying passes on ORT for individuals. So there was a way for applications and then it was based on income and they were given a pass.
 Now, depending on what this actually grows to be, there could be a way for us to
 take applications and get folks on this system so that they could get rides, it would be subsidy of probably the same $30 because we have to keep in mind that it will be numerous people and we're talking a whole year. So currently what we do right now is when we issue the coupons, individuals get $30 of subsidized assistance which they might not need it in January or February, so they're accumulating $30 every month.
 So they may have issues in Maine where they need to actually have transportation. So now they've accumulated quite a bit of coupons to use or maybe we have individuals that use, you know, every month they need to go whether it be groceries or get their hair done or whatever, visit a friend, it's giving them that availability to have the freedom
 to travel and to go do whatever they need to do and not feel like because I don't have a vehicle, I can't go do anything. So if this does expand to provide that type of service, we could look at expanding and maybe figuring out how we could get, how we would do that billing and provide that funding, but it would be based on individual users, not an overall here's X amount of dollars for you to use
 for the system and it we have to be able to capture who's utilizing the service please
 Yolanda, what is your budget for the taxis, the $30 per month that you're paying for individuals? Do you have a general idea? I'm usually setting aside $25,000 a year just for the taxis. That comes under our public services, which does reduce our cap that we would have available, for example, to fund nonprofits. But it seems like transportation is a huge need for our community, so that would take
 So if this program with Ozark Regional Transit was able to be implemented, you could use that $25,000 somewhere else.
 if there was some way to make that work. Right. At this point, since we've already submitted our action plan for next year, it wouldn't be anything that would be doable next year, but we could submit it for the action plan for the following year. Okay. Thank you. Mayor, I have Chris Brown who's online, and he wanted to speak a little bit about the funding source for how we currently fund.
 I'm sorry. That was my question. Thank you. Let's get down with Joel and Yolanda and Peter. Mayor, my question was about funding, so I think Chris could speak to that, and then I might not have a question. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, Chris, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. Can you guys hear me okay? Yep. Okay.
 Sorry, I couldn't be there in person. Yeah, so I wanted to reiterate what Peter said about the board. I'm on the board as well, and we are talking about making this on-demand transit, be able to sustainably expand it because I do think it's a good service and it's been working really well.
 The concern that we have is just, again, the sustainability of the funding. Currently we support both Ozark Regional Transit and Razorback Transit that the city does. And that is paid for out of our street fund. And those funds are the same funds that we use to pave our streets, to build sidewalks, to maintain our drainage systems, all the other things that we have to do within our street rights of way.
 I think the concern that we have as staff is not necessarily this pilot program, but if we're going to expand that to a yearly program expanding an additional vehicle on the street for ORT is somewhere around $300,000 and so that That does begin to have an impact on the other services we can provide. So just wanted to add that piece of information Paul, do you want to?
 Since Chris already put that up, I do want to put this a little bit in perspective. The contract that we currently have with Ozark Regional is roughly $700,000. If we, in fact, looked at this and...
 expanded it for a year period you're talking about another three hundred and five thousand dollars that's forty three percent increase of that contract that we currently have I know we're talking about a pilot for seventy five thousand dollars at this point in time but you're spending seventy five thousand dollars for a program that would be extrapolated into three over three hundred thousand dollars which is forty percent increase
 increase in that as as Chris said it's paid currently out of this out of the transportation fund transportation fund make pays for maintain maintenance of the streets the sidewalks drainage along the streets side streets and the street lighting maintenance costs again electricity costs are going up
 very very quickly We're already facing cost increases and
 Cost increases not only in gasoline, but cost increases in supplies and equipment. And of course, we're always facing what we're looking at now. And our biggest priority going into the next year's budget is we're going to have a salary survey for the merit people. The people in street fund are merit employees. Most of our employers are merit employees.
 We're having a salary survey. We don't know what that's coming back to. We're trying to provide some funding for that, but that could escalate quite a bit. So we're having a lot of cost issues as we're looking into the 2024 budget. And again, this is a relatively expensive proposition if we look.
 at it as we're currently funding that particular contract. Also, remember, Ozark is also paid out of the transportation fund. And that's the input that I have, and I'll be happy to answer a question if you have any.
 I have a question to kind of clarify that. In the street fund, do we have any excess that would cover this $70,000 budget adjustment currently? Well, we'd have to take out our reserves currently. Okay. Do we have enough to continue the program if it is successful in reserves? Well, you could...
 The one thing we have to look at, could we continue on a reserve? Sure, you could until reserves ran out. The issue is that when you look at budgeting, and I've been consistent on this since,
 I've ever worked in finance in government. You can go into reserves. The proper way to go into reserves, reserves is a good cushion for economic times. It can level out good times and bad times. But you don't add.
 ongoing cost with the use of reserves in other words if you added this program going forward that would be an ongoing cost to the fund and taking it out of reserves that's like
 you know buying something putting something in your personal budget and taking out of your bank account sooner or later you're going to Run out and you don't look at that. So that would be my advice on that and that's always been my position Is there any? do you guys have any plans about how we would restructure that street fund to cover this project and
 Well, another way you'd restructure the freight fund, you'd have to look at some things. You'd have to look basically to the general fund. That's the other place you would have to look. And the general fund is going to be under pressure as we're going to look at salary increases. We're going to look at cost increases and things like that going forward.
 I don't see inflation coming down rapidly in the near future, so we're going to be facing cost escalations and we're going to be facing some real issues when it comes into funding our employees. Thank you, Paul. That's very helpful. Sure. Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Paul, did I understand correctly? Maybe I've got my math wrong, but...
 Right now, the contract with Ozark Regional Transit is $700,000. Probably $700,000, $698,000 and change. And then if we added what's being proposed tonight, long-term, not just the pilot portion, but that would be another $300,000, so we'd be at a million per year? That's correct. And in addition, they have requested an increase in funding for the 2024 budget of $100,000 also, so you can add that on too. So you'd be over a million dollars.
 for them. Okay. I, you know, I'm just wondering, we don't have information on the Razorback transit system. So does that run on the weekend? Does anybody know? Or is it only Monday through Friday? And is there any overlap or any kind of support down there? No. I mean, I looked at it and Joel can probably speak to it more. That's one of the things that they work really hard between all these teams to make sure there's not the overlap, but he's the expert. So I'll let him talk to it.
 Joel Gardner again, Ozark Regional Transit. Razorback Transit does run specific routes on the weekends. Those routes go eastbound, excuse me, westbound down MLK over to the Walmart area and also northbound up to Northwest Arpital Mall.
 The overlap, we have done our best over the last 10 years since I've been here to ensure that there is not duplication of services. There are connection points, but not duplication of services. So we do everything we can to spend the money wisely.
 And so are there, like on MLK, east of School Street, are there not any Razorback transit routes over there on the weekend? There's one that drops down Hill Street. It comes from, I'm going to say, from the northwest Arkansas Mall area. It travels down through Hill Street, touches the college, wraps over to the south side of the college property, Lot 56, that type of thing, and then continues a little bit on the westbound area.
 So there is some service, but there's also just a lack of transportation zone right in there. There would be absolutely, there is absolutely nothing on, I would say, east of 71 business. Okay, thank you. Yes, ma'am. Okay, anything else from the council before we take public comment? Are we good? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic?
 Hello again, my name is Taylor McKinney. I am at 2821 Cotton Willow in Fayetteville. In addition to this being the right thing to do for the general good of the people, increasing public transportation reduces the number of cars on the road and prevents traffic jams, reduces our carbon footprint, and makes Fayetteville more accessible overall for its residents.
 It increases productivity and our economic viability as a city because people are able to make it around town to spend their money in businesses right here in Fayetteville. It would be downright silly not to approve this ordinance. Please vote yes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Monique Jones, Westminster Drive in Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 I'm going to give some data points first, and then I'll close. If you would refer to the FTA report for number 0249, and I'll send that to the council after I leave here on this evening. It talks about practical measures for advancing public transit equity and access. This report was issued July of 2023 from the FTA and the DOT. Department of Transportation supports this as well.
 I'M GOING TO SUMMARIZE THE REPORT. IT'S A 38-PAGE REPORT. I'M GOING TO READ FROM PAGE 11.
 The executive summary and the objectives are the purpose of this project is to provide decision makers in planning, organizations, and public transportation agencies, as well as other stakeholders and the public with step-by-step methods and examples that illustrate how equity can be prioritized and assessed in the decision-making process.
 The measures target equity practices and spiritual analysis of public transportation system performance. Equity practices are defined as the report describes nine strategies that planning organizations, public transportation providers, and partners can pursue to advance equity objectives, advisory committees, fair policies, intergovernmental partnerships,
 leadership champions, advocacy partnerships, regional planning, capital planning, ride hailing, micro transit, and creating an equity culture.
 The report demonstrates the application of five quantitative spiritual measures for evaluating public transportation systems performance population. It counts shares, access to opportunity, trip characteristics using census data, trip characteristics using transit rider surveys, and user benefits based on log sums.
 The measures are calculated using open source and or freely available methods and data. The research team solicited input and shared progress with key stakeholders throughout the course of the project. Several public transportation providers and one community-based organization provided interviews, data, and analytical feedback that formed that basis on the case studies highlighted.
 In this case study, I'm going to skip down to the summary. The review is based on comprehensive study of transit agency documents focused on equity practices. The project team used their professional networks, knowledge of public transit industry, and related nonprofit advocacy organization and snowball sampling to identify transit agencies'
 Undertaking promise the equity related practices, a wide range of transit agencies types were reviewed and those operating single models in rural areas to large multimodal agencies and heavily urbanized regions.
 Project team reviewed publicly available documents for the following, and it was different agencies, but I want to speak to specifically that there is an adverse impact to South Fayetteville if we don't expand that route. I hosted a back-to-school event during August for the community, and the majority of South Fayetteville was not able to attend a back-to-school event to get school supplies.
 haircuts, vision checks, dental checks, because there was no public access. As a mother, as a minority, as an underserved community, and historic individuals that were born here before you were born, before the mayor was born, do not have access to going to the doctor, to the store, to the dentist,
 taking their children to the doctor on weekends because there's no access. In South Fayetteville, we're the most vulnerable of our citizens. Your citizens live.
 I'm going to close and just make this closing statement. As a resident of Fayetteville, I've seen firsthand the need to better public transportation options. Our community is growing rapidly and our roads are becoming increasingly congested. This is making it more difficult for people to get around, especially those who do not have access
 to a car. This expansion would benefit the environment by reducing the number of cars on the road and we can improve air quality, reduce greenhouse gas commissions. I urge you to approve the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Howdy. My name is Corrie Covey. I live on 495 McQuarrel Canyon Loop.
 There is currently no public transit in South Fayetteville on the weekends with there being a low income neighborhoods in this district and with many of those people in these neighborhoods being users of public transport, it's important to remember that many of these residents are not able to do any of those important chores
 until the weekend due to holding multiple jobs. Many people use public transit for grocery shopping, going to the laundromat, picking up essentials at thrift stores, and other essential chores that are needed to function every single week. Some people also use it to get to work, making outages very dangerous to their ability to make rent or hold down a job.
 Many people with disabilities or the elderly rely on public transit to stay independent. Public transit is very much needed to keep Fayetteville thriving. Inadvertently, to speak on the traffic issue that was previously addressed, I live on Weddington, and if you've ever been on Weddington, you know there are certain times of the day you literally cannot leave the house. You're just landlocked.
 And I would love, I know they're already building a road over there, but until it's built, like, we're just staring at it longingly. And I would love to do a little more than that and see some of that traffic turn into 20 cars into just 20 people in one bus. I think that would be awesome. Thank you so much. Have a great day. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello, Gracie Foreman, Live Off Chestnut, Ward 2. I just want to reemphasize everything that Monique Jones spoke to. I understand that a portion of what y'all do is think about sustainability, think about
 picture questions about funding, but I think a large portion of that responsibility falls on ORT to figure out. I think y'all also have to speak to your responsibility as elected representatives to equity, to equity particularly in a historically underserved portion of Fayetteville, which is South Fayetteville.
 In my time here since 2018, I've heard about South Fayetteville often. I've heard about the fact that it is underserved, the fact that there is a lack of transportation in that area, and also to the fact that there is a food desert in that area.
 Not providing transportation to those who lack it within South Fayetteville will not only hurt that community, which is a historic community of Fayetteville, Arkansas, but it will also hurt the larger community of Fayetteville because those people do not have access to the same things that people with cars have access to on Saturdays and Sundays.
 They don't have access to go get fresh food from the farmer's market like so many of us do. They don't have access to the arts and culture that they actually create in Fayetteville, Arkansas for us that we've been pushed out into the world on Saturdays and Sundays. They are an essential community to us. And I think providing their transportation is the least that we can do to recognize the importance
 and cultivate the community of culture, the community of art, and the historic nature of that portion. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay. Robert Stafford. Okay, go ahead. Hi, this is Bob Stafford, Ward 1, 527 South Sherman Avenue, in the heart of Ward 1.
 A lot of what's being said by new Monique and the last speaker, it goes to the heart of what I've been talking about a lot lately, which is equity for ward one. You know, drive around the city and look at just look at the condition of the city, each section of the city. We buy groceries and put gas in our car and pay the sales tax, just like everyone else.
 And if you're looking at the needs of public transit, I would say that South Fayetteville has probably the highest needs for public transit and access to public transit.
 While I understand this is an added cost and stuff, and, you know, maybe we can put a moratorium on splash pads and cycle tracks or fancy streetlights and other parts of town. I think this is more important than those things. I think it's a worthy cost.
 As Fayetteville grows, our public transportation needs are going to grow with it. As was mentioned before, Ward 1 is underserved, and I think we deserve the same consideration that the other parts of town get. And so I hope you all approve this. Thank you. Thank you.
 no one else has their hand raised mayor okay gonna bring back to the council well this is a resolution so what discussion would the council like to have uh Mayor Jordan and Council uh I actually had to step step out of the meeting of course you all know that I'm on Zoom but
 I fully support this. I've heard numerous times about the challenges that South Fayetteville is facing regarding transportation and I appreciate all of the speakers and I appreciate Councilmember Moore for bringing this to the attention of the council.
 Okay, oh yeah, you had your line on and then Sarah. I have a question for Joel just to clarify the maps and schedules that I've been looking at. Is there an on-demand route on Saturday in South Fayetteville? No, not in South Fayetteville. The on-demand route only covers the purple area that was on the map. So is there, would there be a cost adjustment if we just added the
 on demand well never mind i was going to ask about just on demand for sunday um but never mind thank you okay sarah
 I just wanted to address some of the things that have been brought up, and I appreciate, obviously, we need to be fiscally responsible, and so I thought this probably was the most fiscally responsible to try to test out a line, given that there's been kind of a need that's really been expressed over and over again by residents in that area. I think also it coincides in a timely manner because there is this conversation that's being had with the board exploring what kind of...
 financing or you know what kind of structure we might potentially want to look at for any kind of fee schedule I think you know also it pulls in really well because we're just talking about you know our budgets and our strategies and priorities for the upcoming year
 And, you know, we do get to make determinations and decisions about where we place priorities. You know, I know for many of us, you know, it is important to balance our growth with helping our environment. And you know, I'm very new to learning about transit. Just dipping my toe in was like, okay, this is a whole other world that I'm going to be drinking from a fire hose.
 But I think that it's an integral part of our conversation. It's in our city plan. It's in our energy action plan to try to get folks in more of that mode of transportation. You know, it's in the 2024 metropolitan transportation plan to try to help to move people around to promote economic vitality in the region. And so I hope that this can be where we can at least, you know, test again ridership,
 understanding that we have to solve for if this goes well, the bigger conversations about how we fund going forward, which we know are going to start taking place next month and in the months to come as we go into the new year. And at that time, we'll have ridership numbers and we'll have some potential levers and solutions to address that.
 I'm asking for support today so that we can at least get a pilot and test if this is even you know This may may you know start and you know 20 people write it and Joel says this is a complete failure However, I think the demand has been shown to be out there and that's why I think it's worth testing I don't think there's any doubt that there's a there's a Call for this my concern is and and I would I
 asked for Councilmember Moore to consider Tabling this until we can get we have the board of the organization That's running the program doing a study to try to figure out how to Make the program sustainable moving forward and I think it would be wise for us before we commit to anything to find out what that said board has determined the 75,000
 You know, I'm sure we've got staff that we haven't been able to fill positions we could do the 75,000, you know, to the end of the year. But I have real concerns where the 300,000 is going to come next year. And are we going to do a pilot program for the remainder of the year and then pull the rug out from under them at the first of the year? You know, I don't want to do that.
 So I think it would be wise, and I would hope you would consider maybe tabling this until such time as the board can come back to us with a determination of how they have determined to make the program sustainable moving forward. And I would be all for trying to help figuring that out.
 but I think we're a little bit early in the process, but that's completely up to you. Joel, are you able to come to the mic, please? Yes. Joel, if this gets tabled until after your October board meeting, when is the soonest that we could put this route in place? First quarter 2024. Okay. So if we don't say yes immediately,
 Within the next how long would we miss the quarter? So I look at my watch fakingly like I'm looking at a calendar. So the schedule of events is as follows. We make suggestions like we're going to do for the City of Rogers during a quarter. We put together all of our all of our small changes in a particular quarter so that they can be implemented sometime the next quarter.
 with the key phrase being sometime the next quarter. If our programmers deem that this is a simple change, it could be done within our first few days of the quarter. If they deem that it's a very complicated change, then it would be done further on in the quarter. There's a very realistic truth to saying this could happen October 1st or December 31st or somewhere in between there. That's when the change would take effect. We generally know within about two weeks
 of when they say that they're gonna go ahead and make the changes for us, that we can implement the changes. So we wouldn't know on October 1st what our change date is. We could potentially know by October 15th what our change date is.
 But again, to answer your question, the next time we'll be able to do it, if we miss the December 31st, or excuse me, the October 1st cutoff, the next time that we could implement anything would be January 1st. I'm sorry. No, thank you. Went down a rabbit trail. Okay. It made me miss my other question. I'm sorry, Joel. I'll let Teresa talk and it'll come back to me, hopefully. Sorry about that. Thanks. I've just got a few more questions for you. Sure.
 It blows my mind that there's no service down there in South Fayetteville. Especially, you know, I'm sure you all coordinate with Razorback Transit. There are a lot of students down there in that area. So how do you, what happened? How did this get missed? Let's clarify. There's service that is on the fixed route.
 down there on Monday through Friday there is no on-demand transit down there the reason that I don't know if we can bring up the on-demand transit map that mapping guy is readily available
 The on-demand transit map covered an area that was big enough. It used to be the old Route 30 on the northern section of Fayetteville. That was between Zion and Joyce. We were able to extend it further south. Here we go, the purple one. Go one back, please.
 We were able to extend it further south to get ourselves down to Huntsville. That square mileage right there is really the extent of what those two vehicles can do at any point in time. We have a very high rate of undeliverable and unacceptable proposals. Month of August, I'm in a ballpark right now, 3,700 requests were done and only 2,800 trips were accomplished.
 Because that other 600 of unacceptable proposals and seats unavailable one was 600 one was 300 Those were there's just not enough time in that space for two vehicles So we do have this service Monday through Friday And we have it for a few hours on Saturday the fixed route goes further south down to Clydesdale Monday through Friday, but it does absolutely nothing on Saturday
 Have you looked at expanding that fixed rate on Saturday and what the cost would be for that? The fixed route for Saturday would be, top of my head, 80 times 12 times how many Saturdays are left over.
 So, and then my next question is when do you and Razorback Transit get together to talk about your routes and where the gaps are and overlaps so that you don't overlap? So how does that process work? Multiple times a year and we actually take a look at Razorback Transit's implementation
 because they want to implement when either spring semester ends or fall semester begins. So we look at their implementation schedules who are constantly.
 We go to lunch almost on a monthly basis between us and Raceback Transit just to hash out any types of problems that we have. And those problems can be anything from personnel issues to our bus drivers and their bus drivers arguing at the Northwest Arkansas Mall over who got there first and who gets in what spot. I mean, all kinds of things. But we talk to them on a regular basis. It's a phenomenal relationship.
 That's fantastic to hear. I mean, I'm really glad there's that kind of communication between you all But they surely they recognize this issue too, right? I mean They've got to have students that don't have cars down there that need to go to the grocery store or get somewhere on the weekends I cannot tell you that I don't know what they what they're
 Their focus is south of 15th. I know that we're focused south of 15th, Monday through Friday. I don't know what their focus is south of 15th. I know they go down to the technology center that's down. There's a tech center. There you go. There you go. Perfect. I know they go down there. I can't tell you if they go down there on Saturdays or not.
 Okay, well it sounds like you have great conversations. I'm surprised this one hasn't really come up. It hasn't reared its head at this point in time, up until now. Okay, thank you. Yes, ma'am. Joe, it is not my intention of pitting you against one of your board members, or two of your board members, but I'm a little confused. I will always confirm my bosses. I'm sorry. Okay.
 Obviously, you're here advocating for it, but it doesn't appear, and Peter, you can answer my question, but it appears that the board members are a lot more reserved in whether this proposal is a good proposal right now.
 So, Peter, I'm sorry I'm putting you on the spot, but I see you're still sitting there. So I'm putting you on the spot. So am I...
 Did I misconstrue what you said? No, I don't think so. I think we're completely supportive of on-demand trades. It's been a phenomenal service. It's been highly successful. But expanding the service without having a solution that helps us manage the just infinite
 infinite demand of it, i.e. some sort of ability to charge, we're very hesitant in wanting to expand without, you know, fully pursuing and understanding what that could look like. I did a
 You know the comment that councilmember Turk made I think is About the fixed route service that we have in South Fayetteville if you go to the next slide here essentially the the fixed route service that's provided Monday through Friday is
 covers that that blue area right there so a more cost-effective solution for the council pilot right now might be to look at expanding that fixed route service just to Saturday rather than adding on-demand transit for that entire area for Saturday so
 I don't want to put Joel on the spot for whether or not he can do that, but that could be a more cost-effective solution at this point.
 Okay, Mike. Well, first you've got to love a Marine and ORT has done a remarkable job. I think part of what we're wrestling with is it feels a little bit piecemeal as opposed to the dollars are big, the need is significant and known. We may need to actually shift services and drop that.
 on demand entire purple graph of service south of where it is right now and make some hard choices and decisions. So I'm leaning towards wanting to see this approached a little more systematically with the recommendations of the board, looking at the budget, because I don't think anyone is saying that the need isn't there and that the demand wouldn't be recognized
 but i think our our caution is we're going to need to make some excuse me somebody got a phone you're going to need to make some some choices and some trade-offs on service is what it sounded like to me so good research but i am feeling we've had a couple of items tonight that feel a little more piecemeal to me as opposed to the dance being done with boards with staff with council
 I'm not even comfortable when people come up and praise one council member. I mean, we're not supposed to be addressing comments to them, and so I'm looking for a more business-like process of considering these kinds of sizable significant investments that I think we're going to end up wanting to make and
 but it's how we go about making those decisions that kind of crosses my comfort threshold a little bit. So I think we can get there, but I'd rather pursue this more systematically. Okay, sure. I remember the question that I had, Joel, sorry I'm gonna make you play pop-up again.
 Can you remind me about what it looks like when we do change those routes? Because we do make adjustments to the routes based on ridership and based on being able to have acceptability of rides. Can you kind of like walk us through what that process looks like? Sure.
 and how often that occurs so so we will go ahead and we will make changes as requested by the cities again we we start putting in the requests during a quarter so they can be implemented in the next quarter uh one of the things that we will always see is that when we're making adjustments and or changes to public transit routes whether it's fixed route on demand 88 paratransit we will see an immediate
 lowering in ridership because all of a sudden there's a change, people aren't used to changes, and then we'll start seeing that ridership beef up again. In this particular case of us using on-demand transit, we will grow on-demand transit and we would take our 30%, and I'm going to call it roughly 30%, undeliverable.
 Those requests that have been made that cannot be accomplished because there's not a seat available or it's an unacceptable proposal. So the undeliverable 30% will start to disappear as we add another vehicle on board. Then when people start getting the concept of, oh, it's now accessible again, then we will start seeing more and more requests come in. So as our requests come up, so will our undeliverable capabilities drop.
 for a bit, but then it'll start rising again. And this is one of those age-old questions in this new thing called micro transit, which is on-demand transit, is when do we actually provide enough services to fulfill the need that's out there? The answer really is I don't think we ever can
 provide all the necessary services for all the requests that are out there, but we can do one heck of a job in trying to get that undeliverable percentage into a manageable spot. So we will see an ebb and flow of ridership, just based off of changes. People don't like changes, but then again we will see the ebb and flow of our undeliverables, which is just we've got too much need, not enough capacity.
 Did that answer the question? Thank you, John. Is that what you were looking for? Yes, thank you. Okay, very good. Thank you.
 The only other thing I want to bring to mind for folks, too, is I don't know, again, if you haven't really interacted with our transit system. You know, the fixed routes are great, but as we're kind of considering that, they do have quite an interval. You know, and you've got individuals who, you know, might struggle with keeping up with their appointments or, you know, getting to the bus stop on time. And I know individuals that end up adding hours to their –
 time getting to travel to get to an appointment and sometimes that ends up being
 an appointment that is in the courts and when you miss your appointment in the courts you get a failure to appear warrant and then you end up being housed in the jail and so just to just to kind of give perspective to about individuals sometimes that are trying to interact with fixed transit sometimes on demand is just an additional level of service for individuals too that might struggle to be able to follow the
 fixed line so I just kind of wanted to put that out there to you that especially in this area that we're serving servicing a wide range of individuals that oftentimes that meets their needs a little bit more directly than the fixed line and so I just wanted to kind of bring that forward as well I would just say again I would reiterate or repeat my request about tabling it
 As we sit here right now, I would be a no, but I would absolutely work with you after the board comes back to us with some semblance of a plan that they can say, hey, here's what we've come up with and we have gone through it and we feel like it's sustainable. I'm open to revisiting the issue, but I just don't think we're there yet. And that's why if we vote on it tonight, I will be a no.
 Yeah, I kind of feel the same way Scott does. I would really encourage the board to, you've heard our comments tonight, our questions, to kind of go back, think about this more. I mean, we are going to have a super tight budget next year. I am very concerned about it, and while I believe that South Fayetteville absolutely needs transit on the weekends, absolutely, I would rather have the experts really come
 with a really well thought out and debated proposal for us. So I would be a no right now as well.
 Just to add to a little bit of what Teresa said, you know, if we would be able to come back and visit this at another time, I would like to see the difference in cost between a fixed route and the on-demand routes, just to be able to estimate the difference and what that would look like. Just from rough calculations, it looks like it would be a significant decrease, which would make me feel more comfortable about our budget. So just my thought. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, I appreciate all the feedback and I understand the additional diligence that's been asked, but I also think not only is expertise in this room, but the expertise is in the community, and the community has asked for this line to be provided. So I'd like to vote tonight, and I will motion to put it forward. If it does fail, I'm very happy to continue to work going forward with you, but I'd
 I am concerned about the delay in time of getting the service for this part of our community. So with that, I'd like to motion to pass this tonight. I'll second it. Okay. Any other final comments? Let's call the roll. Turner? No. Bunch? No. Turf? No. Hertzberg? No. Jones? Moore? Yes. Wedeker? No. Okay. Okay.
 Well, that's it. I felt the resolution fails. Well, that's that. That's that. All right. Do we have any announcements? Only a reminder about bulky waste. And I have one, too, if you don't mind. Mayor Jordan, if I could have the ear of the council for just a moment, I would appreciate it. I know you've already been here for four and a half hours without a break, so I'm right here, too. And I can understand a comment that you made earlier, so I apologize if this is...
 anything that goes against how you feel of what should and should not be said at council so I'd like to take a moment to show appreciation and thank council member Jones for previously bringing forward an agenda item asking the city to encourage employees to enroll in the mental health first-aid class the class was very informative and I enjoyed the hybrid option of completing two hours and an online class and six hours in a physical class set at
 I was in a class of roughly about 20 individuals. Two of those were CNAs and the rest were just regular members from the public with no medical background. I think that's the best way I could say that. So the theme of the course was do not diagnose, do not treat, meaning do not act as a physician. Serve as a vital link. Staying safe is the most important step for all first-aiders to remember.
 Through this process, you learn how to assess for risk of suicide or harm, listen non-judgmentally, give reassurance and information, encourage appropriate professional help, encourage self-help and other support strategies. This class does not focus on referring subordinates to an employee assistance program, also referred to as EAP.
 It teaches you how to help someone in their moment of need and to provide assistance in that moment in the same way you would if you were to walk up and find someone who had fallen and broken a leg. This could be a peer, a co-worker, citizen you're helping, or someone that you pass on the sidewalk. This class explains that mental health stigmas are negative attitudes toward people with mental health challenges. Stigma can lead to discrimination.
 We're not defined by our diagnoses, disabilities, or challenges. We're always people first. Approximately one in five American adults are diagnosed with a mental disorder in a single year. Almost half of all American adults will experience a mental health challenge at some point over the course of their lifetime.
 how to support someone who may be experiencing mental health crisis. And this may seem like something that's so insignificant. Just to reference, you could give a person a card. Many of you may not know this, but our mayor actually signs cards every year for individuals' birthdays and to also sign to thank them for their years of service. Think how that makes a person feel when they're...
 noticed and that their service to their community is recognized no matter what their position is Nor the department that they work in you could also send flowers to someone I've actually brought in flowers for every person on my team no matter what their gender is or how they identify and
 Other team members can offer to take on a person's workload, say if they have someone that has passed away in their family. The community might show support by helping with other things like offering to mow the yard or some other service. Mental health first aid is one piece of the puzzle when it comes to responding to the mental health needs of adults. What does prevention of a mental health crisis and recovery look like?
 Well, I love that Peter Nerengarten is here tonight because one of those that was referenced is recycling. How great is that? You know, that's actually something that my grandfather as a World War II veteran who served on the front lines and walked all around Europe and fought in World War II, he recycled, he called it scrounging. How awesome is that? It helped him through a lot of difficult times. Read a book, relax.
 How awesome is that? We have an amazing library that you can go in and sit in in our community, read a book, enjoy the area, exercise. I know our city has always had an incentive to help employees find better help, whether that be providing different recipes that someone could take on or suggesting different areas that they could walk in or having contests encourage that.
 An effective person providing mental health first aid needs to ensure that they always remember if they're not taking care of themselves, ourselves, we're likely to be less effective. When self-care is turned on, it helps buffer the impact of mental health challenge. And I just want to say that I've actually had previous training and of course referring individuals to EAP services over the years in leadership roles.
 However, again, this is not what that class is. The skills that I've learned and I'm taking away from this class and I plan on utilizing on a daily basis is effective listening, active listening, providing encouragement and reassurance to those around me, providing resources and information, not just passing them on to the next person, giving them actual resources that make a difference in their life.
 Again, whether that's a coworker, peer, someone that you talk to, walking through the hallway, and always discussing the importance of self-care with the person.
 As I mentioned earlier, we have so many things in our community that are already set in place that can help someone that is either recovering or prevention. I just wanted to take a moment and share that again. I know it's been a long night, but I really appreciate Blue Cross Blue Shield and all the other community partners that we were able to take this class. So thank you. And I would just make a very brief comment.
 announcement only because former mayor Marilyn Hefner is going to be honored at the Annual meeting of the Washington County Historical Society and she has served on this dais And so that'll take place on October the 1st at 1 p.m Tickets are available
 and Mayor Jordan will be there, and they'll also be honoring retired Judge Kim Smith. But Marilyn Hefner has certainly served this community well, and it would be good to show up and honor her. Thank you. Do we have any other announcements? Okay, very good. We're adjourned.