We're going to go ahead and call the City Council meeting of September the 15th, 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Fudge. Here. Turk. Turk. You need to unmute. I saw her earlier. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Sette. Here. Scroggins. Here.
 President and point of privilege, can Turk be called again? Turk? Here. Thank you, Sloan. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Thank you.
 well welcome everyone in line of the current health concerns federal city hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually i'm mayor lionel jordan and i am present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff
 Kent Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Keith Macedo, IT Director. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. Two representatives from Federal's IT Department. City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting
 are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office or city staff prior to the meeting viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's youtube
 joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you've raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized.
 Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment.
 Each everyone has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote.
 if public comment is allowed for an amendment speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes the city council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote everyone when you have a chance to speak stay on topic and please no rude behavior now let us begin mr mayor
 Yes. I'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules and add an agenda item for this evening. This is an ordinance to amend, or I'm sorry, an amendment to ordinance number 6310. Okay. We have a motion. To vacate additional right-of-way along South School Avenue. Okay. We have a motion. Do we have a second to add it to the agenda? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to add it to the agenda. Kara, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Yes.
 Tert? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Thank you all. An ordinance to amend Ordinance Number 6310 for the purpose of vacating additional right-of-way along School Avenue. Kit, do you need to read that? Yes, I do, Mayor. All right. Whereas on May 5th of 2020, the City Council passed Ordinance Number 6310, vacating portions of right-of-way and general utility easement at 815 South School Avenue.
 and whereas a portion of right-of-way along school street avenue was withdrawn from the request before approval by the city council because it was thought at that time to be right-of-way that had been dedicated to the state of arkansas and whereas city staff has now confirmed that the right-of-way was in fact dedicated to the city of fable and can be vacated and whereas the city council has an authority under aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas the city council has determined that the following described portion of right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the City Council of the City of Arkansas hereby vacates the additional portion of right-of-way described in Exhibit B attached hereto. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A and the legal description attached as Exhibit B, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay, sir. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you. This is, I'm bringing this forward on behalf of Specialized Real Estate Group for their South Yard development. That is where the Farmers Co-op used to be at the corner of MLK and South School Avenue. You may recall that recently we cleaned up what looked like a spilled plate of spaghetti in terms of easements that were running all across their property. And this is one we missed. We thought that it belonged to the highway department property.
 or to the state, but it turns out it does belong to the city of Fayetteville. And they wanted to bring it forward. They wanted to expedite passage of this so that they can move forward with construction of their project. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? Okay. All right. Let's take some public comment on this then. Let me read that back here.
 Okay, each speaker's allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Also, I want everybody to stay on topic. This is the amendment to the ordinance of 6310 for the purpose of vacating additional right-of-way along School Avenue. So that is the topic. And who would like to be first?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay.
 In order to amend Ordinance Number 6310 for the purpose of vacating additional right-of-way along School Avenue. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Fetch? Yes. Ert? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy?
 Scroggin. Yes. And ordinance amend ordinance number 6310 for the purpose of vacating additional right-of-way along School Avenue. Any final comments from the council? All right. Caravage, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin?
 Okay. I'm a little bit remiss. I probably should have had the nominating committee report before we pulled. Well, that's fine. Well, I'm going to go ahead. I have another item I want to pull. Don't let me forget to do the nominating committee report. I'm sorry.
 I want to pull A5, a resolution to authorize a contract with Bentonville-Vela Vista Trailblazers Association, Incorporated DBA, NWA Trailblazers for the construction of the Federal Traverse Trail on city property. I would like to put that in an ad of consent and put it up for discussion. So I need a motion and a second to do that. Well, actually, it's automatic if anybody pulls it off. Okay, well, good enough then. All right.
 So I would like to discuss this item. I believe I'm going to call on Connie right now. Connie or Jack. Ted? Okay. Thank you, Mayor. I want to share screen real quick. All right. Can you all see that? Yes. All right. Hold on just a second. My controls are not working like they're supposed to.
 Okay, all right. I'm Hogan Cohesis with the Northwest Arkansas Trailblazers. We'll give you kind of an overview of this exciting new project called the Fayetteville Traverse Trail. It's a new trail that will link a lot of the city, including our beautiful hills, Markham, Kessler, and Millsap.
 I think it's going to really help with increasing the quality of life with the city. It's also going to provide some unique connectivity options for citizens. And then it's going to be another reason for people to travel to the city because we're starting to be a real trail-based tourism destination with some really unique features. So this resolution will allow the Northwest Arkansas Trailblazers to actually build the trail on city property or city right-of-ways and so forth.
 And this is at no cost to the city. This is a great gift from the Trailblazers with the support of the Walton Family Foundation. So really nice to be able to have this kind of new infrastructure and the cost being paid for completely by others.
 The concept grew out of the work at Kessler, which you're all familiar with. The idea that linking Centennial and Kessler made a lot of sense, and then also the University of Arkansas. And then it just grew. We can make a large linking trail that's a loop that would really be a great experience for people to go on.
 Some of the trail will be on city property or controlled property, some on the University of Arkansas, and some on private land, which you'll see in some of the maps we'll go over real quickly. It's a mixture of soft surface and hard surface, so it's able to utilize some of the hard surface trails too.
 And then what was really nice is after we initially put this together, the trailblazers offered to go ahead and maintain the city portions for a year and a half. That'll really allow them to make sure the trails are kind of tuned in and working the way they feel is best. So we thought that was a very generous offer and we were very thankful for that.
 And Ted, I just want to interject right quick. The reason that we pulled it from consent was so that we could amend the agreement to add those terms on the maintenance, and Kit has done that for us. And so the purpose of this presentation really is to go over that because you actually went over this trail at the agenda session last time. So really, basically, what we need to discuss is the request for the amendment. Kit, do you mind?
 Well, the amendment, as you said, came about because Parks and Recreation were notified that the Northwest Arkansas Trailblazers had sufficient funds to actually include a year and a half of maintenance on any trails that they build on city property and five years of additional maintenance for trails that would be built on private land that they would get easements for. So when Ted, I mean, Jack,
 And Connie told me about that. I said, we certainly should take advantage of that. So I have drafted a slightly changed resolution that I sent out to the city council on September the 10th, as well as a slightly amended contract. And Parks and Recreation were able to get this contract.
 to the Northwest Arkansas Trailblazers. They have signed it, and so it is now something that needs to be done in order for us to take advantage of that. This is going to be a wonderful trail, as Ted was describing it, to utilize Centennial Park, as well as Mount Kessler, as well as eventually Markham Hill, although that's not the first section of this. So I would like a motion by the city council to amend
 the resolution to what I sent out to you all, as well as to recognize and confirm that the contract that I sent out to you is the one that would be approved by that resolution. Right. What questions do we have in the council on that? Would you like us to go ahead and amend it now or after the presentation? At your convenience, whichever you prefer. Yeah, I wanted to be sure that this is the reason I pulled it off the consent to bring it here was because we had to put an amendment on it.
 and that they're going to maintain it longer. Is that right, Kit? Yes, at least a year and a half longer and in some cases five years longer. And we didn't exactly have that in the resolution. But Kit, go on and talk a little bit more about the project. You have about probably about six minutes left on the presentation. Is that correct? Yeah, we can finish pretty quickly. Yes, okay.
 All right continuing on you can see the conceptual map which I know is difficult to see so we'll look at the south section but before we jump into that also the Ozark off-road cyclists who've done a fantastic job with their volunteer forces maintaining trails around the the city has agreed to take care of the Kessler portion which will have some additional trail.
 Here you can see the map. You can see this portion is in Kessler. So some of this is utilizing existing trail and then there's some new trail that's also being added. Here's a quick view. This is up on the hill above Smokehouse and you can see Centennial over here on the right. But the trail will basically don't, my line's not perfect, but it'll allow you to move
 through this area and then into into the Kessler area too while passing through some of the more suburban urban sections. And then up on the top we've got Centennial where it passes through and I'll show you some pictures of that just a second of some of the trail that's already finished and then it'll loop and Hogan will talk to you a little bit more about this this area they'll work on later so that that that's going to need some more study and so forth.
 Here's a view from Kessler. This isn't exactly where the trail is, but you get the sense of, you know, being able to look back and see the city, which are just some really pretty views. This is up on Centennial, and this is the new entry drive that's under construction. But again, you can see the view. This is about halfway up the mountain, and you're looking down into the city, and the views from the trail, especially in the winter, will just be really magnificent looking out and into the different parts of the city.
 We did open a little piece of the Fayetteville Traverse that's in Centennial a couple weeks ago and there's already people using that section. The Traverse travels right past this. This isn't actually the Traverse. It doesn't have anything that tricky on the Traverse. It's more of a hiking and general use, but nearby you can see some of the features that have been incorporated into Centennial that are quite exciting.
 And with that, I'd like to hand it off to Hogan so he can add some more detail to about this project. You get two minutes.
 i'll be short and concise thank you ted thank you for your time city council my name is hogan costas i work for the nubile trailblazers um like ted said in phase one it's west of i-49 it's a lot more wooded area and a lot less dense of an urban area so we have a very solid plan in terms of how we're going to execute that over 60 right now is currently constructed on private property
 Long-term, we would like to phase these property portions into permanent easements that the city can maintain and intentionally preserve for the future generations. Phase two is very conceptual at this point in time. And we have a lot of moving parts
 developed areas and urbanized areas that we are going to dovetail either hard surface trail and we're going to push for soft surface where we can, but we're not going to push too hard where it doesn't make sense. So we don't want any redundancy, but the goal is to have a seamless experience that essentially starts at the University of Arkansas and ends up at the University of Arkansas. But anyone living or visiting can penetrate the trail system at any
 The overall aim of this is to not only increase tourism, but to increase the quality of life for Fayetteville residents, for the campus to use as a recruitment tool for a student body, for future students who come into the campus.
 And we do strongly believe it in the trailblazers that the volunteer and advocacy that will ensue as a result of this trail being a unified entity in the city. will greatly increase right now we rely on or see for a lot of the trail advocacy and we do believe that this multi use trail system will be.
 will cater to the dog walkers, the hikers, the trail runners, anyone who just wants to get outside and escape the urbanized area and get into the woods. We feel like there will be a following as a result of unifying this trail experience that will ultimately result in a stronger bond in the community.
 Okay, okay, you got about 10 seconds. I'm good. That's all I need. We only get staff presentation time of 10 minutes. And Hogan, we really want to thank you for agreeing to help with the maintenance ongoing. So thank you and Ted very much. You're welcome.
 And I think I speak for everybody for the city to thank the Walton Family Foundation, whose generous grant has made this whole thing possible for us. It's not going to cost the city any money at this point in time for this. It's been the donations from the Walton Family Foundation, as they have done so often for the city. Yes. What questions do we have from the council on this? At this point, then, I would ask the city council, some member of the city council, to move to amend the resolution to what I sent out to you on the 10th. So moved. So moved. Second. Second.
 Okay. All right. We have an amendment to the resolution. What discussion do we have on that? I did have one question. What is the estimated completion date? Okay. Ted? The contract's in segments, so when they start one segment, they have six months to finish it. Okay.
 they're going to be working on the west side of the intersection that phase one first and that's probably going to be another year or so before they finish that and then they'll move and start the other segments but it'll it may take several years but they'll they will finish a segment pretty quickly when they when they start it thank you any other questions okay we have a motion a second to pass the amendment uh a resolution yes yes oh no that's right all right
 We have a motion to second pass the amendment. Any other discussion on the amendment? Okay. Caravans, please call the roll. For recording purposes, I have the council member, Kyle Smith, did the motion. And Teresa Turk seconded. Okay. On the amendment. Is that correct? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, now we have the amended resolution. What discussion do we have on that or questions? And, of course, this includes the slightly changed contract. Right. Okay.
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Each figure is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Everybody gets one turn to speak. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time or an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Stay on topic. The topic is the trail, the trail.
 Kessner Mountain Trail, not Kessner, but Centennial Park. It's a travel. Oh, it's the Traverse Trail. I'm sorry. Traverse Trail. What public comment do we have on that? All right. I'll bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules. I only got a resolution this time. Approve the amended one. Approve the resolution. Second. All right. Thank you all. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. All right. Is there any final comments from the council?
 But I certainly agree with Kit, this reverse trail will be a tremendous addition to the city and hook up all the trail systems all the way around the city. It'll just be, you know, this is going to be wonderful, y'all. And I appreciate y'all tonight looking at this and all the work that's gone into it and the Walton family and everybody that's contributed to this. It's just a win-win for the city all the way around.
 Okay, with that, Kara, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, I have Council Member Gutierrez made the motion, and Council Member Smith seconded. Okay. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay.
 Okay, thank you all very, very much. Now let's go to the nominating committee report. Sarah, I believe you have that. Yes, I do. This was for our nominating committee meeting September 10, 2020. Members present were myself, Mark Kenyon, Sonia Gutierrez, and Teresa Turk. We really appreciate Mark hanging in there because he wasn't feeling well, and we do appreciate him coming.
 staying the course with us that evening. The mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment. Historic District Commission, Kelsey Lichenberg, one unexpired term, 6-30-21. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Airport Board, Monty Roberts, one unexpired University of Arkansas term, ending 12-31-21.
 Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, Stephanie Hubbard, one unexpired term ending 3-31-24. Environmental Action Committee, Ryan Mills, one community citizen at large unexpired term ending 6-30-22.
 Peg Advisory Board, Brandy Walsh, one unexpired term ending 6-30-21. Trey Marley, one unexpired term ending 6-30-22. Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Alexandria Howland, one community citizen at large term ending 9-30-22, representing Ward 1, 2, or 4. That's our suggestions. Okay. This is the...
 Appointment of the nominees. I need a motion and a second to appoint. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to appoint the nominees by the nominating committee. Any discussion on that? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Punch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now let's move along to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 18, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes and the August 26, 2020 Special City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve Amendment Number One to the contract with CEI Engineering Associates Incorporated for Phase One of the Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain
 any amount of nine thousand four hundred dollars into approval budget adjustment this is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects passed by the people number three a resolution except quote in the amount of 26 751.3 plus taxes freight charges from jr stewart pump equipment incorporated for the repair of pump a pump at the west side water resource recovery facility number four
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $193,008.65 recognizing funding from the State of Arkansas Department of Human Services for EMS worker payments to fire department employees as part of the CARES Act funding. Number five, we have already voted on. Number six, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Afterglow Aircraft,
 Solutions LLC for the airport hangar at 4158 South School Avenue for rent any amount of $850 per month. And number seven, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Kramer Pilot Services LLC for office space in the airport terminal building.
 corporate hangar space at 4500 South School Avenue for rent any amount of $3,000 per month through December 2021 $4,000 per month for January through December 2022 and $5,000 per month from January 2023 through the end of the lease of the lease term I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read so moved second did you get take care
 For recording purposes, I have that Councilmember Bunch made the first motion and Councilmember Marsh seconded. Okay. All right. Would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 All right. Thank you all. Moving along to unfinished business. In order to sway competitive being in the authorized new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement,
 an easement agreement with the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing at Putrell Drive and Gregg Avenue to approve the project contingency in the amount of twenty eight thousand three hundred forty four dollars and eighty six cents and to approve a budget adjustment for the estimated total project cost of seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars this is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects approved by the people Chris
 Thank you, Mayor. When we last spoke, we were still working with the railroad on the one item related to the closure, the stipulation in that contract. We did meet with the railroad last week and confirmed with the railroad that they're not in favor anymore of the Garrett closing contract.
 They would prefer to see the Frisco closure and we let them know that our council is not in favor of that closure. We talked about improvements as opposed to closures and that never really got anywhere either so we kind of were a little bit of an impasse but I think at this point what
 what we're going to pursue next and we did have some late conversations with them this afternoon that i think may be promising is uh the the crossing on jocelyn which is north of township
 It only has one property that accesses it, but it would have future development potential. So we have not contacted the property owners or done our due diligence on that one. And so that's our next step, I think, is to start talking with those property owners who are impacted. And so I'm sorry to say we're still not quite ready to present a final report.
 recommendation here and we need at least two more weeks to continue those conversations. So that's where we are, Mayor. Yeah, I mean, we met with them last week, the week before, so I believe we're getting somewhere, but it's taking a little longer than I anticipated. So
 I think Council Member Marsh recommended Jocelyn up there and they are somewhat interested in that, but we still haven't contacted the neighbors and we were working out some final details with the railroad, so we need a little more time. So I would appreciate it if y'all would table this for another two weeks and give us that much time to work on that and bring you back something. The next City Council Member. I'm sorry, the next City Council Member. I think that will be three weeks more. The move we table?
 Second. We have a motion and a second to table. If you all want to ask any questions, have any discussions, we're just in the middle of working with them right now. So I don't have anything real definite, but they are, the railroad is working with us and are at the table. So we're trying to get something done with them. So is there any questions?
 Chris, do you happen to have a map of the Jocelyn to just get orient or just let us know where that is? Yes. Chris, you're muted. I'm sorry. Yes, I can certainly pull up the screen now if you'd like to take a look at that. Please do. So, Sikkim Township. So this is the Garrett Crossing here, which is south of Township. This is the Township Crossing here.
 And then right in this area, I'll zoom in a little bit, right across the street from Stone Mill Bread is just a little small crossing. There's one structure here that uses that crossing. It does have there's a bridge across Skull Creek here.
 There would have to be some work to make a connection all the way here to Quality Lane, but that is a city street. It does have street right of way that comes out to an improved crossing. So we're really only looking at one property here. This track is attached to this southern track and they do have access back down to township. So that's really the property owner that we need to coordinate with and work with about their access.
 Thank you. So maybe we'll send them some postcards or how will we reach out? I think probably just a phone call. I believe that this business is the same business. It's the same people that run both of these businesses. So I'll probably start with some phone calls since it's just a single individual and we'll start there and see where it goes. Thank you.
 yeah go ahead you mentioned improvements do we have an estimate i mean are we talking tens of thousand dollars hundreds of thousand dollars what are we just ballpark well if if we're talking about the improvement necessary to connect this let me let me turn on an aerial for you
 So it's really just making this connection right here. So that's a minimal, I mean, nothing's cheap anymore, but that's in the tens of thousands, I would say, to make that connection. Okay, thank you. Anything else? And when we get everything more settled down with the railroad, we'll bring you back.
 what they are agreeable to. Right now, we've got some loose ends out there. We've got to tighten down. And then we'll bring it back to you, and then you all can decide what you want to do with it. All right, anything else? Okay, we have a motion and a second to table. Carrie, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, I have the motion was to table to the October 6th of 2020 meeting. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Hopefully we can put this to rest in a couple of weeks. All right, let's go on to number two.
 An ordinance rezone that property inscribing his own petition RZN 20-7133 for approximately 3.05 acres located at 6040 and 6074 West Weddington Drive from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre to RI12 Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre. This is on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second.
 So moved. Second. All right we have a motion and a second to go to this second reading. Chair would you please call the roll. Bunch. Yes. Turt. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 20-7133 for approximately 3.05 acres located at 6040 and 6074 West Weddington Drive from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to RI12 Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre. Okay. Garth. Yes. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Hello.
 Sometime ago Council Member Smith asked us to prepare a graphic that would illustrate growth on our western boundary with Farmington. And I do have some information with regard to that issue and I need to share my screen here. Have I successfully shared my screen? Yes.
 Okay, thank you. I'll go down to the outline first. The Farmington subdivisions that have been recently approved are in red. Fayetteville's are in blue. Fayetteville City Limits is in yellow and the Mayor's Box or Rupert Road is in green. And the schools have a little flag by them. And as you can see, there are two recently approved subdivisions in Farmington.
 and they equal, they together are 450 single family lots. There are four recently approved subdivisions in Fayetteville and they have just under 400 lots combined. The subject zoning that you are considering on Weddington
 With this agenda item is right here, the little purple blob, and B6 is the, just down in Weddington to the east. We have another application for 40 acres for single family zoning on, that's outlined in purple, which you will be seeing later. It's going to be on the second meeting of the Planning Commission in September.
 So even broader perspective again you see the same development proposals and you see the entire city limits which was extended I understand some years ago to try for us Fayetteville to try to get control of our western growth out Weddington. If I were to summarize
 What all this means is we have an abundance of single-family lots in this area, both in Farmington and in Fayetteville. And we have lots and lots of vacant intervening land. I don't know exactly what significance all that has for granting
 additional entitlements on these two small parcels. But I have another graphic that I think might be a little bit more relevant. The 2040 plan promotes the idea of long-term mix-use centers with the hopes that someday those centers might grow into walkable mix-use areas where a transit stop would be more efficient.
 and two were identified that are in close proximity to the Weddington Quarter here. So with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. The applicant's representative, Vicki Wood, I believe is on also when you get ready for the applicant. Okay, well, we're ready for the applicant. Ms. Wood, would you like to address the council? You have 10 minutes. Go ahead, Ms. Wood.
 Hello? Yes. Hello? Okay. Yeah, we were up. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, of course we were up last time and you all decided that you needed to send out some notices that this was up. So I'm gonna basically be saying most of the same stuff I did last time, but the Planning and Zoning Committee as well as the City Council has supported and approved the 2040 plan. They take into consideration the benefits of the entire city, not just one neighborhood when they came up with this plan.
 So we feel that they support the 2040 plan. They should support this rezoning because it is in an area that is deemed to be higher density in the future. From what I understand, there's a petition against it brought about by the neighbors who live in the area saying,
 They like feeling like they live in a rural area. However, there are already commercial properties nearby and other duplexes and homes on very small lots. So we feel this area has already moved past feeling rural. And in addition to that,
 If we could get some multifamily units in there on this property, it would provide some affordable living. Not everyone can afford to save up enough money to buy a house, so they have to rent. And as you're aware, we're moving out farther and farther down Weddington, needing some nicer, affordable living out that way, which will bring, obviously, tax dollars to the city.
 So we would implore the city council to appeal the decision to deny the rezoning. Thank you for your time. Okay, thank you. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff from the council? I do have a question, Mayor. Okay. So I just want to thank everyone who helped us tour the location yesterday. It was incredibly helpful to stand in the property and take a look at it.
 Yeah. Excuse me, Sonia. Sonia, that was not the same location unless you all did another tour. Oh, it's possible that I'm thinking of another location. If you're thinking of Rupel and Mount Comfort, that's not this one. I am. Okay. Thank you. So I will wait and talk about that later. Okay. Thanks. Who else would... What other questions do we have in the council? Okay.
 All right. Let's take some public comment. Okay. Everybody has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Stay on the topic. The topic is the rezoning. Thank you.
 640 and 674 West Weddington. So Rezoni, stay on that topic. For those of you that speak no rude behavior, don't engage anyone from the city council or anyone on the public. So in the public. So who would like to be first? Mayor Norma Dickerson. All right, go ahead.
 Can you hear me now? Yes. Sorry, I was muted. This is Norma Dickerson. I live at 1272 North Devil Springs Road. I was one of the original signers. And we do live in this area because we do like the feel of the rural area as opposed to the city. But also, as you come out into this area, one of the things that they're talking about is
 lower rent, and a lot of times these people don't have enough money for a lot of transportation, and we're at least two miles from gas, from grocery. We did have two restaurants close at Double Springs and Weddington, but they have both closed permanently because from the COVID and not having enough business. One of the things that's
 There are a lot of single family houses. We do have duplexes, but it just seems to me that right now this is not the place for so many people in one place. That would be 36 families in three acres. So that's gonna add a whole lot of traffic, a whole lot of people needing amenities that are not here at this moment. I think that covers all the main things I had.
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Kate Chapman. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, my name is Kate Chapman. I live at 5925 West Michael Cole Drive. I live immediately across Weddington from the property in question that's asking for the rezone. I echo all of Norma's comments and I'll add some additional. One of the biggest primary concern I have is that I do not believe we have the infrastructure in this part of Fayetteville to support the
 that many units on that small of a piece of land. Weddington has a lot of car accidents and I'm sure you all know this. And just last year there was a car accident, not even a quarter mile from this proposed rezone site in which a motorcyclist died and,
 All of Weddington was shut down for a couple hours. It was a really awful, sad wreck. And that's my concern is that there's 36 potential units. That could be multiple cars per unit, of course. Right.
 And that adds a lot of traffic in a place where there is no light. So if you actually look at the map, you'll see that there is no real intersection or light there. So that's going to really change the traffic flows on a road where I already think we have some serious problems. My other objection is, is in fact, because of the, the fact that the surrounding lands are agricultural in nature, there are cattle ranching, there are horses, there are chickens, there are,
 Donkeys. And so, you know, part of my concern is that putting that much density. There's actually already a lot of density nearby and it's already proven difficult for some of our property owners nearby that do own animals.
 I 100% support having affordable housing, but I think the idea of shoving all of the lower income people into the outskirts of the city is a regressive policy. Because as Norman mentioned, if you are a lower income family, it's harder to buy and maintain a car. This was brought up at the city planning commission meeting that I attended in July.
 I'm also a petition signer and there isn't really much in walkable distance. So, you know, if people really care about the underserved individuals as we should, then we should care about
 helping build places for them near city centers. Or if you do want to start rezoning everything this densely, then you need to first have public transportation in. I disagree with what Vicki Wood said. The 2040 plan is not the same as this rezone. I think that that is sort of a false argument to make, that if you support the 2040 plan, you have to support this rezone in 2020. I don't think that this is what's best for the community.
 I don't think it's what's best for the residents they're looking at, and I don't think it's what's best for the current safety of this area. So thank you for hearing me out. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Diane Aday. Go ahead. Diane, can you unmute? Okay, who else do you have? We don't have anybody else but Diane. Okay. Who seems to be having technical difficulties. Okay. Diane, can you unmute? Okay. Diane, can you unmute? Diane, can you unmute?
 Okay, let's go ahead and bring it back to the council. Oh, here she is. Okay. Mrs. Day, go ahead. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi, greetings, City Council and Mayor Jordan. I want to thank the council first for moving this agenda item from the August meeting to now in September. We were not informed of the appeal or that it was going to be on September.
 the August meeting agenda. And so I just have one question real quick before my time starts in that is notification to previously interested parties as us who listed addresses, phone numbers, et cetera, on the petition, is this discretionary or is it standard to notify interested parties?
 I want you to understand that your time did begin. You have five minutes. Each speaker has five minutes. And if you want the question answered, then it's going to take maybe some time once it's into your time. My advice would be to go on why you do not support or do support the rezoning and our... Okay. Okay. Thank you, Mayor.
 We do stand opposed as we did in July. We continue to stand opposed. I do speak for because I've contacted the others that signed the petition, about 29 of us on the petition. We believe there's great value and merit to defending the planning commission's decision in July. Partly because we agree with their decision,
 but mostly due to the very lengthy and very in-depth thoughtful discussions that the Planning Commission members had about this particular property and the rezone, but also the future plan and the growth of Fayetteville. And we do appreciate the lengthy discussion and all the thought that they put into that.
 There were some quotes made about this rezoning would just be too much too fast. There was a quote about keeping the hamlet setting even with the long-term plan, which includes some green spaces and some farms.
 We believe the rezone to this high of density at this time would go against the orderly transition of growth, which is the wording in the code for, let me see, it's City Code 16103 that talks about orderly transition to urban development.
 And we just believe this rezone of this high density at this time would be in conflict with that. But we do appreciate the planning commission's decision. And most of all, their thoughts and reasoning on that, that that helps.
 all of us to understand better about the long-term growth and the plans and we just don't see that this high density in such a small area at this time it goes in line with that. Also along with the lack of city services as both Norma and Katie mentioned and in time I'm sure that those will be provided in this area. There are
 In part of the case for the rezone, the Houstons stated that we need more affordable housing in this area. I'm assuming that they mean this immediate area. So...
 Because I'm experienced in canvassing and counting as an employee of the Census Bureau, I explored a half-mile radius around the case property for rezoning, and I found that we have about 140 current what would be considered affordable housing duplexes
 in our immediate area plus the 90 that will be going in in the cobblestone edition which has been approved we think that is a wonderful project we support that that is a half a mile away so that puts about 230 duplex units 20 seconds in the immediate area
 There are also 30 duplex units directly across Weddington from this ReZone property. And we are concerned about a traffic clog right there since there is no traffic light. Okay. Do you have anybody else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion do we have with the council? Have I got an opinion?
 Mayor, I'm a little torn on this one. The reason I asked for the exhibit was not particular to this appeal, but more to set a general context for this side of town, because we've got two appeals tonight and more in the pipeline coming behind it. And I just want to make sure everybody is aware of what all is going on here and that
 that Farmington is growing as fast as we are in this area with development that is for all practical purposes, fable neighborhoods, because it's further from Farmington than it is from us. And just to kind of put us in that mindset as we make plans over here. For this one in particular, I appreciate the concern that
 this is not the ideal place for affordable housing because of the distance and the increased transportation costs. Unfortunately, every time we try and look at affordable options or affordability concerns, closer to town where it would be more appropriate, we run into substantial resistance there as well. And I find myself wondering where is an acceptable place for affordable housing and will we ever build it?
 So I'm inclined to take a less than ideal location just so that we have a place to start letting people live. I think that there's some, you know, we did lose some businesses here on this corner, unfortunately, in one of our nodes. That was most likely a result of COVID and the downturn in the economy.
 We won't be able to grow those back unless they have a neighborhood to serve. I think there is value in adding residents close by that are in a more walkable form. What we need in this area is more services for folks so they don't have to drive two miles past all of their neighbors to get to everything. Unfortunately, all we keep seeing over here is the lack of service.
 more dense housing without the rest of it, what it takes to make a complete community or a complete neighborhood. And so I'm sensitive to that argument as well. And I hope to hear from some other council members on what their thoughts are for how we responsibly give people an entire community and not just a bedroom and a long commute. Okay, what else do we have? Here I'll say something.
 I can appreciate the variety of things, Council Member Smith, that you mentioned that you're trying to think through. I also really appreciate the exhibit because I do think that provides context that I personally feel like I was aware of, but not in the detail way that it was presented. It helps me think through things.
 I was searching how I feel and being honest with myself. I do think that this area needs to be denser than it is today, but I also think that the timing is not right. I think the question Council Member Smith that you ended with for the SS to respond to is really the crux of it. You know, how do we put housing out there in a way that is not just housing in a commute?
 I don't know the answer for that, but the way I'm, in an absolute sense, but the way I'm thinking of it right now is that even if in the ideal world we say that there should be a tier three center out here nearby, and that means that there's a little bit more jobs, there's a little bit more of a job center than there is now, I don't see that happening.
 as quickly as we might like for it to happen, given the state of commercial development and real estate demand elsewhere in the region and in Fayetteville itself. And so for me, again, it seems like a timing question and I'm asking myself if these houses are constructed now, how long will it be before some of their long commutes can be replaced and
 I wouldn't ever expect that all their long commutes are replaced, but it seems to be that one of the big strategies when it comes to climate change is replacing enough of the commutes that we already have that we can make a difference even if we can't replace all of them. And so I ask myself that question, if we rezone it now and those houses get constructed in the near term, how long will it be? Yeah.
 Because that question for me is how long will they be a part of the problems associated with sprawl before they can become a part of the solutions? By turning that sprawl pattern into something that's a little bit more walkable and a little bit more where jobs in the housing can be a little bit more adjacent. So for me, it still feels like there's a timing question that we're not...
 I guess we're, we don't even feel prepared to really answer. Um, and I think, I feel like we have, at least for me that, that we have this same kind of, um,
 question this the same tension in timing whenever we look at most of our rezoning on the outskirts and in a lot of cases for me it doesn't even have anything to do with the proposed density it has to do with whether or not we should allow very many houses to be constructed on the outskirts at all anymore and until we can fix that so
 I don't know exactly what it is, but I would like to see if we are going to prioritize tier three growth centers or if we're going to prioritize tier two growth centers. I would like for us to recognize that that's what we're doing because we can't build all these growth centers all at the same time. And for me, I think in the near term, we need to focus on getting more housing closer to the job centers we already have. Okay. What else?
 I concur with Matthew's sentiments. This is challenging because I do like the denser housing aspect, but you know when we voted for Ruppel Road, I supported that project with the understanding that that was going to be the western edge of our growth boundary, at least for the foreseeable future. I recognize that we are going to have some infill along the Weddington corridor,
 For me, this is just too far out too soon to be seeing this type of development. And while I recognize we were touring a different property along West Weddington yesterday,
 The traffic that we witnessed at that location already that far out at Rupert Road, it was intense. And exacerbating the traffic congestion on that corridor does not seem like the responsible choice at this point. And that location is too far out to sustainably serve with public transit.
 So I just think this is, it's too much too soon. So I do concur with the planning commission. Okay. I just want to talk about the notification.
 i hope to talk to uh kid or blake soon um i think if we have appeals that we need a system of notifying uh the people there i don't want a system where it's like it becomes political at planning commission but then you appeal it and then they don't know about it so nobody shows up that's definitely not something i want to have happen moving forward
 And, but this, I do want to make note, this is the one that we did the re-notification for. So even, and I appreciate what you're saying Sloan. Yeah, I think it was the one that asked for that though. Yeah. Yeah. Hopefully we can just set it up where we do that going forward. If I need to make an ordinance to do that, I'll be happy to work on that. Okay, what else? I'll just, go ahead.
 I'll just echo what everyone else has already said and I just want to bring up that it has received a score of 2 to 5 for the infill matrix, which is low. And definitely want to honor the Planning Commission's hard work and what their recommendation is on this. So I'll probably not support it. Okay. Anybody else?
 I concur with most of my colleagues on their concerns.
 the lack of connectivity by transportation, and the lack of really that node that we would like to create. I think that's really, really important to allowing higher density housing out sort of in the peripheral areas. And obviously we're having a huge economic downturn right now, so I will not be supporting this. Okay, what other comments do we have?
 We're on, but keep in mind, y'all, we're on the second reading. We haven't got to the third reading yet. When we suspend the rules and move to the third reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, I have that the motion was made by Council Member Gutierrez and seconded by Council Member Scroggins. Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin?
 And in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 20-7133 for approximately three acres located at 6040 and 6074 West Weddington Drive from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to RI12 Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre. Okay. Now, what final comments do we have in the council? I think I pretty much have four of y'all's final comments.
 comments. Is there anybody else who would like to make a final comment before we vote? Since this is appeal, I want to be clear that a vote yes would be for the project and a vote no would be against it. No, this is an ordinance that if you pass it, the land will be rezoned. If it doesn't pass, the land will not be rezoned. Okay. Just want to make sure we're clear. Anything else? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Thanks. No. Kurt? No.
 Smith? No. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Eddy? No. Scroggins? No. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number three.
 an ordinance to amend 166.23 urban residential design standards of unified development code to increase flexibility for small building design this was left on the second reading i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading so move second the motion secondly go to the third and final reading care which please call the role thanks yes kirk yes smith yes
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. In Ordinance Amend Section 166.23 Urban Residential Design Standards of Unified Development Code to increase flexibility for small building design. Okay. Mary, I believe you have this.
 I do. And I know we've, good afternoon, I know we've talked about this a few times, but essentially staff has found that a reduction in the design standards for primary facades at 48 feet wide or less as proposed does not really nullify the intent of the ordinance and requiring relatively narrow structures such as infill duplexes that tend to be modest in bulk and massing.
 to include two or more design elements on principal facades tends to create conditions where compliance with the existing urban residential design standards may be burdensome. And I do want to point out that any principal facade over 48 feet will still be required to have two or more design elements. And I'll take any questions. I know we've talked about this in the past, and I know Garner added some additional information at the agenda session. So if anybody has any questions, I'll be happy to answer. Well, the questions do we have in the council on this?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one. Turn it to Mike. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes with staff or monitor. Stay on topic, which is the urban residential design standards. No rude behavior. Don't engage anyone on the city council, anybody in the public. So who would like to address us on this from the public? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the city council.
 This is an ordinance on the second reading. Third reading, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's my fault. We're on the third reading, correct? Correct. So what comments do we have? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Bunch. Turd. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's move along to number four. An ordinance to rezone that property and describe rezoning petition RZN 20-7170 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 921 West Berry Street from RMF 40, residential multifamily four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 So moved. Do we have a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty. Scroggins? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-7170 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 921 West Berry Street from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Okay. Garth. Yes, Mayor. I don't have anything to add. I think Mr. Lazenbay is online. He's representing the applicant.
 Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Mr. Lazenby was here, but now he's gone. Okay. What discussion do we have from the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Mr. Lazenby is back. Okay. Mr. Lazenby, would you like to speak to the council? Yes. I apologize for that. I just want to let you know I was here, and if you have any questions about this project or the rezoning, of course, I'd be happy to answer them. Okay. Do we have any questions for Mr. Lazenby?
 Mayor, I have a question for Garner. I just would like to outline the difference between RMF 40 and RU. I know one is multifamily and the other one is intended for smaller dwellings, but as I'm looking at the use units, it looks like they're conducing everything down to single family even in an RMF 40.
 The main difference I'm seeing is a lower tree preservation. Can you help me out if there's anything I'm missing? I don't think you're missing anything. Yes, both districts allow single family. The lot width is different. It goes down to 18 feet for the RIU. The tree preservation, as you mentioned, I believe is 15%.
 for the RIU and 20% for the RMF40. But I think the biggest difference is the RIU allows single-family duplexes, triplexes and fourplexes, sort of the missing middle group, and RMF40 allows apartment also.
 It just seemed like a little bit of a down zone and I was trying to understand what the geometry might be that would motivate that. I believe it's the lot width but you might have the applicant weigh in on that. All right, I'd be happy to hear from them to help me understand what motivated the request.
 Working with the planner, Jesse Masters, when we submitted this, I believe it was a setback issue that motivated having to do the rezoning. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? All right, let's take some public comment. Each speaker is allowed one turn to mic. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor.
 Everyone is to stay on topic. So rezoning at Berry Street. No rude behavior. Don't engage anyone from the city council or in the public. So who would like to, from the public, like to address the motion? All right. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. And...
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Menth? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 and orange raison that property described in a regional petition rzn 20-7170 or approximately 0.18 acres located at 921 west barry street from rmf 40 residential multi-family 40 units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban okay what final comments do we have in the council on this
 I will note that I walked by the property and initially I was a little dismayed to find what looked like a very cute little single family home there. But upon closer inspection, it looks like the foundation is in really horrible condition. Possibly the property has been occupied by hoarders. So it definitely does need to be redeveloped. And I think that the R.I.U. is by far preferable to the RMF 40. So I'll be supporting this.
 Any final comments from the council? Any other final comments from council? Okay, Karen would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving along to number five. A resolution authorized sale of a small
 parcel of land south of Georgia's majestic grounds and west of the railroad tracks to Bryan and Dade Crown for the amount of $17,000. I believe, Matt, you're going to bring an amendment to bring a lease forward tonight? What do you want to do? Yes, Mayor, that's correct. As you know from our tour yesterday and our discussions at agenda session last week,
 This is no longer a proposed land sale. This is now a proposed lease, or I hope that you will vote to amend this to become a proposed lease. And what I might do now is summarize the lease in four or five bullet points, and then make a motion to amend this to the resolution text.
 and to the lease that was the resolution text, which was sent out by city attorney last week and the lease that was sent out by the city of clerk this afternoon. Here's what the lease looks like in some bullet points. It's a five-year term in total, but there's what we might call a divorce clause, which allows the city to not renew the lease at the end of each year.
 The proposed lease rate is $50 a month. That lease rate was proposed on the basis of comparison with the patio space on the square, which we leased to the OPO building or to Cheers, which we leased for $100 a month. It's quite a bit larger than this space and it's improved, which is how we arrived at the $50 a month proposal.
 The area to be leased is a portion of the parcel that exists today.
 The lease premises are not to include any of the drainage infrastructure, nor are they to include the sidewalk and in fact most of the trees that are on the parcel will also not be included in the lease premises. The lease premises are intended to only be the land that is necessary for the construction of a stage approximately 24 feet by 30 feet. And
 I think that's about it. There are some other provisions in the lease about how amplified music needs to be directed to the parking lot, not in other directions. Signage directed to the parking lot, not in other directions. And then some boilerplate language to to protect the city. With that I'd make a motion that we amend the item before us to the
 the lease legislation that the city attorney distributed last week and referencing the lease agreement that was distributed this afternoon by the city clerk. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to amend to pass this lease. So what discussion do we have on that? I'd like to share some thoughts.
 You know, last, well, two weeks ago, we sort of talked about this and I thought it was really important that we be fair to everybody. And first that we as a city decide if we wanted to sell the property, lease it, or just leave it as it is. And we've never really quite had that discussion. We've sort of been kind of funneled down this one path.
 And I really believe that that's the discussion we need to have first and foremost before we go down the path of the lease. And we're still also not having the discussion about fairness yet.
 And like I mentioned two weeks ago, I love George's. Don't get me wrong, I love George's. But I think this is a city property that we really need to be open to everybody and get everything out on the table. But first and foremost, we need to figure out what the destiny of that property is in the short term. So I'd like to have that discussion before we vote on this amendment. Okay.
 Okay, what's everybody else's thoughts? With Council Member Turk, I was also concerned about the making sure that we were fully transparent and open and available to what, once we decided what we wanted to do, how to proceed. So I appreciate Council Member Turk bringing this back up. I do wonder if we, now that we know that we prefer to lease or I guess we haven't really decided that yet,
 But since we're in the amendment of leasing, how we would proceed to have that available, I guess what I'm understanding from Kit from the last meeting is it's up to us how we proceed.
 if we want to do it as a more speedy option versus going through the entire RFP process. But I'm not sure what options we have and I would like to just leave that open for more experienced council members to help us figure out what is available to us to do that. So,
 In looking ahead at our downtown and the future of our cultural arts quarter, I feel like there are too many unknowns for us to sell the property at this point in time. I would really like to see us retain ownership in that.
 But at the same time, we have a need to activate our entertainment district in a safe way right now. And after looking at the property, it would be very difficult for anyone else to use that property in any meaningful way without significant modifications in terms of trees or the grade or the drainage patterns. It really is a very tiny piece of property.
 And it makes a lot of sense for Georgia's to use it. They are a landmark institution in our community. They have a fantastic proposal.
 that builds on the success that they already enjoy and supports the goals of our cultural arts corridor. And the lease could get them up and running very quickly to activate that area in a safe way, while also giving us the flexibility to preserve the trees, preserve the existing drainage patterns, but most importantly, preserve the right to do something differently with that property as it is.
 So I really think that this list that's on the table is a win-win for everyone and really the best outcome for that property at present. So I plan to support it. Okay. I would like to add, Sonia, Sarah, we lost you. Sarah? Okay. Who else would like to speak? I'd like to speak just to the amendment. I am
 I'm not interested in selling the property. I was not interested in selling it last time this came up. And I think that there's just, like Council Member Marsh was saying, too much unknown in the future of the surrounding area for me to make a decision right now on a permanent disposition to this. I am willing to consider the lease, and I don't know that I'm...
 don't know that i'm decided on the lease but i'm definitely willing to consider it whereas i was not uh willing to consider a sale so that's why i will second and support the amendment okay i certainly support the amendment the uh and i support everything that council member marsh said the the situation that we have here on a very very tiny piece of property
 lens and opportunity for a landmark institution to immediately contribute to the arts quarter to establish what it meant for. So I think it's an ideal fit in every way. Um, that's the main thing right there. I had a lot on my mind, but I'm going to support you do it swiftly so that the, uh,
 the entertainment or whatever they're going to, how they're going to do it can be initiated without pause. I think everyone knows the situation we're in and we're looking for outdoor venues to help with the entertainment economy and hospital. So I think that we should get behind this and allow George's to move forward with an expedient way so that they can, they can get on with it.
 So that's my opinion right now. Okay. Sarah, are you back with us? I think so. I hope so. I was just talking away and I just realized my internet had just gone down. Okay.
 So I missed a little bit there, but Sonia had brought up the point of an RFP, and I wanted to make clear that I would not support that because that could take literally months to put together a committee and send out, you know, bids and stuff like that or get bids in. You know, originally, I felt like we needed to entertain the two potential offers that we had, but
 After going and looking at the site and knowing how Georgia's is going to develop the site, and it's only going to be a small sliver of it, they're going to maintain the trees. I'm really inclined to support the Georgia's proposal to rent the property and get them moving on with their business and having outdoor music. So I'm going to support Georgia's on this.
 Thank you. Mayor, I want to make sure the City Council understands the major change to the proposed lease that I had, and that is the change from non-amplified music to amplified sound, which includes music. And this reminds me of the problems that the City Council went through many years ago, which were centered around Georgia's outdoor music.
 And the neighbors that were complaining were not people, other developers that are supporting this project. People like Paula Marinoni and other people in her neighborhood who were able to unfortunately hear the music of outdoor or the sound of outdoor music late at night. I think that you were told by...
 the proposed tenant that, well, he would, you know, not do the music loud or long, but there's nothing in the lease that would prevent that from happening. And the noise ordinance that we have and that we created specifically for outdoor music was truly a compromise. And really, we didn't have the complaints and problems resolved until Georgia's totally enclosed their former beer garden.
 and make it like it is right now where the music was contained within their building. So I am a little concerned with what Mr. Crown says he will agree to, which would require it to be amplified music and amplified.
 Also, he objects to what I had put in there that the music should be directed toward his customers. He doesn't object to that, but he says not toward the plaza nor be loud enough to disturb persons enjoying the cultural plaza. I agree with him that this is a broad term.
 But this would be a term that would be judged by the city council. They're the ones, you're the ones, that would maintain the power on this to determine whether or not this has been a plus or minus for the Cultural Arts Corridor and for the neighbors when this comes up for review in a year. And the amplified sound is, to me, something I'm concerned about because I just remember how much of a problem it was before.
 And that's not allowed by the old post office patio. The old post office patio was actually built by a tenant, not by the city. And that's one reason we gave them such a low rent during that time. And also, we've always tried to help them. And I think it's not bad to help George's either. But I surely hope that this doesn't become a nuisance that we could regret in the future.
 The only other thing about that, you know, I think you were told about some time limits. Well, if there are really going to be time limits for when the sound, the noise would be over, then they should be in the lease because anything that's just told to you is certainly not enforceable whatsoever. So, yeah.
 Basically, even though you do get to review this after year, and I think that's a very, very crucial part of this lease,
 for a year, you won't be able to do anything about it. So if you feel like there should be time limits when the music needs to end, or at least be very much lower in volume than something like that, probably should be in the lease, as well as whether or not you think that there's cause and problems with the Cultural Arch Plaza.
 The final thing I need to say is I'm not really sure whether it is proper and legal, and I'll have to kind of defer to Garner or somebody in planning on this, to cut out a little part of a parcel that has no frontage and try to lease that out. I know you couldn't do a lot split like that, I don't think. So I'm not sure if we actually have the right to lease 
 the very small part uh about half i guess of this whole thing that would be used for the stage because there's no frontage on on powerhouse if you do that now whether or not we can do that with the lease i don't know this was a new thing that was presented to me i think just uh yesterday or today so again i have not been able to really look at that i don't know if garner has either but i am a little concerned about whether or not we
 can do something smaller than the 1689 square foot parcel, which is pretty small itself. And so those are the two issues that I have with this, the amplified music, and also whether or not we can divide this parcel, which will then have no frontage, and whether maybe that's okay with the lease. I'm not sure. I've just not seen that done before. I can answer both of these questions directly.
 First, with respect to what was described as a major change in amplified music, it was never the intention to bring forward a lease that would prevent amplified music entirely. That's what has been occurring on this parking lot for the last few weekends.
 where Georgia has experimented with outdoor programming. I understand the history and we talked a little bit about the history going even back into the 90s yesterday on the tour with the development of the noise ordinance. And the noise ordinance is here now. The intention with this from the beginning has been to produce a stage
 that will have amplified music showcased on it in adherence with the noise ordinance. And the neighbors so far seem to be in support of, many of the neighbors seem to be in support of the proposal on that basis. The noise ordinance is actually, I think, fairly restrictive for this section. I hope Brian, after we vote on this amendment, will take the chance to talk a little bit about that.
 I think, too, with respect to the city attorney's concerns for the cultural arts corridor, first, it's not even going to be constructed for a couple of years. I think two and a half or three years before it opens. More than that, I'm seeing with hands showing up. So I'm not sure that's...
 A great concern right now, and even if it is, the ability for us to not renew every single year is a catch-all for any complaints that we get that we deem are justifiable complaints. It's true that we only get to act on that every 12 months, but it's there for us to use for any concerns that come up.
 The last concern from the City Attorney about whether or not it's even legal to lease a portion of a parcel. I might defer to any of the licensed realtors that are also on the council with me who have been trained in that, but this is par for the course. This is every apartment unit in the city is a lease premises that is not the entire parcel, every storefront. This is extraordinarily common.
 to do, what's important is that we have a clear understanding and meeting of the minds between the city council and between Georges about what those lease premises are. And that's why I wanted to be extra careful to explain explicitly this is not the drainage infrastructure, this is not the sidewalk, this is only the portion of the parcel that's necessary for the construction of the stage, approximately 24 feet by 30 feet.
 and most of the land simply isn't intended to be included in the lease premises. And that's for insurance purposes and maintenance purposes, that's a clear division of responsibility. I wanted to take one more chance to address,
 The desire for a longer process. Of course, there are pros and cons associated with taking on a longer process. But I don't agree that we aren't being transparent. I think we've been extraordinarily transparent. This has been all over the news. It's been discussed up and down the street. We've talked about it many times. We've had the tour. Everyone who wants to know about this at this point knows about it. A lot of people are really excited about it.
 This has been discussed and debated. I think what it seems to me that we're having a problem with is that this is decisive and fast.
 And that doesn't necessarily mean not transparent. We're doing this in the light of day, and we're actually debating it quite a bit, I think, down in the details. I think this feels very transparent to me, although I understand there's at least one person who feels like this should be about the best bottom line offer, and they're going to make a case that it's not fair. I just don't agree with it.
 I think what we're doing is very transparent and out in the open. It's just decisive.
 We've had to be decisive during COVID because weeks matter in some of our decisions, maybe not this one, but in some of them days have mattered. And I think we've had the same feelings of concern that it's not how we usually do things, but we need to make results. I favor the lease too for all the reasons that have been said. We have an out if this isn't the right move. And I'm committed to that.
 to using our hindsight and making that decision if that's what we need to do. But right now, this feels to me like the right thing. I know that we want to hear from Brian Crowney's on the line and there's also going to be public comment. So I'm hopeful this amendment will pass. For my part, I consider this amendment itself to be the decision about whether or not we would prefer to lease or to sell this land. I think that's how we memorialize our consensus. I have a question. Also, I...
 you know, in our lease, I mean, we've talked about the ability to get out after a year, but I would assume that at the end of a year, if we needed to renegotiate something, if we did have a huge problem with noise or something like that, we could also have that option to, you know, say, okay, you have to keep your noise down to a certain level, or you, you
 we want you to you know shut off the music by a certain time those are also options too and i don't think that we should just um look at it as you know once we get they get their stage built and everything that if it doesn't work we just tear the lease up and go on to something else because i think there's always a way to work something out thanks okay any other comments before we vote i have a comment all right
 I thank everybody for weighing in on whether on what they would like to do with that piece of property. I too share a lot of concerns about selling it so I'm glad we're going to it looks like we're going to go ahead and lease it if everybody's opinion sort of holds up so I appreciate that discussion. Thanks. Okay. Any other final comments before we vote on the amendment? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Thanks. Yes.
 Tert? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay now we have the amended resolution. So I guess we'll start again. Matthew what do you have anything else?
 No, Mayor, not at this time. Just ready to hear from Brian when you're ready. Okay. All right. Brian, you have 10 minutes. Are you there? Here he is. Brian, go ahead. He's connecting. Can you hear me, guys? Yep. Okay. Sorry about that. We are out in the country with bad internet. So first and foremost, thank you all for your time. And I appreciate those that were able to join us on site yesterday to look at the property.
 And I appreciate the sentiment and position of everybody involved in this. And boy, there's a lot to cover here as I was listening to everything.
 I would like to start by saying that if the lease option is voted on and improved, that my wife and I would be wanting to lease the property under the entity of Bryan Crown Holdings LLC, which owns the property of George's and not us personally. That's just a clarification that I mistakenly didn't put in our original proposal, but that said,
 For those of you that were on property with us yesterday, it was kind of fun to have a walk down memory lane with a history lesson, noise ordinances and challenges over the years. And I appreciate very much the concerns put forth about noise, times that shows would stop. But I would like to preface all this by saying that, you know, my wife and I's vision for this little piece of space is,
 Started three years ago when we thought about how could we maximize our property to program and add to the creative economy to maybe two to three, four times a year, perhaps go outside and program to our parking lot and drive traffic to this area of Dixon Street on the west side of the tracks, drive energy to Dixon Street and Powerhouse Alley.
 So even if we get this lease and we build this stage that we hope to get some sort of ROI on, it is our hope to continue to operate our business as we have over the last 17 years as owners. And the bulk of our programming is going to be indoors. It costs us a lot more money to go outside. It's a lot more risk. The weather puts us at risk.
 So this really is kind of a bridge, in my opinion, to have an opportunity to be outside in a safer environment when weather permits until we get to the other side of this pandemic and hopefully have a vaccine sooner than later. And once that happens, our programming will be focused on the inside of our business. But with or without this lease, we're still committed to programming our parking lot a
 a small beer festival, a street festival, Spring Fest comes back in a big way. We wanna have the ability to program outside. And we think that that space, the property that we all looked at yesterday together, while I appreciate RFPs being discussed, it'd be hard for me to fathom who else might wanna come in there and spend one single dollar on infrastructure to try to get a return on investment.
 And to concerns about noise, I'll jump back. You know, I promise you, I know how to get out of business really fast, and that's by being a bad neighbor. And, you know, one of the first calls that, you know, we made
 before we even did our first test concert out on the concert was to well not a call I sent a text to Ted Belden and his son-in-law Randy who owned the Dixon next to us and let them know and said you know we want to be good neighbors it's not lip service it's the truth and if you want to be long in any sort of craft or a game you know you you've got to be sincere with what you say and follow through with it and that's who we are and that's our track record and I was kind of
 I'll not just sound arrogant, but I'm going to drop the mic on that one. And you guys have the power to shut us down if we're not doing something that we say we're going to do. This truly is an experiment and having the ability to try to increase programming and revenue opportunities to sustain the business of Georgia's Majestic Lounge during this extraordinarily trying time. It doesn't guarantee that we're going to be solvent, but it gives us a chance to try something different.
 And, you know, that's what we're asking for is an opportunity to do that. And, you know, if I don't normally get stuck mid-sentence with the loss of words, but we've been in this community a long time. I've always been a man of my word. We hold up our end of the bargain. I want to be a good neighbor. We always will be a good neighbor. And that's the only way that we maintain the legitimacy of our brand as a community venue. And we're going to be long in this game. So, yeah.
 I really, really appreciate the efforts and the consideration for all of you guys involved in this. And I'm going to kind of leave it at that. And if there's any questions, you know, hit me up. Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? I have a question.
 Mr. Crowey, I very much enjoyed taking the tour yesterday. That was great. That was very nice to meet you and see what you had in mind to use that space. Would you be willing to add into some of the time limits that you told me about yesterday into the lease, just so it's very, very clear about what your intentions are? And I think it would further validate that you want to be a good neighbor. Sure.
 Am I still live? Yes. Okay, guys. I would have no problem at all putting an 11 p.m. limit into the lease. There's no programming that I could fathom I would want to touch because anything past 11 o'clock is going to be a challenge to our neighbors. You know, my goal and intent would be to be done programming any sort of amplified music by 1030. And I would also add to this that our good neighbors to the south of us at Powerhouse Seafood have been 
 running outdoor music on their stage for many, many years. So this isn't something new to this space. So yes, I would not have a problem adding an 11 p.m. end time to the lease if that were a requirement. Thank you very much. That makes me feel a lot more comfortable about the things we're discussing here tonight. What other questions do we have?
 Mayor, I'll just say quickly that I've made note of two amendments. First is to change the lessee name from Brian and Day Crown to Brian Crown Holdings LLC, and the second is to enumerate an 11 p.m. limit each night to amplified music, and I'll intend to make a motion for those after public comment. Okay. What other questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn at the mic to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Everyone stay on topic, which is the amended resolution to lease the property to Georgia's majestic language.
 So stay on that topic. Don't engage anyone from the council, anyone in the public. No rude behavior. So who would like to address this from the public? Mayor Craig Underwood is here. All right, Craig, go ahead. All right. Can you hear me okay?
 Yep. Okay, perfect. The first thing I want to start off with is number one, Brian and Day have been great neighbors on Dixon Street, and my position on the land sale of this property has nothing to do with them personally. Number two, in talking about this at hand, while I've been very, very frustrated with this situation and the lack of fairness shown in the land sale proposal,
 If the city chooses to lease the land instead of selling the land, I have no problem with that and wish Georgia all the success with that. I would say that I'm supportive of it with the condition that if the city does choose to sell the land in the future, that no favoritism is given to the person or entity that is leasing the property and that a fair, transparent
 transparent and equitable land sale process is is provided to all and based on the past past record we have all seen in this situation i strongly encourage and recommend that a condition like this be added to the lease but other than that i wish brian and day all the success with the lease that's all thank you okay who else would like to address this all right
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. I understand, Matthew, you want to add some amendments. Yes, Mayor, two simple amendments. I move we amend the lease before us so that the lessee is Brian Crown Holdings, LLC. And secondly, that in the appropriate paragraph, paragraph five, music, a new sentence is appended, which reads,
 Amplified music shall no longer be played from the stage after 11 p.m. each night. Okay. So basically no amplified music after 11 p.m. and you want to change the lease agreement to Bryan Crown Holdings LLC. Is that correct? Yes, Mayor. You got it. Okay. All right. I'll second that. Okay. What discussion do we have on that?
 Mayor, I have a comment. Sure. Thank you for making those amendments, proposing those amendments, Matthew. I'm wondering if we might be able to add another amendment, the one that Mr. Underwood suggested, where there were, if this piece of property would be, that we would choose or a future council would choose to sell it in the future, that there would be no,
 no favoritism toward the current leasy or and then it would be open and transparent. Can we is that something that you would be willing to do? And Kit, is that something that we can legally add into a contract? How does that work?
 Well, I would actually not recommend that because, as I've told the council many times, you can't tie the hands of a future council on how they're going to sell the property, although I would very much assume that that's what the council would do is be very open and transparent. This council or future councils, but...
 I don't think that really should be a part of either the resolution or the lease, because that would be kind of attempting to control what a future council would do, and I really think that's beyond your power. Okay, I withdraw that suggestion, but maybe we could just note it for the record that we did have a discussion about it. Thank you. Any other discussion on the amendment or amendments? Okay.
 I guess we'll take some public comment on the amendments. Nope, nope, nope, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. I forgot about that. All right, if there's not any other discussion, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Okay, now we're back to the amended resolution again. That's correct. So we're ready for a motion and a second. Pass the resolution. Yes. I move we pass the resolution. I'll second it. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mayor, just a point of order. Do we need to take public comments because we just passed an amended resolution? Yes.
 Well, according to the new rules that you have on the amendments, let me read those to you. The amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. That's the rules I have before me. Okay.
 Maybe I'm confused. I thought we just agreed to add those amendments to the resolution and what we're voting on now was the final resolution. That would be correct. Okay, well, let's just take some public comments and just be on the safe side. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Everyone stays on the topic. No rude behavior. Don't engage the council member or anyone in the public. Who would like to address this from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I just have one comment, Mayor. Mm-hmm.
 I would just want to thank Mr. Underwood for coming to clarify and express his support on the lease and also just to restate for the public record that if we do decide to sell the land,
 that we will have an open and transparent process for that and figure out what to do there. But I super appreciate him being patient with us as we figure out what we're going to do with that property and that he came back and shared that information because that does make me feel much better. I'll definitely support the use of the property by the...
 the crowns, they obviously know and are the experts in using, utilizing spaces. Mr. Crown did an amazing job of walking us through, and I feel like he really, you know, expressed how he can turn any piece of usable land into an entertainment space, and that is the core of a creative spirit to be able to bring to life.
 something in a space that is just really nothing. And so I have no doubt that this space is going to become very activated and very exciting for the creative economy. And with that, I will definitely be supporting the Crown's proposal and the lease for them. So thank you. Any other final comments from the council? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bench? Yes.
 her yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all number six an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning condition rzn 20-7140 located at 5152 west weddington drive for approximately 6.91 acres
 from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. This is left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Bench. Yes. Clark. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes.
 Orange. Yes. Inion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7140, located at 5152 West Weddington Drive for approximately 6.91 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Marr.
 Yes, Mayor. I don't have anything to add. Mr. Rhodes is here representing the applicant, and I did notice that he has submitted a bill of assurance for your consideration this afternoon, but I'll let him or Kit address that if it's okay with you. Okay. Thank you.
 I did receive that, Mayor. It is a standard bill of assurance, and I'll let Mr. Rhodes explain what it contains. We will need to make a slight amendment to the ordinance to recognize this bill of assurance. Okay. Do you want to do that right now?
 uh we can we would uh change or add to the current title do you want i'm sorry do you want mr roach to explain the amendment no let's go ahead and at least acknowledge it and he can explain what it is okay so do you change to the title uh you'd put a comma after intermediate urban and say subject to the bill of assurance that would be in the title on section one you do the same thing at the end of that section subject to the bill of assurance okay very good
 So we need a motion to second to do that. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to add the amendments to the title. All right. Any discussion on the amendment? Mayor, just to the title or? Yeah, I think. I think. The title and the body. Yeah. Okay. I think we'd like to hear the.
 applicant discuss the the bill of assurance before we vote on it. Well that's whatever you prefer. That's what okay. Well Robert why don't you take it away.
 Good evening, City Council. For the record, my name is Robert Rhodes, and I'm with the law firm of Hall-Estill, and I represent the applicant in this rezoning request. As I gave you a presentation at your last meeting, I'm going to only hit the highlights and tell you what has changed since we discussed this two weeks ago. I would start the thought process with the planning department's comments in the report that says...
 that it is an impractical use for this land for any of the uses that are permitted under the existing zoning classification. So with that thought in mind, this zoning request is the petitioner's understanding and salute to the city plan 2040, which calls for this area to be residential neighborhood.
 There are many reasons to support the request before you. First, it is not a mini storage. Second, it is what you want in the area in the future. We're just asking to be one of the first to do it. Third, it will give protection to Isle Creek. Fourth, it also is right next to the Weddington Corridor planning area. So as far as the future is concerned, it's quite compatible.
 And if it weren't presently compatible, then at this now fourth public reading, you would have thought you would have had some public comment. As of tonight, we've had no public comment in all four of those readings. The public comes out when things are truly not compatible. Now take all of that in and let me tell you what's new.
 The petitioner, as we've talked about, or as it's been mentioned before, has filed with the planning department and KIT, and it's been sent to you a bill of assurance, whereby in the northernmost rezoning request, which is for neighborhood services general, it will limit its permitted uses to sidewalk cafe, general business, such as a bike shop, yoga studio, accountant's office, etc.
 those type of things, which certainly seems like what folks, as in the Planning Commission, are wanting to see out there. Further, in the Bill of Assurance, even though Weddington Drive, according to the Planning Department, has plenty of capacity for this development, the applicant will commit to stub out two future street connections going east and west, thereby assuring connectivity when the other properties around it develop.
 And thirdly, the petitioner in this bill of assurance has agreed that the density will be limited to eight units per acre. With all that said, I would hope that you can vote to approve this rezoning tonight. But if not, then please leave it on this reading. I thank you in advance and stand ready to answer any questions on behalf of the applicant. Okay. Kyle, does that explain the bill of assurance? Yes. I just wanted to make sure that we...
 listed out the main criteria there. I probably won't be supporting it because I'm not a big fan of imposing density caps that are separate from the zoning large areas. We have the amendment is for. The amendment to recognize the bill of assurance. Okay, do we have a motion and second to do that? Do we got that? Okay, any discussion on that?
 Okay. Caravans, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Okay. Now we have... That's amended. Yeah, that passed. We now have the amended ordinance. Okay.
 All right. Garner, you don't have anything to add, correct? That's correct, Mayor. Happy to answer any questions. Okay. And then Mr. Rhodes is giving his presentation. What questions do we have from the council on this? All right. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Stay on the topic, which is the rezoning. It's an appeal rezoning.
 feel on the rezoning. So stay on that topic, no rude behavior, don't engage anyone from the city council or in the public and who would like to address this first from the public. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the city council. This is an ordinance, it's on the second read. Has there been any public comment on this at planning commission or anywhere through the process? Mr. Rhodes, would you like to answer that? There's been zero.
 And I think it was that way as when it came through previously as a mini storage as well. And I just want to remember that a lot of the houses that are down the strip are actually empty and some of them are boarded up. And so I don't want to take a lack of neighbor interest as an abdication of our job to...
 appropriate appropriately plan the area since this is kind of out in the middle of kind of in between some fields. So just more of that context. I appreciate the the rest of the bill of assurance, despite not voting for it over the density issue. The the guaranteed connectivity and the the business use
 I think removing the residential from the street side neighborhood services, I think are our deal sweeteners for me that make the rest of this palatable. So I know it kind of runs counter to some of the conversation we had earlier a little further out,
 there's we've run into enough challenges with this deep parcel that stretches all the way from Weddington to the creek that I think that I'm ready to to guarantee the the cross connectivity on it. Okay we're still on the second reading. I think we are. Yes. Sorry. It's okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading.
 all right now that discussion i got a little lost myself karen would you please call them for recording purposes i have that the motion was made by council member gutierrez and seconded by council member smith bunch yes turp yes smith yes gutierrez yes marsh yes canyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-7140, located at 5152 West Weddington Drive for approximately 6.91 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban, subject to a bill of assurance. Okay. Any final comments from the council?
 Mayor, I just wanted to explain that for me this one feels materially different than the rezoning slightly to the west that we reviewed early tonight because principally for me I think it comes down to allowing a mix of building types and uses within those buildings. I think that makes a real difference. I'll vote yes. Okay. Any other final comments from the council?
 I just want to appreciate the applicant really working with us and bringing the bill of assurance to help address all the issues that we've brought up. And so I feel like there's a really good faith effort there on their part. And so I want to recognize that. Okay. Any final comments from council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bench? Yes. Herb? Yes. Mann? Yes. Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay thank you all very much. All right thank you Robert.
 All right, under new business, number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-04, located north of 2262 South School Avenue for approximately 1.76 acres from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to P1 institutional.
 GARM. I'm sorry, Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, Residential Single Family, 4 Units per Acre to P1, Institutional.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to collect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor. This property is located on the east side of School Avenue, south of Cato Springs intersection with School. The reason for the request is to facilitate the construction of a branch fire station.
 The parcel is L-shaped. Fortunately, the part that is proposed for construction is, we don't have any loss of trees there, significant loss, and it's relatively friendly in terms of topography. The surrounding zoning is C2 with the exception of a little portion on the RSF4 to the north and the east.
 adopted plans it's actually designated this parcel was purchased by the city for this purpose uh before 2040 was completed so it's designated institutional um and the district would allow the use that the city intends to make of this parcel infield score 67 issues um it's an essential service
 The surrounding, the adjacent properties are designated city neighborhood, which would predict a higher density of mixed use as is appropriate for this quarter. Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 We are the applicant and Mr. Abernathy is handling this particular item and I think he's available. Don't worry if you have questions for me. Okay, Dwight? Yes, sir, Mayor. Just to reiterate what Garner says. This, yeah, this is our future fire station location and located in an area of town to serve
 a lot more uh a lot more folks and uh really not much to add but i will take any questions okay chief we've probably got about three or four minutes do you want to add anything i just wanted to uh we've got the architect online and uh counselor uterus asked about the trees and i don't believe it's going to remove any trees but if he wanted to weigh in on that or i can answer any questions as well
 Okay, we've got about, what have we got left? Yep. Three minutes? Three minutes and 46 seconds. Okay, well we'll call it four. You said you had the architect online, he had about four minutes? Yeah, he is, he's sitting here. He can weigh in if you want to, it's Audie Lack. Audie, go ahead. Okay, it's good to be here with you all tonight.
 So relative to the trees, the eastern side of the lot or uphill is heavily treed, mostly cedars and small trees. But we have no problem at all meeting the ordinance and actually exceeding the ordinance for tree preservation on this site. Okay. And I'm happy to be here to answer any other questions you might have as well. Okay. All right.
 What questions do we have in the council? I have a question. So even though we'll be able to comply with the ordinance, will there be very many trees that are cut down? Maybe on the western side of the eastern portion of that, or excuse me, the eastern side of that piece of property? So the eastern side should really be untouched.
 We do have, if you remember the diagram of the site, it is very narrow to the street side. And we are working with the detention west of the building, actually, capturing water there. So we are eroding into the western side of that tree line a little bit to do that.
 But the eastern side of that will remain a good buffer for the adjacent zoning, for the residential zoning. Just a follow-up question. So is your design of the fire station really trying to minimize any of the trees, any of tree loss? Or is there a way to retain as many trees as possible, even though I know we'll be well above the ordinance requirement?
 Certainly. We would not advocate taking out any more trees than is absolutely necessary for the development. It is a really small site and has dictated the development pattern largely. But we are going to great lengths to maintain the tree cover on the site. Thank you. Any other questions from the council?
 I have one there. I mean, obviously a fire station is totally appropriate for an institutional zone where, I mean, it's a city institution, but I'm just curious if there were any design features that necessitated the use of a P1 zoning instead of, say, a form-based zone, just to kind of flow with the predominant thought patterns that we've had lately.
 Sure. And I think that's definitely, as you say, a predominant discussion in the city. And really with the development of this building, the urban zones are a great tool. And, you know, great in the walkable environment. But it's certainly not the only tool. And it would be oversimplified to say that was the only way to create a great environment today.
 or that every development fits that ideal. So the development pattern of this, that this specific building requires,
 If you think about, you know, if Norman Rockwell did a painting of this building, you'd see a fire truck slightly protruding from the doors facing the street with the Dalmatian and a kid petting it, you know. So that iconic, the doors of the fire station with that fire truck is a psychological boom for the citizens that are paying for this.
 And so when you think about that image then, and you think about pulling a 65 foot fire truck out of that door, it requires more setback than the 25 foot build two zone that's required in the urban zones. Additionally, the depth of the building to house that 65 foot truck requires the building to be somewhat oriented perpendicular to the roadway.
 giving a difficulty in meeting the percentage of coverage. And so, you know, with that, those were two of the main items that if we did go to the urban zone, we would have to require variances for. So it comes down to the physical dimensions of the hardware that we're running in and out of there. It really does. It really does. I have a question, Mayor.
 Okay, so I'm trying to visualize it, but I don't, I didn't see in the packet anything about topography, but I know that, you know, there's the mountain behind where the trees are, the water's going to flow,
 east to west we talked about water retention happening kind of in the front but then we have the norman rockwell painting so i'm trying to imagine the norman rockwell with a pond or marsh happening or i don't know can you help me with the water sure sure yeah and i may not have been clear on the
 on the, so the regulation on detention requires a no net gain in the flow from the site. But it doesn't really say from the mass of the detention itself that that detention has to come to the front of the site. So we're actually detaining to the rear of the site, or to the rear of the fire station still well or just into the trees.
 but to the east of the fire station. And then the filtration off of the parking is actually done underground in a tank. So it won't be seen. There'll just be a manhole for the filtration unit. But the actual pond for detention to make sure that we're not flooding the neighbors will be to the east and behind the fire station.
 Great, yeah, that makes sense. Because I do agree that the trees behind are one of the best ways to keep the water going. Mostly I'm concerned about the street. You know, I live pretty near there and it's just kind of, there's a lot of, you know, it's helpful that the mountain's there so that we don't get flash flooding in the street. So I'm just trying to figure out how to keep the water flowing from the mountain into the street so we don't create some flash flooding issues. So thank you. Okay.
 Any other questions from the council? All right, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Stay on the topic, which is the rezoning of School Avenue for the fire station. Don't engage anyone from the city council or the public. No rude behavior. Who would like to address this first in the public?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Turner? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition on RZN 20-04, located north of 2262 South College, South School Avenue, for approximately 1.76 acres from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to P1 institutional. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Thanks. Thank you.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property, described in a rezoning petition, RZN 20-04, located north of 2262 South School Avenue for approximately 1.76 acres, from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to P1 institutional. Any final comments from the council? Thank you, Chief Pardon, for bringing Audie. Anybody else? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bench? Yes. Turd?
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number two. A resolution to award RFQ 20-09 and to authorize contract with Emory Safford Sons Incorporated in the amount of $52,720 to provide construction manager at risk services.
 the Maple Street Improvements Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,272 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is one of our 2019 transportation bond programs passed by the people. Okay, Matt. Matt, you need to unmute.
 Sorry about that. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. As you know, we've been working on the Maple Street project for actually a couple years now with the University of Arkansas, and we're making good progress on the design. Olson is the engineer on the design, and we're getting to the point where we're transitioning into construction phase, and we really needed some assistance with the construction manager to help us really...
 define the cost of the project and look at cost evaluations and savings, potential savings with materials or different ways of doing it. So we put out a RFQ in June and three construction managers responded and we chose, a selection committee chose Emory Sapp & Sons as the construction manager for the Maple Street improvements.
 The improvements will include new sidewalks and a bike facility on the south side from the Razorback Greenway to Garland Avenue. So about a half mile of improvements. And as the mayor mentioned, this is part of the bond project in a partnership with the University of Arkansas. What questions do we have for Matt? All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one term to turn to speak. Thank you.
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Everyone stay on topic, which is the Sap and Sons contract. Don't engage anyone from city council or in the public. No rude behavior. Who would like to address this first in public? Okay, going to bring it back to the council. This resolution, what's the wishes of the council? Move we approve the resolution. Okay.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Karen, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay.
 Number three, resolution authorize the mayor to sign a grant agreement accepting a 90-10 matching grant from the Federal Aviation Administration in the amount of $1,305,778.00.
 for the airport terminal improvements project to award bid number 20-61 and to authorize the mayor to sign a contract with CR Crawford Construction LLC in the amount of $1,289,873 for the construction of the terminal improvements to authorize the mayor to execute tax order number 14 with Garver LLC in the amount of $55,000 for construction
 phase services and to approve a budget adjustment. Summer. Good evening, everyone. So this project is a result of the findings from the 2017 energy assessment that was also funded by the FAA. During the assessment, it was determined that the facility had multiple efficiency issues. In 2018, the airport obtained a grant from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics to replace one of the two boilers that was deemed an imminent failure by that assessment.
 This grant will address the remaining issues such as the leaking windows, failing chiller, inadequate HVAC system and ducting, and the aged second boiler. Many of these items, if not all of them, are original to the building that was constructed in the late 1970s.
 90% of the funding, as the mayor said, from this project will come from the FAA. Additional funds will be received from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics, leaving the city's portion after reimbursement to be $8,909 for the completion of the project. I'd be happy to answer any questions you guys may have. Yes, what questions do we have from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one term just turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor everybody stay on topic which is the aviation grant uh no rude behavior don't engage anyone from the city council or anyone from the public who would like to address this from the public okay i'm going to bring it back to the city council this is a resolution um
 i move we have a resolution second we have a motion a second to approve the resolution care would you please call the rock fudge yes yes yes yes yes marsh yes canyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes
 Okay, thank you. All number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-01, located at 3670 West Mount Comfort Road for approximately 2.01 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Kip? It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garth.
 Yes, Mayor. This two and a half acre parcel is part of a larger vacant property located at Ruppel Road, Mount Comfort Road. As you'll see, the recent reconstruction of Ruppel created this four-way intersection. The Hope Middle School is a little bit to the north and west, and there's a cemetery across the street.
 The surrounding zoning is RA on two sides, the cemeteries are RSF. One, the other two corners are already zoned community services. The adopted plans, it's designated as city neighborhood area, specifically designated for that purpose with the hope that sometime in the future, additional services might be developed at this intersection
 So it encourages commercial uses along major corridors. Has a relatively high infill score for this far out. It's six to seven. Of course, it's currently undeveloped. It is an area that has been long coming in terms of infrastructure improvements and now is,
 finally at the point where it's probably ripe for development. The community services district also has, brings in some design standards that the conventional commercial districts don't. With that, the Planning Commission staff do recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Of course, this is a rezoning item. The zoning from staff's perspective is,
 Fairly straightforward. The development challenges as the council members that were out on the site yesterday are very complicated. With that, but those issues need to be addressed at the large scale or the site planning level. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Mr. Klopfer is representing the applicant.
 Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Hello? You'll unmute yourself. Yeah, good evening. Yes, go ahead. You have 10 minutes. Thank you. With those activities representing our client, I just want to reiterate that, uh,
 We have been in coordination with the city staff with the question that zones exist for residential agriculture to see as services. It's our understanding that this is a request. Yeah, I'm sorry. You're breaking up real bad. Okay. Can you guys hear me?
 Yeah, that's better. Okay. I just wanted to reiterate that we've been in coordination with city staff on the recent request for more residential agriculture to the CS community services. And it's our understanding that this rezone request follows the city's future master plan for zoning along the Mount Comfort Road corridor. And I'm available if you have any questions pertaining to the rezone request. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have in the council? Okay, well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Stay on topic, which is the rezoning of Mount Comfort Road. So no rude behavior. Don't engage anyone in the public or city council.
 um stay up stay on that topic of the rezoning so who would who in the public would like to address this first jim hazen okay go ahead jim good evening my name is jim hazen and i live across the street at 2160 ruble road i strongly oppose this come and go along with almost 400 of my neighbors i've sent emails to all of the council and i'm only going to cover bullet points tonight please consider these things
 This would be the only gas station not zoned C1 or C2. The possible leakage of tanker spills polluting the hamstring watershed. Mature trees being leveled as they concrete the property. Possible oil and fuel into the surrounding soil.
 This is a known archeological zone and there's no indication that they would search for any archeological items. It's a historical zone, cemetery and church across the street. It's a school zone, three schools and three preschools nearby with Holt right across the street. Safety for all our pedestrians that walk their children and their dogs. Traffic increase with delivery trucks and tanker trucks pulling it out.
 24-7 business in the planned area, the only one. This sets a bad precedent. Lights and noise 24-7. Major survey point is buried under this property. It's a major section corner for the surveys. Disrespect of grave services across the street. Distance to the new cases is only seven-tenths of a mile. Community service zoning is a flaw to allow gas stations in this zoning.
 I think it should be tabled until the zoning can be corrected. It doesn't need to be rezoned today. Council has the power to prevent negative growth. The rezoning should be delayed until future development guides the decision. And I can further address any of these points if the council has questions. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Judy Hazen. Okay, go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay.
 Good evening. My name is Judy Hazen and I live at the street of 2160 Ruppel Road. I also strongly oppose the come and go at Ruppel and Mount Comfort. Please consider these four words. Safety, traffic, lights, noise. These four words were of great concern to the current residents of 3670 Mount Comfort.
 the over 350 signees of the petition, and over 40 emails to the Planning Commission opposing the come and go. The many pedestrians, schoolchildren, bikers, families will be endangered by the increased in and out traffic, the tankers, and the delivery trucks.
 Please tend to use, people tend to use a come and go during rush hour when school buses and commuters are the busiest. Increased crime and alcohol sales are inevitable with this type of business. This also endangers our school children and residents. Middle school age children are extremely vulnerable to these dangers. This would be the only 24 seven business in our Planned Community
 As my mother always said, nothing good happens after midnight. How would you feel if your family had to endure a night of lights and noise of a come and go? We respect positive growth. Mount Comfort is a family oriented walkable community with daytime services.
 We have an active historic cemetery across the street that would be impacted by the increased noise and activity of the proposed come-ago. Did you know many of the original settlers of Mount Comfort, including Captain Dixon, who was a veteran of World War XII, or 1812, is buried there? Also several Civil War veterans are buried in Mount Comfort Cemetery.
 We do not want to be a highly commercialized Weddington. We want a place where families are glad to come home. Please, please listen to the voices of your community. And I thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, it's Elizabeth Mongo. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, this is Elizabeth Mongeau. I live at 4600 West Tupelo Way in Fayetteville. I really couldn't say anything better than what the Hazens have already said. I just reiterate all of their comments. The one additional comment that I would like to make just
 I respect the work of the Planning Commission, but I was really disappointed and felt misrepresented because so many people in our community spoke out against this reason, specifically with the come and go in mind. When folks decided to vote for it,
 It seems sort of cavalier, like, oh, it would be nice to grab milk or it would be nice to grab a Coke. But to me, that is not the purpose of the planning commission. When we look at convenience over long-term planning, we get situations like Mission and Crossover and Weddington. Areas that really don't reflect the vibrancy of planning.
 what makes Fayetteville Fayetteville the heart of it, like Dixon Street, Block Street, and the Square. So just, I would really ask you to let us develop correctly and wisely and safely out in West Fayetteville. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes to council?
 or shall we open it up for some discussion? I know you all been getting emails too. Mayor, if I may, this site is very controversial. I also want to add that there was actually an archaeological survey dig done right there at Mount Comfort Church back in the in the 90s. It actually has some site numbers so there's
 quite a bit of historical and prehistoric activity in the area. But also the number of emails that we've gotten, I would like to hold this for the next meeting and not advance it forward tonight. Okay. What discussion do we have? I'll go ahead and share my thoughts. I don't need to hold this. We can, if you really want to, but the, the,
 The amount of commentary we have gotten has made a lot of sense. I will say from what I have received in personal outreach as opposed to the large petition, it has probably been about 60-40. There are some folks who find the appeal of services here appropriate. I think that speaks well of our
 of our comprehensive plan. I'll apologize for missing the tour yesterday. Had parent-teacher conferences last night that I'd forgotten about when we scheduled that. But this is an area where I walk by about three to four times a week. So I'm real familiar with it.
 And it's the perfect location for a walkable neighborhood center, like we've designated it with a growth node. That's kind of a big, lofty, long-term dream for an area that's currently a bunch of fields. But we'll never get that if we started off wrong. And I know usually I talk about looking at all of the use cases and the density issues in any zoning area.
 and trying not to focus on the worst case, but instead look at the most likely case. In this case, I'm not sure that those are very different. We could all give a wink and a nod and pretend like this isn't all about one use unit within the zoning type, but I think it's fairly obvious that it is. And so in this case, the most likely use of this property
 Pulled up just one parcel big up to the corner is pretty obviously also the worst case that this zoning would allow. Is there a place for a gas station in this area? Absolutely. I just don't think that that's at the very center of a walkable center. CS is almost the right zone for this, but not quite because of the gas station use unit that's in it.
 And this is not a development concern. It is about the one-use unit. So it's not a new issue. The Hazens mentioned that when we discussed their property on the south side of Mount Comfort, one of the biggest things we heard from neighbors over and over was that they didn't want the all-night lights and the traffic of a fueling station. And during that conversation, they said,
 I remember asking them if, well, asking them what their plans were, and they said that they did not intend to have gas stations. I asked them if they'd put that in writing, and they said no, and I took the risk on that one. I'm not willing to take that risk this time. So I intend to, unless there's a very persuasive argument to the other part,
 Otherwise, I intend to vote to deny this until we can modify the CS zoning so that it will be more appropriate for our prominent corners in walkable areas because it's hard to imagine walkability being promoted by a facility that's sole purpose is to bring cars in, keep them for five minutes and send them out again.
 So I'd go ahead and move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. If nobody else has any comments, I'm ready to do that. Okay, we have a motion to go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Aye. Yes. Kerr? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Marsh? No.
 Kenyon? No. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. It fails, Mayor. Okay. So it'll be left on the second reading. Left on the first, I think. Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. Yes, left on the first. Okay. Do you want to have... I'll have to make that whole speech again in two weeks or three weeks. Okay. Does anybody else want to do any other comments or something? Because it'll be held here for two weeks, three weeks.
 Mayor, I'd just like to thank Mr. Hardin for hosting us on his property and letting us park there in his nice long driveway and giving us a tour. It's a very beautiful piece of property on a very busy intersection. And so I appreciate that he allowed us to go over there and visit with him there. Thank you. Any other? Okay. Let's move on to number five then.
 A resolution to approve change order number three, the contract Nelson Baird-Wolfe LLC, any amount of $90,400 for the development of graphics, identity and signage package for the five primary elements of the Cultural Arts Corridor project and to approve budget adjustment. This is one of our 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor bond projects passed by the people. So Peter, you have this one.
 Thank you, Mayor, and good evening, Council. As you are all aware, the Cultural Arts Corridor is a new 50-acre outdoor public space that, as the mayor mentioned, was approved as part of the 2019 bond package. The project will create destinations for residents and visitors, and will link many of our downtown cultural institutions, such as Walton Arts Center, Theater Squared, Eddie Momb Studios, the expanding public library,
 with the local with the University of Arkansas's art and design district on the south end of the corridor. It'll also enhance civic space and serve as a catalyst for additional development and density in our downtown. It will increase our bike trail connectivity, our pedestrian connectivity and improve overall walkability and mobility in our downtown.
 There's five primary elements included in the Cultural Arts Corridor. They are the West Avenue Civic Space on the parking lot across from the Walton Arts Center, the West Avenue Streetscape improvements, the Fay Jones Woodlands, the Razorback Greenway improvements, and the new parking deck to be located on the northwest corner of Dixon and West.
 With original support and assistance from the Walton Family Foundation's Design Excellence Program, the landscape architecture firm of Nelson Byrd Waltz was selected in 2018 to design the corridor. Construction on the first phase of the project, which is the Fay Jones Woods, the Razorback Regional Greenway, and part of the streetscape improvements along West Avenue have started, and many of you attended the groundbreaking that occurred last Thursday at the project site.
 The schematic design for the West Avenue Civic Space has been completed with construction of those elements set to begin in the spring of 2020 after the completion of the replacement parking deck. The scope of work and fees proposed for this change order with Nelson-Bird-Wolfe are for the graphics, identity, and signage package for all five of the elements of the Cultural Arts Corridor project.
 We feel that a comprehensive package of graphics, identity and signage for the project will ensure an aesthetic continuity among the distinct project areas. And with input from city staff, experienced Fayetteville and other stakeholders and Archetype, who's been selected as a sub-consultant on this project
 that will help support the branding, identity and graphic services. As part of this package, public engagement will be included, especially around the opportunities for naming of the various project elements. We envision a public naming process to first include development of an online naming tool for the project that'll include some history and context for the project, along with naming guidance and examples for the public.
 The public will then be invited to submit their own inspired names and provide a sentence or two description about why their name should be the one selected for the project.
 Then a selection committee of project stakeholders will review the submitted names and narrow that list down to a short list. And then that short list will be offered back to the public for them to vote on their favorites. And we envision that this will likely result in a process that gives us a different name other than Cultural Arts Corridor for the project. It's been a good working name for the project, but,
 We're likely to see that go, unless of course it is the winning selected name. And additionally, the Gregg Avenue Natural Area, along with the Civic Plaza, are likely to get more creative names as well.
 Additional scope elements that are included in the contract amendment include designing of the project graphics identity package and style guide that will accompany the selected names. There'll be design of the physical signage and then assistance with the signage bidding and construction administration. The maximum amount to exceed amount authorized for this change order for the work is $90,400 with funding coming from the Cultural Arts Corridor bond.
 And with that, I'd be glad to answer any questions you all have on this. I also have Zupanza from Nelson-Bergwoltz on the call if you have any questions for her. Okay, what questions do we have in the council?
 i had a question i sent to peter uh regarding the the package the identity package um and i was mostly i wanted to uh just say that i was glad to hear that they opted to go with a local uh firm uh that's actually in one that would be highly aware um of kind of the the local feel of the
 what we're talking about with Fayetteville versus a very well-known, very prominent, very prestigious design firm that I'm sure would have done a great job, but doesn't know and isn't aware of the local area. So I was concerned a little bit in terms of the pricing. The pricing did seem like a bigger outside firm pricing. And I appreciate Peter going into a little bit more detail about the process of
 of naming and all these things take a lot more time. So I'm kind of wrapping my head more around the pricing that we're talking about here. And I'm also understanding that it's including the actual physical signage as well. Is that correct, Peter? So this does not include the physical tangible signs, but it does include all the design work to get us to the physical signage we would then bid out
 um the design package that would be developed as part of this uh work um for for procurement and acquisition of those actual physical signs so no this cost does not include the physical signs themselves
 Yeah, so those will be very expensive. But I'm excited to see. I know the work of Archetype, and I'm highly aware of what they're capable of. And so I'm looking forward to seeing some very innovative, exciting branding and graphics.
 that are really going to make a huge impact for our tourists to avoid any frustration and confusion and add enlightening experience to engage with all these amenities. So I'm excited about that. Thank you very much for bringing on the local flavor. Absolutely. Okay, what else do we have? What are the questions? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Stay on the topic, which is the change order on the Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project. No rude behavior, don't engage anyone from the city council or in the public. Who would like to address this person in the public? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is a resolution, what's the wishes of the council?
 We approve the resolution. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Oh, I'm sorry. Is there any final comments? OK. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Banks? Yes. Turner? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Number six, an ordinance levying a tax on real and personal property within the city of Arkansas for the year 2020, fixing the rate thereof. And 2.3 mils for the general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund.
 3.7 mils for the federal public library operations and certifying the same to the County Clerk Washington County Arkansas. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1.
 That a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the year 2020 to be collected in 2021 for the following purposes at the following rates. Real and personal property purpose, general fund operations, levy 2.3 mils. Fayetteville public library operations, 2.5 mils. Fayetteville public expansion, 1.2 mils.
 Police Pension and Relief Fund 0.4 mils, Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund 0.4 mils for a total of 6.8 mils. Section 2, that the real and personal property tax so levied and the rates provided therefore are hereby certified to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas to be placed on the tax book and collected in the same manner that the county and school district taxes are collected,
 Section 3 at the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this ordinance in the office of the county clerk for Washington County, Arkansas.
 And Mayor, I noticed that the title does not exactly match the precise levy. It combines two of the levies for the Fayetteville Public Library in one. And so I think that even though it's probably a correct ordinance, I would still suggest an amendment to the title only.
 That would change from what it says now, 3.7 mils for the library, public library operations. Instead, it would say 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion. I think that the title needs to be amended to say that, just to be very, very clear and careful that because this ordinance is so important. Okay. Okay.
 So we need an amendment to change the title from 3.7 to 2.5 for operations and 1.7 for the library expansion. That's correct. Mayor, I'm going to amend the title as read. Sorry, Sonja. I got you. I got you. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the amendment to the title. Right. Any comments on that or discussion? Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Butch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, Paul?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. We talked about this at the agenda session. Every year at this time, we must come forward, and the Mayor recommends to the Council what should be adopted or what his recommendation is for property taxes for the property owners in Fayetteville. This year, we're recommending exactly the same property taxes as we levied last year.
 We read the resolution and that identifies those taxes. Essentially, the taxes are 1.2 mils for the library, for the bond issue, for the construction, 1 and 1 half mils for the library for operation, 0.4 mils for the old pension fund for the fire department,
 0.4 mils for the old pension fund for the police department, and 2.3 mils for general fund operations. Discussed a little bit with you last agenda session on what I believe or I forecast for the remainder of this year and roughly what the draft at this point in time, what's general fund is going to look like to me next year.
 That was done to demonstrate the fact that I believe we need these property taxes. Therefore, we're recommending the same taxes as last year, even though we suspect a revenue decline in the last quarter of this fiscal year and essentially be flat compared to that for next year.
 We don't feel it's appropriate at this point in time under these conditions to consider any additional taxes for the taxpayer in Fayetteville. Therefore, we're recommending the same property tax levy as last year, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the levy? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak the speakers allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes with staff monitor please stay on the topic which is the uh 2020 millage levy no rude behavior don't engage anyone from the city council or in the public and who would like to address this from the public okay i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes to council this is an order on the first reading yes
 It's on the first reading. The second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, I have Council Member Gutierrez making the motion and seconded by Council Member Marsh. Okay. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Bunch?
 Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 And, Norman, it's levying the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the year 2020, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for the general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion, and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County. And so...
 I suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. All right, we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Tur? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins?
 an ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2020.
 Fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for the general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion, and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Carriage, please call the roll. Thanks. Thanks.
 Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. March? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. All right. Thank you, council. All right. Number seven.
 An ordinance to prohibit fees and late charges for late payment of rent until the governor declares the end of the COVID-19 pandemic emergency and to pass an emergency clause. Kip.
 Mayor, before I read the body of this ordinance that I drafted on request or by the request of Council Member Kyle Smith, after I had looked at the issue, and even though I did notify the council during the agenda session that I thought there was some issues about its legality and constitutionality,
 Since that time, I have decided that I think that actually this is too iffy at this point in time for us to be able to pass that safely. It would endanger substantial revenues of our taxpayers if we did, even though rent was not defined in the preemption statute that the legislature had passed preempting us from affecting rent.
 It was not defined in that, and it certainly didn't talk anything about late fees. But in another title of the Arkansas code, it does define rent to include late fees. Secondly, most of the reason that I think Council Member Smith had wanted to have something like this, if possible,
 was prevent homelessness and the problems that people would also have. They had to go to a shelter with too many people there during this COVID virus pandemic that we're in now. But the federal government has at least attempted to prohibit evictions during this pandemic.
 And so the major reason I think that this was brought has been somewhat superseded by the federal government. I sent the council a memo on September 11th talking about these issues and the problems I saw with it. And my conclusion was that the state law probably removes the power of the city even to temporarily regulate rental late fees.
 and the federal government's eviction moratorium during the pandemic pandemic emergency removes much of the need for the proposed ordinance and therefore the city of favor likely does not have the legal authority nor the compelling need to pass an ordinance prohibits the assessment and collection of penalty fees for the late payment of rent during this pandemic emergency so um i could read what i had drafted up be happy to do it it's almost yes more than a page
 So I thought maybe instead of that, I would rather see this tabled indefinitely, which is probably the only thing they could do right now without me reading it, because I just think it's not safe enough for us to be able to pass that. Okay. Kyle, do you want to?
 I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question. I will ask the next question.
 and then for continuing to research it to keep us out of trouble and changing his mind. I think that based on the argument he's presented, that that is an absolutely correct and reasonable interpretation, and I'm glad that I didn't have to read through all the law to find that out for myself. Now, that said, I know that there were some folks who may have their hand up and want to speak on this. I just want to clarify, like,
 Most landlords are working with their tenants and excusing late fees. I've heard that from several folks, and I want to thank those landlords that are doing that because I believe that is absolutely true. Unfortunately, in Fayetteville, most landlords does not mean most tenants. You know, we have just a few large property managers that house thousands of people in our community, and they don't always play as nicely as most landlords do.
 When the CARES Act expired in July, it was only a matter of time. And sure enough, August 11th, I started seeing complaints and stories from residents who were seeing $10 late fees. They were interfering with the distribution of some of our assistance programs. They were racking up day after day. That's $10 a day.
 This is all while folks are rearranging their finances. Sometimes their hours at work are changing. Sometimes they're changing jobs, and that transition has resulted in delayed pay. And all of that kind of adds up, and the burden on these things always falls to the people least able to shoulder it.
 Some folks have asked me why we don't do this for utility fees. Besides all the jurisdictional issues with that, utility fees are usually charged on a monthly basis. I've heard people since bringing this forward tell me about their late fees that are up to $35 per day.
 The federal measures from the Trump administration that Kit mentioned have prohibited eviction, but they have not done anything to fund rent recovery for landlords. They have not prohibited late fees. And somebody paying $35 a day in late fees is looking at $1,000 a month just in the fees. That's going to be more than their rent.
 And by the time that exemption or that prohibition on evictions expires on December 31st, they could have racked up a bill of $3,700. All of that will be due on January 1st, New Year's Day, with no plan in place from our federal government to bail people out on that. So I do want to call on our Congress to...
 look into cleaning that mess up for people there's no relief currently and that's something that is beyond our power to uh to control and so i want to make sure that people are aware of that uh i see at least one hand up i do intend to motion to table this indefinitely but folks have been waiting around for a little while and if if there's somebody would like to speak i'd like to give them the opportunity i did try to communicate to people that i knew that this was going to happen so that they didn't hang around but
 I'll let you all decide how you want to deal with the public comment part. Could I make a comment before we take public comment? Yes. So thank you. Thank you, Councilmember Smith, for bringing this forward. And it's really unfortunate that we're not able to legally enact this ordinance.
 I wondered if the city could send a strong message through a resolution asking that these large corporations or landlords suspend charging late fees, if there was not some other option, even though it has no teeth, it's purely voluntary, but it certainly sends a message of being a good neighbor to our community and recognizing that we're in a crisis
 right now and that people are having a hard time paying their rent. Maybe a little bit of consideration and compassion would go a long way. So I just wanted to offer that suggestion to you. I could certainly draft up such a resolution for your first meeting in October if that's actually any council members request and
 So if that has been your request and probably joined with maybe with others, I can draft up a resolution and send it to you for your approval. Okay, if you prepare that with Councilmember Turk's permission, I would like to be a co-sponsor. That would be great if you could do that, Kit. Thank you. Okay, any other comments from council? So I guess we will take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. So who would like to be first? Mayor Greg Brown is here. Okay. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 uh good evening mr mayor and uh ladies and gentlemen of the council um it sounds like most of what i had to say probably doesn't need to be uh stated here so what i will say is that i had prepared a discussion of the legality of this particular ordinance um and what i what i want to do is just sort of not say everything that i intended to say but rather instead uh thank uh
 City Attorney Kit Williams for the research on the project. My research, I am an attorney. I want to identify myself as general counsel to the Northwest Arkansas Board of Realtors. And I'm here tonight on behalf of the Board of Realtors.
 and again, had prepared a fairly in-depth discussion of the legality and constitutionality of this action. But again, Kit Williams has already done that. Kit, thank you so much for the research and I wanna thank everybody for the effort that's been put into this. I do believe that had the city chosen to take action on this issue, it would have been in violation of state law
 and likely the Contracts Clause of the Constitution. And I'll just leave my comments at that, thank you. Thank you. Kristen Bensinger. Go ahead.
 Yes, ma'am. And I am speaking on behalf of the Fayetteville Housing Authority, coming to show support, not necessarily just for this particular concept, but in general for the idea of continuing to find ways to support not only our residents who are at risk for becoming homeless, but also for our community partners who provide housing, and those are our landlords.
 I believe both Kit and Councilman Kyle Smith pointed out that the landlords are not getting assistance in order to continue to provide housing, even though our residents may not be losing housing.
 still have to be paid. And so our community members and those that we consider at the Housing Authority are community partners who partner with us to provide housing through Housing Choice Vouchers and through Section 8 vouchers, as they're commonly known, do not get any funding at this point from the federal government in this gap. So the executive order, which has been put in place, basically has frozen the housing
 A funding stream. There is no funding stream for these landlords and the reality is exactly what was explained by both our city attorney and by the council member that on January 1st, there will be a huge bill, which likely won't be paid.
 because it's not possible for it to be paid by a resident and a landlord will be left holding the bag. So it's a lose-lose situation all the way around. We're prolonging a situation which is not what we want to do. So I appreciate that we continue to talk about these tough issues. I know we don't have a resolution at this point, and this particular issue is a challenging one, but I do think that if we stay at the table, including...
 being the housing authority as a member, trying to find solutions, including finding CARES Act funding to help bridge some of the gap. City of Fayetteville is never going to be able to solve the problem on its own. It's going to take state, it's going to take federal government, and it's going to take all of this coming together. But I appreciate the spirit with which this was brought to the table.
 And so that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. All right, I'll bring it back to the council. Well, as promised, Mayor, we'll move that we table this indefinitely. Second. We have a motion and a second. Table indefinitely. All right. Any further discussion? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Terp. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Barsh. Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have just a few. I did announce last time that we will be starting our fall bulky waste cleanup. All of the information is on the website. But to remind everyone.
 Beginning this Saturday and for the subsequent four Saturdays, I'm sorry, this Saturday and subsequent three Saturdays, Ward 1 through 4 will host these different bulky waste cleanups. This Saturday, Shaver Foods parking lot and each Saturday, recycling and trash collection facility. But I just encourage everybody to check their location depending on the ward they live in. And those will be held from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. each Saturday for the next four Saturdays.
 Secondly, our annual celebration of trees, the tree giveaway, it's the 22nd annual. That will be occurring on October 24th, Saturday, in the Spring Street parking deck, beginning at 7 a.m. until the different trees are given away. We have many species, as we always do, a great time for planting in the fall. Also, we have...
 have put out the media release and brought attention to the fact that it is time to renew business licenses from now and through October 31st. And the exciting thing is you can do so now online with our new online portal. It's a really easy to use customer interface. Encourage you to check that out. Information on the website. And finally, there will be a blood drive tomorrow on the square between 9 and 3.
 the Community Blood Center of the Ozarks is requesting anyone who can to please give blood thank you man
 Okay, anything else mayor Jordan? I had one thing that I wanted to announce that two people in the city clerk's office Kim Johnson and Gina Mathis were awarded to scholarships through the Arkansas City Clerks and Reporters and Treasurers Association These scholarships are at two hundred dollars apiece which allowed them to go through their full certification course This year in 2020 good wonderful. Wonderful. I
 Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.