I would like to call the City Council meeting of September 19, 2017 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Present. Here. Present. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All righty then. Good evening, everyone. We have the first order of business. We have nine reports, and the first one we have is the nominating committee report. Mark? Yes, we had, again, just incredibly... talented pool of applicants and I always say this and I think you've heard it for years but having an engaged community is what sets Fayetteville apart and we know this in the nominating committee because we get to see people firsthand and talk to them about their interests and being on an advisory committee to the City Council so it's quite a pleasure although it's always tough But it's a pleasure to submit this slate of nominees to City Council for consideration. For the Active Transportation Advisory Committee, Steve Frankenberger, one community citizen at large term ending 12-31-19. And Laura Cantor, one unexpired community citizen at large term ending 12-31-18. Thank you. For the Energy Improvement District number one, we are leaving the vacancy there. I certainly want to encourage people to look at the opportunities and the skills that they could bring into that improvement district. For the Fayetteville Arts Council, we have Peter Croken, one unexpired arts and cultural citizen at large term, ending 6-30-19. And we also have a vacancy for a working artist. So we have an unexpired working artist term ending 6-30-19. The Telecommunications Board, Ari Bazin, one citizen at large, unexpired term ending 6-30-21. For the Town and Gown Advisory Committee, we will have a vacancy for board one resident term ending 9-30-19. Donna Daniels. Ward 3 resident term ending 9-30-19. And we'll have a vacancy for a University of Arkansas student ending 9-30-19. I submit this to the City Council for consideration. Alan. Make a motion to approve the slate of nominees. Senator Marsh. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the nominating committee report and accept the nominees. Second. Sandra would you please call the roll no yes yes yes yes yes yes the next or business we have is the Ozark regional transfer report on public transit and Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the council, my name is Jeff Hatley. I'm the public information officer with Ozark Regional Transit. I'm here to give you a periodic report of transportation in Fayetteville and northwest Arkansas at large. Our ridership is still down quite a bit for the year. That's obviously stemmed from the major fire we experienced back in January, but it's only down 15% from January through August. So that is actually looking better and better every month. We were down, I believe, about 30% in February of this year. So those numbers are starting to be restored. We initiated a policy back on June 5th of this year to allow veterans with any kind of government-issued ID to ride our fixed route system for free. And since that time, almost 5,000 veterans have taken advantage of that. We've had 4,863 veterans ride since June 5th. 375 of them rode just last week. So that's been a very positive program. We are in the process of purchasing buses, obviously to restore our fleet. Since our fire we had, we've borrowed and been actually granted some buses. Razorback Transit actually gave us two buses and some other transit systems have given us buses. But we've leased and borrowed and things in order to keep public transportation going in Northwest Arkansas since January 10th. But we're in the process of using some of our insurance funds. to purchase replacement vehicles. And rather than go through the whole bidding process, we are, they told me not to use this term, but piggybacking off of Oklahoma's, since they've already put out the bids and the specs and everything, we're just going to be, it's a coordinated purchasing agreement with the Oklahoma Transportation System. And we're going to be getting eight buses out of that deal. The first five are expected in November and the remainder by January of next year. We're also looking at other similar opportunities like that just to save time and get more buses on the road because a lot of the buses that we do have leased and borrowed, they're temporary. case in point is the Dallas Area Rapid Transit. I don't know if y'all have seen the large metro buses that are kind of yellow on each end and white in the middle, the big metro buses. Those are on lease from Dallas Area Rapid Transit, and we're going to have to start giving those back, four of them, in December. So the five that we received from this Oklahoma deal in November is going to help offset the ones that we have to start giving back. And we're going to have to start giving back a lot of those and cancel those leases and get more things in our name. One especially positive thing going on, we've got the Walton Family Foundation has given us a grant to do a feasibility study for light bus rapid transit in northwest Arkansas. And basically what that would be would be, if we have all our wishes come true, 12 buses going north and south on Highway 71 business all day long, six going north, six going south. The numbers have come back in late June. The stakeholders kind of got asked some questions and wanted the consultants to look at some different things, so they've gone back to the drawing board and looked at everything altogether, and they put out another survey for people to – put out to fill out and we had over 550 people actually respond to that survey. So I tell people all the time what's more exciting than public transit transit, but a survey about public transit. But people in Northwest Arkansas have actually responded quite a bit. The consultant said that's almost an unheard of number for that. So we're very excited about the results of that coming out later on this month and hopefully we will present that to the stakeholders and get some direction on that. And with that, I'll just leave it up for screening. One question. John. I agree. Writership and statistics can be very dry. But you said something that hit a card. And I want to try to bring some warmth to your statistics. Excuse me. We just pledged allegiance to the flag of the United States. I'm listening to an audio book by Bill O'Reilly called The Killing of the Rising Sun. It's about World War II and what the soldiers went through in that war. The USS Indianapolis transported the world's first atomic bomb to where it was loaded onto a plane and then dropped on Japan. I know we'll differ on the right and wrong of that, but that ship was torpedoed, and the 800 men that went into the water that night, 300 of them survived. They were in the water five days. And to hear Mr. O'Reilly's account for that brings a tear to my eye when I stare at that flag and realize the cost. that those men paid for us. Thank you for letting veterans ride at no charge. I strongly support that move. Thank you. Thank you. I spoke to a veterans group the other day, and I think they were very appreciative and definitely knew some people who could definitely use that service just to be able to get around and get to some other services and not make it so difficult. So, yeah, we're happy to do that. Any other comments or questions from the council? Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Keep up the good work. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is a consent agenda. Number one, approval of the September 5, 2017, City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the Fire Department from Washington County in the amount of $8,476 and increasing the related expense budget. Number three, a resolution to award bid number 17-51 and to authorize the purchase of Class AB uniform from Cruise Uniforms and Equipment Incorporated as needed through 2022 at an estimated cost of $29,307.45 per year for use by the fire department. Number four. A resolution authorized acceptance of a 9010 assistance to firefighters grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the amount of $110,001 for the purchase of a mobile car. Lost my place, y'all. cascade system trailer for the fire department and to approve a budget adjustment to provide for matching funds in the amount of $10,999 and the project intensity in the amount of $18,150. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 17-61 and authorize a contract with benchmark construction of NWA Incorporated in the amount of $263,800 for construction for Phase 1 of the removal and replacement of windows at City Hall and to approve the project contingency in an amount of $50,000. Sarah. Will we accept the consent agenda as read? Do we have a second? John. I second it, Mayor. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? LeTour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Patty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Max? Yes. Okay, thank you. Under unfinished business, we have none. Under new business, number one, a resolution to authorize the mayor to sign a grant offer accepting a 90-10 matching grant from the Federal Aviation Administration in the amount of $25,740 for an airport... energy efficiency assessment to authorize the city attorney to certify the grant agreement and to approve a budget adjustment Who has that? Council so the goal of this grant is to identify energy efficient projects at the airport and then to be able to apply for subsequent grants pertaining to those findings from the assessment This is a new FAA program for sustainability that they're offering, which we discovered at a conference late last year. This is a 90-10 grant, and then the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics will be picking up the other 10% of this grant, which leaving the cost to the city to be a zero balance. Okay. Okay, what questions? Okay. That was good. I'm having one of those evenings, aren't I? What questions do we have? All right. What public comment? do we have all right thank you sarah i move we approve the resolution mark i second we have a motion second to approve the resolution any final comments from the council okay sondra would you please call the row yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay Number two, a resolution to authorize a contract with Carlston Construction Company, a corporate pursuant to an RFQ 1712 for construction manager at the risk services for the federal public library expansion and renovation projects to approve phase one pre-construction services in the amount not to exceed $110,000 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $15,000 for phase one. Paul. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We're bringing forward a recommendation to approve and enter into a contract with Crossland Construction for the pre-construction phase of the library expansion. Thank you. We have two methods that we could approach this in. One is a standard method where an architect designs the structure, bid it out, and take bids from the contractor, and it's set in that manner. However, we've chosen to go at the construction manager form, which means we get a construction manager on board. They collaborate with the architect. do value engineering, do the costing to ensure in fact that we can afford what's being designed and constructed. So you get them on board early in the pre-construction phase, you do cost analysis, you do value engineering, you get the product, and then phase two would be for that contract manager to submit a guaranteed maximum price to construct the facility. We feel that this is the best way to get the best value and the best product at the end for this construction project. We had a selection committee. Crossland was, in fact, selected. There were ten firms that submitted proposals, some very, very good proposals, shortlisted to four and interviewed them, and it was felt that Crossland Construction was in the best position to do this construction work for us and to serve as construction manager. With that, I'll be happy to entertain any questions. What questions do we have? John. Good evening, Paul. Good evening, John. As you know, I'm a strong proponent of competition. I think competition protects taxpayers as well as consumers. Tell me, how are we going to inject competition into this cost system that we're implementing for the library? Will there be competition? Will there be bidding at some point? Well, sure, there will be competition. And in essence, what the contract manager does, John, bids it out to the subcontractors. The subcontractors then submit bids to the construction manager. We here at the city will see those bids, the purchasing department will be that. So we'll ensure ourselves we get the minor bids, we get the lowest bid to do the work. If the construction manager wishes to bid on a phase, they can do that, but they have to submit a bid just like anybody else. So there is a bidding process all along the way, and again, This is a good way because we do value engineering at the beginning. We see what those costs should be This is a good way to ensure that That we see this lowest cost because each of those phases is bid it out to a subcontractor Rather than receiving one bid by one contractor. I I'm very glad to hear that, and I agree with your position that value engineering in the design stage is an important aspect of this process. I just didn't, in your first presentation, I didn't hear anything about bidding or we chose another route, so I'm very glad to know there's bidding along the line. Thank you. Paul, have we used this on any other projects in the city? We have. We used that at the library. When we did that, we learned from that on how to proceed and how to use it. better to our better advantage on it uh... i believe it was successful at that point in time uh... this will be successful i think we'll get the best product for the lowest cost of taxpayers remember this is almost a fifty million dollar project by the time it's completed so i think we need to go uh... carefully and as prudently as possible you have questions from the council you have a public comment seen a bright back to the council Sarah, would we approve the resolution mark? I second that we have a motion in a second to approve the resolution Any final comments from the counts? So under would you please call the roll? Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes Yes, yes, okay number three. I A resolution to grant the appeal of City Council Member Sarah Marsh and to deny the Federal Housing Authority's application for a large-scale development. Sarah, I believe you have this one. Thank you, Mayor. The approval of the Planning Commission's approval of Morgan Manor, or I should say the entire application process, was a very controversial one. And I received a lot of... concerns from the community about what was happening. And if you look at the notes from the planning commission, you'll see that they stretched this out for the maximum number of meetings because they were really struggling with this deliberation. And ultimately, Five commissioners voted in support, two voted against, and two abstained because they did not feel comfortable making a decision, and they wanted this to come before the city council for additional review. So I think in that instance, it is prudent for us to take a closer look at this decision. In speaking with some of those... Commissioners, they stated that this really should be more of a larger policy discussion as opposed to being just limited to the six criteria that they are unable to consider. But again, we're also limited to that consideration as well. But I think some important things to note here is that initially this project was sold or was represented to the Planning Commission as a non-profit low income housing development. It has come to light through the Freedom of Information Act request that several diligent citizens have done that actually this is in fact a private for-profit development and that the applicant misrepresented the project against the advice of their attorneys for their own financial gain. And while there are many concerns about the lack of public process and transparency, compliance with HUD guidelines, issues of concentration of poverty, et cetera, we really have to look exclusively at the Unified Development Code and this project's compliance or lack thereof. I found two areas of concern, and that would be that the proposed development would violate a city ordinance, state statute, or federal statute. and also that the proposed development would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition. Looking back at the Planning Commission's notes, I would like to point out that Commissioner Hoffman determined that the proposed elevations did not meet our design standards. And that the units did not in fact open into a public space as our codes require. There were also issues with fenestration or lack thereof basically creating a blank wall along the residential streets. COMMISSIONERS HOFFMAN AND QUINLAND RAISED VERY GOOD POINTS ABOUT THE INADEQUATE DRAINAGE INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WAS PROPOSED AS WELL AS THE REQUEST FOR A CITY'S COST SHARE ON THAT INFRASTRUCTURE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WOULD REALLY ONLY BENEFIT THAT PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT. Commissioner Quinlan spoke about the lack of pedestrian connectivity to downtown and essential services. Basically, we're going to be moving an at-risk population to an area that is only accessible by two substandard streets, one of which does not meet fire code, doesn't have the 20-foot required width, and this is a three-story building. So this is a building that would require large fire apparatus if we were to need to service it. And also the lack of sidewalks and you're moving the children over a mile further from their elementary school and they would no longer have sidewalk connectivity to that. And the primary access to this development is not served by school buses because of the substandard street. So with those, having raised those main points, I know that there are several residents from the community and one of our planning commissioners who came to shed a little bit more light on their discussions, and I'd like to turn it over to them. Okay. Let me ask you one question, sir. You said it – did you say it violated some federal states? Well, there is a letter saying that they did not – Violate HUD guidelines, but there's also nothing saying that they were in compliance with those guidelines Because they failed to notify HUD or create the appropriate paper trail in order to liquidate the Willow Bend Development which is basically there they want to move all of these residents of the low-income housing. Sorry Willow Heights and Into this other housing, so we're not creating really any new affordable housing units. We're relocating residents and they were required to notify HUD of their intention to sell the property. They should have had a. They should have done a feasibility of rehabilitation study on the property, which was not done. They should have solicited input from the residents, which was not done until after this property was under contract. They should have had an independent appraisal of the property done, which was not done. And they did not offer to sell the property for public bid. So there's a lot of... lack of appropriate public process that was followed here a lot of Misrepresentation of who this development group was and what their intentions were and who was going to profit and overall It's just a bad deal for our city, and it deserves greater scrutiny, and our hope tonight is that we can send it back to the drawing board and start the process over now that we actually know what's really going on and have that transparent process that our citizens expect, and we really have the... responsibility to ensure happens so you're basically saying the process was flawed the process was absolutely flawed and um you know we have a very at-risk population here and there they were not included in the decision um as to what was going to happen with their dwelling units and they're trying to relocate them to a site that does not have the connectivity that they currently live in. And these are people who are heavy pedestrians or transit users. And to put them in an area of town where they can't safely walk to access schools, grocery stores, public services. Substandard infrastructure. It's substandard infrastructure. And so I think that there were a lot of concerns in this, and I applaud the planning commissioners for really raising the red flag and saying, hey, we would like the city council to provide additional scrutiny of this decision. And so that's what we're here to do tonight. Okay. Any comments, questions from council? John. So I guess this is a question for Sarah. Sarah, if we vote for this resolution, we're saying we're just going to start the process over? We're not saying you can't do it. We're saying that what they've currently proposed is not acceptable, and we want to start the process over. And so come back with a clean proposal that clearly meets our guidelines, that is not asking for cost shares on the public's dime for a private for-profit development, and be transparent about what is going on here because the process that has happened up until this point, I mean, I've been reading through the Freedom of Information request for the Fayetteville Housing Authority, and it's shocking the negligence. that was witnessed there and I think that it's our responsibility to say stop, let's go back to square one and let's do this process right and protect the assets of the housing authority and the interest of the residents as well as the neighborhood that they're trying to dump these people into. Well, if they weren't forthcoming, if there were some inaccuracies or misrepresentations, we may have a chance to correct that but I will not fault them for being for-profit. We just committed to give a $50 million project to a for-profit organization. What's wrong with that? Right. Well, they came forward and represented themselves as being a non-profit. Okay. Well, I would have a problem with misrepresentation. I agree, as would you. Yeah. And so I think – and then they've changed their design midway through the application process and did not – submit uh... the new drawings to planning commissioners so they were making decisions on incomplete information uh... and just the process here is is rotten and we need to shine a spotlight on it make sure that we do our due diligence and we check all of our boxes and comply with all the laws how much will it cost the applicant to start from ground zero how much will they lose any idea well the applicant here i'm sure they are i thought we would keep it internally So you want to hear from the applicant now? Well, I'd like to know how much is he going to lose. I just need to get some direction here on what you all want. Usually we have these little discussions and then we open it up to the public, but we can work it any way you want to, John. I'd say at some point they've been accused of not being forthcoming with us and representing themselves incorrectly. I'd like to hear from you. Sure. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. I guess, well, I think if we're appealing an approved large-scale development, we should... the development proposal needs to be presented at some point by staff and by the applicant, just like it would at the Planning Commission. But secondly, I was under the impression that this proposal was more or less shipwrecked whenever The loans were not approved from the Arkansas Development Finance Authority. Yeah, tax credits. And I'm looking through the crowd, and I don't see the chairman of the housing authority who's typically represented this project in the past. In any case, I'm wondering, is this project even on the table still, or has it been withdrawn by the applicant, or is it just hanging out there? Well, it was approved by our planning commission, and based on the feedback from my constituents, they wanted me to do my due diligence and make sure that this project was dead. Therefore, the primary applicant right now at this moment is Sarah because she's bringing the appeal forward, but I will get the—if everybody will hang on, we'll get some more folks up here to answer some more questions. And I would like to note that I am making the appeal in the name of Citizen Melissa Terry, who is here to speak this evening. All right. Now, so as a matter of procedure, does the five-minute rule apply according to what was passed by the council with everybody that speaks from this point in time on? I just want to be sure I'm clear on that because this is... I think it could if the applicant is here and needs more time than, you know... Normally, they would be granted unlimited time since it's their burden. But this is a little different. I don't know if the applicant is here, but if they're here, then I'm sure the city council has some questions for them. Is the applicant for the development here? Let's start with that. No. Well, not going to be very many questions answered tonight. Okay. Okay. Well, I think, Melissa, you would be the next speaker because Sarah said that's Melissa is the applicant. Yes, I was informed by our attorney's office that I needed to file the appeal on behalf of a citizen. All right. All right. So my name's Melissa Terry. I live in South Fayetteville. Thank you very much for hearing our concerns and for bringing forward the appeal. Myself and a few others who have done some really diligent research on this project would like to speak. So I won't go on for long and try to stay within the five minute mark. Mainly, I came into this discussion as a neighbor who was uninformed and unaware about what was going on until one of our city councilors asked me what I thought about it. And I was like, I don't even know what you're talking about. And so in April, I went to one of the board meetings, and I lived, our house is almost exactly between Morgan Manor and Willow Heights, so I guess you could say I'm a Yimby, because I like that they're in my backyard, and I want to preserve that. And so I went to put an ear to the meeting, just because I couldn't answer the question, since I didn't know anything about it. And then when I got there, One of the first things that I asked, kind of to Councilor LaTour's point, was why are we selling, proposing to sell this development and build something brand new further away from our walkable resources when our top goal is revitalization and infill? And the response was that it was too expensive to do any repairs. And so I said, I asked, how do you know that it's too expensive? Did you get any bids? they didn't get any bids and so i was like well that's not how science works like you need to get some bids to make database decisions right for what it would cost so moving on from there and just looking at what the proposal is as it stands for morgan manor that all that process also did not go out for bids And right now, the proposed budget is $8.65 million for this project, which Councillor Marsh has articulated some of the problematic pieces of that. Whereas what we've discovered through FOIA is that the Housing Authority actually did do something. estimate for what it would cost to repair Willow Heights and it there by their own estimate it would cost 2.1 million to renovate it and bring it up to standards in addition to some additional funds that we've identified that could be used to further revitalize that site so we've got a proposal on the we've got an estimate for 2.1 million That supports our top city goal. And then we have a proposal for $8.65 million to build a brand new development that doesn't meet our design standards, that doesn't have applicable or doesn't have working streets. Our school district won't send the bus down Washington Avenue. I called today to confirm that. and the bus can't even go down there. So that should tell you something. So basically we're looking at, you know, the quick math, $6.5 million difference in what exists and what can be revitalized and what is being proposed for new development. And so just from even a fiscal point of view, setting aside the social justice pieces of it, just from a fiscal point of view, this doesn't seem like the best deal for our city. So Sarah also mentioned that there was some confusion about who the owners would be, and so I thought it was the Housing Authority, and then when we got into the tax credit application, what we found was that the owner was proposed to be this Tax Credit LLC, Tax Credit Equity LLC, based out of Ohio. All of the funds that are coming into this proposed project, to your question about what's the current investment in the design as it is, so the Housing Authority has been paying RAD conversion specialists $2,000 a month since May of 2015. So, we are $58,000 into consulting fees and their specialty is this type of development. So as you can imagine, they're not getting additional advice. They're getting this one piece of advice that this is the way that you should do it. So that's part of the process that Sarah was talking about, Councilor Marsh, that just makes it a little sloppy. Given the nature of the constituency of our neighbors and the affected population, I think that the Sunshine Laws are there for a reason, and thank goodness, because we were able to discover some of these things. but that our goals express our expectations for our community, and if they don't apply to everybody, then they really don't apply to anybody. And so I would just encourage you guys to, like you said, I was confused about whether this project was still even applicable because, you know, The tax credit application was denied, but then the board chair went on the evening news and said that they were going to proceed. And so that's the reason we're bringing this forward, just to create like a definitive hard stop in this conversation so that we can start anew and do it the way that our community expects. Thank you. John. Melissa, if you have something else to add, I'd request that you come back and finish your statement. Well, we have to have a motion and a second from the council. I move to give a additional two minutes. Are you done? Yeah. Well, we need... Well, I need to ask you a question. We need it. Okay. This is just a question. I'm not asking questions. All right. It sounds like she doesn't need it. Okay. All right. Seven of the planning commission members did not vote against this project. Five of them voted positive, and then another two wouldn't vote at all. I mean, what you're describing, what Alderman Marsh is describing, sounds like a lot of people would vote against it. I'm feeling uneasy scratching this without hearing from the other side. So far we're only hearing one side of the organ. I'm not sure why they're not here. I'm not sure why they're not here. They were, I mean, it's a public... I mean, I'd rather table this instead of give them up and come and answer our questions and let's see what they have to say. Because what you're describing and what Alden Marshall is describing sounds egregious. If that were the case, I can't believe that seven of our planning commission meetings did not come up with a case. Well, John, I might be able to explain that a little bit. As Alderman Marsh, or I'm sorry, City Council Member Marsh has stated, and what I've said for the last 15 years, I've got an old memo saying it, that when something is coming up for decision, a large-scale development or preliminary plat, The only things you can consider are the six things that are listed within the Unified Development Code, and wisdom of the project is not one of those. Proper procedures that the owner might have gone through, that's not part of it. Whether you like the project, that's not part of it. That's not your discretion. you must simply look at the Unified Development Code and see whether or not they've complied with the minimum standards that the city council has set in the Unified Development Code. Now, when planning looked at their project and looked at whether or not they felt like they had complied with the minimum standards, the planning department thought, yes, they had. The one project, one part, one factor that has much more discretion for either the planning commission or the city council is whether or not it would create or compound a dangerous traffic situation you need some facts for that it can't be can't be factless but it still provides much more discretion on the body to decide the issue than any of the others which are basically just check the box now there was also an issue at the at the planning commission level about whether uh not the two uh apartment building, but whether the community building was required to meet urban design standards. And I'll let Andrew discuss that as he did then because that's his area, not mine. But that is why Even though the planning commissioner listened to Melissa Terry and many, many other people, and maybe most of them felt like this was just not a good idea, that really is not something that they could base their decision on. They need to find problems in the Unified Development Code And if they can, then it can be turned down. I will say at the end of all this, when you come to vote, if you're going to vote yes on the resolution to deny the large-scale development, please kind of give me at least a brief explanation of what it is. You can talk about traffic safety or something else so that we have something in the record about why it was denied. Okay. John, do you have any other questions? I still feel uneasy not hearing the other side of the story. We're only hearing one side of the story is the problem. And maybe, Melissa, maybe you're exactly correct. Maybe all city councilwoman Marsh is exactly correct. I just don't know. You know, I feel like we're a little bit of a judicial process here and we're just hearing one of the parties I need to hear from the other party if they if they if they want to keep it going Maybe it's dead. Maybe they moved on and maybe they're open Fort Smith building something else down there Who knows but maybe we should wait till next City Council Meeting and let's give them a call and say look if you want to save this come and tell us you want to save it and tell us why and make your case and But so far, we've only heard one side of the case. Sure. That's what bothers me. It's this process. Right. Yeah, I have no idea why they're not here. I mean, it's... Nobody does. Right. But I guess they know. I guess, yes. But it seems to me their absence suggests maybe they're not interested in the project anymore, so maybe you've won. Okay. Yeah. To your point. I think that the goal is for the community to win and be able to facilitate the progression of low-income housing in a way that is a progressive conversation and then includes everybody. So I certainly support the housing authority participating. And, again, I have no idea why they're not here. All right. Well, I would like to see us slow it down and give them an opportunity to come and make their case. So far we haven't heard it yet. Do you have any more questions for Melissa? That's all. Okay. Thank you, Melissa. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I agree with John. You know, I want to hear what everybody has to say, but I think it's going to be more effective for you and for the council to hear it side by side with the original applicant of the project. So I'm going to make the motion at this time that we table this until the next meeting. And the reason I'm doing that is to give the applicant every chance possible to be here. I note that I do this with some irony because of the... The claims of public nature or the manner in which their business was conducted, I think, at their meetings were not properly advertised to their residents and so forth. But I think it's incumbent upon us to give them every chance to be here anyway. Okay. So you're making the motion to table for two weeks? That's correct, Mayor. Sarah? I would want to make sure that the people who did come to make public comment tonight have a conversation. I'm going to address that. I just want to be sure we're all headed in the right direction. John? I will note that if it's tabled right now, then this agenda item is off the table and we can't listen to anybody. Before we vote, I was going to get some public comment if everybody will hold their horses a minute. Give me a second. All right. Now let's continue with the public comment. Does anybody have anything they want to say tonight? But this is probably going to be tabled for two weeks. Everybody has a five-minute limit. You get one turn at the microphone. Keep your comments addressed to me because I'm running a meeting such as it is. So unless a council member has questions for you or makes a motion to give you more time and they get a second by majority vote of the council, you can have more time. Has everybody got that? I'm sure that's clear. All right. Yes, please introduce yourself and address. Yes. Hi, my name is Angela Belford. I am the board chair of the Northwest Arkansas continuum of care. However, I speak as an individual tonight today. I'm a community advocate. I created the website for the Fayetteville Housing Authority and Attila Berry is The editor of my book. I literally love everyone It's been a very complicated process for me through trying to navigate this because I believe the very best about everyone and I've been in meetings with the Fayetteville Housing Authority and I believe that while this is is some very, the process is shocking. I also believe in the very best intentions of people. I want you to know that you can't spell community without the word unity. The Northwest Arkansas Continuum of Care, our mission is coordinating a community-wide response to end homelessness in Northwest Arkansas. We are gathering data to create a comprehensive strategic plan Don't pretend to know the answer about Willow Heights But as someone that has been a client of Salvation Army when I was 14 and many of you know this I Can tell you that the more that you diversify someone's social network the better chance they have of breaking the cycle of poverty The better chance they have of standing up here 30 years from now and saying I used to be that girl so I would ask that we come together and to gather data and create a strategic plan. I don't care about blaming anybody about who did what or when or how or why or what anybody's intentions are, but I would simply ask that this is Fayetteville, and we're awesome, and Fayetteville really is my favorite bill, and that's because we're creative and we're collaborative and we're unified, and we owe it to the least of these to make sure that we are the very best place for every citizen. If we're the number three, I think we're number one best place in America to live, it has to be the case for everyone. And so I know that you plan on tabling this. I really, I appreciate the wisdom of that. I really do. But I wanted to make sure. I'm traveling actually to attend some further training to learn how to create the strategic plan for homelessness. And I would guess that many of these clients that are at Willow Heights probably would have been part of my strategic plan at some point in their life. So anyway, thank you for your wisdom. Thank you for your guidance. But let's create some. Gather data to create a strategic plan. Okay. Thank you. Angela. Is there anyone else? I Mayor Jordan and city councillors. My name is Ali Quinlan for the for the record and it's unusual that I would be here speaking with you All but this has been an unusual project and application and there were a few items I thought it might be helpful to to be here to clarify. I appreciate mr Williams description of the struggle that I certainly saw as the Planning Commission decided how how and how how to best weigh in on this and i will state that it was definitely made clear to us that it would be appealed to the city council prior to our final vote which i do would conjecture did probably make a difference in that vote The few items that we really specifically had concern with, we tabled the item several times waiting to hear. It appeared to us early in the application process that the sale of the Willow Heights property below market value to a private developer off market didn't meet federal statutes, which is one of the reasons that we would be allowed to deny a project. And so Mr. Williams was kind enough to look into that with HUD for us, although as I said City Councilor Marsh stated the HUD's letter back to the city did not state that the project complied. It stated that the project had not been reviewed. The sale of that property had not yet been reviewed and so they couldn't weigh in on whether or not that complied. In a separate FOIA request independently before I talked to Mr. Williams about this, I had asked HUD directly whether they would send any documentation they had related to the sale of that property just so that we could confirm that everything was okay. And that was the point at which they stated they were unaware of the sale of the property. They were unaware that the city was under the law. Fable Housing Authority was under contract to sell that property. So I do think that item as a federal statute should still be considered by you at some point. That the two items more directly to our conversation at Planning Commission And the reason I believe that the two of us who did vote against it did the first one was the whether or not that project meets our architectural design standards There's a large community building that's right on Wood Avenue that does not have any windows or doors face out onto Wood Avenue Which does not meet our architectural standards, which Commissioner Hoffman brought up as he brought that up it was brought to our attention that the the Architectural elevations had been substantially changed from what had been originally submitted and so commissioner Hoffman asked it's very unusual that we wouldn't be reviewing the intended elevations and approving those and again somewhat unusual the architect brought the elevations up to the desk on a laptop and we reviewed whether or not they met the architectural standards and kind of a glance around the desk and So I would agree, certainly, reviewing the LSD and reviewing those architectural elevations in detail would be very important in your review of this. The second item I'd like to provide a little background on are the public improvements, specifically the public improvements they're asking for a cost share on. The primary reason it was given to us as a commission in the very first meeting for the need to relocate those units at a considerable expense was the flooding on the existing site at Willow Heights. So many meetings later, it was actually brought up at the final hearing that one of the, you primary infrastructure investments required for the project was the largest storm sewer system i think i've recently heard of to be installed to address flooding on the new project property as well so They proposed installing a 10 by 10 concrete box culvert and will I believe be asking for the City Council's approval on a 50-50 cost split of that the storm sewer primarily does benefit That property and is really only required because of the density of the units that they're suggesting They they stated in the meeting the civil engineer did that if they had more space they could deal with it in a less expensive way, but because the buildings are Are so dense and there's the need for parking Um that the only way that they could do this was in a very expensive way that they'd like the city to pay for half of Um, so I think they'll be asking for around three hundred thousand dollars of public improvements and and the bulk of that is that storm sewer system, so Hopefully that's that's helpful and i'm here to answer any questions and I appreciate your time Thanks. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? When they're coming up, Mayor, I want to tell the council that when they talked about cost shares, I notified them that only the city council could agree to cost shares, and there was certainly no certainty that a cost share like that, which would help basically a single property, would be approved by the city council. Okay. Any other public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks, right? Yep. That's correct. Okay. All right. So. any final comments or anything sondra would you please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all see everybody in two weeks all right number four An ordinance levying a tax on real and personal property within the city of Federal Arkansas for the year 2017, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the federal public library operations, and 1.2 mils for the federal public library expansion, and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas, Kitt. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the year 2017 to be collected in 2018 for the following purposes at the following rates. Real and personal property, purpose, general fund operations, levy 2.3 mils. Fayetteville Public Library Operations, levy 2.5 mils. Fayetteville Public Library Expansion, 1.2 mils. Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils. Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils. For a total levy of 6.8 mils. Section 2. that the real and personal property tax so levied, and the rates provided therefore are hereby certified to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas, to be placed in the tax book and collected in the same manner that county and school district taxes are collected. Section 3, that the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file certified copies of this ordinance in the office of the county recorder, county clerk, county assessor, and county tax collector for Washington County, Arkansas. Okay. Paul. Well, Mayor, we discussed this at the agenda session. I gave about a 20-minute presentation of what the general fund budget would look like this year. I just want to make about four points, and I would suggest any members of the public or anyone interested look back at the agenda session, which is available on our website. The key points I want to make are, number one, we need to set the levy and send it to Washington County by October 31st. Two, this is the same millage rate as last year, 2.3 for the general fund mills. The general fund for next year is expected to be about $4.5 million. Now this will be up about $2.4 million from the 2017 general fund budget. Most of that is in personnel costs. Over 2 million of that is in personnel costs. Generally that's due to the salary package presented to you and approved by you in April. and over $560,000 worth of healthcare increased costs this year as rates went up. Most of this is in the personnel area. The budget was constructed and will be presented to you and was constructed on a very conservative basis on the expenditure side. That's because we had to address the pay plan and pay package as we look at that again traditionally the way we do in April of next year. So with that in mind, the expenditures were set very conservatively. We demonstrated the need. for a continuation of the 2.3 mils. Again, this is no tax increase this year. This is to maintain our services and levels at the same as they were last year and incorporates the increases generally for personnel and the general fund budget for this year. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Paul on this? John? Just to reiterate, if I vote yes on this resolution, I will not be voting for a tax increase, right? You will not be voting for a tax increase. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Allen. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2017... Fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion, and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. Sarah. May we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Yes. I second. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mark, you all are moving over pretty quick here. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Butcher? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? An ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2017, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion. and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? LaTierre. Yes. Wong. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Yes. Okay, that concludes our business for this evening. What announcements do we have? No announcement? Oop. Alan. We'll have a word for meeting this coming Monday at 6 p.m. here in room 111 of City Hall. Okay. Don. Mayor, several announcements. First, our first startup crawl will take place on September the 29th. It's a come visit and tour related to our... incredible startup ecosystem in Fayetteville. It's a chance to visit with the best startups in the area. While this is a free event for everyone, there will be live music, speakers, food trucks, and visiting with the incredible entrepreneurial talent that we have that's on September the 29th. And we hope that folks will come out to that as well as, here. It's also a chance for you to tour the chamber's Fab Lab, which is also an exciting part of our startup crawl on September the 29th, a nice event to have folks attend. Our first Ward cleanup is also coming up September the 30th. It is our Ward 3 locations, Vandergriff Elementary. Enter off of Mission and exit onto Township. And the recycling and trash collection facility, you can bring electronic waste to that facility as a part of that cleanup. So the first one, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. on that day. You do not have to live in that ward to participate. You can go to any of the locations if you're a Fayetteville City water, sewer, and solid waste customer. But we do try to move them around the city so they're convenient at various times of the year. Okay. Obviously, this week, it's already started. You probably heard some of it coming in, but the Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue Festival is taking place. So for citizens who are interested in street closures, for access, seeing various parts of our community, or for closures during the... PARADE ROUTE. THE CITY HAS POSTED THAT INFORMATION ON THE CITY'S WEBSITE. WE'VE ALSO SENT IT OUT FOR THOSE WHO SIGNED UP FOR STREET CLOSURE INFORMATION. SO THAT'S AVAILABLE IN CASE YOU GET ANY CITIZENS ASKING YOU QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT. WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED A NEW PROCESS THIS YEAR WHERE WE ARE RESTRICTING AUTOMOBILE ACCESS ON STREETS IN THE VENUE AND AROUND IT BECAUSE OF THE RECENT EVENTS THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE our country and the world about vehicles being used as weapons and so we're a little more Restrictive this year than years past we've met with the merchants and the effective festival organizers on the dates and times of those closures Those are a part of the map, but if you get questions ask about that. It's a security Improvement aspect and then Paul left, but I was just going He's hiding behind the pole He's hiding. We're very proud. We don't know for sure that he's actually going to be named it, but he was recently announced as one of the chosen finalists in the public sector CFO category of the year. Our city is very happy to have him and his expertise, and why we have such confidence and credibility in what he presents, and that award will be coming up soon. It was done by a selective independent panel of judges and the award ceremony will be coming up in October So we'll wish him luck, but he's already won in our eyes to be chosen And then for those who have been waiting the arrival of our new development services director Garner Stoll will be starting on October the 2nd I would like an opportunity for each of you to have to meet him if you haven't already and We'll be also visiting with various members of the development community as he gets on board. He is wrapping up a hike in the Appalachian Trail. Mayor, I have a couple announcements, if I can. The first one I think is going to be of vital importance to the city council. Your titles have changed. Your alderman is out the window. It's gone. The legislature changed that. And now, according to the new code, you're supposed to be council members. I've called most of you city council members for a long time, but the code says council members. You're going to need new signs there. So anyway, I want to let you know that. And if you really wanted us to, we could call you city council members like I've been doing in my memos. But if you don't object, I'll just call you council members as the statutes now say. So if somebody has big objections, let me know, and I'll put city in front of your name. And I might say it anyway because I'm just too used to doing it. The other thing is that I need to give you a little update on the civil rights ordinance lawsuit. The attorney general a couple months ago filed a motion for a preliminary injunction to try to stop the enforcement of the civil rights ordinance, which has been enforced about two years now in Fayetteville. And since that time, we've actually had no problems. We've never had to even take a case to our fabled Civil Rights Commission. But the Attorney General has asked that it be enjoined. And, of course, I responded and said, no, we should continue on until we get a final decision. And I also... Served a couple summons, well, subpoenas for depositions of the two sponsors of the bill, Senator Hester and Representative Ballinger, because they had made public statements and tweeted and things like that. And in order to get everything in proper evidentiary form so it's actually admissible, then I felt like I needed to have depositions of them. And the Attorney General has moved to quash those depositions. and says that they have legislative privilege, and so they don't have to ever be deposed on anything, evidently, from her position. I think she has overstated their privilege just a bit. And also there's been intervening defendants have entered the case, three individuals from Fayetteville, three Fayetteville citizens. They are represented initially, I think, maybe by the ACLU, but there is a New York City law firm that is assisting them, And they have filed discovery trying to seek some background information about what went on before Act 137 was passed. And the Attorney General so far has refused to turn over a single document. They say there's 7 million of them, but they don't want to give one. And so as what happens in court sometimes, there's going to be a hearing. And the hearing will be this Thursday at 1.30 in Judge Martin's courtroom on the fourth floor of the Washington County Courthouse. The New York lawyers are flying down Wednesday, and they'll be there at the hearing. And, of course, I'll be there at the hearing. The Attorney General, Solicitor General will be there, as will the private attorney, Mr. Story, who represented the original plaintiffs, will be there. And I just want to let you know that that's what's happening. If you get that many lawyers in a room, it's probably going to be long and windy. But that's what's going to happen on Thursday. And when I finally get a result on that, I'll let you know. Okay. Is there anything else? 1.30. That's correct. Everybody good? All right. Thank you all very much. Good evening. We're adjourned.