I would like to call the City Council meeting of September 18, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Present. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God. and intermissible with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is on the reports. I believe, Mark, you have a nominating committee report. Yes, I do. Again, we had a nominating committee that interviewed some excellent people nominees or potential nominees. And so it's always a hard time, as anyone that's been on the committee knows, Justin, Adela, you know how it goes, to come up with our nominees. But these are the nominees this evening. And I also want to note that we had some openings that we did not, and this is very surprising for Fayetteville, we did not have applicants for. So we will be filling these open positions in the next quarter. So the airport board, we did not have an applicant. And it could be because there was some confusion. This is an unexpired aeronautical term ending 12-31-20. The Animal Services Advisory Board, and we've heard this for several years now, we need a veterinarian. So if you know anyone that's a veterinarian or a specialist in veterinary medicine, we certainly need them. For the Environmental Action Committee, Mike Whitaker is the nominee. He's one community citizen at large, term ending 12-31-21. For the Fayetteville Arts Council, we have, again, an unexpired term for a working artist. So be on the lookout for a working artist that might want to do that. And for the Town and Gown Advisory Committee, we have Marcia Scott, one community citizen at large, So I move that we accept the slate as presented by the nominating committee. We have a second. Oh, Adele, sorry. Mayor, I had a comment. Sure. The Town and Gown Committee forwarded a recommendation that we reconsider the nominee to their group and more clearly define the at-large position. That... Committee has undergone some structural changes with a reduction in the number of at-large members And there's been some concern about Right now the current at-large Representative is an employee of the University and the proposed the nominee is also has a contractual relationship with the University and so I think we want to examine that and make sure that we are truly appointing an at-large position and um and so i would like to hold that one for further consideration there's not another town and gown meeting until after the nominating committee will meet again um and that the vote of that committee was uh seven in favor of holding it and five opposed okay okay adela have you i was going to second the motion but uh so we have a motion to second to hold the town and down the point no i was going to second uh mark's nominating committee list so I'll withdraw that it since since Sarah's but this okay so you want to hold that one and then approve all the rest of them. So you're making actually an amendment to the report, and your amendment would be to remove that one nomination, and that would need a second before we discuss. I've got Adela, Kyle, and Sarah Bunch. I removed my name because I was seconding Mark's list. Okay. Thank you. Sarah Bunch. So, Kit, we need a second to... take this one item out? Yes, for the amendment. I would second that. I'll second that. I think since it's been requested, I think, and we're making some substantial changes to that committee in size, so I think we could take that out. I'd be in favor of that. Okay. Kyle. Let's talk about that, I suppose, first, with the amendment. I would prefer to have had a conversation about the nature of those positions before we had folks in to interview and Discuss that I think that would have been a that kind of clarity would have been better to have when folks were applying So we give everybody a fair shake at that point The the composition change isn't isn't a surprise. I mean you all talked about that. I think before I got around here, so I Think this could have been something that could have been if it were a that seriousness you could have been dealt with earlier on and now that we've got interviewed appointees I would prefer to go ahead with with our slate but that's okay and this may be for councilmember Marshall Do you have a plan or an idea of how you would want to reconsider? Does it give some time and let others apply? Well, we have another nominating committee before the next town and gown meeting, so that would give us an opportunity to examine that. But I think that the important thing is that that committee needs to define what an at-large member is. Before, I think we've been kind of loose about what associations they may have because there were quite a few at-large members before. So we had some people that were affiliated with the university, some that had no affiliations. And now by reducing the number of at-large members, we may need to be more specific in what potential affiliations they may or may not have. And I think that we just need to clarify that. That's what the recommendation out of the committee is asking for so that going forward we don't have this same issue. Thank you. We did have this discussion of the – Here, if you look up at the makeup of the Town and County Committee, most of it is appointees based on their position, whether it be in the city administration or whether it be at the university. If we eliminate anyone that has any affiliation with the University of Arkansas for the at-large anyone that's affiliated with the university. Anyone that is affiliated with the university and lives in the city, is a citizen of the city, and that's the way I think that this is looked at. We don't have... Our other at-large positions are not further defined. It's people that are citizens of the community at large. So... Again, I wish we'd have this discussion beforehand, but we didn't. We've already interviewed, and I don't – that's just my point of view. I guess we should – as the chairman of the nominating committee, I wanted to mention that. And I'm also on the town and gown committee. Okay. So, all right, Adele. Yes, Mayor. I wanted to ask Council Member Marsh, you said the committee member – which committee? Okay. The Town and Gown Committee. So they wanted to re-look at... Yes, they passed a resolution, I believe that was yesterday, five to, or seven in support of and five against, asking us to further define at large before nominating someone to the committee. And so I think that, you know, they're asking for that. There was definitely a lot of that discussion at the nominating committee meeting. Right. I feel like this is something that we, we're not on a time constraint to appoint anyone and we really need to make sure that we have an independent representative on that board and committee so that we're transparent and that we're meeting the intent of that at-large position. Thank you. Sorry, Bill. More? The way that this committee is set up, we only have two scheduled meetings a year. It's subcommittees and subcommittees of subcommittees. Okay, and we have these operating all year round and we pull on the resources of the community of the City administration and of the administration of the University of Arkansas so to say that we don't have a scheduled meeting for the town in gown is somewhat naive because the function of the activity of town and gown the way that we're set up right now is committees subcommittees and subcommittees of subcommittees and so there's activity all year long it's not just twice a year whenever we meet um i see we have another representative from or member of the town and gown committee um in the audience if if we would inter open it up for public comment um appreciate hearing their perspective okay Now, before we get into the public comment, I assume it's going to be under the five-minute limit that we have. So let's do it this way. Those that want to speak on this, everybody gets five minutes. You get one turn at the microphone. Keep your comments to me. Don't engage anybody on the council or anybody in the audience. Stay on topic. Give us your name and address. You can get more time if the council decides by a motion in the second, and the majority of the council decides to give you more time. We'll decide how much time that is. Usually it's about three more minutes or something along that line. And name and address and who would like to begin. Thank you. Hello, Matthew Ramsey, Ward 2. I've served as the longest standing at-large member on the Town and Gown Committee for about the past four years, and I was the one that initiated the motion yesterday. I think my ultimate concern was that there were three incumbents who have done an outstanding job for this Town and Gown Committee who were overlooked in favor of a another individual and it's come to my attention that both Kyle and Mark have conflicts of interest with this particular applicant Kyle used this app applicant for for for Fayetteville okay So, yeah, three of us were overlooked in favor of this particular applicant, three of us who had served excellent tenures. All three of us had reapplied, and I believe the impression that I got yesterday from the The two key members that voted for this motion, besides all the at-large members, was Laura Jacobs and Mike Johnson. And I believe both of them seemed a little bit taken aback and surprised that all three of us had applied and none of us were reappointed. So there's that. And I think I've written a little bit of something about what I feel like an ideal at-large member means. So I'd like to read that to you guys. The ideal at-large member is someone who embodies honesty over loyalty when it comes to both the city and university, because it is the only way to truly push both entities forward. As an at-large, the primary role and responsibility is to serve and represent the overall community while championing cohesion between the city and university, as well as respective accountabilities therein. The at-large can relate to and work with both the city and university, but remains independent from either entity. As such, the at-large will not have financial ties to the university or city. In addition, the at-large member is fully transparent about any and all conflicts slash confluence of interests they may have, as those conflicts relate to Town & Gown, be it other members, the nominating committee itself, topics of discussion, and the like. Other than the citizens and students, everyone in Town & Gown is there because they are staff, including the Fayetteville school superintendent. And for all of the at-large citizen appointees to be so closely associated with the university, that includes the at-large off-campus student and both of the at-large citizen appointees, is inappropriate and is simply not a good look for the university or the committee as a whole. In a town of over 80,000 people, only 4,500 are faculty and staff, so that's roughly 5% of the population, and even less if you add the nearly 30,000 students to that of the 80,000. Town and gown must always strive to find selfless, one community at large advocates with truly independent voices who are not entrenched with financial ties, inner circles, and good old boy slash good old girl politics of yesteryear, because those loyalties only continue to perpetuate the status quo and prevent true progressivism. Do we have any questions? Okay. Anyone else like to address this? Mark, I believe you. I feel like I'm the elephant in the room. I'm Marcia Scott, and I live at 48 North Sane. I'm a little taken aback by some of the characterizations of who I am and who I represent, but I do work with the university. I'm a part-time independent consultant to the dean of Fulbright College. And I'm a fairly new resident to Fayetteville. As many of you all know, I was born here. And this was my first home. But I've lived away longer than I've lived here. I know most of you on the board. I've actually worked directly with a number of you, both in some elections and a lot of things that have gone on here. So I'm I was requested to get involved in the city when I came here, and I was delighted to do it, and I felt I was very uniquely qualified, given that I've lived away here more than I've lived here, and I've always lived in a town-gown situation. I've lived in Washington, D.C., and in Santa Cruz, California, for the majority of my adult life, both of which have numerous universities and institutions there. I've never thought it was a disqualifier that I actually know the... the primary employers in an area. It wasn't a rule when I was asked to apply. It wasn't mentioned to me when I talked to you all. However, I think you all do need to decide how you want to do this. I feel like I'm eminently qualified to do it. I think that relationships are good to have. I think one of the reasons we have a lot of issues that we have with the university is that we don't have enough of us that understand both sides of that equation. I own my property. You all are going to see me later on because I'm part of the Markham Hill discussion. There's a lot that goes on that I have direct knowledge with and I'm a trained community organizer. I feel like that I'm eminently qualified to do this. I would hate to think that my love of the city, my love of the university, my experience is any way a disqualifier from doing what I hope would be a very good job on behalf of the city. So thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? hi there i'm susan gardner and i live at 909 north hall and live in ward 4. and i actually came here to speak on a different issue but i did want to say something about this i was a member of the community when you organized town and gown a few years ago and my understanding was it was to promote some of the better communication with the community and the U of A, especially in some of the neighborhoods that border, which is basically all of us. I understand what you're saying now about the representatives of the neighborhood. There are lots that are not employed by the U of A, but since this was not made clear before they applied is not the current application cycle over, so you're gonna have to choose another applicant from that or reopen or do whatever. And I think it's really awkward to do that at this point when you've already put someone's name forward who seems to be... you know qualified and then at the same time you're I mean do you not have a one of those members that comes up for renewal every year or every couple of years so since they just removed some shouldn't you add one back instead of disqualifying someone who appears to be very qualified so that's it Hello, my name is Donna Daniels and I'm a citizen of Fayetteville. I've lived here 36 years. I've also been on the faculty of the University of Arkansas for 36 years. For 30 of those years, I lived in Ward 4. Now I live in Ward 3. And as the saying goes, out of sight, out of mind. And so living over there, I don't think about the university as much. But what I need to tell you is I am the remaining at large member of town and gown committee. And I am the one who originally brought this idea to the mayor at one of his town hall meetings because we were so frustrated in Ward 4 regarding this. the expansion of the university and not feeling as citizens that we were being listened to. And so I was looking for a positive, proactive way that citizens, whether they work at the university or not, could have their voice heard and that we could come together and make some positive advancements and build better relationships between the two groups. We eventually moved over toward three. I live almost outside the city limits. That's how far I moved away from the university. What used to take me five minutes to get to work now takes me 15 to 20 minutes. But we had to do something for our sanity. We were also anti-development, large-scale development of the Maranoni property. We led that battle. And so I know what it's like when you're living in that area, you're looking at your property value, not your pay stub, your property value. And ultimately, I am an employee of the state of Arkansas. That's the ultimate. Yes, I work for the University of Arkansas, but I am an employee of the state of Arkansas. And just because I work for the university doesn't mean I agree with everything they do. I certainly don't. And that was one of the questions that was asked of me when I was interviewed. Can you speak up opposing the university? I said, yes, I can, and I have many times. So I believe that those who apply for positions on any city or commission should trust the process. An individual should not be penalized because they work for the university. The fact that the meetings... Our tape allows citizens transparency of what is taking place. It's called accountability. And I've used this when I've spoken in front of committees in the past. So I think it needs to be discussed, but do not penalize people just because they happen to work at the university. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I would just like to add that the three other applicants who are current members of the committee, none of them were employed by the university. That was Matthew Ramsey, Keith Tenkleve, and Leslie Belden. Leslie Belden is also a planning commissioner. So we did have, and I want to be clear, everyone who applied was very well qualified, and this is not about the personalities involved or any one particular person, but it's about The need to make sure that our out-large position is truly at-large and helping us to define that. And this was a unique situation because we have changed the structure of the committee and we're eliminating positions. This is not your day-to-day nominating committee choice. So I think this deserves special consideration. Thank you. Okay. Who's on the nominating committee? Mark, you are? So you all discussed this in... Yes, we did. Decided to do what you were going to do, and okay. And it was not an easy decision, and it was split two and two, and then we would come back and we would talk about it. We talked about it before the interviews and the restructure of the committee. We had the interviews, and then we talked about it after the interviews. So it was thoroughly discussed, and I think – openly and honestly discussed. And for someone to make aspersions that are inaccurate to somehow support an invalid argument is disappointing. Again, I think that from the pool of nominations that we had from applicants that we decided that we had an applicant that would bring a fair and... progressive voice that represented citizens at large. And we voted on it.
 Adele?
 Yes. Mark, could you tell us how the committee has been restructured? That's been mentioned several times. There are two at-large positions. There used to be four, one from each ward. And now it will be two, and they're from separate wards. And why was that done? Well, there's been a lot more restructure than that. We had such a large committee. I do recall that. That it was hard to get any organizational efficiencies. Gotcha. And the way that the committee is structured now, as I mentioned earlier, we have a basic crew of individuals. But it says in our... the way that we work, any time we need someone in the community or someone in the administration or someone in the university or someone in the public school system for a specific special subcommittee, then we will ask them to participate. This is not... This is an advisory committee that is dealing with issues across the city, across... um all elements of the city so by having a smaller structure then we could be more streamlined in the issues that we have uh noted as very important thank you and then we get we we have if you were at our committee meeting the other day there was a lot of people there that were active on our sub committees that are not on the committee. Thank you. So it's restructured for efficiency and also so that we can quantify and qualify what it is that we're doing as a group. Thank you. Okay. Kyle. As Ms. Daniels pointed out, the meetings are recorded and we can all watch it, so I'm not going to recount the whole thing, but I think there was some important conversation that happened there that's relevant tonight. Most of these issues we did talk about, affiliation with the university, the way the committee was structured and restructured and the changing role of the committee. We talked quite a bit about... the relations and relationships with different levels and departments at the university and the way that that could be an asset for certain challenges and a liability for others. I just feel like a lot of that got considered. We asked those questions at the interviews. I feel like we're kind of retreading some of that same conversation tonight. Sure. I think we talked a lot about it because it's a really important issue. And the conversation was divided, but I know that ultimately I deferred to Mark's judgment because he is on the committee. And that carries quite a bit of weight for me, even though it went against my better judgment in terms of ensuring that we have an at-large, truly at-large voice. And then later, I learned that there may have been or there is or was a personal relationship that I don't think would have... constituted a conflict of interest, but I do wish had been disclosed before I it would have affected the weight that I had given that that decision and And I just think that, you know, in the interest of making sure that we're doing the right thing, that this is something that should be referred back to committee and that we should develop a policy and define what constitutes an at-large position. We have an opportunity to do that before the next meeting, um, and make sure that we're moving forward in the right direction. Because we want, ultimately, we all want the best outcome for the city. We had four fantastic applicants. This is a great problem to have. This isn't about the applicants, but it is about defining what is at large and what does that mean, and to make sure that we're representing the community as a whole. Thank you. Okay. Go ahead. Now I feel like I'm the elephant in the room, so let me just make sure that it's clear the relationship that I think has been alluded to a couple of times. Ms. Scott's a contractor. She works with a lot of people who need her services. When I was involved in leading the Civil Rights Ordinance campaign, her company was our consultant. I think we have a lot of folks who have applied for boards and commissions on all of our committees that have frequently used members of the nominated committee as their references. We don't generally talk about that. It hasn't come up. What I would consider my experience with Ms. Scott is familiarity with her work and the qualities that she would bring to the committee. So from that standpoint and considering that, I'm – Sorry that that didn't come up. I thought it was pretty common knowledge at the time She was very active in the in the campaign and around the time so I'll apologize for that oversight This one's really difficult for several reasons one I almost have to take all the personal sides of all of it completely out because The personal Relationships that people may or may not have I don't have time tonight to put that all together and figure something out nor should I? and I also can't take into account The nominees or the chosen person because I know the chosen person and I would think she would be great at it But I also wasn't in the room and I'm not on the nominating committee and I'm not on the town and gown And I don't know who else applied and I don't I didn't view the tape which I may now if this goes forward, but I i i can't stand overturning a committee sometimes because why do we have a committee if we can just turn around and overturn it however i respect the people on the committee and when one is saying that he or she wants us to consider looking at this again i i feel like that that this may be a bit of a failure of process here and it's probably something that should have been taken care of long before tonight um which i think kyle mentioned and i agree with that but at the same time does that mean we don't address it and just move past this and address it the next time i don't know that that's the best way either because i wasn't quite aware of this at-large questioning i i've been on the nominating committee and i thought i understood it and i guess i didn't quite And I also understand the point that if we eliminate all the university people, we're eliminating a lot of very talented, smart people that may not necessarily get paid by the university. So this one's really hard. I think I would unfortunately err on the side of... giving this some more time only because there's not another meeting next week and this this committee is not going to be short I'm talking about town and gown. It's not going to be short in a meeting and they're not going to lose a You know quorum situation or something like that So we're sure that there's not another town and gown meeting in the near future, right? Are we we're clear on that? I would like to make a comment on that. I'm the staff person who actually manages the meeting and the minutes. The town and gown meeting is to meet no fewer times than twice a year and tentatively set a next meeting for January, although the stipulation is always that we would be called together should we need to address an issue before the next biannual meeting comes up. So it is not a guarantee that we would not need to meet before January. That's how it works. So you might have to meet, which would then be posted, and then be like any other public meeting? That's correct. That's correct. Okay. Well... Again, this is really, really difficult, but that's probably where I will err on the side of there may be a process issue here and some clarifications that need to happen and should have happened before. So I'm actually sorry for the people. It's hard enough to get people to apply for these things if they're not quite understanding everything or they find out something at the nominating committee meeting that they didn't know that makes it even more difficult, and I hate to see that. But – I'm sorry, difficult thing to do here. I've seen this before. Sarah. Yes, I have a question for Susan and Mark. How common is it that if you have a meeting scheduled for January that you would have a subcommittee meeting In the next month or two well It's very common because of the projects that we are currently working on and yesterday when we met we had two outstanding projects mark the the one that deals with Excuse me parking and also sidewalk and safety lighting around town That's a subcommittee that has done a great deal of work and has a nut like three different Garner works on that one and several staff members and as mark was saying we have on Often we have university staff and city staff that help with the services there. And then there was another subcommittee formed yesterday with a student, Zach Renfro, who wanted to lead the charge to deal with more student engagement and – work to help develop materials through the city communication department for prioritizing material that could be shared with students for good neighbor type behaviors and things like that. So often we're inviting work for city staff to do, but that's appropriate, that's what this committee helps us prioritize, and so we do tend to rely rely on feedback among members more often than a formally called meeting. Okay. Well, I still feel that this has been requested. I think we – I still feel like we have some time to go back and review this and maybe tighten up the at-large definition a little bit. And I support my second of this motion. Do you mind if I add one more comment? Just to clarify the restructuring that occurred. It's not continuing to occur. It occurred last October when we brought that revision of the ordinance to you all. So that was when those changes were made. And if there needed to have been a discussion of at-large at that time, there wasn't. But that is the time I wanted to make sure you all remembered that that was when it came back. Yes. And it's true that we – This is not a big town, and if you've been here for any length of time, you probably know half the people in Fayetteville and have some kind of connection with them. And so there's been some statements made that maybe we didn't know exactly some of the connections with the applicant and some of the people on the committee. And, you know, some of those things are things I didn't know. So I do feel that this is important that we take a look at this again. You know, we talk about transparency in the meetings, but some of the things that I put together afterward were not in the minutes of the meetings or on video. So thank you. Okay. Adele. Well, this is an excellent discussion, as we always have. But as former chair of the nominating committee, I feel strongly that we need to go on with the recommendations that that committee has provided us this evening. You know, it is amazing how many hours the nominating committee spends nominating candidates who come and may have to wait for maybe more than one hour in order to be interviewed. It's a marvelous process that I've just been amazed. so excited about ever since I've been a part of this council because I've seen so many citizens willing to come and maybe sit outside and wait for hours, maybe not plural, but sometimes maybe, you know, while we interviewed. So I feel, I just feel real strongly. I think it's exactly what we ought to do if we want to look at the clarification of what at large means. I agree with what I've heard my fellow council members say If you get someone who's not connected in any way with the university, I don't at all see that as being possible as well as it's not needed. So far as I'm concerned, town and gown simply means the working together of town and gown. And so to me, more familiarity with the university is a good thing, not a bad thing. So I feel very strongly that we should move right on with the recommendation of this nominating committee who has spent lots of time in interviewing these folks and many citizens came to apply for these positions under one definition. And now we're not going to... I just think it's essentially... um changing the rules of the game in the middle of the game and i i do not like that so i will not be in support of this motion thank you sarah i would like to point out that the two members that once have made the motion and seconded the motion are two of the four members of the nominating committee so that's fifty percent of the committee is asking for reconsideration of this the majority of the town and gown committee committee has asked us to reconsider this This is the first nominating period we've had where the members who were displaced through the restructuring of the committee have come back up for nomination. We've had this issue present itself. And the three members who were members in very good standing who all reapplied, all are members of that parking subcommittee that meets regularly. So they will not be there. That's Matt Ramsey, Keith Tenklave, and Leslie Belden. And additionally, while the university is well represented on that, the city as an institution is well represented, I believe the at-large members are to represent the independent citizenry, and it's important that we respect that independence. And so I feel strongly that this is worth consideration and that we need to define what at-large is so that we don't run into this issue again and again. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Well, I'm going to support the amendment, but only because we've got a two-by-two division of the nominating committee, and that's really the only reason, out of respect for the nominating committee and what the Town and Gown Committee has voted to do. I say that this court is the only reason because I feel strongly this is supposed to be a working committee to deal with issues that are not particularly easy or that are highly technical. And I fear it's becoming some kind of a venue to... test or to that Anything that might be controversial in any way that might involve the university or the city relationship, and I don't think that's the point of it Ultimately for so many of those kinds of decision this council is the is the final venue And you know eight of us are elected directly nine of us by the people so if there were a motion, if we had a say in restructuring the town and county committee itself, this would probably be a different discussion for me, and I'd probably reiterate those points and push for the purpose to be limited. Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm going to defer to Council Member Tennant's logic and reasoning here. I appreciate all the points that were made about we have a nominating committee, they did their job, and here's their result. And we should respect that. But since there is controversy, I don't want to just stick to a rule because it's a rule. We have time. There won't be any damage done to any of the committee action or proceedings. So as long as we have that time, that's the luxury we have here. I would err on that side. I see points on both sides of this argument, just like... council member tenant and it's difficult you know you flip a coin and say well do what thinks best but i think it's good to air where you have the luxury of time air on that side hash it out have a good discussion have a good debate and let the chips fall they may so i'll be supporting the amendment thank you mr mayor well as just a point how long are we if this passes how what kind of time frame are we talking about before we get an appointment on the town again two weeks, a month? I mean, I'd like to know. Yeah, I don't know, and that was a question I had. Does that mean that Marcia Scott is not going to be, she's not going to be on the... I don't, yeah, I just don't understand. We're kind of treading new ground. Maybe the attorney needs to clarify for us. Oh, of course. Yeah. Well, the normal rule is that you serve on a committee that you've been legally appointed to until your replacement has been, in fact, appointed. Right. Since three of the at-large committee members were not reappointed, I don't know how that's going to work, who gets to claim the position. But I guess one of those three would... remain serving even though their term has expired. I'm not sure which one would want to make that claim or would be able to make that claim. I'll leave that to the committee itself to figure that out, the Town and Gown Committee. Yes, I think we need to weigh in on that one, on what we're going to do. In the meantime, Kyle, would you care to weigh in? I think our next regularly scheduled nominating committee is the middle of December. Well... So that's I'm sure you can call the special we could probably get another one in there But along with that question would be do we need to to meet and decide the terms in time to take? applications for the next session to If we're gonna make changes then we need to make sure we have that done in time for the next application period. I I think our next order of business is really just to define what at large is and it would be helpful if we looked at Other community standards for what meets the threshold of an at-large representative You know, let's look and see what our peer cities are doing And let's develop that guideline and I'm fine with choosing from the existing applicants. I mean they were all fine applicants It's really just this The at-large position definition and what that really means that I think we need to nail down. And if we need to have a special meeting for that, I will make myself available. But I feel like that's the issue at stake here. It's not the individuals. It's making sure that we're doing the right thing by that. So has anybody got any idea what the timeline is? Let me ask the question again. Are we just going to? Well, the next Town and Gown meeting is scheduled for January. The next nominating committee meeting is in December. So if we meet any time before that, I'm happy to meet in the next few weeks around, excepting Bikes, Lures, and Barbecue. I think we need to... We're escaping. I think we need to... I've got to get some idea, because we've got a committee that we need a position field. Turn this on would help. I think we should try to meet... So I know Sarah's out of town. Maybe the second. Well, I'll tell you what. Let's do it this way. Let's vote and see if we need to worry about time. I think that would just make it a lot faster. Well, I don't know about that, but I think we need to get on with something here. Yeah. Any other final comments from the council? Please don't have any more. Let's zip this long. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I want to be clear. The motion on the floor is to amend the report, the nominating committee report. That's what you're voting on. Right. And basically, the town and gown appointee will not be appointed tonight, but all the rest of them will. Is that correct? Yes. All right. Smith? No. Ray? No. Marsh? Yes. No. Eddie? Yes. Yes. Yes. yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yeah absolutely yeah I think you know the next Tuesday that we don't have committees already scheduled after we should just have a meeting and get this done so whatever works on our schedule let's just move we don't need to delay to define at large is that supposed to come from the nominating committee or is Well, that actually, if you want to limit what at-large means, which usually at-large there is no limit. That's what I'm saying. In fact, it's used many times in our code to mean you're not affiliated with anything. So you have the airport board, some of the pilots, this, that, and then there are at-large members. So if you want to, for this particular committee, to define at-large, then you certainly can do that, but that takes a code change. So that will have to go through the system. you'll have to present it it'll have to be adopted by the city council would it be litigated if you called it at large but it wasn't at large i think you have a lot of power to say at large for me for this particular committee at large means and put your definition in and i would be happy to defend you in court if there was litigation and is it the nominating committee that should come up with this definition or should it be Not me. So probably the nominating committee or the ordinance review committee or some other group like that should not be the committee itself, not the town and gown committee. They're just an advisory committee. That's what I'm saying. So it should be the nominating committee or the ordinance review committee or anybody who wants to do it personally can do that? Because it needs to be taken out. There was too much personality. activity thrown around this evening and I think it needs to go to an unaffiliated committee. And then will it come back to the council? Yes, it will. Okay. Thank you. As quickly as possible. Thank you. But I think it's also important to differentiate between those ordinances, but as a committee we can adopt best practices. And looking at other communities and what they're doing for best practices, and then we can bring that forward as an ordinance, but at the very least we need some best practices and guidance on moving forward so that we're making the right decision. And I think there's no reason for delay on this. We can move right ahead as soon as our chairperson would like to schedule meetings. yes well as chairman of ordinance review my first reaction was and it's fine i love i love to meet but but and since we don't have anything else on our agenda tonight this is a good conversation yeah i mean things right along but this is but we're not we wouldn't be discussing an ordinance right it would have to come back as the change definition and the definition Well, you could be creating an ordinance, but normally it's one that's already there that seems fairly complex and goes to ordinance review. It also can be a single alderman can bring something to put on the agenda. So a single alder person, I'm sorry, city council member. could get with me or Blake when he returns and we would work and try to put whatever you want to put in your thoughts down into the code and then that could be brought forward directly to the uh city council or they could go to your committee and we we would we normally would bring it back to the council have a discussion about it and then if enough people wanted it to go to ordinance review we would go to ordinance review right that could actually happen I would think fairly quickly we could put something together, send it, talk about it again, then have ordinance review if we needed to, in which time it would still be before. I would personally like to see us finished with this definition and ordinance or whatever it's going to end up being before the application cycle ended for the next nominating committee report. That way we ensure a conversation with the nominating committee on whatever we decide it. So I don't have control of that part, but I would ask before an ordinance review was involved, we bring something to Kit or Blake, have them bring it back, we discuss it, and then if we still want to, go to ordinance review. That would be my ask. And then I'm happy to schedule it. I'll be waiting at my telephone tomorrow. Or we can use paper, scissors, rocks. I don't know. At this rate, it will be tomorrow. So... So sometime in the near future, we're going to someone is going to do something to get this done in some sort of time. That's accurate. And I'm out. And then we still need a vote on the underlying motion for all the other nominations. Yes, and we also have the Housing Authority Board appointment, I do believe, to go along with this little jewel. So that is going to be added to the list. Is that all right with everybody, or is that going to be a separate thing? Yes. It has to be a separate thing. Okay, forget that I said anything. All right. Now we have the nominating committee report. As amended. As amended. Oh, Kyle, Sarah. I mean, we accept the amended nominating. Oh, that's okay. Well, thank you. Kyle? I'll second that. We have a motion to accept the amended nominating committee report. Okay, let me get the correct numbers in there. Is Marsh and Smith? All right. and this will approve all the others yeah and then we got to do the housing authority okay i thought i thought our last vote approved all the others but i'm new here so we've got plenty of time learning as a guy so we got sarah and kyle right all right would you please come smith yes right Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two, the Housing Authority Board appointment. Okay. Mark, take it away. The nominating committee interviewed the two applicants that were – selected by the Fayetteville Housing Authority, and we voted to bring that for an endorsement and approval. And that is Kristen Bensinger, one unexpired term, ending 12-28-20, and Evelyn Rios-Stafford, one unexpired term, ending 12-28-22. I move that we accept this. I'll second that. All right. We have a motion and a second to accept the Housing Authority Board appointment, right? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kinnan. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kinnan. Yes. Batch. Yes. Luture. Yes. Okay, moving along. We have the consent agenda next. Number one, approval of September 4, 2018, City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve lease, maintenance, and operation agreements with Blue and Green LLC and CHP. 2M Hill Engineers Incorporated for the office and lab space at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility and an extension of Blue and Green's warranty and service of its equipment. Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a John Deere loader with forks from Stripling Equipment LLC of Springdale, Arkansas in the amount of $131,350 pursuant to the source will cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number four, a resolution to authorize a contract with Pure Green Equipment Services LLC, DBA, EZ, Fuel Blue One USA for the purchase of fueling equipment in the amount of $135,997.31 pursuant to the source of a cooperative purchasing contract for the fuel station improvement project and to approve the project in a tendency in the amount of $20,000. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing the hazmat services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $3,080 and increasing the related expense budget. Number six, a resolution to authorize the acceptance of a 90-10 assistance to firefighters grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the amount of $123,637 for the purchase of physical fitness equipment and to approve a budget adjustment to provide for the matching funds in the amount of $12,363 and a project contingency in the amount of $20,000. Number seven, the resolution authorizes application for an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics 50-50 grant in the amount of $43,730 for the replacement of the terminal boiler. Number six. Number eight, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2018 Justice Assistance Grant for federal and state funding for the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force in the amount of $153,180 and to authorize the marriage ordinance to sign all necessary documents to receive the grant funds. Number nine, a resolution to authorize a cost share with the University of Arkansas and the Walton Family Foundation Fund. For design services by McGovern, Williamson, Yates, the Division of Holston Associates Incorporated for the Maple Street Cycle Track. Any amount to be paid by the city not to exceed $103,500. Number 10, a resolution to approve a change order to the contract with 81 construction group incorporated any amount of 53 750 for the east fire glass hill drive drainage improvements project to expand the scope of services to include additional rock excavation and to add 45 days contract time due to the delays caused by unplanned rock excavation number 11. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing revenue generated from interest paid and funds for the Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bond Series 2013 project. Any amount of $37,286.91. Number 12. A resolution to authorize the mayor to sign a letter of agreement with thrash law firm Williams & Anderson, ELC, and WVU. dental firm and Byrd Law Group to file a claim on behalf of the City of Fiddle for unpaid hotel, motel, restaurant taxes owed by the online travel companies. And number 13, a resolution to authorize the mayor to sign a boundary line agreement and quick claim deed to clarify the boundary line between property owned by larry henley jeremy sharp and phillips sparks near south puerto drive and red arrow subdivision i will entertain a motion except the consent agenda as read sarah still moved mark we have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read sunday would you please call the roll Smith. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Upstair. Okay. Under unfinished business, we have none. Under new business, number one, in order to waive the Competitive bidding and acceptance repair quote of $22,176.02 from the Ozark Kenworth Incorporated DBA MHC Kenworth Volvo Springdale to repair a sewer cleaner truck that was involved in an accident. Kit. Whereas on July 5th of 2018 a city sewer cleaner truck was involved in an accident and was towed to Ozark Kenworth Inc doing business as MHC Kenworth Volvo Springdale Which is the only Kenworth vendor in the area and whereas the vendor was required to take apart and inspect the truck for damage And has determined that it can be repaired at a cost of twenty two thousand one hundred and seventy six dollars and two cents including sales tax And whereas formal committee bidding is not necessary for the repair of hidden or unknown damages. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that because of the Arkansas Procurement Law R6-19-11-203, Subsection 14-EE, repair of hidden or unknown damages, the repair of the sewer cleaner truck does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts the repair quote from Ozark Kenworth, Inc., doing business as MHC Kenworth Volvo Springdale in the amount of $22,176.02, which includes sales tax, and authorizes the payment of that amount. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Sarah Glenn, the fleet coordinator. Support manager and this is bringing being brought to you because we need to recognize revenue from the insurance The city will only be out the $1,000 Deductible the water and sewer department hit a light pole. We did not anticipate it being Such a costly repair. We had to repair it quickly because this is our one and only sewer cleaner truck Okay, what questions do we have for Sarah? I? Okay. Do we have any public comment on the sewer cleaner truck? Don't be shy. Okay. Seeing none, I will bring it back to the council. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes. Janet. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. And the ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a repair quote of $22,176.02 from Ozark Kenworth, Inc., doing business as MHC Kenworth Volvo Springdale to repair a sewer cleaner truck that was involved in an accident. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. An ordinance to waive the petty bidding and accept a repair quote of $22,176.02 from Ozark Kenworth Incorporated doing business as MHC Kenworth Volvo Springdale to repair a sewer cleaner truck that was involved in an accident. All right. Any final comments from the council? All right. Seeing none, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith yes right yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Okay, thank you all number two an ordinance living a tax on real and personal property within the city of federal Arkansas for the year 2018 fixing right there of at 2.3 meals for general fund operations point four meals for the firemen's Pension and relief fund point four meals for the policeman's pension and relief fund 2.5 meals for the federal public library operations and 1.2 meals for the federal public library expansion and certifying the same as To the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas, Kitt. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the year 2018 to be collected in 2019 for the following purposes at the following rates. Real and personal property purpose general fund operations, 2.3 mils. Fayetteville Public Library operations, 2.5 mils. Fayetteville Public Library expansion, 1.2 mils. Policeman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils. Fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils. Score total of 6.8 mils. Section 2, that the real and personal property tax so levied and the rates provided therefore are hereby certified to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas, to be placed in the tax book and collected in the same manner that the county and school district taxes are collected. Section 3 that the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file certified copies of this ordinance in the office of the county recorder, county clerk, county assessor, and county tax collector for Washington County, Arkansas. Good evening, Mayor and Council. As the Council will recall, I gave a little presentation after the agenda session last week. Based on that, we looked at the general fund. My estimate at this point in time is 2019 general fund budget would be up about $2.5 million. uh... that's based on uh... salary increases were given another rising personnel costs uh... we looked at it and uh... evaluated that uh... probably have gone reserves about seven hundred fifty thousand dollars reserves for the city are declining however we thought that could reasonably be covered revenue catches up uh... to pay for that uh... to pay for that shortage or deficit next year that we see at this point in time. Based on that information, the mayor and administration is recommending the same property tax increase as last year. That's 2.3 percent, 2.3 mils, excuse me, for the general fund and no increases in any of the other funds. So same taxes as we had last year. That's our recommendation. Do you have to answer any questions? What questions do we have? John. Paul, I'm confused. You said there was going to be a 2.3% increase in general fund, but we're going to have the same taxes as last year. Okay. Excuse me. Let me correct myself. 2.3 mil. The tax will be 2.3 mils for next year. No increase in property taxes. So we're just reauthorizing the taxes? We're reauthorizing the taxes that we had last year. I'll correct myself. I said 2003. Okay. million now that's 2.3 mils that's exactly the same tax we had last year same tax levy for every other fund that we had last year thank you Paul okay do we have any public comment on this no come on my name is Tom Brown I live on West Main Street on the south slope of Markham Hill In adding the numbers up, I noticed that significantly more than half... Excuse me, Tom, just a minute. Okay, go ahead. I'm sorry. We had to get the timer up. Okay, go ahead. Adding the numbers up, I noticed that significantly more than half of the taxation is going to the library itself. And I know that there was a public vote to increase, expand the library. Okay. And I know what the city did to the people that legally own that land, too. And I think it needs to be mentioned that the numbers don't add up and the city is being misled. And the consequences that come from this kind of misleading, I've seen being born in New Jersey, Massachusetts, for instance. So be warned, we're making serious money mistakes, serious money mistakes. Yes. and i'm an old man i won't have to pay for it but your grandkids will thank you who else would like to address some taxes okay i'm going to bring it back to the council adele i move that we uh go to the next reading sir i'll second that the motion second to go to the second reading Sondra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. An ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2018, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils from the general fund operations... 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension relief fund 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension relief fund 2.5 mils for the fable public library operations and 1.2 mils for the fable public library's expansion and certifying the same to the county clerk of washington county arkansas sarah i move you suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading adela i second i second that motion we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion, and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Thank you. Smith? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Hedges? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay. Number three. In order to reenact 177.04 and 5 concerning perimeter landscaping requirement for parking lot landscape standards of the Unified Development Cup kit, Whereas substantial amendments were made to Section 177.04 site development and parking lot standards, subsection D, perimeter landscaping requirement, by repealing the current Section 177.04D and enacting the exhibit of Section 177.04D provided by staff, And whereas this exhibit did not include the then current subsections D, 4, and 5, which were not intended to be changed, but were repealed along with the rest of Section 177.04D. And whereas Section 177.04D, 4, and 5 should be reenacted to correct this subsection. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... at the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby enacts 177.04 site development and parking lot landscape standard subsection d perimeter landscape requirement four and five as shown below four is shrub screening parking lots that require screening shall have shrubs that are spaced so as to create a seamless row of hedging a minimum of 50 of the shrubs shall be evergreen Shrub size at the time of planting shall be in the minimum of three gallon containers with an expected height of three feet or more within two years of planting. And subsection five, perennial ground cover. All landscaped areas shall be vegetated or revegetated with appropriate perennial ground cover. Prior to the issuance of certificate of occupancy, all bare soil shall be adequately covered. I'm Melissa Evans, a member of the Urban Forestry staff here at the City of Fayetteville. And this, again, is to reinstate portions of Chapter 177 that were unintentionally omitted regarding shrub planting at the perimeter of parking lots for screening effects and then also ground cover planting for all landscape areas so that they are revegetated. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you have. What questions do we have for you? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Hello, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bradstreet, and I am a member of the Urban Forestry Board. Hang on, Will, let me get this timer going. Okay. Now I feel like I'm in a race. You've got five minutes. I think I got it. I don't know how but I understand when and why this part of 177 got left out let's go ahead approve this ordinance and put it back in this is an important part that relates to parking landscaping and bare soil which helps prevent nauseous weeds and erosion and is a crucial to protect our natural Mountain Town thank you under a minute very well done very well done and I gave you the first part on the house anybody else want to address this on this okay bring it back to the council i move that we go to the second reading mark i'll second that we got a motion and second to go to the second reading so would you please call the roll yes yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance reenact section 177.04 d4 and 5 concerning perimeter landscaping requirement for parking lot landscape standards of the unified development code yeah i move we suspend the rules go to the third and final reading sir second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading Smith?
 Yes.
 Ray?
 Yes.
 Marsh?
 Yes.
 Hinnant?
 Yes.
 Eddy?
 Yes.
 Bennett?
 Yes.
 Batch?
 Yes.
 Latour?
 Yes. An ordinance to reenact section 17704D4 and 5 concerning perimeter landscaping requirement for parking lot landscape standards of the Unified Development Code. Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay, Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith yes, right yes, yes Yes Yes, yes Requirement for space and screen recycling trash containers in commercial office and mixed-use development kit Okay whereas section 16625 d3b of the unified development code requires screening of refuse containers and dumpsters but does not address the space amount of space needed inside the enclosure but it has been the practice of the recycling and trash collection division to require enough space to front for two front and low dumpsters And whereas requiring sufficient space for both trash and recycling containers at commercial, office, and mixed-use developments will help the city meet its diversion rate goals established by the Solid Waste Reduction, Diversion, and Recycling Master Plan. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... That's the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby repeal Section 166.25D3B of the Fayetteville City Code and enact replacement Section 166.25D3B as follows. Subsection B, recycling and trash containers. Adequate space and screening shall be provided for the placement of recycling and trash containers in commercial, office, and mixed-use developments. Subsection I, replacement. Commercial, office, and mixed-use developments are required to provide adequate space for the placement of two front-end load dumpsters, easily accessible for the collection services. The minimum free and clear dimensional requirement for placing two front-end load dumpsters in an enclosure is 24 feet wide and 12 feet deep. The Recycling and Trash Collection Division Director may exercise discretion in improving the dimensional size of the required enclosure if the applicant can demonstrate that a smaller enclosure is adequate for the development's anticipated needs due to the nature of the proposed business, the modest size or scale of the development or site access, or if they have the ability to share trash and recycling enclosure facilities with adjoining or nearby properties that have additional trash and recycling storage capacity. Subsection II, recycling and trash containers shall be screened by enclosures with materials that are compatible with and complementary to the principal structure. With access to the refuse containers not visible from the street, containers may be screened from view by the principal structure, by permanent wall or fence enclosure, or with appropriate vegetation materials. planted at a density and size sufficient to be view obscuring immediately from the date of planting so as the screening is maintained and loose trash does not litter the ground or become an environmental nuisance. Mayor, Council, good evening. If you recall, in February of 2017, the City Council adopted a Solid Waste Reduction Diversion and Recycling Master Plan that had a waste diversion goal of 40% by the year 2027. One of the initial implementation actions in that plan was to modify cities' building codes to require new commercial and multifamily developments to provide adequate space for recycling and organics recovery. Likewise in January of this year you all adopted an energy action plan that energy action plan contained that same 40% waste diversion goal And as part of the commercial strategies, I mean that plan it included goals at increasing business participation in the city's recycling programs As Kit mentioned the existing city code I It does contain requirements that dumpster containers are screened, but it does not have any space requirements for what that screened enclosure size should be. It has been the practice of the Recycling and Trash Collections Division to ask developers for an enclosure size that's large enough to fit two front-end load dumpsters, and that size is 24 feet wide by 12 feet deep. This allows for one trash dumpster and then one recycling dumpster next to it. Typically, that recycling dumpster is used for cardboard. Cardboard tends to have a pretty good commodity rate due to the growth of online retail. And for those who do choose to recycle cardboard in our community, they can get a reduction in the amount they pay for their trash bill by reducing the amount of trash that they generate. cardboard dumpsters cost half the amount that a same-size trash dumpster costs. So this amendment is designed to work for both recycling purposes now and recycling purposes into the future. It also has the potential to work for organics recovery as we begin to expand our services for collection of food waste and compost. We did work with the Planning Commission during two different discussions with them to amend the original language to provide greater flexibility in allowing for changes in those dimensional size requirements for sites that have access constraints, for sites that are small, or for those that can demonstrate that they have the ability to share their trash or recycling containers with neighboring businesses, which is commonly the case along Dixon Street and in our downtown area. The item was ultimately recommended by the Planning Commission by a vote of nine to zero at their August 13th meeting on the item was also Discussed at the August 14th water sewer and solid waste committee meeting and was recommended to you all by a vote of four to zero Good evening, Peter. Is there anything in this ordinance that would require or require a penalty if I didn't adhere to the ordinance I In some form or fashion? In terms of? A money fine, a ticket, a jail term? No, this is a requirement that applies at the time of site development. And so it is something that when a project is going through large-scale development review with our planning staff, our engineers, with recycling and trash collection staff that does review over this particular component, it's a tool that allows us to make sure that the proper size is dedicated and constructed on the site for the purposes of providing those recycling containers. Now, whether or not those are actually used into the future, we have no – we have nothing in here that requires the use or penalizes anyone for not using those facilities. That sounds like a very common sense approach. Thank you. I will say that you have to provide the space for it, though, because that's what the code says, and there's a general penalty provision in the code. If you violate the Unified Development Code, there is a penalty, a fine up to $500 in most cases. Okay. So maybe there is a penalty. course of element to it well if in fact this is this is requiring that if the recycling and trash Director determines that you need to have this full amount of space and have it shielded and you say no I'm not going to do it You would be in violation of the code and therefore there could be a penalty provision and the other thing is you can say you could probably not be able to have your project built and because your project must must comply with the code thank you good discussion okay I just want to clarify that you know this is about we're having a construction boom right now we have a record number of building permits and while we don't currently have a great way to serve our multifamily units with recycling services this is about ensuring that we're allocating space to so that we can serve them right now with just cardboard recycling, but potentially expanded recycling services in the future. So it's really just making sure that we have space for a second dumpster and doing that at the large-scale process so that we can offer this valuable waste diversion service in the future. Very good. Anybody else? All right. What public comment do we have on this? Fran Alexander, Fox Center Road. Only comment is it's about time. That took less than 10 seconds. That's a new record. You get credit. You get credit. All right. Any other public comment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Adela. Mayor, I move that we move this to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance amends section 166.25D of the Unified Development Code to clarify the development requirement for adequate space and screening of recycling and trash containers in commercial, office, and mixed-use developments. Yes. Yes. I move we go to the third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Mayor. Yes. Greg. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ginnion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Yes. O'Gerr. Yes. An ordinance amends section 166.25D of the Unified Development Code to clarify the development requirement for adequate space and screening of recycling and trash containers in commercial, office, and mixed-use developments. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Thank you, Peter, very much, and your team that worked on this and everybody else that was involved in the council and staff. So it's a very good ordinance. All right. Sergeant, would you please go on the road? yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number five an ordinance to amend 50.20 service requirements in chapter 50 recycling trash collection of the federal city codes to require residential garbage carts to be placed at the collection point by 5 a.m. Whereas section 50.20b2 of the city code currently requires residential garbage carts to be placed at the collection point by 6 a.m. on mornings regularly scheduled for garbage and trash collection. And whereas the recycling and trash collection division requests the flexibility to begin collection services, particularly during the hottest part of the summer at 5 a.m., which will require the carts to be placed at the collection point earlier. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 50.20B2, Location of Residential Garbage Carts, by striking 6 a.m. and replacing it with 5 a.m. Mayor and Council, as Kit mentioned, currently our code specifies that residents is set out their recycling and trash containers at 6 a.m. or by 6 a.m. in the morning of their scheduled collection. But it has been the practice of the division during the hottest summer months to begin recycling collections at 5 a.m. And that's due to the warm weather and the laborious nature of the recycling work. Trash collections continue at 6 a.m. year-round, but between Memorial Day and Labor Day we... we begin the recycling collections at 5 a.m. So we're requesting that this code change be made to move that time from 6 a.m. back to 5 a.m. so that our existing practice can be codified and then it will also allow us flexibility moving forward. Um, as we begin to think about potential changes to trash service, um, and the possibility of moving that earlier in the day as well which may be necessary as the city continues to grow we have no immediate plans to do that but this would allow us that flexibility this item was discussed at the August 13th water sewer solid waste committee meeting and was recommended to you all by a vote of four to zero what questions do we have do you or anyone on staff know what the normal I guess the normal shift would be a normal day's work shift, but is a normal day's shift taken up entirely by the collection of recycling and trash, or is the first few hours actually gathering it and then the next few hours of that employee... taking it to the facility to do something with it or what how does that you're asking the the standard work day of one of our recycling route drivers you're saying start earlier yeah beat the heat of the day or at least make In the summertime, they start at 5 a.m. They spend the first 15, 20 minutes doing a pre-check on their vehicle, making sure everything's in good working order, and then they're leaving the office, the facility down at Happy Hollow Road by 5.20, 5.30 at the latest in the morning. So they're showing up in front of houses in the summertime by 5.30-ish, I would say, and then they spend the next week Depending on which day of the week it is, Mondays tend to be heavy days and Thursdays are heavier days. They'll spend the next six to seven hours collecting recyclables at the curb, and then they'll bring those materials back to the facility. The trucks are then emptied, so each of the materials is dumped either in the transfer station or, excuse me, in the MRF, in the materials recovery facility, on the floor there and put into a bunker. That's the paper and the cardboard. And then the containers, the glass and the plastics and the aluminum, they're all dumped into large roll-off containers that are outside our facility. So that takes another hour to hour and a half of their time. Then there may be a little bit of extra maintenance or cleaning on their vehicle to get it ready to do it all over again the next day. So it's a safe bet that they would beat that 2, 3 p.m. heat of the day they were able to start yes yes the goal um the folks that i've done ride-alongs with the goal is definitely to be done by you know noon or shortly thereafter with the actual work collecting out in the field that makes sense especially in oppressive heat yeah okay any other questions okay what public comment do we have on this okay i'll bring it back to the council I'm sure the public will weigh in the first morning their trash doesn't get picked up at 5 a.m. But anyway, that will be probably a call to the mayor's office. Anyway, Sarah. Thank you. I just want to point out that this is one of the challenges with our curb sort system, where workers are sorting our recyclables on the curb. It's a very difficult, dangerous, and labor-intensive process, and I'm so thankful for everything that we can do to help reduce the burden on those workers. So thank you for bringing this forward. And with that, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kimyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Leter. Yes. And ordinance to amend section 50.20, service requirements in chapter 50, recycling and trash collection of the Fayetteville City Code to require residential garbage carts to be placed at the collection point by 5 a.m. Adele. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sir. Seconds. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kinnett. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes. Orders to amend section 50 point 2 0 service requirements in chapter 50 recycling and trash collection of the fatal city code To require residential garbage carts to be placed at the collection point by 5 a.m Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Okay, thank you. All number six, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6311 for approximately 7.64 acres located at 1910 North O'Wire Road from RSF 4, residential single family 40 units per acre to P1 institutional. Okay. It be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description exhibit be both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to p1 institutional section two that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fables reflect the zoning change provided in section one Thank you, Mayor. Okay. Would you like to say a few things about that? Good evening. My name is Brad Hammond with McGovern, Williams & Yates, the Division of Olson Associates, but I'm really here as a member of the church's board of trustees. I don't have a lot to add. I do want to say we are looking at phased improvements to the property in the future, and we felt like the appropriate first step was to rezone it to the appropriate zoning classification for a church. The church has been there for over 30 years, so we thought this was a good idea to do so I'm here for questions if you have anything I appreciate it okay what public comment do we have on this council I know they remove this to the second reading mark I'll second that we have a motion in a second to go to the second rate right No, we did. I saw Gray and Kenyon. Okay, good. You got it. I don't have it on my screen that way. Well, I'm having to put it there for you. Oh, okay. Well, thank you. Sorry. Sorry. Hey, sorry. There they go. All right. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6311 for approximately 7.64 acres located at 1910 North Old Wire Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to P1 institutional. Fidelity. I move we go to the third and final reading. Mark. I'll second that. If the motion is seconded, we go to the third and final reading. If the mover is seconder, please put their motions in. Yeah. I don't have a way. okay yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes And ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 18-6311 for approximately 7.64 acres located at 1910 North Old Wire Road from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to P1 institutional. Adele? I don't know. I can't clear it. I don't have it on my screen. Okay. And I've got Justin, too. Yeah, I will say something real quick. Okay. Okay. Given where this church is located and given the improvements that are happening along Old Wire, I would say the walkability and connected area there is getting much, much better over time. And so I think this is a very nice addition to the community and to the church, which has always been a longstanding member of the community over there. So I think it's a great thing. Good. Anybody else? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ginnan. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number seven, in order to rezone that property, inscribe in the zoning petition RZN 18-6313 for approximately .84 acres located at It's southeast of North Gregg Avenue and West Ash Street from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RMF24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Okay. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RMF-24, residential multi-family, 24 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Yes, this is a .8 acre parcel. It is also located just south of Ash Street by Gregg Avenue. It's vacant. And the surrounding zoning is RFS 24 to the north and south, single family to the east, I-1 to the west. It is designated as a city neighborhood area in the city plan 2030. It encourages a variety of residential building types and increased density where appropriate. It is close to the Ridgeback Greenway. It's on a major street. And no issues were identified, and staff and planning commission recommend approval. I'm happy to answer any questions. Okay. Any questions we have regarding it? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Running back to the council. move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading yes yes yes yes yes yes An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6313 for approximately .84 acres located at the southeast of North Gregg Avenue and West Ash Street from RSF4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RMF24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. John? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Yes. ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZ n 18 dash 63 13 for approximately 0.8 four acres located southeast of North Gregg Avenue and West Ash Street from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre please call the roll Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Number eight, an ordinance rezoning that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 18-63 is to be approved by the Board of Trustees. 17 for approximately 119.43 acres located west of Markham Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, CPZD commercial planning zoning district to rezone approximately 75.42 acres to RIU residential intermediate urban and approximately 44.01 acres to RA residential agricultural subject to a bill of assurance. Yes. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, and CPZD, Commercial Planning Zone District, to rezone approximately 75.42 acres to RI-U, Residential Intermediate Urban Area, and approximately 44.01 acres to r.a residential agricultural subject to a bill of assurance section two that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay yes uh mayor and council is considerable interest as you know in this application And the applicant wishes to speak to you, and there are lots of folks in the audience that want to talk to you, so I'm going to be brief but hopefully organized. I want to talk a little bit about Markham Hill. I want to talk about the existing zoning, requested zoning, the 30-city plan policies with regard to how it would address this property. some of the issues that were identified at the Planning Commission and then recommendations that have been sent to you from various advisory bodies, but before I do that, let me just briefly recognize the importance of this this mountain It is one of Fayetteville's iconic many mountains or hills and It is uniquely located close to the interstate and the university. And all these mountains or hills are so special for Fayetteville residents because they define the natural landscape, the greenery, and the trees in a positive manner. It's a bit more than a stone's throw from the University of Razorback Stadium, but upon arrival, you feel completely removed from the city. Its history, based on the testimony at Plenty Commission, its history is of major importance, longstanding, and its memory... resides in so many residents of Fayetteville. So the existing zoning, the existing zoning is a combination of planned zoning district, RSF4, and this is the map of what's in this request, and the following request then will... deal with the remaining area that is in the plan remaining in the planned zoning district the request is to downzone the Green areas the 44 acres that is colored in green to our a residential agriculture and to rezone or up zone the remaining 75 acres to residential intermediate urban and The residential agriculture district allows one residential unit per two acre. The RIU district does not have a density cap on it, but it allows a variety of housing types, and it allows single-family duplexes, cluster housing, triplexes, and fourplexes. And there is also, as you know, a bill of retainer that proposes to you to put a density cap on it. That bill of assurance would restrict the density to 476 dwelling units, and that equals the RSF-4 if the area were zoned RSF-4, it would be capped at four units per acre. and you multiply it towards the area and the request is which is 119 acres you get 476 units no development by the bill of assurance would be allowed in the re areas it will be placed in a conservation easement or donation to land trust a non-profit or a governmental entity and in addition In addition to the 44 acres, at least 50% or 59.5 acres will remain open space. There have been some recent changes to the bill of assurance, and I believe the applicant and the city attorney will address those later. So going to what did we say we wanted for Fayetteville? What did we say we wanted for this area before this application came in? And first I want to talk about how it relates to our broad goals. One goal, the first goal is to we will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority. And it has a policy that... Not in all instances, but there is a preference stated in the plan to allow as of right development. The counterpart of goal two is we will discourage suburban sprawl and the words in the plan, it doesn't mean we're not gonna allow new development, but we want new development and this certainly is both infill and it is large enough to be called new development. The plan talks about it being compact, complete, and connected. So compact means denser housing, meaningful open spaces and preserves, and smaller blocks. This application moves towards two of those. The smaller blocks would come later in subsequent planning applications. Complete talks about varied housing. The RIU certainly allows more variety of housing than the RSF4. Talks about mixed uses, civic uses, jobs housing, mixed neighborhoods. This request plus the subsequent agenda item does allow some mixed uses, some civic uses, and would provide some jobs and a mix of jobs housing in the community. Connected, interconnected streets, it certainly provides opportunities for those, but the specific development proposals that will follow would address those issues. Goal 5 says we will assemble an enduring green network. This is part of the enduring green network, and it does acquire land that would be added to our enduring green network. Goal six, we will create opportunities for attainable housing, and the specific language says we should increase housing choices by encouraging a mixture of housing types and sizes dispersed throughout the city. This application certainly does that more than the RSF-4. So what are the specific land use designations for this parcel, the future land use plan? The western area is designated as natural. The light green area is designated as rural. And I believe it's a mistake, but there's a little corner up here that is designated as non-municipal government. I think the drafters of the plan thought that was in the university ownership. It actually isn't. So the natural areas, the words in the plan says we should conserve open space and protect areas of significant riparian benefit, tree canopy, and other environmental resources through cluster development provisions, density controls, protected easements, and or other development tools. Rural residential areas, it says if developed, encourage alternative development patterns such as conservation and cluster development types to achieve compatibility with surrounding rural areas. So there were many issues identified at the Planning Commission hearing. Certainly it was felt that the loss of an iconic natural hilltop is an issue with a three-story height limitation, and with the building footprint being shrunk to the top of the mountain, I can't say that there won't be any view of development at the hilltop, but it certainly will be minimized over developing the entire SF4 area. Traffic, this proposal or any development of this parcel will increase traffic, and there are limited access points, so that is an issue. It's a substantial change from the previous PZD proposal. and the issue of compatibility, and I'll defer that until the next agenda item, where we can specifically look at how compatibility is addressed. So with that, recommendations, the Planning Commission staff recommend approval. The Environmental Action Committee heard this item last night, I believe, and they also recommended approval. The Historic District Commission looked at the historic assets on this property, and they have a draft letter. It's not quite complete, but we'll get it to you before your next meeting. It does not make a recommendation, but it articulates the historic resources that they found on the mountain. The Urban Forestry Advisory Board also looked at the application, and they did not make a recommendation. So with that, I'm open for questions. Well, you want to hear the presentation from the applicant and ask questions to both the staff and the applicant or council? Okay. Seth, you're up. Seth is up? Yes. Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much for allowing me to make a brief presentation. The PZD rezoning ordinance that is before you right now is indeed a – a reworking, a new PZD to replace an existing one that has some flaws in it, some difficult items to enforce, as well as some restrictions that make the wedding venue itself, the event venue, rather unprofitable, not financially feasible. May I take this out? Let me make sure you understand, we're actually not at the PZD. In RZN? Yes. Okay, great. We're at the rezoning. Okay, no problem. Thank you, Mr. City Attorney. So speaking of the rezoning of the 119 acres, what we call the greater neighborhood, that is 119 in all where we have immediately put 44 acres on the western slope into either a conservation easement or a fee-simple gift to a local land trust or perhaps local municipality. But the idea is to permanently protect it forever so that no rezoning could ever change the status of the property. It would always be a permanent conservation deed restricted area that could not be changed forever. This hundred nineteen acres comes along with a bill of assurances that Assures the fact that we will not exceed the density of the surrounding underlying zoning which is RSS for on nearly every side and so since The Riu designation that we are asking for does not inherently include a density cap as it is a form-based code we have voluntarily instituted a density cap upon ourselves of four units to the acre so if you take 119 acres times four units to the acre you get a maximum of 476 dwelling units as a cap now what's interesting about this proposal is the bill of assurance also comes with a guarantee that 50% of that 119 acres or more will remain as permanent open space So, what that does is it really forces the clustering of density, the clustering of little pocket neighborhoods, pockets of density throughout the site that are intertwined by open space and walking trails. This land use proposal we feel is very appropriate because it allows for the flexibility necessary for us to meet Fayetteville's changing housing needs over the next 10, 15, 20 years. But it does so in a fashion that restricts your typical large lot development, which disturbs so much habitat. Furthermore, this rezoning proposal comes with the assurance that We are taking our cues from the surrounding underlying zoning of RSF4. So we've taken our height limit from them, from RSF4. We've taken our density from RSF4. But what we've done is we've created a situation where we're able to facilitate what's called a conservation development, which means you are saving habitat and tree canopy by forcing the species, Homes to be on smaller Lots with smaller Footprints Thereby Disturbing Less Habitat Mr.. Mayor I'm a little bit distracted right now because I'm having a hard time getting my Presentation queued up I thought I knew how to do it and I've been kind of playing along until I got it pulled up but if No signal I can wing it so Mr.. Mayor if you will oh, thank you. Oh, did we thank you? Thank You Maggie okay so we need the guy in the booth garner are you in control no i.t doctors in the house well i don't mind winging it mr mayor shall i continue without the presentation in the interest of saving time it's okay with me sir since we're not going to ask for a vote tonight anyways Okay, so Specialized Real Estate Group. As you know, we're a local company. Our office is about a block from here. We're very concerned about what is best for Fayetteville and how can we help the city grow. And you probably know us from the past for our multifamily projects. That was kind of where we cut our teeth and started. Kind of the staple of our experience. You know EcoModern Flats, which was really a beacon of sustainable reuse and redevelopment. I think got our town a lot of attention. It was a LEED Platinum certified project. And then, of course, you know, we went on to do the Cardinal, which is a student housing project on West Center. That was LEED Gold certified. And what was really neat about that project was, we were able to keep 471 kids off the road, not driving through your neighborhoods on their way to school because they were right across the street. In fact, today I was at Taco Bueno, and I looked up at the parking lot of the Cardinal, and I saw that even the entire upper deck was full of cars. That makes me feel good, like a mission accomplished, responsible development working for our city. And then, of course, you're familiar with Uptown Apartments. That was a true mixed-use community, kind of a first of its kind in our market. We took a big bet and developed a mixed-use community, even though there was not a precedent or comparable to help people. PAVE THE ROAD FOR THE PROJECT, BUT WE FELT LIKE THAT WAS THE RIGHT THING TO DO AND IT TURNED OUT THAT IT WAS. IT WAS VERY GOOD FOR OUR CITY. A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE ENJOYING THE MIXED USE COMPONENT THAT Uptown provides. YOU PROBABLY ALSO ARE FAMILIAR WITH OUR SEGAS TOAST RIGHT HERE AT 200 WEST CENTER. THAT'S ANOTHER BUILDING THAT WE COMPLETED A COLLECTION. complete renovation or reuse on. Right next to that is our office building, which was also certified LEED Platinum. By the numbers, did you know that we have delivered 1.2 million square feet of LEED certified developments here in Fayetteville since 2010? That's something. And did you know that we have recycled 21.3 million Million tons. 21.3, excuse me, not million. 21.3 tons of recycled materials from our multifamily communities. That was in last year alone. That is a very active recycling program. You can tell it's a crew that cares about sustainability. We've got four community gardens established, and they're not just functioning, but they're properly funded and staffed and a real example. Yes, sir? Yes, sir? Mr. Keith? Yes, sir. Shall I keep it going, Mr. Mayor? Keep it going. Okay. And also, did you know that we have delivered 2,832 units on the trail since 2010? All of our projects... or on the trail system. So let's talk about housing. In Fayetteville, we have a housing problem, to say the least. If you know anybody who's been looking for housing, whether it's rental or a purchase in the last couple of years, you know this. It is really becoming difficult to find suitable housing in or near downtown Fayetteville. Darn near impossible unless you are a very wealthy person. So did you guys know that in Fayetteville between 2010 and 2016, that the household formation in Fayetteville was nearly 3,500 new households between 2010 and 2016, yet the new housing units delivered were just about 1,500. 3,500 new households, 1,500 new housing units. As you can see, we're not keeping up with growth, and that's causing a problem and creating a lot of pressure on young families and empty nesters. Among others. And did you also know, did you guys see that in the most recent Skyline report that the cost of a house in Washington County over the last five years from 2013 to 2018 had risen by 35.4 percent? 35 percent increase in prices of housing in five years. We've we've got an issue. So how are we going to answer this issue? Well, we need to provide more housing options and a variety of housing types in walkable locations. Yes. in locations that are near our central business district and our major employers. So how do you do that in Fayetteville? Well, since there's not a lot of land left, we believe that the appropriate response is what we call, well, not what we call, but what the nation calls a conservation community. A conservation community, thank you, Maggie. Maggie's in control. A couple more. There you go. Okay. A conservation community, roughly, next slide, is a concept that was invented in the 60s in response to urban sprawl. And the notion was, let's take development and conservation and include them. Let's make them work together instead of existing in isolation. And so the idea is you take a good 50% or more of the land and you permanently preserve it through conservation. deed restrictions, conservation easements, covenants and restrictions that maintain permanent open space so that the future residents will always be able to share that common open space and the beauty of having walking trails and access to nature right out your front or back door. This book was written by a guy named Ed McMahon. He is a senior fellow at the Urban Land Institute, which is the global authority on responsible real estate development. He wrote this book and he came to Northwest Arkansas. We started a local chapter, working on starting a local chapter of ULI up here. And while Ed McMahon was visiting, he came to Pratt Place. And I asked him, what do you think about this? And he said, this is the ideal place for a conservation community because it's so close to the central business district, yet there's so much land, you've got enough that you can conserve a good half of it permanently. So I began to study the concept. And next slide. Principles of conservation development. Real quick. You get to preserve a bunch of valuable land at no cost to the taxpayer or the city or local land trust or a philanthropic donor. You get to link people. You get to connect people with other people in nature and open space through connections and linkings. You get to facilitate cluster-style housing, smaller footprints, thereby preserving more habitat. That allows you to restore open space and protect view sheds. So the principles of conservation development really lead us to some basic illustrations here. You can see on the screen in front of you on the left-hand side, you have a conventional development approach. What's interesting, on the right-hand side, you have the exact same piece of land, the exact same size tract of land, yet the homes and lots take up a much smaller footprint. Each of these examples has 74 home sites, yet one takes up so much less land than the other. It's a neat example of a better approach to development than the way we've been approaching it since after World War II. Next slide. Here's another example on your left, conventional development. We've all seen this. We're very used to this style of development. On the right, same amount of lots, 70 home sites, 70. but with much more habitat and land preserved. Next slide. This is an interesting one because again, it looks just like what we're used to seeing. Most of the subdivision plots we see come before us. They look kind of like this. They have cul-de-sacs and they have large lots. But look at the next slide. These 55 homes are oriented in a different way on the same amount of property, and yet in this conservation development approach, they're able to maintain all of this open space, all of these historically significant areas. as well as riparian waterways, wetlands. So it is a far better approach, and that's what we're proposing for Markham Hill. Next slide. Now, where's Markham Hill? It's right in the middle of the city. I mean, really, it's less than a quarter mile to the stadium. It is less than a mile to the downtown Fayetteville. It is so close to the jobs and the density and the employers and the things that, you know, make downtown Fayetteville downtown Fayetteville. It is obviously we're facing a housing crisis. Where do we put it? Out on the edge of town? Is that where we're going to keep putting it all? Greenfield development? Or are we going to get a little more creative about how can we create walkable infill communities within the downtown fabric? Next slide. So here you have the 143 acres that we're discussing tonight. Right now we're talking about 119 of those acres in our rezoning request, and I'll sit down and let Garner talk about the PCD that makes up the balance of the 143 acres. Next slide, Maggie. So let's talk about what we have right now. I'm picking up the pacemaker. What we have right now, current zoning, 74 1⁄2 acres of this 143 are currently zoned RSF4. And as you can see, we're surrounded on all sides by RSF4 zoning. Currently, there's a CPZD that was instituted by Dr. Archer that takes up about 69 acres or approximately what's left in that CPZD. So if you take four units an acre times 74.5 acres, that's 296 units by right. How many can you fit in there? It's a feat of engineering, remains to be seen, but as far as by-right density goes, you're talking about 296. The CPZD does not allow for any further development other than four more rental cabins. However, it does not contain any sort of tree pres or conservation easements. Next slide. So here we have a quick, here's what we're proposing. You saw what currently exists. Now what we're proposing is a far superior plan because... It permanently protects, right off the bat, 44 acres in a conservation easement, natural area. But our bill of assurance commits that we will conserve 50% of this 119 acres. That means we've got another 15, 16 acres to go within the brown areas on the screen that you see for further conservation or protection through permanent open space. So you're getting a very compatible density to all the surrounding zonings. but you're getting it placed in a very compact footprint, which conserves more habitat, canopy, and open space. Next slide. Oh, so I was going to do these two together, so next slide, Maggie. This slide right here, well, this helps illustrate it a little bit better. In the 119 acres, you've got two designations. One is RA for 44 acres, and one is RIU for 75-ish acres. Now, next slide. RIU, what is RIU? It's kind of new. Some folks don't recognize it, so let me explain it to you. It is a... Form-based code, form-based code that really encourages the kind of housing that we're missing in this city. You guys heard of missing middle. What missing middle means, it's easy to go get a permit or to purchase a single-family home here or there, or to get a permit or to rent an apartment in a large apartment complex. But where are those options in the middle for those that don't want the ownership of a large lot, single-family home, and those that don't want to live in a large apartment complex? Where do they reside? And that's the missing middle. And so this zoning designation, I believe, was created as an answer to facilitate missing middle development in Fayetteville. It says that the purpose of the residential intermediate urban district is... It's designed to permit and encourage the development of detached and attached dwellings in suitable environments, to provide a range of housing types compatible and scale with single-family homes, and to encourage a diversity of housing types to meet demand for walkable urban living. Sounds like what we need next. Okay, and quickly I'll wrap up, Mayor, with this map shows the Regional Open Space Plan, which is a collaboration of our three local land conservation groups and the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission. What they did was they combined all of their maps to decide where are the highest priorities for conservation in Northwest Arkansas. The darker green areas represent the most important areas to preserve or conserve. In this slide you can see within the blue outline is a section of our property that we're immediately putting into permanent conservation, 44 acres worth. And then the U of A owns 61 acres to the north of us, which we hear is also planned for tree preservation for natural area. So if that continues… You would have 105 contiguous acres of habitat right in the middle of town. Next slide. So, speaking of the Enduring Green Network, here's the map on your website. The star represents the location of Markham Hill, and you can see that we are not in the Enduring Green Network right now. However, if we could put 105 acres into permanently conserved, I mean from generation to generation to generation, maybe we could get on the Enduring Green Network map. That would be fine with us. We love the idea. We think that this sort of approach to development not only facilitates a more responsible answer to our housing needs, but it also helps us to maintain… more and more green space. We hope this can be an example to others about a better approach to addressing our housing needs. At this point, Mr. Mayor, I'll sit down and let Mr. Garner present the next proposal, unless you have questions for me. You got from this one to the next one, right? What about you, Mayor? No, I think we need to stay on the same before we just die. Well, certainly you can handle them. They're two separate ordinances. It's one major project, so kind of up to the city council if you want to. Also, I don't think that there's any move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading on anything. So if you wanted to, you could go and have the second one read and then discuss both of them at the same time. It's one project, but it's up to the city council. Okay. all right so i'll just read nine and we'll take well if that's what the council's wish is public comments obviously after that and to discuss the entire project at one time i'm sure they want to discuss the whole project at one time i would say out of the public tonight just spitballing here but i'm going to go ahead and read Is the council okay with going to 9, or do we need some sort of formal something? All right. Number 9, an ordinance to approve the commercial plan zoning district CPZD 18-6318 property located at 2231 West Markham Road, reducing the existing 68.99 acre commercial. planned zoning district to 24.06 acres while retaining the existing uses and adding up to 5 000 square feet of event space 12 000 square feet of restaurant or commercial space 80 hotel rooms and 43 dwelling units be ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approve CPZD 18-6318, as described in Exhibits A and B and C attached to the Planning Division's Agenda Memo, which reduces the existing 68.99-acre commercial planning plan zoning district to 24.06 acres while retaining the existing uses and adding up to 5,000 square feet of event space, 12,000... square feet of restaurant or commercial space, 80 hotel rooms, and 43 dwelling units. Section 2. That this CPZD approval is subject to the following conditions. 1. Approval of this PZD does not imply compliance with the City development or fire codes. Grant approval of any development variance or guarantee that its fees will develop to the maximum intensity and density of the proposed CPZD and comply with all codes. Review for compliance with all applicable development codes will be required at each stage of development. Number two, a new street connection will be required to accommodate the volumes of traffic associated with this development as depicted on Plat 2B. Construction of the street shall be determined at the time of development. Number three, a new street connection will be required to accommodate the volumes of traffic associated with this development as depicted on Plat 2B. Number three, a traffic study will be required for the first phase of development to fully evaluate on and off-site traffic impacts and public improvements necessary to mitigate impacts to a surrounding street network affected by project traffic including streets such as Markham Road, Cross Avenue, Household Road, and Sang Avenue. Section three, that the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville is hereby approved to reflect the zoning change provided in section one above. Order. Yes, Mayor, as you can see, this is the 24 acres that is proposed to remain as a planned zoning district. The existing development you can see in the aerial photograph around it, the allowed uses would be restricted to 5,000 square feet of event space, 12,000 square feet of restaurant space, 80 guest accommodations, 43 single family dwelling units. two outdoor music events per year and 30 weddings or wedding type events. The compatibility issue which I mentioned is intended to be addressed by the largest lot being at the entrance at the closest locations to the existing homes, and that is on both sides of Markham Road. These are about two units per acre, and they have alley access. Also there are additional single-family homes proposed at this location. The additional guest accommodations would be at this location, the restaurant, the restaurant, barn would be retained the proud inn would be retained additional cabins are proposed where the little blue squares are so planning commission staff recommend approval with the conditions that the city attorney read happy to answer any questions okay seth you have a presentation very briefly okay Seth, before you begin on this one, you have supplied the city with a bill of assurance that's changed from the first one you had. And I didn't know if you wanted to present that now to the clerk so it could be included in the agenda packet for the next meeting. Yes, thank you, Mr. Williams. Sandra, I'd like to hand you the original notarized and signed copy of the revised bill of assurances. Okay, and City Council, this will take the place of the first one, so the first one is out, and it will only be this one that was just signed, I guess, today maybe. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Williams. So the Bill of Assurance that you have in front of you, the revised Bill of Assurance just has a couple of changes that I'll address real quick. We basically just further defined that the RA-designated area would be Preserved as a conservation area, either through a conservation easement or a fee simple donation to either a land trust or the CFL. And we also explain that that could be used for park land or future road or emergency access or utility connections only if required or requested by the city of Fayetteville. Utility service providers might also request some sort of connection there. But it could also be used for tree preservation, for public walking, biking, and multi-use trails, and other amenities that could be allowed on that conservation area. But it clearly states there will be zero dwelling units. So that area would be for the benefit of not just our neighborhood, but the greater public of the city of Fayetteville and north of Arkansas. We also wanted to speak briefly about this CPZD proposal. It's been shrunk down to 24 acres, and that is broken up into two planning areas. And I'll briefly tell you about planning area one, the more complicated. It has the existing Inn and Barn, so that's an event venue and a boutique hotel currently. And what we've asked is to be able to add up to an additional facility 80 hotel rooms or cabins or a mixture of those two, but not to surpass 80 and count. And what we mean by cabins are you've been to Big Cedar, you've been to Mount Sequoia, these sort of retreat cabins that really facilitate a neat meeting venue. And as far as hotel rooms go, we've got them shown here in a conceptual L-shaped building to the south of the inn. Oh, Maggie, can we get our presentation back up? Garner, can you pull our... Well, it's the same one. We're just going to go back to... It's okay. What we're asking basically to create up here is a neighborhood that in the center has a modern-day retreat center, meaning the ability to rent a hotel room, the ability to have a meeting in a public meeting space. Keep going, Maggie. A few more down. Keep going. Okay, go back up. There you go. Boom, one more. Okay. One more up above that. There you go. Okay, there you go. That's the PZD. So right now we're looking at the left-hand side of that diagram, which is planning area one. As I've explained, we've asked for an additional 80 hospitality units as well as the ability to build 5,000 square feet of modern-day meeting space. and the ability to add a little bit of hospitality retail, or you could call it more of a resort-based retail, but this is not a grocery store. This is a gift shop, if you will, that might sell some Pret Place Inn merchandise. It might sell some honey that we – facilitated the production of up on the mountain. We might be talking about selling some resort-based goods like a compass or a guidebook for the trails that you'll be walking on or a little booklet that explains the wildlife and natural features that you may encounter when you're walking on our nature trails. We also like the idea of a little bit of professional office being available in the community. I think we all want to live in a truly walkable community where we could walk to work, we could walk to a little corner store and not have to get in the car on a daily basis. And so when we say 12,000 feet of resort-based retail office or restaurant, we're talking about a very small amount, not in one building, broken up into smaller areas. corner type scenarios, but what we want to do is facilitate these gathering places, these neighborhood conveniences that everybody wants to have in their own neighborhood. And we're certainly not talking about some sort of vast big box commercial development. We're talking about facilitating a truly walkable neighborhood. And lastly, in Planning Area 1, we have asked for the ability to add single-family homes. And We've put a cap on that of 24 total single-family homes within that 16-acre Planning Area 1. So that's an extremely low density, less than two units per acre. I think we all know that by today's standards in a location like this, it's very, very low density. Secondly, I'd like to switch over to Planning Area 2 on the right-hand side of the same screen. That planning area only asks for large lot single-family development. It is 7.72 acres with 19 maximum single-family dwellings. So, again, we're back to two units an acre. By today's standards in a location like this, it is, I think, beyond compatible with our neighbors and the underlying surrounding zoning. So when you look at this diagram in closing, you can see that along Markham Road and South Sang, anywhere that our land is, borders the public realm where someone might be driving by on their way to work or school and see our property we have facilitated provided for purely large lot single family development in an effort in response to neighbors comments in an effort to be as compatible as possible. So that really makes up the request within the PZD. We have, at the request of some neighbors, tightened up some of the language, been a little more clear about what kind of events we're expecting. If you guys want to talk about that now, I'm happy to. And if you'd like to save that for the next meeting, we can do that too, Mr. Mayor. Is there any questions from the council for the staff or the applicant? And then let me point out again that you did provide us with a revised planning area one zoning criteria. Yes, sir. And I think you want to substitute for the previous one that you had supplied. Yes, sir. That's exactly right. We just made a couple of changes again in response to Neva's comments about tightening up the language regarding events. We've asked for a large event like Roots Fest a couple of times a year. And then outside of that, we've said we may have up to 36 large events. We say large of 300 people or more. So we're limiting ourselves to a certain number of large weddings so that it won't be an every weekend experience. And then we've also gone so far – As to say that the events, the large events that we've asked for, they will not occur outside of the hours of 10 a.m. and 10.30 p.m. At those two large events we've asked for, there will be outdoor music. But at all other events, we've stated here that anybody who wants to have outdoor amplified music at an event at prayer place is going to go have to get a conditional use permit, just like anyone else would have to. So thank you, Mr. Attorney. Those are some clarifications that we made in our PCD booklet as well. And Sandra, I'd like to hand this over for official induction into the record as well. Did I cover everything I needed to right there, Mr. Attorney? Sure. I'll leave that to you. Okay. I feel good about it. Okay, mr. Mayor. I'll sit down now Yes, sir Yes, sir In addition to the conditions the petitioner agrees that a minimum of 50% of the total Agers will remain passive and active open spaces. I So I take 50% of 119.43. I'm going to add to that the number of acres you're putting in a permanent Conservation easement. Not quite. Not quite? Not quite. So we'll take that 119, cut it in half for 50%, and that represents the minimum amount of permanent open space. So from that minimum amount, which we'll roughly call 5960 acres, you can subtract the 44 acres in the RA, and there'll be another 15 or 16 to go in the RIU. Yes, sir. I'm rattling to know what's going on. So how big is the meadow space up there in acres? Three and a half-ish, five-ish. We'll call it five-ish, the entire meadow. So just comparing, we determined you've got another 15 or 16 acres in the RAU zone that would be preserved, and I'm assuming that that's a portion of that? Yes, sir. Okay. On the, what do we call these? Restrictions, assurances? Number five. Number five. It talks about the meadow being used for parking occasionally. How often is occasionally for that? Is that? tied to the events at the inn and barn? Yes, sir. It would be an event at the barn that would be large enough to require overflow parking. That doesn't happen very often, but it does happen from time to time. I guess a question for Garner. Is parking a normally allowed use unit in RAU? No, no, that's a different question. Yeah. But it will be on the same lot as the barn? No. So I think you can have different zonings on the same lot. Okay. So that use of the meadow as parking would have to come up for some other form of consideration? I believe that's true, but I'll make sure that's correct. Okay. Thank you. That's certainly something you need to look at, even though it's on the same lot. So normally, if it's on a different lot, you have to get a conditional use. But if IRU doesn't allow... for that kind of parking, then that might be something you'll need to take a look at and again decide whether or not the meadow needs to remain in your RIU unit or go into the PZD unit, which could allow that parking. I'll get with staff attorney and staff planning to make sure we're on the same page. Anything else? Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. All right, let's take some public comment. Mr. Beggar, before we start the class, do we get two turns to speak or do we have time? No, you get one time. I'm going to give you the rules right here. There's two privates on the table. Okay. You get one turn at the mic. Hang on, everybody. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. There's a lot of people came in and didn't hear this to begin with. There's a five minute time limit. Unless the city council asks you questions, you can stay at the microphone. Or the council, by vote, a motion and a second, can give you more time. Usually give about three minutes, but they can give you whatever they want to. And keep the comments to the chair. And don't engage anybody on the council or anybody in the public. Stay on the topic. I will keep you on the topic. Okay. I need your name and address and who would like to be first. I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Halsall. I oppose any change to the PZD and any rezoning of the RSF-4. The current PZD and RSF-4 zoning protects the tree coverage environment and natural habitat the most and still allows a specialized real estate group to make money by making full use of the Pratt Inn and Event Barn and by doing conservation development in the 72-acre RSF-4. They could put 30% of the tree cover in a conservation easement in the existing 72-acre RSF4, like they say they will do in the property as a whole if you allow his rezonings. The existing 72-acre PCD allows for no development and no commercial uses other than the Pratt Inn and Event Barn. This was a promise made to the surrounding rural residential neighborhoods by a previous city council and by Mayor Jordan. I hope you will honor that promise, even though you are a different city council. We want to trust our city leaders. I would like to talk about... Seth's fantasy plan. I just want to mention that the residential area around Markham Hill is very rural. That's one house per one to five or more acres. It's a wooded residential area and So Seth told us that they were going to build a Serenbe community on Markham Hill. I looked that up. 70% preserved habitat and low density of 350 homes per 1,000 acres. But in truth, he wants permission to have 520-plus buildings, homes, 80-room hotel, restaurant, parking lots, etc., If it were true Serenbe conservation development, this would require over 1,430 acres. Seth's plans have all this crammed into 144 acres. It will be a mass of impervious surfaces from the bottom of Markham Road to the edge of the required 30% tree cover on the far west of the property. There's just not enough room for all the wonderful things Seth describes. It is fantasy. That's not how it will turn out. A lot of us in the neighborhood feel lied to and violated. He's lost our trust. It's as if money is more important than Fayetteville's residents in wards 1, 2, and 4 who are on and surrounding Markham Hill, whose health and well-being are in jeopardy and at stake. I'm going to talk about the tree cover and infill, and this is just how it feels. It feels like tree cover, urban forests, and green space have lost their importance to the city. It's as if infill and development are king now, and we, the peasants, don't really matter anymore. I believe there's a problem with our city zoning practice when 1 property owner gets to decide the fate and character of an entire neighborhood. I believe it's healthier and more just for a neighborhood as a whole to decide how they want to be. I hear hints, and I'm going to talk about discrimination, a new area of discrimination. I hear hints of prejudice toward Fayetteville residents, like me, who live in wooded rural residential areas. They are selfish and old-fashioned. We need to force them to change and become urban, more dense and infilled, because we know better. Is this a new area of discrimination that's like telling us we must all be Protestant or all act white? can't we be free to be who we are as a neighborhood we have a culture in University Heights which is a neighborhood that includes Markham Hill surrounding and including Markham Hill but we have a culture in University Heights and Markham Hill that is just as valuable as if we were a Marshallese or Latino community would you destroy these because of what one property owner wants to do thank you Who would like to be next? Yes, there's some questions. Please. Only the portion that is out of the planned zoning district. Right. Yes. Right now, as it stands, they have the ability to, and put in four units per acre, and when single-family development is exempt from our drainage ordinances, tree protection ordinances, protective ordinances, is that correct? That is correct. This is in the hillside hilltop overlay district. Right, so that gives us a little bit more coverage. Right now, by the end of the week, we're going to develop four units per acre all, the current zone oh I can't answer that was a question that was directed to the development department head who else would like to speak tonight My name is Edward Haight-Manick, and I live at 1622 Markham Road. I've lived there for 32 years. I went to the meetings at the place that specialized real estate offered to people in the neighborhood, and I went with an open mind. I support Enfield. You know, I don't want to see Fayetteville sprawl. I served the city on the sidewalk and trails committee before it was the— Transportation Committee that it's the name has been changed, but it's the active transportation committee. I served on the energy code committee for the city and I walk the trail both the solid key trail and the greenway virtually every day or bicycle it. The thing about this development that offends me is, unfortunately, it's our last shot to have an urban forested area wildlife habitat and nature preservation area. There's a lot of wildlife on Markham Hill. We have deer in our yard every day. They cross Markham Road. It's a very heavily trafficked road now because of drought Students that come from the north and from the west that come down weddington and cut across saying and then come down mark them to razorback road. There are certain hours of the day when I want to when I'm driving when I can't turn left on razorback road. Because if I do, I'm holding up cars that are waiting to turn right on razorback road. There's very limited capacity on both saying if they cut saying through to Markham Hill and on Markham. And I fear that this level of development, it was really shocking to me to see 470 units plus a hotel, plus cabins, plus a special event center and 30 large events. Because when I envision the traffic that will be brought by those developments, It will not one of the parts of the goals of the city plan will make grow a livable transportation network. And when transportation gets to a certain density, it's no longer a network, but it's a you know, it's a stoppage of transportation flexibility in the city. So. I don't know what the answer is. I understand that they own this property, and I understand that ownership gives certain rights of development. But I see the city making efforts, for example, to preserve Lewis Park or another year of Lewis Park, which is basically a flat, green area that used to house soccer fields where my kids played soccer and other sports. other places of that sort and here is this beautiful historical hillside that can be an enduring natural preservation for years to come for the whole community and when they talk about you know giving access Opening up the hillside and giving access to Markham Hill to more people Markham Hill won't be that nature preserve anymore. It won't be where the bird watchers go where people are Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who wants to be next? Good morning. My name is Rick Jones. I live at 741 North Lewis Avenue, just north of the Markham Hill area. Mayor, you may remember me as the Bluebird guy. We talked about that. I did. I'm Rick Jones. I just have a written statement that I'd like to read to you, Mr. Mayor. Markham Hill, filled with trees, walking trails, and grassy knolls, is more than just a nice place to take a stroll. It helps improve the quality of life for citizens living here as northwest Arkansas continues to become more and more closely populated. As more people flock to Fayetteville, our green spaces are becoming even more important. Well-managed centralized parks are not only safe and beautiful, but they also serve as green engines to help address nearly every critical urban need, from health to housing, education to environmental justice, and from countering sprawl to combating crime. About 14% of New York City's surface area has been set aside as green space, most of it within Central Park in the city. As cities become more densely populated, the demand for natural areas increases. Many families won't have the luxury of a backyard. They will rely on Markham Hill and other public parks where their children can play, where their family can get daily exercise. It is there that they find a bit of relief from the intensity of urban life and to get to know their neighbors. The benefits of centralized parks are fourfold. There are environmental benefits, such as improved air and water quality through pollutant absorption, physical and mental health benefits, including lower obesity rates and reduced stress, the social benefit of improving community interaction, and economic perks, including higher property values and increased tourism. The pressure in urban areas for building sites is real and substantial. The old saying, land, they ain't making it anymore, holds true. It is vital to the continued health of Fayetteville that the value of open spaces and areas is recognized and protected. I urge the Fayetteville City Council to reject further development of Markham Hill. We should be protecting this center city jewel for the benefit of its existing wildlife and for the enjoyment of its natural beauty by our own local residents. New York has its Central Park. Let's make Markham Hill ours. All right. Who would like to address us next? Good evening. I'm Ethel Simpson. I live at 409 North Oliver, which is one block north of Markham Road. I oppose the... proposed rezoning and in thinking about why I referred to some of the published documents that the city has disseminated over the past few years. documents about our vision for balancing growth and development versus the quality of life and the beauty of the city i'd like to quote from some of these documents the fayetteville first master plan which can be found on the website if you hunt long enough Fayetteville continues to blossom. What separates us from the rest though is the way we've managed our growth. Even with the rapid growth, we continue to hold a high standard for the quality of development in our city. Maintaining the quality of life and the beauty of the city is at the forefront in everything we do. That is from a section entitled Strategic Focus, Lifestyle Quality. This lifestyle quality is recognized by the city as an important component to our economic development. The Fayetteville First Master Plan on page 43 reports that in a survey of a thousand residents, 86% selected quality of life or lifestyle as an advantage in Fayetteville. Businesses and employees are attracted to our environmental quality, the diverse opportunities for recreation and interaction. The master plan declares a focus on development of downtown Fayetteville and contains very little about extending commercial and other businesses into established residential neighborhoods. It seems to me that Markham Hill stands well outside the Central Business District. Thus, I do not think that rezoning Markham Hill will further the aims of the master plan, and it seems certain that the present zoning is adequate, possibly even vital, for sustaining the character of that part of town. After I read the statement of the urban forestry program, I concluded that the city might justifiably oppose a rezoning that will adversely affect the benefits of this forested area to the city. Here are the salient passages from the urban forestry website. As representatives of the people of Fayetteville, the city's management practices... Focus on providing an urban forest that is safe, healthy, diverse, and able to provide the greatest benefit to the people, wildlife, and environment of the city. Fayetteville's urban forest provides fundamental benefits to the community's livability and vitality, including cleaner air and water, pedestrian-friendly walkways, lower utility consumption, enhanced property values, and viable wildlife habitat. These elements are essential to the prosperity, health, and comfort of the city. These are all remarks that were made. created by the city administration and its various commissions and boards and committees. And they are remarks that are used to promote development in the city, to promote incomers, to encourage economic development. And this is me. Fayetteville is conscious of its history and of those citizens who have contributed to the place we enjoy today. The Pratt-Markham Archer family are remembered for their support of education and the arts and for their work in conservation of the natural heritage of our area. I hope that when you vote, you will remember them and the values that this property represents. Thank you for your attention. Thank you. Help, help, help, help them. No, no, no, no, no, no. I think what the mayor is saying. Yeah, I just don't need a rush. Go ahead. Okay, so I've been a peace activist since the Iraq war started, and I have a habit of speaking for the voiceless. And I've been speaking for the children of Iraq for 16 years, trillions of dollars wasted on wars for freedom, supposedly. And what is your name? My name is Abel Tomlinson. I live in Fayetteville. And I actually do work on Markham Hill, and I've worked there several places, but I've worked in one consistently for a long time. in a beautiful garden, I'm a gardener. And today I'm speaking on behalf of the voiceless, the trees and animals ignored by the religion of money. And some of what I'm going to say is the truth, and some of it's truth that's a knife that cuts me too, because I live in a house, and virtually all housing in the United States is unsustainable. I speak not just about preserving nature on Markham Hill, where I work, but all over Fayetteville and our planet. I speak also to confront that misleading Orwellian euphemism, development. How many understand that it takes soil thousands of years to form, and once it's scraped away and covered in concrete, it'll take thousands of years to repair? How many comprehend that forests and natural ecosystems are the culmination of millions of years of geological and biological evolution? What can be more developed than that? The answer is nothing. Scraping away forests and fields is destruction, not that lie of development. Even if one dismisses science and believes everything is the creation of a divine mind, this still holds true. If God created a beautiful garden full of birds and clean rivers full of fish, who are we to wantonly destroy it? Is environmental Armageddon the desired destiny? Are we to accept Ann Coulter's biblical interpretation that our role is to rape Mother Earth? To mindlessly destroy this beautiful creation is the highest insult and a giant middle finger to the divine artist. We must accept the destruction already done, but also do our best to minimize and undo destruction. It'll take thousands of years to repair the miracles of evolutionary development we've destroyed, or to make amends to the disrespect we've shown to God. We must abandon the pathological idea that growth and money must be our God and master. Endless growth is a recipe for planetary death and a very ugly future for our endangered grandchildren. We must abandon the pathological measures of economic well-being both locally and beyond. Robert Kennedy gave a brilliant speech on this in 1968, And he said of a gross domestic product, but it's still relevant, he said, this pathological measurement counts air pollution, cigarette advertising, and special locks for our doors, and jails for people who break them. It counts destruction of the redwoods, and loss of our natural wonder and chaotic sprawl. It counts napalm, and nuclear warheads, and rifles and knives used by murderers, and television programs which glorify violence in order to sell toys to our children." Yet it doesn't allow for the health of our children, the quality of their education, or the joy of their play. It does not include the beauty of our poetry or the strength of our marriages, the intelligence of our public debate, or the integrity of our public officials. It measures neither our wit nor our courage, neither our wisdom or our learning and compassion. It measures everything in short except that which makes life worthwhile. Humans can live without most of what we call the economy. But the things we can't live without are all environmental. Our bodies can't live without clean water and healthy soil to produce food. Our minds and spirits cannot thrive without the beauty that nature provides. Environmental health is the fundamental basis of any sane and sustainable economy. Some look at a tree or a field and only see dollar signs instead of natural beauty. We must not let this infantile, short-sighted vision rule. We need forward-thinking leadership that can envision a world with more forests and truly sustainable housing. I challenge everyone, myself included, my house is not sustainable, to do better and work toward a more intelligent vision. As Joni Mitchell sang, we're paving paradise, and we don't know what we got until it's gone. Please save Markham Hill. I know this may be, my words may be meaningless, but I thought I'd speak anyway. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who would be next? Hello. Excuse me. I'm Patty Williams with a strange voice. Excuse me. I'm Patty Williams, and I live at 547 North Gray. I oppose any changes to the zoning. Thank you, Mayor. for listening to us and City Council. What I want to say is that, in a way, I think we're talking about apples and oranges. We're talking about development, and we're talking about nature and preserves. So how do you balance the vision? How do you balance the city plan? I don't envy you all about how to do that. But let me point out, naturally beautiful city. This is one of the last preserves in Fayetteville. So can we somehow say that has something to do with a naturally beautiful city? And now this one may be a stretch, educational excellence. If this whole preserve is kept, could it be possible for students the school system to set up nature studies and bring students to learn about nature. And we could do it on the other, but when you've got all these houses and everything like this, so just think about that. And the last one that I don't know that maybe it's been mentioned, but ecosystem preservation. I think that speaks for itself. How do you balance that? So... That's what I have to say. I hope that somewhere in there we can preserve the beauty and the wonder of nature in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Thank you. Sarah, you had a question? This is really a question of disappointed clarification. I keep hearing people refer to this as a preserve. It has yet to be developed. Actually, by right, already by law, have the right to develop the inside. side instead of in residential homes. And the proposal would be to change that. Now, there's the PZE on top, but it's a different issue. You look at what is not included in the PZE, logically sensitive areas on the middle side, that's what they already have the right to develop. And so this is, it's not a preserve, it's private property with an already established right to develop. And so this is changing the development pattern. And so I think it's important to recognize this is not the right thing to do. Okay, anything else? All right, all right. Thank you, Peg. Okay, who'd like to address us next? Hi, my name is Haley DeWolfe. I live at 170 South Hill Avenue. And I just want to come up here and talk about one of the reasons I chose to move to Fayetteville was because of this naturally beautiful city that we have that beautifully balances urban city amenities with a college town as well as preserving natural, beautiful Ozark Mountains. And I actually currently am living at Eco Modern Flats, which is a specialized real estate property. And I have to say that this apartment complex in itself is keeping that balance. I know that I will walk into the Eco Modern property and it's like I'm completely outside of the surrounding neighborhood and the surrounding school campus. I'm 10 minutes away from class, While still feeling like I'm in a completely different part of town, and that is because of the tree coverage that they've maintained. That's because of the way that they're developing these properties to maintain the natural. The natural beauty of this city in this area and so I think that since it is private property land, and with the current proposal to maintain 50% of that as. like current open land while still developing this, this is the best group to do this. And with their proposed plan, I can, from my experience with this group, they do maintain that tree cover. They do maintain the wildlife. I mean, my apartment complex, the whole area is labeled as a bird sanctuary. I've seen more wildlife on that apartment complex than anywhere else in the city. And, but yeah, so I just wanted to say that this is probably one of the best groups because when talking about balance of urban life and natural wonders in the Ozark Mountains that Fayetteville has to offer, this company does a great job with that. Thank you. Okay. Who would like to be next? Thank you all for allowing me to speak this evening. My name is Brian Nolan. I have a residence at 1652 West Markham Road. I oppose any change to the current PZD and any rezoning of the RSF4 associated with this proposed development. I do concur with many of what has been said already by some of the speakers, and I won't reiterate what they've already said this evening. It would be my preference, and I know that this has become a point here made a couple of times, but it would be for the entire 144 acres to become a nature and wildlife preserve for the city of Fayetteville. That would be my preference. I know you all received a map of the development and the outline of what it is. What I'd like to talk a little bit about would be the outside of the – outlined area that's associated with the development. I would like to talk about the traffic pressure that I see coming with the development that would put on the surrounding streets already saying Markham Cross, Housell and other side streets will need significant improvements if this development is allowed to go forward with the 500 plus living units that will be built. The curbing, the sidewalks, street drainage will all need to be addressed. There's already a Much use made of the several streets that I've mentioned is cut through streets from Weddington Drive to Razorback Road. Just imagine what will happen with the additional traffic with an average of two cars per household or more with this development. I just ask that you please take this into consideration when arriving at your decision. Thank you for your time and concern for this matter. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Before I begin, would you put that existing zoning aerial up there? Okay. And start me back. Fran Alexander, Fox Center Road, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I want to point out to the board that developers knew how this land was zoned when they bought it. They are asking now for you to allow them to change the lives of everyone surrounding this property. and they are going to be subsidizing the commercial development of a private developer with their quality of life up there. The commercial business is not a function of this city. What the city council's role for citizens, their homes and their neighborhoods, as part of the total community is the question. Thank you. I would think that the council's job is to establish zones where houses are appropriate for neighborhoods with yards, sidewalks, parks, etc., and different zones where high-rise apartments, parking garages, and close proximity to commercial businesses are a choice. But I also think that the city council's obligation is to recognize that these two kinds of residential choices that people make are best if they do not cancel out each other. If you choose to live on Dixon Street or off Dixon Street nearby, you should not expect to have a quiet neighborhood like Markham Hill or vice versa. What developing the Markham Hill land in question will do to this very old and established neighborhood is equivalent to setting off a bomb in the middle of it. People chose to make their homes here with enough space around them to have gardens, pets, horse stables, etc., and they chose low traffic streets and forested surroundings to buffer commercial land uses that encircle this area. This is truly an island where families have raised generations, and some of those generations are here now trying to save this area, which is their home. Residents made what others consider one of life's biggest investments. And that's in buying their homes and property based on what was established to be built in that location. They trusted a plan. This University Heights neighborhood in 2005 was asked by a long-term fellow neighbor for a rezoning for his property in order to build a small seven-bedroom hotel. There were long and difficult discussions about allowing this. And, um... But in the end, the city council voted to let him construct his inn, but with very, very strict rules governing operation hours, et cetera. Then in 2012, the inn owner asked to change his PCD to allow for the sale of a few lots and what neighbors had been told would be part of the buffer to his inn. Again, the city council gave him permission to do what he asked, even though nearby property owners objected strongly. But this was not permission to turn this acreage into a small city. Now a proposed highly commercialized plan is being presented that will gut this place. And the residents have invested in their homes and property there. A hotel with how many rooms? And they change it off and on. Parking lots, several hundred houses, offices, retail space. Activity buildings, all of this with connector streets. Sang Avenue on the north will easily be connected to Sang Avenue on the south, and that will make an arterial that's running parallel with the interstate, and it will be extremely busy day and night. It will absolutely sever this entire neighborhood into two pieces. Everything that is built around that whole environment up there will be gutted. Oh, God. I wanted to also talk to you about the land function of this area, which is vital. to understanding the design of a city. And never in land use planning in this planning department have I ever seen an actual physical land functioning design. And that's over, I guess. Anyway, I wanted to object strongly and have you understand that this is not transition and making incompatible. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Jordan, Council, my name is Marquette Bruce, and I'm a refugee from Austin, Texas. I don't want that to happen here. I chose this area because I believe that our wealth and security is not solely in our bank accounts, and that they are and will be in our seven surrounding hills. and our ability to lessen the negative effects of climate change. In my humble opinion, climate change is humankind's major, major issue. You all know the Native Americans saying, when the last tree's cut down and the last fish is eaten and the last stream poisoned, you will realize that you cannot eat, breathe, or drink money. Long before science sounded the global warming alarm, forces like Teddy Roosevelt, John Muir, they knew what we humans need for our well-being. They demanded preservation for the future. Now, locally, Fayetteville folks know how to be excellent stewards. Fayetteville and our area has always known what the right action is. Thanks to Dr. Compton, the Ozark Society, the Pratt Sisters, Fayetteville Tree Sit, the Razorback Greenway Trail System, Ozark Regional Land Trust, Natural Heritage Association, City Parks, Master Gardeners and Naturalists, the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks, East Mountain Sequoia, Woolsey Wetland Prairie, Mount Kessler, etc., etc. Julia Hill Butterfly encourages all of us to find our tree. Well, I came here and I found my hill up among our hills, and I cherish its pine groves, the trees, the rocks. I even pay Julia Archer $75 a year to hike those trails. Surely on the backs of our past accomplishments, this sacred hill can be shared, protected by all for the benefit of all, not merely for the benefit of a developer, no matter how sustainable the development is. Please reject the zoning changes. hopefully we can all put our creative energies together and save this mountain hill like we've done in other areas of our city thanks yes my name is grant Gwynn I live at 1844 West Hustle I'd written out something real long but I figure don't have time for it I've spent my entire 30 years of life living on Markham Hill and I've known for a long time as the city has been growing. And as I've watched it grown that eventually after it was sold by Julian, that it was going to be developed. I kind of resigned myself to that fact some time ago. Um, the only concerns that I really have is in the commercial zoning that they're wanting to rezone the, uh, uh, the area for, I'm sorry, I don't know all the acronyms very well. Um, I feel like it takes away too much from the hill. There's a lot of wildlife that will get pushed away out there because as those areas become more trafficked and more developed, it's going to tend to push the things like the deer, the foxes and the gophers, all that kind of stuff out to bit. And so we're going to lose a lot of that serenity you get whenever you go up to Markham Hill and up to Pratt Place. I haven't ever really been overly opposed to any development that on that land. I've always felt that, you know, it's your land. You should be able to do what you want with it. However, I feel like the impact that this is going to have on the neighborhood, specifically the commercial zones, is going to have such a negative impact on the whole living situation up there. I mean, I can understand why people want to go out there and live up there. That's why I live on the mountain, because I think it's great. And whenever I was doing the math earlier this evening, I think the residential area, while the plan itself sounds good. uh, if you take the, they said they were going to limit themselves to four houses per acre, uh, roughly. But if you actually look at the numbers that they're putting out, if you take 60 acres, which is the half that they're going to be developing and actually building on with the 476 houses, I believe it actually comes out to a little bit more than seven houses per acre. You can take that as, as you will, good or bad. Um, I just feel like it's unintentionally or intentionally, I don't know, a little misleading. I felt like that needed to be addressed. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to? Timothy Ragland. I live at 127 University. And whereas I don't have a problem with things being developed, I'm in agreement with the last speaker that I think by not putting a cap on any sort of development in the area, it's a slippery slope. Seven houses per acre seems excessive. And if I were a developer, I would be playing the long game and eventually come back to here and be asking to develop more of the area that I promised would stay green again. and I think we would end up with a very ugly row house style development in the long run. And after one hotel, once it's zoned commercial, again, if it were me as a developer, I would be asking eventually for a second, a second hotel, second restaurant, and it would just be a slippery slope to rezone it with no cap, and that's all. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'm Robert Kozer. I live at 1777 West Hossel, and I'm a joining neighbor to this property. I'm a little confused why I'm here, because when I buy property, I check the zoning and I know what it is. So we're all gathered here for somebody's dreams. We're talking about preserves, we're talking about development, we're talking about commercial. Why are we here? Because this property can be developed as it is now. It can... be developed on the back side it's in the preserved zone 30 has preserved preserved the pzd says no development no commercial development it's fine the way it is why are we here what's their purpose what do you want fayetteville to be where do you want to go from here if you want to develop this then this proposal it's not a plan it's proposal because it's coming from a developer isn't it is this really the property owner are we going to put covenants on this property preserve it permanently No, this is just a bill of assurances. Does that bill of assurances cover everything that's in this proposal? I don't see anything in here about the green buffers on these properties. I don't see anything about the other things, everything covered in this proposal. If it's really a plan, put it in a plan, and let's go with that and vote on that. Otherwise, send it back to the planning department. Get a real plan. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Yes. My name is Anita Heckmanick. I live at 1622 Markham Road, and I want to talk about traffic. My husband looked up something that I'd like to read, Numbers Every Traffic Engineer Should Know by Mike Spake. He's a recognized industrial leader of traffic studies and traffic data collecting. How much traffic will my development generate? Round numbers based on ITE trip generation report. Corrections were made to these numbers as to January 25th. Single family houses per unit, 10 trips per day. Planning level capacity of a road. A two-lane local street would get 1,000 vehicles per day based on livability. Peak hour capacity of intersection. Stop sign control, 35 seconds per vehicle. Okay. theoretical map maximum saturation flow rate per lane is a thousand, 1,900 vehicles per hour per lane. I don't know if any of you have come to my street on Razorback game day, but I would love to invite any of you to come to my house and see what I have to put up with at least six times a year, 17 baseball games a year plus baseball, other activities it's just it's Markham Road even if you extend the the flow through the hill it's just too many cars coming down Markham Hill Markham Hills a two-lane road I'd like for for you all to come and see that I don't know if any of you have been in in that area but I'll bake a cake thank you thank you who would like to be next Thank you, Mr. Mayor, City Council. My name is Tom Brown, and I live on West Main Street in between Sang and Cross. Several years ago, many of you folks came up to Main Street to look at what was going on, and a number of you said specifically how beautiful the land and the environment on Main Street was at that time. I'd like to invite you, Mr. Mayor and the City Council, to come up to Main Street and look at what's happened. And I challenge you, I'll bet you five bucks apiece, that nobody's going to say it looks beautiful anymore. That's what development can do. It can rape a neighborhood. I'm the last owner-occupant. on Main Street. When I moved in, there was only two rentals in the whole block from Cross to Sang to Main to Stone Street. Now it's all rentals. Traffic's increased and it hasn't even begun to increase because most of the development is in the construction phase and so people aren't occupying those places yet. This is a advertisement in the paper today. I'll bet you all saw it, a full page in the Democrat Gazette asking us to save Markham Hill. What's the difference? I mean, all the other hills are built up. Why shouldn't we build this one up? That's why. I understand, Mr. Mayor, that the city will make astronomical increases in the taxes that are collected on that land. The corner lot on Cross and Main used to bring in $300 a year in property taxes. When you come and see it, you'll say it's really ugly, but I'm sure it's bringing in close to $10,000 a year in property tax. And if I'm not incorrect, don't we collect sales tax on rentals, Mr. Mayor? I don't know. I don't believe we do. Okay, but we do collect property tax. So you can check for yourself. So given that we have numbers that are available to us, we've heard assertions, unsupported, that this land could be developed in a much worse way just because they wanted to. Okay, that's in the hillside. How much of this land would have to be preserved under the legislation that exists today, and how much are they actually improving that? Because that's the allegation I'm hearing is that we're actually going to give you more open land than you could have now. If that's true, then we should be able to get the numbers from the city. We should be able to get the numbers on the difference between the property taxes that are paying now on that land and what the expected property tax will be in the future. The city taxpayers should know this kind of information. It's not that hard. It should be a part of the planning process, a part of the economic impact of the process. And we, the people that are paying for all of this, we should know it. So I hope by next... meeting, we'll have answers to how many acres could actually be developed under the current zoning, how much are the property taxes now, and how much are the expected property taxes to be when this particular development is completed. And for the folks listening, this is the last hill. If we don't save this hill, we don't have any more. So I'm going to appeal to all the people that might be listening tonight to... Raise your voice the way the people have raised theirs and make a difference. Because if we don't save this one, it's done. It's gone forever. Thank you. Okay. Who would like to address this? Come on up. I shall be brief because most of the points that should have been made have already been made. But I would like to make a couple of points. Would you introduce yourself? I've lived in that area for 60 years. Okay. My name is Joe Glenn. I live on Holtz Road, and my five acres that I own at that place is not for sale to anybody, especially developers. We need to keep this area intact because it's the only area that still is in the Fayetteville city limits which actually provides places for the university to do field studies, for individuals to do various studies. I've seen many of these being done. I would like to see more of this sort of thing done. It's a place for recreation. It's a place for hiking. I've walked that place for many, many years, more than 50 years. So we need to maintain some of these places. I've seen what can happen with cities. Some of you may remember in the 1950s when the street that was then known as College, still known as College... has changed. It was lined with historic buildings, beautiful buildings. It was lined with a double row of maple trees that met in the fall and people came from all over to drive down Maple Street in order to see those beautiful trees. They're all gone. What do we have in their places? You know what college is like now. The promise was that this was going to be developed as a nice area. To quote Bobby Burns, the best laid plans of Meister and Min gang off to Waugh. And that's true. I'd like to see more development of Markle Hill in terms of people being able to use it for the purpose for which it is. The good friends of mine were the two women who owned that area. And I know what they wanted for that area. And it's not a housing development. I thank you and appreciate your effort and your time. Could I get your name? Joe Glenn. Thank you. I'm sorry. I forgot my name. I'm Joe Glenn. Yes, thank you. And I've lived in that area now for more than 60 years. So a long time. And it's a block of a hill if you have not seen it. It's a beautiful place. And you should take a look at it before you make decisions. I beg pardon? What's your address? I'm half deaf, so. It's okay. We've got plenty of time here. Oh, my address. 1704 West Hustle. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Sure. Hello. I'm Chad Harcourt, a resident here in Fayetteville. I live off Weddington. And I just got to say a couple things that I wrote down. I've been tuning in online and just made it up here. So, I'm excited. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going The first thing to say is that this, what was proposed with the conservation area, I think is really exciting. I actually got married at Pratt Place three years ago in July. And beautiful area and didn't really know much about that hill. And I think... What has been proposed tonight just gives the people of fable an opportunity to see that in a different way, which is which is crucial because it's a beautiful area. That I think is really exciting for me as a as a homeowner in Fayetteville. I think would be the coolest thing ever to have a house on that hill in that area next to Pratt place. Just a beautiful place there. And then. I think it's really cool for more downtown Fayetteville housing. Currently, whenever me and my wife bought a house, we had to buy one. Wanted to live in Fayetteville. Loved Fayetteville. Went to the university here. And it was really difficult to find a house in Fayetteville, which is awesome. This is a great city. But I think this just gives more opportunity for new people to come in and experience what we have here in one of the coolest areas in downtown. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor, City Council. My name is Ann Noland. I own property on 1652 West Markham Road. It's a beautiful tree-covered street where I hoped someday to retire. But if the rezoning is approved by the City Council, this will allow Markham Road to be totally changed forever. I totally oppose this rezoning. The residents of University Heights were invited this summer up to Pratt Inn by Specialized REG to hear about this project and to give our opinions on how they might use this treasure of a property that they had obtained. I went with an open mind. Previous to our meetings, we were advised to look online at the Serum B model development outside of Atlanta, Georgia. This was going to give us an idea of what they were hoping to achieve on Markham Hill. I hope that you all have had the opportunity to look at Serenbe. I'm sure it's been recommended to you. The Serenbe model, it has 1,000 acres, and of that, 70% is natural habitat. This model allows for only 350 houses and 600 people on 1,000 acres. Applying that same Serenbe model to Markham Hill, this same plan would consist of only 50 houses and 86 people on the 144 acres. With specialized current proposal, there would be over 500 buildings on 144 acres. Sadly, their proposal is no Serenbe, not even close. So I believe we were given a false idea of what would actually happen to Markham Hill. Rezoning of Markham Hill only benefits specialized pockets. Not allowing the rezoning change, the current PZD and RSF4, benefits all those who love nature, the environment, Markham Hill, University Heights, and Fayetteville, including the 2,500 people as of today that have signed our petition to save Markham Hill. I challenge each of you on the City Council to go see for yourself. Go enjoy a walk on Markham Hill. We've all been invited to go on the trails to see the nature and the beauty. Go and see what you would be eliminating forever in changing this rezoning. Keep Fayetteville progressive by listening to these concerned citizens tonight. I ask that the city council support what Fayetteville citizens support and not what a single developer wants. This is no CRMB, not even close. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this? Yes, sir. My name is Joe Paul. I live at 668 Gray Street with my wife, Gail, who is also here tonight. This is like practicing Olympic bladder control, so I appreciate you letting me speak, okay? I'll go fast. First, I want to express my opinion on the rezoning request. Please don't. Leave it as is. It is how the developer purchased it. Let them deal with it. Owner occupancy of homes guarantees owner buy-in to the neighborhood. That is the heartbeat of a thriving neighborhood, such as the ones the developer has used as local examples, Wilson Park and the Washington Willow Historic District. The second thing I would like to point out is the increase in cut-through traffic in the University Heights neighborhood over the years. This is due to increases in the Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas population, of course, growth of the university, and increases in the student population, now at 28,000. The roads and streets in the University Heights neighborhood are not built for the traffic that daily beleaguers us now. As long-term residents of the University Heights neighborhood, we adapt constantly. As neighbors to the U of A, we adapt every August. The third thing is the lack of north-south and east-west access to the Markham Hill area. University Heights neighborhood is basically the only way in or out. The developer seems to think that amenities that will be provided by his development will be such that the new residents will not want to use their cars that much. Really? Students not wanting to use their cars? They will be able to walk or bicycle to what they want or need. I want to hit these just a little bit more. Owner occupancy. What we are experiencing in the University Heights neighborhood is a slow death. As established family homes come up for sale in our neighborhood, families are not buying them for primary residence. They are being bought as an alternative to student housing. They are being bought as a place to have tailgate parties. They are being bought for something, anything, other than a primary residence. Gil and I had long-term established families on both sides of us for over 30 years. Those homes recently sold. They were not bought as a primary residence for the buyer. I would just call them student housing and tailgate houses now. It's like we're living next door to a mini fraternity, a mini sorority, or a mini dorm. Approving the rezoning will only increase the number of houses, cottages, and condos with absentee owners. Can the developer guarantee a percentage of owner occupancy structures? Otherwise, the rezoning is catering to the non-occupant owner grid and adding a heart shot to the University Heights neighborhood. It's our demise. The developer has used Wilson Park and Washington Willow districts as examples of what they're attempting to do with Markham Hill. Those comparisons are false. If you want to compare what we really experienced, try this. Take a substantial percentage of the homes in those neighborhoods. Rent them to students or have folks purchase those homes as a dorm for their U of A attending children and a place for these new owners and their friends to stay and party while going to Razorback events. Let's take away 30% or more of the curbs and sidewalks. Dig deep, unmaintained drainage ditches instead. Let's narrow the streets to exactly the width of two SUVs. Take away all traffic calming devices. Finally, let's route a large percentage of traffic moving north and south on College Avenue right through the middle of these neighborhoods. Tell them they can't use College anymore between MLK and, say, North Street. These are some of the ingredients we deal with every day in this neighborhood. We are to believe that the rezoning and development will actually help alleviate this. That brings me to this. There's absolutely no way for these new residents to get north or south, east or west, without having to do the same thing that goes on every single day in our neighborhood, cut through traffic. That is the bane of our neighborhood, and I haven't seen one thing in this development that can address the simple fact there is no easy ingress or egress to Markham Hill. The developer has suggested a road will be added. Where? And where will it dump this traffic? In Mokay or Weddington? It has been mentioned in the past that connecting parts of Sang would solve the north-south issues. I would rather consider the parts of Sang as our traffic calming devices. It has been mentioned in the past that connecting Persimmon on the west side of 49 with Maple on the east side would solve the east-west issue. I repeat, Markham Hill is our traffic calming device. I would like to suggest to the city that we connect all of the service roads for I-49 from Razorback all the way to Highway 112 and make them two-way. In addition, I would prefer to see Porter Road, Dean Street become the next major east-west corridor. If the service roads around I-49 were connected and made two-way, that would solve some major north-south issues. If Porter, Dean, and Sycamore were connected, that would solve the east-west issues. All right. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. All right. Who would be next? Okay. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Mike Whittaker, 445 North Mock Avenue. I'm not going to speak for or against the development, but attempt to simply frame one perspective for looking at the dilemma that U.S. City Council have as you determine to vote yea or nay for the rezoning. If you consider the original map of the zoning with 75 acres, 69 acres, you've acknowledged that by right, the owner already has the ability to develop 296 homes. And that's by right. And we would all constitutionally affirm their right. However, when they request the city take an action, it's almost like a land swap. I want to take the 75 and move it to the 69 that cannot be developed. And I'm going to gift back. It's not a gift. It's a swap. Give undevelopable land by covenant or other means. Yes. That's a perfectly appropriate thing for them to propose. The dilemma for me as a math guy is the math, to jump from 296 to 476. I think we all wish that we could use their assumption, and they're not bad. They're supposed to propose to you what's in their own interest. Just as a homeowner, we're going to propose other things perhaps. but they're proposing to use the surrounding zoning. Well, no one gets to utilize the surrounding zoning to say I'd like my property to be developed at a density that surrounds me. So four per acre is what they're proposing for the entire site. That's how they come up with 476, but technically it's 296. So that would be the first math issue I have. The second issue would be, and I'm not opposed to development, if you look at this proposed swap, it may actually be logical and in the environment's interest for us to move the development closer to where existing streets and humans have already intervened. That's a decision for you to make. But when you do intensify the commercial use, that's well beyond a residential use. And so to frame it for you as council members is, When you build a cabin, when you build a hotel room, it might be something for you to think about. I'm going to count those as units. So now I'm at $296 instead of $476. I'm going to subtract the $80 out if I'm going to approve the hotel. I've got some other commercial uses. I'm intensifying the use of that land, and I don't think that you end up anywhere near what's being proposed. The developer has surely done a pro forma. They know what they need to do with the land to get a return. As council, I would encourage you not to relinquish your bargaining chip in this conversation, which is we don't have to approve this. We'd like to see an alternative proposal from you for development of the site if you're Because of the unique nature of the zone that they're asking to be changed, and in a sense because it's performance zoning, you have tremendous latitude and bargaining capacity that you wouldn't normally have if you just say let's develop it four units per acre. So I would encourage us to look at this issue in this manner because, one, it honors – the right of the property owner who has a vested right to develop some units, but it also needs to be appropriately sympathetic that their ask is beyond just to develop what they're entitled to. So what can they offer back to the community if they're going to intensify the use? So it doesn't solve anything. I don't want to swap places with any of you. God bless you all. Thank you. Who else would like to be next? Rob Karras, 1666 Halsall Road. Just want to say thanks, everybody. You guys are the protectors of our Fayetteville galaxy here, and it's good to be in front of the elected officials that can take a look at this project in its entirety. A lot of good words heard from everybody. I give everybody up there good intentions, all the developers good intentions, and I think we're all of good intelligence. I do appreciate it. But I'm glad you guys are up there a lot of you were on the board when this hat came up or were on Up there when this got me zoned 13 years ago. What Markham Hill is to me I live right on on the hill when I come home It's one or two degrees cooler every time when we come home. We know that that's obvious there is quieter up on the hill We know that there's more oxygen less carbon monoxide and all that so that's good and that's come the noise comes from MLK as well as 49 and In general, the property, I think one thing that hasn't brought up here tonight that's fairly important is that it's an integral part of the Ramey Junior High, Fayetteville High School, and the historical great U of A track and cross-country teams. It's helped produce 43 national championship teams as a main training grounds for them, and as well as dozens of NCAA All-Americans. One of my friends is a five-time All-American, and we, since January, have been walking that hill together. on his old trails. He tries to get me to run, but I don't run. Um, and, uh, we walked those trails and he said the first thing that John McDonald showed him when he came as a recruit was that hill. And that's an integral part of our history. And it is what makes Fayetteville the track capital of the world. Um, they were the, they, they had other events. Otherwise he would have come and spoke. Um, All right. Next up, just numbers. Like the last gentleman, I really think you just got to look at the numbers and look at it as clearly as you can through that. The property is 144 acres that they're talking about. About 120 acres of it is forest. It was bought two years ago for $3.1 million. 23,000 square feet of commercial space valued at about $4 million. 4,000 square feet of two houses valued at about $750,000. The other 72 acres at $100,000 an acre, which property goes for up there, is valued at about $7 million. The number of the houses able by right, as we've all said, are 296 and two cabins. Let's not forget the cabins we have right now up there. So 296 and two cabins, but by right how it's zoned. Number of acres currently protected with the zoning as is. The 72 acres plus the hilltop. Preservation of 30% would be about 93.5 acres. If like the developer, I add the 60 acres the university is gonna give the city, then we can make that almost 150 acres. But I'm not speaking for the university. I don't think they'll do that. Also interesting, I looked at 24 lots surrounding that property in our neighborhood. The average lot size is 2.8 acres. That's 24 different lots. And the perimeter around their development has lot size at 0.5 acres, which is five times less space than what the neighbors have currently. A number of Fayetteville school buses that can traverse the Markham Hill roads is zero. Number of property owners in the neighborhood or immediate neighborhood that will get in front of you and speak tonight, zero. In favor of the proposal will be zero. And I think that's held up tonight. Also the number of commercial hotels in other neighborhoods in Fayetteville as well as other cities for that matter is zero. Mark Twain says history doesn't repeat itself, but it rhymes. Twelve years ago, you guys were up here doing the same thing, and we got a good package. But the proposal, the way it looks tonight, history is not repeating itself and it's not rhyming either. The last developer, when they're changed, they got seven bed, bed and breakfast, and he gave away about 100 acres that he couldn't use for future development. This, this package is 476 houses plus the commercial plus 80 bed hotel, 80,000 square feet hotel. And they're going to give away 44 acres. Okay. So, um, And so, yeah, look at your numbers, go walk the hills, keep the track, university track people in mind, and keep the neighbors in mind. And, like, yeah, they can still build 296 homes. And I'm against the rezoning as proposed. Okay. Who would like to speak next? Thanks. Hello, Sonia Gutierrez, 127 East Connor Street. I happened to have a meeting with a resident and it wasn't planned about what Markham Hill was going on with Markham Hill, but I she proceeded to tell me that she opposed the rezoning and and I wasn't all aware about what was going on with it but I do know that I love that hill is for the the beauty and the nature and the environmental impact that it I know that it has every day so what I was doing I told her at the moment this whether I was reading the energy action plan for the city of Fayetteville and And in the energy action plan for the city of Fayetteville, we strive to achieve community-wide reduction in greenhouse gases. And that Mayor Jordan, through this, signed an agreement that would help us reduce our greenhouse gases by 80% by 2050. Okay. And he did that along with 1,000 other mayors at the U.S. conferences of mayors and committed to meet or beat the Kyoto Protocol's targets. And that mayor, you also were 140 mayors that endorsed the 100% Clean Energy Pledge and an initiative created by the Sierra Club to track and help communities transition to 100% renewable energy. And in that plan, it also states that it would require 20.4 acres of forest to absorb the amount of carbon dioxide emissions produced by each Fayetteville resident between now and 2050. And to account for all 83,826 residents in 2016, more than 1.7 million acres of forest would be needed to absorb our yearly greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, there was a survey that was done with the plan, and 92% of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that we should strive to maintain or expand our urban tree canopy. I cannot agree with that more, and I didn't get to participate in that survey, but I'm absolutely in opposition of the resuming things. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this? My name is Michael Hegarty, 1948 Archer Drive. I'm also in strong opposition to any zoning change on the hill. I think that any of you who have visited the area or live in the area can understand that the proposed development is incredibly inappropriate for such an area. Everyone that I know around the hill owns acreage of an acre, more than an acre, five acres. That's why they're there. That's why they chose to live there. And it's hard to imagine it being what is being proposed. I've lived in Fayetteville for 15 years. That's an area of Fayetteville that Seems if it's going to be developed would be developed in a way appropriately for its area there's the I love the specialized development up near Near the movie theater it seems it very appropriate use of development for Fayetteville, I think that was much needed and And so I commend the group for doing that, but it doesn't seem appropriate. What is being proposed in a beautiful setting on that hill doesn't seem right. And I would hope that the stewards of the city that you are will look to find a much more appropriate, type of development. I don't think anyone who are neighbors to that area are anti-development. That area has been developed over the years for a long time, but not like this. So it seems that there would be a very good backing behind trying to find something a little more appropriate for the area. And I think that seems to be something that Should you the developer maybe can understand too. I think that if you own that land, that's fine. You have a great hotel to operate. You could expand the hotel. I'm sure you could get a good return for operating the hotel and as other speakers have said. there's an ability to develop the land right now. I heard one member saying, well, you can't fault them for wanting to develop it because they can already develop it. Well, we understand that. Develop it as it is. Like, I don't understand why when you buy something, two minutes later you want to completely change the entire zoning of it. That doesn't seem appropriate when you knew what you were buying in the first place. So... I don't understand trying to educate the community about things that we already know. You know, I think everybody around Markham Hill has a very deep amount of love for the area. And, you know, I don't understand too much about the rules of development and things of that nature. But I would imagine if I were looking at this, that I would say, is that how I want This place to look forever because you you will not go back after this there will you know the development? can't go back, so thanks for having all of us be able to speak and Thank you. Thank you Would like to speak okay Okay But we'll be here in two weeks. Again, having a special bonding time. All right. I think that concludes it for this evening. What announcements do we have? Oh, I'm very patient tonight. I acknowledge all the announcements. Tomorrow, the meeting is going to be active. It's going to be active. There's a meeting today, Thursday, to discuss a survey available on the speaker. Thank you. I wanted to add that tomorrow evening at 5.30, the Walker Park and South Fayetteville neighborhoods will be having a neighborhood block party and talk with the mayor. This is to... To cut the ribbon on the great new mural by Octavio Logo down at the Spring Shop at 7th and South Washington Street. It's a fantastic mural commemorating some really important people in history. So I invite everyone to join us from 530 to 630 tomorrow night. Wonderful. All right. Is there anybody else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.