i would like to call the special city council meeting of september 29 2020 to order care would you please call the road turk here smith here gutierrez here marsh here kenyon here eddie petty scroggins here mayor jordan here thank you care would you now please join me in the pledge to
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. Welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public, and this meeting is being held virtually.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney, Chair Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer, Susan Norton, Chief of Staff, Keith Macedo, IT Director, Police Chief Mike Reynolds, Fire Chief Brad Hardin, Finance Director Paul Becker, two representatives from Federal's IT Department, City Council
 City staff and the public participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including
 contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting, viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer.
 staff can view when you have raised when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand So as to ensure time to be recognized. I
 federal residents will be allowed to speak first when recognized please state your name and address for the record public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment as we are about to begin i am concluding the sign up process at this moment this is a time for public comment only each speaker has one turn to speak
 each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The city council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let us begin. Under new business, we have one item.
 A resolution to authorize the mayor to sign a grant agreement accepting a matching grant from the United States Department of Agriculture, Community Compost and Food Waste Reduction Program in the amount of $73,870 to expand the city's food waste collection program and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Peter, I believe you have this one. Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I did want to start with just offering a brief explanation as to why we needed to call a special city council meeting this evening for you all to consider this item. In late August, we received notice from the USDA that Fayetteville was one of 13 community compost and food waste reduction grant recipients. But we did not actually get the grant except its paperwork from the USDA until September 15th.
 which was the date of you all's last city council meeting. And due to there being five Tuesdays in September, there are three weeks instead of the normal two between that last council meeting and your next council meeting on October 6th.
 So a couple of days after we received that grant paperwork from the USDA We were notified that we needed to have all of the paperwork returned Signed and returned to them including getting signatures on their end by September 30th, which is tomorrow Otherwise the USDA would lose our portion of the funding and we in turn would lose our funding for this grant opportunity so thank you all for our
 for uh participating this special meet special city council meeting to consider this uh this one important item so now to the to the grant agreement and the specifics on it in may of this year the usda announced um 900 000 worth of grant opportunities for community compost and food waste reduction projects that would potentially generate compost increase access to compost for agricultural producers reduce municipal food waste
 and or divert food waste from the landfill. After receiving this grant notice, our team at Recycling and Trash Collections, led by Brian Pugh and Heather Elzey, developed a long list of several potential compost projects that fit within the grant requirements.
 And ultimately they recommended developing a proposal to expand our existing food waste compost capture efforts by developing and launching a food waste recovery trailer to collect food waste at the farmers market and other community events and festivals. That application was presented to city council on June 16th and council passed a resolution 169-20, providing approval for staff to apply and submit that grant application to the USDA.
 As I mentioned last month, we received notice from the USDA that our grant application would be funded. And again, the grant would be used to expand our existing food waste composting capture efforts by launching a recovery trailer to collect food waste from residents, primarily focusing on residents at the farmer's market and other community events and festivals, such as those held at Tri-Cycle Farms or Appleseed Farms.
 The grant proposal also requests funding for a compost educator position for two years. That educator position would be a contract position through the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District. That educator would interact with the public and provide information and instructions and advice to our residents on how and why organics composting is so important, and importantly on how easy it is to do.
 So just a little bit more on why this is an important project for us and how this really fits into our bigger picture of waste aversion for the city. In 2015, the city conducted a waste audit, which is a sort of all the waste that comes into a sample project.
 and then sort of a sample of waste that comes into our facility. Out of that audit, we found out that approximately 30% of our waste that's transferred from our transfer station to the Tawny Town Landfill is either food waste or food waste contaminated paper.
 And as you all may recall, we are, we have a 40% diversion goal for the city by 2027. So the goal is to get from our current 20% diversion to a 40% diversion number within seven years. And so that food waste component that is 30% of our waste represents a big opportunity in terms of taking strides towards that 40% waste diversion goal.
 Further, when food waste breaks down in the landfill in anaerobic conditions and often on its way to the landfill, it generates methane. And methane is a greenhouse gas that is approximately 30 times more potent than carbon dioxide.
 And so by reducing the amount of food waste going into our landfill and the methane generated from that food waste, that fits directly in with our 80 percent greenhouse gas reduction goal that the city has adopted by the year 2050.
 As you're, I'm sure aware, the city has operated a commercial food waste compost program that is primarily focused on commercial customers and commercial generators across the city since a pilot project that we did back in 2016. And since that pilot project, we've grown
 that program or had grown that program to many restaurants, several of the cafeterias on the University of Arkansas campus, and then also several public school cafeterias.
 And when the COVID-19 pandemic hit earlier this year, many of those restaurants closed, the university closed, and all of our public schools closed. So the raw material, the food waste coming into our compost system went to almost zero. And simultaneously, when our raw materials decreased significantly, we saw demand
 or our finished compost increased significantly. Many of our residents and citizens were wanting to plant backyard gardens. It was spring, it was the planting season. Other folks that had additional time on their hands were wanting to do home improvement and yard improvement projects. So for a short period, we actually ran out of compost at our facility and didn't have any to sell to our residents.
 And so at that point, we began trying to look at ways to increase our residential compost collection. We saw that as a viable way of bringing more food waste as a raw material into our program. We expanded our residential drop-offs from two to three and now offer a residential food waste compost drop-off at our Mary Norton Recycling Facility on North Street. We also offer it at our compost facility on Armstrong Road.
 It's open on Tuesday and Thursday and on some Saturdays. And then we also offer a food waste compost drop-off for residents at our Happy Hollow recycling facility at the corner of Happy Hollow and 15th Street.
 And then we saw this grant opportunity and saw this as a way to further expand that residential collection component of food waste by offering mobile collection. Additionally, we're also in the process of trying to develop additional residential drop-off locations that are more geographically spread throughout the city, working with some of our partners to try and get permanent drop-off locations in as many quadrants of our city as possible.
 So that's just kind of a brief explanation of how this fits into the larger picture of both GHG reduction and
 compost generation and waste diversion, all goals that have been adopted and are being pursued by the city. So just to wrap things up on the financial side of things, the grant award amount from the USDA is $73,870 with a $22,500 match from the city of Fayetteville and a $21,870 match from the Boston Mountains Solid Waste District.
 for a total project uh grant cost of 118 240 um the city's match requirement will come from the recycling and trash collections promotional activities budget and with that i'll be glad to answer any questions you all have on this um this grant okay what questions do we have in the council on this peter i actually got some questions from the community um about the
 I was hoping you could talk about the revenue generated from the sale of compost and how that fits into the whole equation. The compost, there is some revenue generated.
 And we haven't actually factored that in significantly to the overall cost of operating the program. We see the compost generation and the ability to provide that at low cost
 to the residents in the city as part of our services as operating the recycling trash collections division. So I can't give you specific numbers on what that revenue generation is, Council Member Smith. It's not huge, but it's also not zero. But there's also savings from not putting the composted material in the landfill? That's 100% correct. We pay
 Top of my head, roughly $45 a ton for every ton of solid waste that gets transferred from our transfer station to the Tawneytown landfill. So yes, that's absolutely correct. Every pound and ton we divert, put into our compost program that we're able to turn into a usable product and sell also saves us money in terms of disposal costs. Thank you. What other questions do we have? I had a question and Peter, maybe you covered it.
 After the vote today, how long will it be before the program's in place and operating? You'll begin, but we have some aspects in terms of the residential compost drop-offs already up and running now and are in process of expanding those and talks with additional locations. In terms of having the trailer and be ready to go out to events, we're hoping to have that up and running by the end of the year. That's great. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 One of the questions we have in the council. Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one. Turn it to Mike. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Please stay on the topic, and the topic is the grant from the United States Department of Agriculture, Community, Compost, and Food Waste Reduction Program. No rude behavior allowed.
 Don't engage city council members or any other speakers that might want to speak. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is a resolution. Mayor, I move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any other, any final comments from the council? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Hearn? Yes. Menth? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Gutierrez? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes, and it looks like Gutierrez is ready. Gutierrez? Bunch? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Now we're going to take a five-minute recess. I'm sorry, ten minutes? All right. Ten minutes where I can sign the documents. Okay.
 Thank you all very much, and I will see you in 10 minutes. See you back at 4.57.