I would like to call order the City Council meeting of September the 20th 2022 care would you please call the roll we took her here Scroggins president Here her here Pittsburgh here Harvey here Jones here Kenyon here mayor Jordan here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, first I would like to announce the University of Arkansas journalism students is joining us tonight. Would you all stand and be recognized? Yes, indeed.
 I promise you we won't disappoint you. Under reports, we have the nominating committee. Yes, sir.
 Our nominating committee met September 14th and present were myself, Mark Kenyon, Sonya Harvey and Teresa Turk. I want to start by saying we have several positions that are still vacant that we didn't get any applications for and they'll be showing up on the next quarter. They are for Animal Services Advisory Board,
 construction board of appeals excuse me a construction board of adjustments and appeals peg advisory board and public facilities board we had no applications so everybody on council try and drum somebody up for those so our first item is the mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment
 Historic District Commission, Christine Myers, one unexpired term ending 6-30-25. Julie Pretty, one unexpired term ending 6-30-25. And the nominating committee approves of those recommendations. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Airport Board, Richard Rost,
 one unexpired business representative term ending 1231-23. Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board, Mark Plassmeyer, one unexpired resident at large term ending 331-24. Fayetteville Arts Council, Alexandra Vasil, one unexpired arts and culture citizen at large term ending 630-23.
 and Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Jack Avery, one citizen at large term ending 9-30-24. And that's it. Okay. Any questions or comments from the council on the nominations? Okay, I will entertain a motion to accept nominations as read. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to accept nominations as read. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Next item of business is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the August 16, 2022 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $100,000.
 recognized additional revenue and associated expenses for certain parking facilities and services number three a resolution to approve the agreement for assignment of a lease or airport property located at 4560 South School Avenue from LC joint adventures LLC to creamer pilot services LLC number four a
 A resolution to approve a payment of $48,511.28 to the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the construction of a side path along Wellington Drive at the intersection of Interstate 49 and to approve budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to approve an agreement with Easiest Solutions LLC DBA Dumpster Dudes
 of northwest arkansas for the hauling and disposal of solid waste in the city of federal number six a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of a hundred thousand dollars to appropriate additional funds water leak and sewer overflow damages claims that may occur in 2022
 Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $25,000 to appropriate funds for minor equipment purchases by the Water and Sewer Division that may occur in 2022. Number eight, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a state drug crime enforcement and prosecution grant for state funding of the 4th Judicial District Drug Commission.
 Task Force any amount of $91,319 and to authorize Mayor Jordan signed all necessary documents to receive grant funds number nine a resolution to approve a 10-year service agreement with Exxon Enterprises Incorporated and authorized the purchase of body-worn cameras taser conducted energy weapons interview room video recorders and digital mobile video recorder systems and
 In the total amount of $4,186,494.72 pursuant to a source will cooperative purchasing contract for use by the police department and to approve budget adjustment, I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. Motion is seconded to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Whitaker yes, Scrockin yes, yes, yes Kirk yes, Ertzberg yes, Harvey yes, Jones yes Kenyon yes, okay. Thank you all very much. We go to unfinished business
 Number one, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $557,298 to reallocate CDBG-CV funding for COVID-19 outreach, testing, and protection. Yolanda, you have this one.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. What you have before you is a budget adjustment to recognize the reallocation that has been approved by HUD in the dollar amount as stated by the Mayor. Additional information for you is our CDAP advisory group met Friday via Zoom, and they voted unanimously to support this budget adjustment. Okay. What questions do we have in the Council? Okay.
 I have recused from this item. Sure. Any other comments, questions, anything? Well, I have a comment. Yolanda, thanks so much for working with CDAP and I'm glad that we have support from the committee. I think that's real important and I really appreciate the extra time it took. Anybody else? Anything? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have the five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members please stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that Lisa who do you have on soon no one has their hand raised mayor okay who would like to speak to us about this issue in the chamber
 Hi, my name is Melissa Terry. I live in Ward 1, 701 Southwood Avenue. And I come before you today just to thank you for referring this to the committee. That was the right thing to do. I attended that meeting on Friday and it was a unanimous vote, but if you go back and watch the comments and the discussion,
 Three of the four votes were qualified by comments that to one commissioner or committee member's direct quote that this really stinks. And it's my hope, which I said in my comments, that we take this going forward, that the reason why we have these processes is so that we can prevent this kind of friction. We're all on the same team.
 We need each other. Our community needs are so great. And it came out in the meeting through a direct question that UAMS and Community Clinic were invited to submit their applications in June. And this is a three-year grant. And we're in 36 months. And we're in month 32. So once again, this is coming to council's attention to Councilmember Scroggins' point.
 excuse me at an earlier meeting that it's just you know it comes to you but there's no time for discussion there's no time to vote and the tyranny of the urgent is terrible public policy and so I commend the council for referring this back to the committee again if you go watch those comments there was a strong desire to change this reallocation but in the interest of
 we're out of time like that didn't happen and so i feel like that we could have spread these funds out through other frontline organizations who are really struggling and again thank you very much thank you who else would like to address this on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes the council what discussion or action would you like to take if this is a resolution i'm going to approve this okay i maybe we approve the resolution second
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments? Well again, I think that this is a real good lesson learned to be sure that we are inclusive and now with this new CDAP committee we can utilize it, I think, better. So I saw public policy work in this instance and in the comments you will see that they
 that there was concerns, but it's concerns that can be handled in the future based on what we know from this meeting. And I think it was a very civil, good meeting from what I saw. So thank you, Ms. Terry, for encouraging that. Yes. Okay. Terridge, please call the roll.
 Whitaker yes, butch yes, sir. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, RV Yes, Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes. Okay. Thank you all number two in order to amend 157 point zero to development in chapter 157 Notification and public hearings of the unified development code to require public notification of administrative items and variances considered by the Planning Commission
 This was left, this was, this in ordinance is left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. Okay, we got all that care? All right. Would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kurt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 And in order to amend Section 157.02 Development and Chapter 157 Notification and Public Hearings of the Unified Development Code to require public notification of administrative items and variances considered by the Planning Commission.
 Thank you, Mayor, and good evening, Council. So this is an item that was meant to put into our code a policy for notification that currently exists in development services. I don't have any additional updates for the Council from agenda session. We have not received any additional public comment, but I am happy to answer questions or provide additional detail if needed. Okay, what questions do we have for Brenton on this item? Anything? Okay, let's take a little public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on top please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom no comments from zoom mayor okay then who do we have in the chamber that would like to address us on this issue okay then i will bring it back to the council this is an ordinance
 Is on the second reading so what discussion of what action would you like to take counsel? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading if there are no other comments or discussion second We have a motion second to go to the third and finally here. Would you please call? Leader Kirk yes Scroggins yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Harvey yes, yes Yes
 in order to amend section 157.02 development in chapter 157 notification and public hearings of the unified development code to require public notification of administrative items and variances considered by the planning commission okay what final comments do we have in the council okay carriage please go on the road
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. I believe the last time that we met, there was a task, and that task, Britton was tasked to reach out to the business owners and those who lived in closer proximity to Archibald Hill. And Mayor Jordan, I believe, if it's okay at this time, is she allowed to report back to the council as it relates to what
 what she found or do you want me to do that? Well, what I actually told her to do was to contact the business owners and the people that lived along that area like was a request. And you did that, correct, Britton? You need to know much more than that or? Well, it's.
 Is it okay if she were to provide the council members and the citizens that feedback? Well, that's fine. Go ahead and just give the report that you gave this last Tuesday.
 Thank you, Mayor. So, I gave a little bit of an update to the City Council in the last meeting, but I want to kind of confirm where we are today, a week later. So, I was able to connect with several of the business and property owners along Archibald Yell, and one of the things that we looked at in the last regular meeting was that there are properties that are addressed on Archibald Yell and then properties that front on Archibald Yell but are maybe addressed on a side street.
 So, some properties would potentially have an address change with the name change and then some would not. But I did my best to reach out as well as I could property owners along Archibald Yale, business owners along Archibald Yale. We did have seven letters returned, so I was not able to connect with about seven of the 12 property owners.
 through phone, email, mailing. And then when I was able to connect with folks, it was via phone and email. I believe the council has received some comments from some of those folks, either in writing or perhaps phone call. But in speaking to people, there were some concerns expressed.
 And I'd like to summarize those for the council if I may. There was an ask for an economic impact study to be done first, specifically for the businesses that might be affected and asked for additional public input and asked for the city to pay business costs for the changes to the name, whether that be for new signs, other costs associated, et cetera.
 for the city to widely advertise the name change so that there would be recognition. One of the things that I highlighted for the council and agenda session was some concern that had been expressed by at least two property owners that people know where they are on Archibald Yell but they may not be as familiar with where the business location is if the name were to change.
 Also, proposals to rename a different street in the city for Nelson Hackett, College Avenue, School Avenue, 15th and 11th streets were brought up and then said I think this was done with the MLK Street renaming to start with an honorary renaming rather than going straight to the name change. A couple of property owners were in support, business owners, a couple of times that I
 with folks were I would maybe say ambivalent they said okay and then a few were expressing concerns in opposition which I've summarized for you but I really haven't had much communication since last Tuesday and so not a whole lot of update beyond that to report thank you okay I have a question oh sorry okay so you you mailed out to people
 that street with the current name and got a bunch of them back that's correct so the names not working now as far as for those businesses because the mail is coming back
 It looked like mostly according to the US Postal Service stickers, it was mostly address and deliverable or no mail receptacle available. Okay, thank you. Yes, sir. Yeah, and I had another, my question was, so there were 12 addresses and you got seven letters back, is that, or seven were responded? So I sent 20 letters out to try to capture most of the
 So our GIS map is really wonderful in that it captures some of the county appraisal data. So the mailing address for the property owner may be different than the property address itself. So in trying to use any address that might work, I sent out at least 20 letters and then seven of those have come back as of today.
 Okay, but you did do your due diligence and check the county records because that's where their tax record would go to or their bill would go to. And it looked like in a couple of instances at least because I did investigate this further, in a couple of instances the property owner had.
 Sold the property where their mailing address was and not updated their information with the county. Okay. All right. Thank you very much Yes, ma'am Britton if you may you you work with the Commission and I have the the privilege of serving on the Commission and If you if you could kind of explain to the council the the
 thoughtfulness and what this what how this came about and the number of meetings and the diligence and how this commission Made sure that the decision that they made was in was conducive to the what the council wants them to carry out and and
 because there's been some concern that perhaps this was frivolous. And I'm wanting you to, if you would, kind of explain to the council how this process looked and the thoughtfulness behind it and the deliberation and how careful the council members have been including bringing in University of Arkansas history professors, making sure that the community is not, it's not about being educated against
 Archibald Yale, but telling the story of Nelson Hackett. Thank you, Council Member Jones. And I will note that Mr. Jennings, the chair of the commission, is also here. So I think some helpful background would be from a timing perspective. I do have the opportunity to help with the agendas and also meeting facilitation and administrative work for the commission. They did start considering this item back in their March meeting.
 So this has been under consideration for several months. Dr. Michael Pierce, who the council has heard from in a previous meeting, came and shared the story of Nelson Hackett and the work of the university's project for Mr. Hackett, and that began the considerations, and so there's been several months of what it would mean to our students.
 recognized Mr. Hackett in Fayetteville's history and then that began to transition over the summer to considering how that could be applied to a name change. We did definitely review the, our code kind of lays out what the expectations for the work of that commission will be and the commission carefully studied their charge by the city council before deciding to move ahead with their recommendations both for the marker and for the street renaming.
 Britton, if you would, when we met with Dr. Michael Pierce, the impact of the story, the research that he and Dr. Benton has done as it relates to educate, how far reaching that has been, right? There have been, from what I understand, teachers from throughout the country, I believe they were on the campus.
 at U of A this past summer and to learn about the story and how fascinating it is. But what's really fascinating is Fayetteville's impact on international slave policy. And I think that when we think about history, that cannot be dismissed.
 And that was certainly something that Professor Pierce has highlighted in both of his presentations to the commission. And I remember distinctly one of the commissioners asking about their summer program. So there's also kind of an elementary school teaching component that the university shares in order to support Nelson Hackett's story being taught in curricula in schools across the country. And so he provided an update on their summer program for that, which apparently was very successful this year. And so Fayetteville's.
 having a positive impact on international slave policy, I think that's history. And I think that history should be told. So thank you for the work that you've done and the work that you've continued to do for the city and especially right now for the commission. We appreciate you. Thank you, sir. Do we have anything else for Britton? I'm sure you will want to call the chair. Yes, yes, yes. Did somebody have another question? I'm sorry. Go, thank you Britt.
 Okay. Does the chair like to speak for the council? Mr. Mayor, first I have a question. Will this be my only opportunity to speak or will I get to talk in the public comments? Because that'll decide what I give my... I think it'll be dependent upon the council. We normally, I mean, DeAndre's brought you up to speak now. Okay. And so we'll probably, how much time do you all want to give the chair?
 I think would be my question. Five minutes like we normally do? Okay. We can give him five minutes, and then if he needs to have more... Then you can give him more time. All right, that's fair. Thank you, Mayor. All right, good. So at the last meeting, I kind of gave my comments around this, talking more about what the commission, how the commission came to the decision, the amount of time that we spent on it, and in those regards...
 But at the last meeting, the president of the Fayetteville Evergreen Cemetery spoke about the accomplishments of Archibald Yale and his signing of the document to extradite Mr. Hackett merely as one of his gubernatorial duties.
 Well, I'm sure Mr. Yale did some great things. I think we all have. He was on the wrong side of history on this one. Yes, he was the founding father of Fayetteville, and that's not going to change. Archibald Yale's legacy isn't going anywhere, and he will still have a presence in Fayetteville.
 But men like Nelson Hackett were robbed of their legacies and their freedom, and their blood, sweat, tears, and toil fueled the economic power and lined the pockets of enslavers like Yale and Wallace. To me, Nelson Hackett is every bit as much of a founding father of Fayetteville as Archibald Yale was. The difference is no one knows his story.
 History about Nelson Hackett was muted. But let's look beyond this and think about belonging. Sense of belonging has been defined as an individual's psychological sense of connection to or integration into their community. The key word in this definition is their community, our community. We belong to. Our voices need to be heard too.
 All of Fayetteville's voices need to be heard and acknowledged, including Hackett. He's speaking to us from the grave. You see, history is the conduit in which Mr. Hackett is speaking to us today. And it would be a shame to have his voice to go unheard yet again. I understand that this might not be an easy vote for some. Maybe some can't be convinced to vote for this resolution. Change is hard.
 But I implore you to take bold, brave action and support this resolution. Matt Bevin said, while it may seem small, the ripple effect of small things is extraordinary. Take this small act and make it reverberate throughout our community so everyone knows that Fayetteville leaders are not small men and women who fear progress and change, but they are fearless giants.
 who take bold actions to support the marginalized in our community. Be those giants. I want to make it clear and unambiguous that the motives of the commission are not to erase history or anything of the nature. We simply want to celebrate a history that has been untold and that is well beyond time to be told and celebrated.
 So, what I ask for you today is to support this resolution to rename Archibald Yale Boulevard to Nelson Hackett Boulevard and support the views and wishes of the minoritized folks in our great community. Thank you. Yondre, do you have anyone else? I believe we have another representative from the Commission here tonight, Caleb.
 Are you prepared to speak? Okay. And be sure that you introduce yourself. Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Good evening, Commission. My name is Caleb Turner. I'm one of the commissioners on the Black Heritage Preservation Commission. I want to first thank you for your time and consideration of this topic and your thoughtful consideration of the topic. I also want to thank Britton for her work staffing our commission and being of great support to our commission and the city is.
 lucky to have her and I also want to thank JL for his leadership on this issue and for our Commission. I'm here in support of the resolution and asking you the Commission or the Council to vote in favor of the resolution. I'll keep my remarks brief and in doing so I'd like to read a paragraph from yesterday's Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette editorial about the issue and also say thank you publicly to the Democrat Gazette for the very well written editorial. It reads,
 Telling the story of Fayetteville is incomplete without a conscious inclusion of Nelson Hackett's fate and its impact felt around the world. If banishment of Archibald Yale's name from a major thoroughfare achieves that, perhaps it's time city leaders embrace the change. After 70 years, perhaps the boldest statement isn't just to say also...
 but is to say instead of when it comes to whose story that street celebrates. I'll repeat that. After 70 years, perhaps the boldest statement possible isn't just to say also, but instead of when it comes to whose story that street celebrates. And I'll also close with the final paragraph of the editorial, which I thought was very pragmatic.
 Plus, there's a practical reality that suggests the outcome. No matter how famous someone might have been 180 years ago, dead people don't get a vote in the modern city council elections. Those eager to embrace a more inclusive telling of local history can vote. Thank you for your consideration, and I hope you'll vote yes in support of this resolution. Thank you. Thank you. Don't we have anybody else? Mayor Jordan, I believe that's it from the commission. If you want to...
 Guess public comment, but I think what I'm trying to do. I want to be sure that I speakers that you okay Yes, I believe that's it from the Commission. I I think so. Yeah, I
 I don't think there's anyone else from the commission here tonight. Okay. Well, I'm going to take some public comment. All right. You have anything else you want to add to that? I'm sorry. Mayor Jordan. Yes, of course. Um, this has been very challenging, uh, for Fayetteville in some regards, and I've heard those concerns, but it's also an opportunity for us to continue to do what we've done. And that is practice inclusion. And I know that, um, that it's, it's, uh,
 time to, it's almost time to vote. And I know that some people are perhaps utilizing this as a way to appease their supporters. Well, I take, I take issue with that because that's a reflection of my humanity and the humanity of my ancestors and so many, and African Americans, period, and those who are marginalized. And so I hope that, that this is received in the manner that it should be and that it's not
 in the name of political power or in the name of wokeness. This is about humanity. And this is about doing exactly what that editorial said. This is about doing exactly what JL has said. This is doing exactly what Caleb has said and so many others, that it is time that we acknowledge a different type of history. We, August of 2021, we empowered this commission to do the work.
 Every, the third Thursday night of every month, we meet. That is when there's an opportunity for the public to speak. When they talk about public comments, those meetings are made known to the public and everyone has the opportunity to speak during those times. And so if we're going to empower groups to do the work, then we need to trust these groups to do the work.
 We can't trust these groups to do the work and then when it's not comfortable or when it's not political popular. No, we can't do that. We have to be who we say that we're going to be. We empowered, we entrusted this commission to do this work. And that is what we have to do, because if we don't.
 then we are undermining their authority. We are undermining their voices. And I just don't believe that that's who we are. And I know that there are certain things that we have to consider, but the commission has done just that. Britain has outlined the details. JL has outlined the details as it relates to this process.
 And I've heard that there are other streets that require that. That when is it going to end? And I do believe that that is a conversation that we must have. And I'm open to having that conversation. But tonight, that's not about that's not the topic of this conversation. Tonight is about Nelson Hackett. We'll have that conversation soon.
 So, focusing on Nelson Hackett, focusing on Fayetteville's commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, and focusing on listening to the commission that you appointed to do exactly what they've done. If you don't do that because someone called and had hurt feelings, then we may as well disband the commission.
 If we don't trust them to do the work, if we don't trust them to do exactly what we empowered them and voted and elected them to do, then why have a commission? We can't keep doing this when it's not popular or when certain people call us or when certain people say things. We're putting people, we're putting politics over people, and that's not who we are.
 This is not going to hurt Fayetteville. No one was able to show me how this street renaming is going to physically harm Fayetteville. Not one person. Not one phone call, not one text, not one Facebook message, not one email outlined how this is going to hurt Fayetteville. It's hurting feelings. There's some fragility and there's some frustration, but that's personal.
 When we think about this street renaming, five years from now, let's think about the impact that it's going to have as it relates to Fayetteville being true to who we say that we're going to be. When we hung that Black Lives Matter sign on Dixon Street, that is, that's what this is about. We just can't, these feel good opportunities, we have to do more, we have to do more.
 And I know that this is considered progressive and it's considered bold, but that's change. That's change. And so I'm glad that we are able to have this conversation. And I'm so very thankful that we have the city council and that we have Mayor Jordan, because I mentioned the last time that we talked about this, Mayor Jordan, this is your legacy. And I spoke to many people, many individuals in ward one,
 And they told me, they said, Council Member Jones, this is long overdue. Mayor Jordan, you know how it feels when it comes to street renaming because of MLK, the
 And we will never forget that. And the black community thanks you for that. You're probably one of the most popular mayors in the black community in the state because of your commitment. Mayor Jordan, you never back down. I remember sitting in your office when the sign, when Black Lives Matter, when we hung that sign during Black History Month, and I remember you stood tall and you stood with us.
 And you got, I'm sure you got a lot of different, well, you received a lot of emails and a lot of people have a lot of things to say, but you continue to stand with us. And for that, Mayor Jordan, we are eternally grateful. We may not always agree, but we know that your heart is in the right place. And we know that your heart has been for and with equality forever.
 and you've demonstrated that in so many times. City Council, in August of 2020, you declared racism to be a public health crisis. We've done very little since then, but tonight we have an opportunity to do more. This is not about race. This is about bringing Fable together. And for me to drive down that street, knowing the story of Nelson Hackett and others,
 This is not just a good idea for African Americans, but think about other groups. Think about young white kids who are able to hear this story and say, wow, my city took a stand, a stand for the right thing, regardless of political pressure and hurt feelings. I understand that, and that's a part of it. I've been invited to those conversations. I facilitated those conversations, and I will continue to do so.
 because it's going to make us better. So I had no intention to say this, but since she gave me the microphone, I guess I couldn't resist. But this is very serious and dear to the black community and to Fayetteville as a whole. This is not about politics. This is not about appeasing the woke and appeasing the liberals.
 This is about bringing Fayetteville together. This is about diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. Those four things that we cherish here in Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you, DeAndre. All right. Now we will take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. They have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic.
 please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that lisa who do you have on zoom mayor phillip thompson okay go ahead phillip please unmute we'll come back to philip okay who do you have next next joel metcalf go ahead hello can you hear me yes
 So I just wanted to call in and let you all know, I think this is a great idea. I only found out about it a week or two ago. I'm a bit disconnected from Fayetteville politics, even though I've lived here 15 years. But I think it's absolutely fabulous. I think Archibald Yale is a fun name. And you know, I've heard history tidbits and red plaques since I'm from Northwest Arkansas and have lived here all my life.
 But you don't name a street after someone to teach history. Not really. You name a street after someone to honor them. And I don't know as we need to honor Archibald Yell. His big claim to fame is that he was an important figure in a government that sanctioned the murder, rape, and torture of people.
 So, I mean, if we're just saying he's great because he, you know, was a government official during that kind of administration, I don't know why we needed to honor him in the past. I don't know why we would need to honor him now. And I don't know why we would need to honor him in the future. And that's it. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? We'll try Philip Thompson again. Okay. Go ahead, Philip. Philip, you're muted. If you can unmute, please. Yes.
 Well, maybe we can get everybody. Who else do you have? Wait, there's no one else on Zoom. Then we'll open it up for people in the chamber. Then we'll come back to Phillip if we can. Who would like to address us on this issue in the chamber? I'm in. So far.
 Hi, Robert Stafford, 527 South Sherman Avenue, Fayetteville, Arkansas, Ward 1. Thank you for having me and allowing public comment here. I spoke to you all a couple weeks ago. I gave you a general history of the crimes of Archibald Yeld. This isn't...
 DeAndre, thank you. JL, thank you. Thank you back there. Thank you to the Nelson Hackett Project. But this isn't a bold and brave decision. This is a softball. This is an easy, moral decision. Recently, we renamed Porter Road to Stephen Carr Boulevard. I don't remember
 a lot of hemming and hawing over the renaming of that street, and there shouldn't have been. It was an easy decision. It was the right thing to do, and you did it. So I don't understand why all of a sudden, oh my goodness, a street renamed like we'd never done it before. So last time I gave you a general overview of what a human Archibald Hill was. This is an excerpt from an actual historical document
 It kind of starts in the middle because of my lousy screenshot abilities, so I apologize. By the end of December, the situation had become desperate. On Christmas Day, U.S. troops raped several Mexican women. Among the worst offenders was the 1st Arkansas Volunteer Cavalry under the command of Colonel Archibald Yelp.
 By then the outfit's reputation for poor discipline and use of excess force with civilians had urged the nickname Arkansas Ransackers. The rape of women especially outraged the locals, whom retaliated on February 9th by killing a private from Yale's regiment just outside the Army camp.
 Determined to seek retribution, about 100 men from Yale's brigade fanned out into the countryside on the following day. Although details about what took place next remain sketchy, the men apparently cornered 20 to 30 civilians in a cave outside of Katana and systematically began killing them. Some were shot and others were beaten to death.
 Receiving word of the massacre and process, Brigadier General John E. Wohl, who had only recently arrived at Agua Nueva, dispatched a contingent of U.S. regulars to investigate.
 When the regulars arrived on the scene, they immediately stopped the carnage, but by then most of the damage had been done. At least 20 Mexicans lay dead, some of whom had been scalped and mutilated. Several more lay dying of gunshot wounds or crushed skulls from savage beatings. Wolfe subsequently demanded that Colonel Yale produce those individuals responsible for the massacre. Yale never complied.
 We'll then dismiss Company's BNG from Yale's regiment, the men which were later sent home, and no further punishment was meted out. General Taylor, sickened by the reports he received, wrote, Such deeds cast disgrace upon our arms and reputation of our country. Nevertheless, Taylor did not order any other disciplinary measures against the Katana massacre perpetrators.
 So again, when we talk about history and everybody's like, history is important, and it is, and somebody earlier brought up, but we don't, this isn't about recognizing history or teaching history. This is about who do you honor. You don't honor people that are guilty of massacring civilians. You don't.
 Nelson Hackett, on the other hand, I mean, fought for his freedom, escaped the Canada, and his actions directly influenced international law and stopped the extradition of escaped slaves back to America. That's something you want to honor. That's something that's honorable. What Yale did was not honorable. Again, this is a softball. Thank you.
 this is an easy decision it doesn't take multiple meetings we don't need to kick this can down the road any further now yeah are some i'm not a racist people going to be offended yeah sure if you're worried about losing their votes i'm disgusted um that's all i gotta say all right thank you thank you bob all right who else would like to address this on this sure
 Thank you, Mayor. My name is Joey McCutcheon. I'm from Fort Smith, Arkansas. I'm here tonight as an Arkansan and an American who respects history, Arkansas and American history. Is the purpose tonight to divide or is the purpose to unify? Are we really here about inclusivity or are we here about exclusivity?
 I'm going to suggest a proposal tonight that unifies, not divides, is inclusive, not exclusive. My solution seeks to recognize the intersecting history of both of these men. A decision that erases, removes, or replaces Archibald Yale with Nelson Hackett is divisive and exclusive. Nobody that I've heard one ounce...
 would would would not want Nelson Hackett to have a street named after him, but it's erasing history. Let's make no mistake about it. Erasing, sanitizing and removing history is a dangerous slippery slope. Arkansas Democrat August 21st wrote.
 Mr. Jones wrote to the city council that this is not about canceling or removing history, but rather about acknowledging individuals that have been previously acknowledged. Arkansas Democrat Gazette goes on. So why target one of the few street names for prominent historical figures? It's the second time Jones and the commission have chosen to do that.
 pushing successfully last year to remove World War II hero Leroy Pond. So what's next on this slippery slope? I think we've heard mention of it tonight. What's next?
 Well, next do we remove George Washington from the name of Washington County, the Washington County Historical Society. Is that where this is headed? After all, President Washington owned slaves. We all agree that slavery was an evil institution.
 Do we erase, remove, and sanitize Washington when Fayetteville begins to celebrate, recognize, and embrace this different type of history? In my opinion, a better approach is to recognize all our history, the good, the bad, and the ugly. History is there to teach us. We can use it as an educational moment. So how do we do this?
 Why not put Mr. Hackett's name on another street sign in Fayetteville, maybe an intersecting street with Archibald Yale Boulevard? The two men's lives intersected in American history. Place a marker that tells the story of both men's pursuit of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The truth is that Archibald Yale and Nelson Hackett were both Arkansas and American heroes.
 Archibald Yale was the second governor of this state, a judge, a lawyer, our first congressman, a military hero in spite of what we've heard tonight, who fought in the battle of New Orleans voluntarily and then organized volunteers to defend America in the Mexican War.
 And in that same war that this gentleman's referred to, he gave his life on that battlefield. Is that an American hero? He was instrumental in writing our first constitution with its declaration of rights, which is the most powerful in the country. He was an advocate for the rights of the common man and advocates for public education. Archibald Yale dutifully signed an order to extradite Nelson Hackett.
 Yale was following the rule of law when he signed that order after the Washington County Grand Jury indicted Mr. Hackett. In his heroic odyssey, Mr. Hackett made an international impact and advanced the rights of slaves. His story also needs to be told, and it needs to be yelled from the street corners. We're for all history here.
 but it shouldn't be told at the expense of erasing the accomplishments of Archibald Yale, Fayetteville's founder. Nelson Hackett was a hero. He showed us the way. He pursued life, liberty, and happiness. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, Sarah Marsh, Cato Springs Road in Ward 1. I would like to thank the council for taking this up and particularly Councilmember Jones for continuing this fight. I first became aware of the issue with the Archibald Yale Boulevard as a student at the Community Design Center here at the University when I did an academic study of Southeast Fayetteville.
 And in doing that study, the thing that became very obvious was the scar that Archibald Yale Boulevard creates across the city and how it broke the urban fabric that had existed there previously. If you know much about what was happening in Arkansas and around the country in the 1950s when this road was constructed, you know that there was a legacy of redlining and using highways as physical barriers to separate black communities from white communities.
 Archibald Yale Boulevard is a physical manifestation of racist urban planning policies. And we have a responsibility to fix this. And, you know, when we first started talking about the 71B revitalization plan, remember that the initial plan did not include south of the square. South Fayetteville was not part of that.
 And if you look at South Fayetteville infrastructure maps, there is a noticeable difference in the quality of the infrastructure and the amount of public investments that have been made southeast of that road as there is to the northwest of that road.
 So thankfully we were able to get the south side of 71B included in the revitalization plan for 71B. And hopefully this is our opportunity to start knitting these two sections of our community back together by creating physical connections, but also by creating social connections.
 And having been involved in South Fayetteville activism for a long time, I've had the opportunity to meet some of the descendants of the people, the Fayetteville residents that Archibald Yell enslaved. And we owe it to these members of the community to right this historic wrong. We need to set a better example for the youth in this community. They need to grow up hearing about heroes like Nelson Hackett.
 My initial proposal was to rename this Prairie Hill Boulevard after the traditional Cherokee name for the space. But that's because I was unaware of the important history of heroes like Nelson Hackett. And I want to thank the committee for bringing his story to light so that we may all learn about someone of such great importance. So I do hope that you will support renaming the street and that you will continue to make equitable investments in South Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah.
 who else would like to address us okay i'm going to bring it back to the council did you ever get phillip let's try phillip thompson one more time phillip if you'll unmute well it just does not seem to be working out for philip here all right all right council um
 This is a resolution. What conversation would you like to have or what action would you like to take? I have an amendment that I'm hoping to propose. This was sent out earlier. Basically it allows the mayor to reimburse
 potential cost of the renaming of the street. So get what I need to do to move this forward.
 Yeah, it actually adds one whereas clause or would as well as section two the whereas clause that would be added says Whereas the Fayetteville City Council wishes to reimburse any necessary additional expenses that renaming Archibald Yale Boulevard would cost existing businesses or residents currently addressed on Archibald Yale Boulevard and
 In Section 2 would say that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to reimburse businesses and residences currently addressed on Archibald Yale Boulevard for expenses necessitated by the change of name of the street. And also later this afternoon,
 Councilmember Jones asked also to do an amendment which I think would not be contrary to yours But might be combined with it if you want me to do that That would add another section Which I guess we'll do section 3 and it would state That the City Council the city of fail arcs are hereby determines that this rest look resolution will not go into effect until Juneteenth of 2023
 give businesses and residents addressed on the boulevard enough time to make the transition to a new name so if you're also in agreement with that then you could combine those and that would be a single amendment or if you want to hear them separately we could do that I would consider that a friendly amendment and make it with mine that's fine and kit
 Thank you for that. When I reached out to you, this was part of the, that amendment is part of the discussion that we had on last Thursday when we met. And we wanted to make sure that the business, that the business community, that they understand that we're working together and we're wanting to do everything that we can accommodate to accommodate them. And so with that being said, Britton reached out to the Postal Service and I believe that
 they have one year, let's say June, if it passes tonight and it's June 2023, they have up until June 2024 to make that change. In addition, from what I understand, they have an additional six months. So we wanna make sure that we honor and we do everything that we can to collaborate with our business owners. We don't have to do,
 One or the other or either or we can do this together And so we wanted to make sure that we were empathetic to their needs and that they have as much time as they need to to make those changes I would I would suggest that either you or Council members Croghan make the amendment the other person second it and then we could go forward from there Just hang on a minute
 Now how much money do you think that we need to reimburse these businesses? That's what my question was. Is there a limit? So, I mean, I just, I need to, do we want a cap on it? What do you want me to? Do we have any idea what we would require, like we would allow the reimbursement to be for? Is this for like changing addresses or postage or what? How do we quantify the financial piece?
 paul you had any thoughts on that or because i i don't exactly know how we i don't know what business well absolutely mayor we saw this today uh i just think it's not very clear what we're talking about uh talking about reimbursing them for which is what's holly saying i think if you're going to reimburse them for expenses you wish to do that i think there one should be some type of individual cap i think number two
 that we should call those reasonable expenses that are directly necessitated before the name of the street. You could come up with all kinds of arguments for something that's related. So I'd like to see something talked about directly necessitated, being one reasonable, two directly necessitated by the naming of the street, and I'd like to see it capped individually.
 My concern is we have a lot of larger items that this could include like streets, like, you know, company signs with street addresses that could really rack up. So I do have some concerns with this amendment.
 I should note from the language, it merely authorizes the mayor to reimburse businesses. It doesn't say he must, and it leaves the details basically up to the mayor as long as the expense is necessitated by the change of the street, name of the street. Okay.
 So it basically puts a monkey on your back. Yes, it does. Council would pass this. What else is new? Kit, I would like to say this. Mayor Jordan, I'm thinking, and Council Member Scroggins, thank you so much. We really appreciate that. I'm thinking in terms of maybe just simple postage. I didn't, I'm not a post office worker. I don't know how much that would incur, but I'm thinking perhaps just a
 changing the whatever is required to make the adverse change. And that's what I'm thinking in terms of, of course, I didn't come up with that, but I'm just thinking in terms of just regular monies for postage. I mean, I don't know what that would cost because I'm not a business person. Well, I mean, I would expect business cards to be reprinted, signs would have to be adjusted. That's really the big items.
 One thing the council could do if you wanted to limit this more closely is to say not exceeding $50 per address. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Mayor? Then I have the controls, right? Yes. Okay, I can work with that.
 yeah mayor so my only so i had a business on mlk when it switched from six to mlk i did not receive any kind of reimbursement um i received um support to be worked with the street name as we heard that was going to take a year and a half or something to to get the
 get the get everything finalized and I got a good you know feedback from the city that I could continue to use all of my materials until they ran out and as soon as those ran out then I could it would be fine and that's what I did and that's what we did when it switched from MLK to 6th Street and so I was I experienced that my concern is that are we gonna do this every time we have a street name change we may have a street that has a thousand people that you
 need $50 reimbursements. I don't know. So that's my concern. Um, we haven't done it in the past. Are we going to do it in the future? Um, and some of these signs are, you know, $5,000 signs easy, just real quick. So, um, that's just one, one item. If it's a trailer or something kind of like a wrap, okay. As a speaking as a graphic designer, we're talking about $10,000 or something. So we have to be really careful with that. Those are my thoughts. And, uh,
 I'm thinking in terms of when we spoke about this Thursday night, giving the business owners, I mean, they have almost a year and a half
 to get this taken care of. Again, we're looking at June 10th, June of 2023, then they have 12 months, and then they have an additional six months. So that's 18 months. And so with the city, I understand, Britton, that there's communication that goes out, that the city will educate the businesses on how to do this.
 I mean, I didn't, I wasn't, and so on again, thank you so much, but I wasn't prepared for, to ask the city to pay anything, but we wanted to be gracious and considerate with the time and making sure that the business owners, they have enough time to take care of what they needed to take care of as it relates to the changing of their address. Thank you.
 Mayor, it sounds to me like we have two separate amendments that need to be considered and should not be considered together. So we probably ought to start with one or the other, either with Council Member Jones' amendment or with Council Member Scoggins' amendment. But they probably should not be joined together from what I'm hearing tonight. I move to amend to Council Member Jones' amendment that he's presented. I'm going with Jones' first, not mine.
 so no no no reimbursements we'll talk about that next okay second okay i've got a motion in a second to uh do the street renaming on juneteenth of next year correct deandre i'm sorry read the the permanent renaming would be on juneteenth yes next year just to clarify this would be nine months correct next june okay this would take place
 June it will go the one year. June 2023. Will go into effect June 2023. They have until June 2024 to make, to have their addresses changed and updated. Okay. So they have 12 months and then they have an additional six months. They have 18 months total to get to make these changes. Okay. Thank you. And we went through a time period like that when we did, when I brought forward that.
 Well, it was even longer because, as you remember, the first thing the council did was do the honorary Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. That lasted a couple of years, and then you brought back an actual renaming.
 Do we need to vote on this first or do we get to have discussion first and then we can decide on this later as far as an amendment or do we need to tackle that first? You know, this is something, you know, you should probably discuss the motion on the floor, which is an amendment to the proposal by Councilmember Jones to have the effective date of the resolution on Juneteenth next year.
 That is your first discussion. And then after that, you should probably vote on that before you get to any other potential amendment.
 And Kit, I want the business owners to really understand the duration, that it's not going to happen immediately, and they have up to 18 months. And because I think that's very important, especially the last meeting we had that was such a big concern. And so I do want the business owners to know that they have time and that the city, from what I understand, will help guide them, not pay for it, but guide them through the process. Yes.
 So if I don't know how that language would work even if it could but just them knowing that they have up to 18 months. So this would it be an amendment on the resolution if then they we would vote on the amended resolution correct? Yeah if the resolution is amended then you would eventually vote on the amended resolution. Okay all right we have a motion in a second on the floor what discussion would you like to have?
 Nobody got an opinion. All righty. Let's see where we go then. Chair, would you please call the roll? We do, sir. Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Okay. Now we have an amended resolution, and Sloan, you have one.
 Based on what I'm hearing, I don't think I want to complicate this anymore. So I'm done. So you're going to go through all your... Yeah. Okay. All right. So we have the amended resolution before us. What do we have a motion and second to pass the resolution? We pass the resolution.
 We've got to pass the amendment first. No, you already passed the amendment. We did. All right. So now we've got the amended resolution. All right. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council? Mayor Jordan and city council, I just want to say thank you. And I know I've said a lot. And sometimes I'm apprehensive because I tend to say things to people
 potentially upset people but it's i try to speak the truth and i really appreciate that the council members that every vote that we've made since i've been here has been based on truth
 I mean, every vote that we, every council meeting, we don't vote our feelings. We vote the facts. And it's so good to serve in a city that's empathetic and that listens to history. And even though we have different people that reach out with different emotions and opinions, we stick to the facts. And we stick to what's important to Fayetteville. Thank you.
 And so those who spoke out, who spoke against it, I appreciate your concern. And we've learned a lot. And I do believe that we must.
 Someone said it best. Where does it end? Well, I think that we do have to have a larger conversation as it relates to How do we do this next because there are streets There are a couple of streets in Ward 4 that have been brought to my attention and so if we're going to do this and
 I'm hoping that we are open for another conversation about what this process should look like and that this process would be inclusive and that we would include the community members and that we wouldn't consider all the perspectives and factors because.
 I think that any resemblance of slavery and of racism, even if it's history, that we have a responsibility, a moral responsibility to address that. And so, but I do think that we have to have a, there needs to be a larger conversation as it relates to streets renaming.
 Mr. Mayor? Yes. I have a few comments before we take this vote, and I just wanted to kind of toss it out here now. But I got, I received a lot of emails and a lot of phone calls and that sort of thing. And you know, I feel like as a person who is from here and a, you know, a person who's lived here my whole life, my family's from here, go back centuries.
 And I don't, I really don't understand the comments that this is erasing history. Because as we've said, we don't learn history by a street name. We learn that in school. We learn that from books. We learn that from TV, whatever. But Archibald Yale is going to be memorialized still.
 He has a marker down in South Fayetteville at Walker Park. It's not a very nice marker. Maybe that might be something you might want to look into. But he also has a prominent grave in Evergreen Cemetery. He will be taught in the schools. He's taught in Arkansas history. And his Washington County Historical Society moved his little, I guess it's his little
 office didn't they too? The Bar Association. The Bar Association, but it's at the headquarters house. So he is, you know, widely commemorated in Fayetteville. And Nelson Hackett isn't. And I think for me this is about who gets to control the narrative of history.
 And it's not erasing history because there's all this great vast amount of history concerning, you know, and information concerning Archibald Gill. But we don't have as much about Nelson Hackett. And Nelson Hackett's story is so integral to our part, our history, our collective history. Not just one white people history versus black people history, but our history as a whole. And it just...
 Really, when people say where do we stop with this, I kind of feel like we should be asking well where do we start with this? Because where do we start, you know, kind of making this all of our history? And this commission was, it is a volunteer commission. They make recommendations to the city council and what they ask us to do.
 is to consider renaming Archibald Yale after Nelson Hackett. They didn't ask us to name a street on the other side of town after Nelson Hackett. They didn't ask us to share the name, you know, Nelson Hackett and Yale. And they didn't ask us to come up with a better solution of an alternative name that
 whatever so i think we should listen to this committee and that's what we should base our information our decision on and that's what i'm going to vote on thank you
 Okay, what other comments? I'd also like to thank the Commission for bringing this forward. I know I learned about Archibald Yale actually through Rotary, through a program they had there. I mean, I've driven on the street forever. So I mean, I do think there's a difference between learning history and honoring people. And I think we're getting that distinction today.
 people that are worried that we're erasing history I suggest you support some of the organizations around here like the Washington County Historic Society believe me they can always use the help so please help them the civic organizations like rotary they always need help and they also need people to present programs and hopefully
 the next program I hear about Archibald Yellow is a more complete history than the one I've heard previously. Unfortunately, I learned more about him in the last couple of weeks than I did at programs that were presented to me. And so I guess I'm glad that I know more, but if you want to,
 continue letting people know about history, there's organizations and I hope that they continue to get support. I hope that Washington County Historic Society gets some more money in the next couple of months so that they can continue their mission. And I hope organizations like Rotary that have good programs can continue their missions. So please don't think that this is ending that. There are options for both, but I hope we do vote for the name change today.
 I have a couple of comments too. I think that council member bunch comes a lot where I come from. My family is six generations deep in Washington County. My sixth grade teacher was Emily Cummins Bell. One of her relations, the Cummins,
 were great rivals of Archibald Yell, but in the end they became very friendly because of progress that happened in Fayetteville. But I've got a very sanitized version of Archibald Yell because she was expressing it from her point of view. And it wasn't that she was making anything up, there was things excluded. And now that I know what was excluded, I can see a compelling reason
 to reconsider a street named after Archimald Yale. Although I do recognize he did a lot for Fayetteville. He was a founding father. That doesn't give anyone the right to be a savage. On the other hand, I didn't know a darn thing about Nelson Hackett. And so I think that having a street named after Nelson Hackett
 Just like I've had people ask me, who the heck is Archibald Yale? That's such a funny name. You know, it is kind of fun, right? But now we'll be able to wonder who is Nelson Hackett? And that way we can look at a historical moment in time where an enslaved person took a chance and basically ran for their freedom.
 and that's what we're about is freedom and liberty and justice and it's unfortunate that he was brought back to stand trial for breaking the law at that time but it's also something to know that i've learned that this changed the discourse the conversation on the extradition of slaves
 I understand the point of view of business, but I don't think that in this instance it's nothing compared to Martin Luther King. I mean, that was a long stretch of road and I'm very empathetic. Archibald Yale, like I said, is kind of a fun name. So if you tell people you're on Archibald Yale, they know where Archibald Yale is. Well, they're going to have to learn where Nelson Hackett is. And sometime
 In the future, I think that we'll just go along with it. It tells a lot about human nature. I still refer to 6th Street as 6th Street. And people that are not from here, that wasn't raised here, they don't have a clue what I'm talking about. So it just takes time. I think that we had a good discussion regarding two men that had an impact on the history of Fayetteville.
 And so looking at the compelling arguments, I am more than happy at this point to support this resolution. But I do want to point out that I have empathy and I have an understanding of a business owner who, one, their family has this building for 40 years. It's on Archibald Yale. You tell people it's on Archibald Yale, here they come. But that...
 It doesn't trump the necessity to have this street name change. Any final comments from the council? Yes, sir. Yes. I think there's the votes. I think this will pass. And I think that can be a good thing, Mr. Mayor. I want to address for me in my career the need to handle things very systematically in doing the people's business.
 So like I said, I think this will pass. I don't think there's a lot of concern about that. But there's always that manifest obvious topic and then the latent unspoken topic, the implicit that we're dealing with. And just as the obvious is the street renaming, what we're talking about is a form of
 social restitution for the harm and consequences of several centuries of slavery in our country. Nothing inappropriate about that at all. The current latent, and I want to put it on the top of the table for us to consider, is that the conversation is about priorities and who gets to set them. It's not that we're going to make the decision, but who gets to participate in the making of the decision.
 And that whole notion of trust, are we all in it together as a community? I think that people want to know that they're valued and that they matter. Explicitly, we're going to tell a portion of the community they matter in a renaming process.
 But there's a problem with people who didn't feel like they were included in the process in the sense of when we have a planning commission meeting, it's agendized, there's a sign in the yard, we know we're going to discuss this, yada, yada. And so I want us, despite this being a progressive and good thing from a social perspective, it's very different to start with the issue,
 of history and wrongs and attempting to right them than it is to start with the people in the community. And so for the community owns the street, the community participated with the state in wanting to build a highway. The rationale was we don't want truck traffic going past the square. In reality, the other consequence was redlining, just as was said. This was a structural way of creating a boundary in the community.
 Let's be explicit about that and explain that. The challenge that I'm left with is that I love DeAndre's passion. I love the commission's passion, but I think in the way we express ourselves and consider doing the people's business, we want to be very careful not to do all or nothing thinking. You're either with me or I'm going to demonize you. There's no middle ground.
 And I think that life is much muddier, much more complicated than that. We have a propensity to say that we're complex and other people are simple. So when Mark is late to a meeting, he's discourteous.
 He's lazy. He doesn't keep track of time. When I'm late, it was circumstances. Traffic was horrendous. You can see that that's kind of the way we're built. You better cut it out there. You know my name. I'm prompt. I'm with you, baby. I'm with you.
 My people make the trains run on time. That's about all we're good for, but we're good for that. So I want to be very cautious that I don't want to be backed in a corner that you're for me or you're with me. Here's the dialogue, boom, here's the presentation. No, no, no. Give me room to be as honest as you want me to be and as honest and forthright as you're being with me. I'm putting that out there, attempting to say we can arrive at a good thing
 but there's challenges to the way that we arrived at it. Everyone matters or no one matters. I mean, it's the heart and the core of what DeAndre would tell us is that I matter, the people that I represent matters, and we have people all over Fayetteville that have mixed feelings about this and they matter, to be quite frank and perfectly honest with you.
 I'm going on a little long, Mr. Mayor, but it's going to be a one shot. I'm not going to ask for a second one. The cost isn't letterhead and business cards. The cost is someone who spent three years getting their name to pop up in the top three in the logarithm on a Google search for their business. That's what the cost is.
 If they change their business name, they change their address, they're starting at the bottom of the pile, that's the cost. Someone's going to come up to us and say, that's a $15,000, $20,000 cost you have to me. I'm not asking us to cover that. I'm just saying that someone could legitimately oppose the street renaming, and we need to be cautious about demonizing them or disregarding them. We have...
 the privilege of having a Black Heritage Preservation Commission, who in concert with the Nelson Hackett Project, in partnership with the University of Arkansas Humanities Center of the Fulbright College of Arts and Sciences, having input to our community. And that sounds both big and that sounds both very small and like a cohort.
 The street, however it got built, if you're younger than 70 years old, it was built before you were born and existed. You had no say in its construction or its naming. So we also need to be cautious about demonizing one another who say, you know, it is what it is. History is just history. We're not trying to erase it. I completely buy that argument. We're not trying to erase it. We're just renaming a street. Two percent of the population
 of the state of Arkansas knows who Archibald Yale was. One percent of the population knows who Nelson Hackett was. It's admirable that we would want both people to be better known, to be quite frank with you. As an example to show how much I bridle at all or nothing thinking,
 or being an old man, you just don't back an old man in a corner because we can't run, we can't get away, we've got to fight, we have no choice, right? It's just our only option. So when you do all or nothing thinking, we lose people that we could bring along with us because we don't allow them to feel that there's nuance and choice and what they contribute matters. It's already decided.
 That then works against us being the inclusive community that we want to be. I guess I would want to close with this notion of saying that to me it is a red flag whenever we posture something as all or nothing. You love me if you do this is a very dangerous thing and a very dangerous place to go because we've heard the person
 that takes you to dinner, Mr. Mayor, and is delightful and gracious to you, but is rude and obnoxious to their waiter, is not a good person and is not a nice person. So the person that advocates for diversity, inclusion, and equity, but then treats me as an enemy, demonizes me, is also not a nice person. I'm looking for...
 Fayetteville, which I think is in a class almost by itself in the state of Arkansas, to have that kind of room for difference of opinion, and we're going to vote, we're going to come down one side or the other, and I'm looking for us to continue to do business with one another out of maturity, out of respect, out of love for one another. So I have a significant struggle
 with what I view as small cohort coming forward with something. When I keep coming back to that all or nothing thinking, how do I get you to feel how I feel about that? I would say this, do you want the monument or do you want the street to be renamed?
 you're going to bridle at that immediately, as well you should. Well, wait, it's not an either or. It's not an either or, that I love you and respect you, or that I vote the way you want me to vote on this. Life is more complex than that. But you can see that sense of which do you want, one or the other. We've got a monument and a memorial that's a significant statement. A street renaming doesn't tell the people that come to Fayetteville
 who that person is like the monument does. So again, I want to offer that example to say, let's avoid that kind of demonization of one another and all or nothing thinking. When we look forward again for the next process, which I entrust there will be, we need to not have a delightful volunteer commission of six people,
 work on something and bring it to us and then say you could have come to our meeting. We have to be much more inclusive to come out to the community and say let's talk about this and some of you are going to be uncomfortable with that conversation and we're going to put band-aids on you and help you and give you the room that you need to be able to be heard. But
 But I think that Fayetteville is the kind of community that is rare and that can do that. There's enough intellectual, social, moral horsepower in this town to operate that way. And so now I've gone on a little bit too long, Mr. Mayor, but I needed to express for me that
 that implicit and get it up on the table, that that's where I'm coming from, that's how I feel about this, and I would like to see us be far more inclusive in the future. Thank you. Okay. I want to say something real quickly. When it comes to certain topics,
 We're all on board. But I noticed something. I remember the same conversation. And Council Member King and you were there when it was 2014, August 2014, and with the discrimination ordinance. I remember hearing some of the same comments. I remember some of the people saying the same thing. We need to come together. And we do, absolutely. But we can't come together unless we address the elephant in the room. We just can't.
 We cannot sing Kumbaya and let's hold hands until we address what's staring us in our face. And I know that when we talk about race, people immediately get defensive and, oh, I'm not a racist. That's not what this is about. This is about educating. And the University of Arkansas and the commission, they've done that work. And if we're still on the fence, then that lets me know some things.
 Mean I can draw my own conclusion because we've been educated. We've been educated on so many things, but when it comes to race I Can't help but notice that's when we begin to become somewhat defensive and well I don't know about that and that same thing happened in 2014 when we voted when when it came down to the anti Discrimination issue and favor was fine. I mean as a result of that favor has one of the largest and
 pride celebrations in the state. It made our community better. When we talk about race and when we talk about differences, that's reality. And we can talk about those things without canceling each other. This commission's job was not to cancel anyone. It was to do exactly what it was commissioned to do. And I appreciate Council Member Bunch for pointing that out. We gave them a task and they did that.
 Now, are we uncomfortable because they didn't do what we wanted them to do? Or are we uncomfortable because they did something that we don't really like? That's a question that you have to ask yourself. But I am going to say this, minorities in this city, no matter if you're black, gay, whatever, there has to be room at the table.
 There has to be room at the table. We have to have these conversations. Because I expressed a different opinion and because I'm advocating for my community, it doesn't mean that I love your community any less. It means that I want all of us to be better. That is DEI. When I hear the term Black Lives Matter, then people say, well, all lives matter. Well, we know that. But when we look at systemic issues...
 I don't have to go much further. The city of Fayetteville is going through diversity training, so you know where I'm going. I remember, talk about the character of Fayetteville, our police chief met with us when I served as chair of Mayor Jordan's African American Advisory Council. When Mike took over, when Chief Reynolds took over, there was an issue in Fayetteville. African Americans were being arrested.
 for marijuana use, far more than any other group. Mike met with us. Mike, she listened. We had several meetings and we saw the change. We saw the change. There was no canceling each other. There was no divisiveness. We fixed this together. When we hung the Black Lives Matter banner in Fayetteville, there was backlash, but we addressed it together.
 When we had the protest, I stood with our chief. Every other city in the, almost in the country, there was an uprising. 30 miles north of us, there was an uprising. But the city of Fayetteville, we stood together. Actually, we kneeled together. Even though we were different, and even though we talked about race, we didn't cancel each other. We respect that there is a difference.
 Because there's a difference because this country the systemic racism in this country There is a difference and whether we want to address it or not. It's true But in Fayetteville, we're being we're different. We're leading the way there's so many people that talk about the character of Fayetteville and how the diversity and the Inclusion and they really really talk about the police department and they say there's no other police department in the state that
 Fable is top because they get it. I was so proud when our chief walked into my job last week, him and two officers, addressing some of the challenges. No other, I mean, in Northwest Arkansas, Fable is probably the only department having those conversations. And I say that African-Americans don't feel threatened. So when we're having these conversations on race, I don't, it's, please don't look at it.
 from a perspective of we're canceling people and we're demonizing people. We're calling it what it is. My experience is my experience. The experience of Nelson Hackett is his experience. It happened.
 But what do we do? We work together to move forward. And in order to work together with differences, we have to address these differences. And Fayetteville's done it. Fayetteville did it when we named racism as a public health crisis. We were the only city in the state to do that. And we survived. It made us better. So the challenge is when we're having conversations about sexuality, about race, and when people
 Agree with us. It's not that they are demonizing us, but it's the fact that it hurts when you've been discriminated against and you don't feel that that you've been heard. It hurts. And so we have to be more empathetic and sensitive, especially to the needs of those who have not been represented. Thank you, Mayor. I have some brief comments tonight.
 You know, I love history. I was on the Historic District Commission.
 It's been a hobby of mine for a long time. This issue has been a real struggle for me because I've heard a lot of information from both sides. And what hit, what I mean in some ways it's been good because we've learned a lot about Nelson Hackett. So it's been a great educational opportunity. But in other ways it's divided us from my perspective.
 And so I hope as we move forward that we consider exploring some other alternatives. We consider having honorary street names where we can actually have some educational materials associated with that. So we're more inclusive rather than just going out and sort of renaming and reimagining certain things.
 I want Fayetteville to be united. I think we do some great work here. I was never prouder of that evening when we had the Black Lives Matter rally. That was a shining example of unity, compassion, tolerance. And I want us to keep that same feeling and not have any divisiveness in our community.
 So Britain has shared some really great information about how other cities have had honorary street names Made and how they've kind of dealt with similar situations and I would so appreciate it if in the near future you could give the City Council a Presentation on something like that and that may be a way for us to bridge Bridge this gap and create more education so
 those are my comments tonight i hope we can move forward together in the future thank you okay anyone i have one more thing here and i i kind of think that this is just my perspective is that out of when we have division that's when we grow a little bit and we can't really just
 You know, I mean this maybe makes me a little uncomfortable or you a little uncomfortable But we all kind of grow through that and I don't think we're ever going to be just completely All on the same page, but we all are trying to everybody on this council is trying to do the right thing I believe that and I guess what I'm gonna you know, I guess it's what I want to say is it's gonna be okay It's just gonna be okay
 We'll vote on this. If it passes, it passes. If it doesn't pass, it doesn't pass, but I think it's going to pass.
 And it'll be okay to change the street name because things get changed once in a while. Everything doesn't stay the same forever. And you know, some point down the line, there may be some, maybe we want to change the street name again to something else. I don't know. But I think it'll be all right. And I'm glad we've had this conversation and I'm glad I learned all the things I learned about Archibald Yale.
 And I'm glad that I learned about Nelson Hackett because I did not know about that man before I read the, went to the website of the Nelson Hackett project. And if anybody hasn't done that, you should. It's very interesting. But I guess I think it's going to be okay, whatever happens. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else?
 yes yes yes um so uh very excited to see this proposal come now i i like sierra i had heard about it for quite some time um and so i wasn't sure when it was going to happen and unfortunately or fortunately whatever it took the the creation of a commission to then prompt the council you know and so other street names have come about without that
 I'm glad that it's happened how it's happened and I think that's an important part of what we do here I'm on the nominating committee with Sarah and Teresa and Mark and that's what we do We choose people from the community to guide us to advise us And so that's a big part of what what we need to do is to listen to them also, this is the entrance to Fayetteville and it's in Ward 1 and
 So as we come in, as we welcome people to Fayetteville, we welcome all the different people, the diverse group of people. They're going to come in and feel that. They're going to know they're feeling acknowledged and thought about and welcomed because it's a place that you come in. You literally rise up to the square.
 And so I think it's very important to think about what that name is and what does it stand for? What does it stand for in Fayetteville and why we do this? This is a very Fayetteville thing to do. And I want to commend all of the people who worked on this very hard. And I want to commend the people who came to speak for and against. And I want to thank you so much for coming to speak because we need to hear your voice. And we know that you're there. We know we're still going to continue to have these conversations. The conversation isn't over. Thank you.
 And other, as we know, it sounds like this is the beginning. So I really like that. Thank you, Sarah, a bunch. Start the conversations, the beginning. So thank you, everybody. And I don't have anything else to say. I have one more thing I'd like to say. And this will be brief. What I think that I'm taking out of this is we need to have a procedure that
 to name and rename streets and it needs to be part of our code. And it needs to be inclusive and it needs to have notification of people involved and we need to take that seriously. If we have a procedure, and again maybe you can help us get some procedures, I don't know. That's, if you want to be pragmatic about it, that's really what we need to be doing.
 After this discussion, I see it's more important than ever to get it done and get it done soon. And the reason I tabled this for two weeks is so we could have inclusive discussion. We didn't before, but we did take the opportunity. So we did have that opportunity to explore more of the impact of this street change. And it is impact on business. It is. So...
 I hate that, but we had to do that. I also have other values that are important. Okay, anybody else? I have a few comments, but I will be brief. I want to thank Councilmember Jones for bringing this forward. Some of the very things that we talked about before. I want to thank the Commission for their work on this. I think they've done some excellent. That's what you did just exactly.
 what the council wanted you to do because we put you together to do just that very thing. Now, I've spent a better part of my life fighting for equity, diversity, and inclusion. I don't know nothing else. We fought for LGBTQ rights in this city. We fought for women's rights in this city. We fought for African American rights in this city. Latinx folks in this city and other people of color, Asian folks,
 and i have a few guiding principles and you've heard me say this and i sound like a broken record but i believe in an open door and an open mind and an open heart i believe you have an open door because you accept people all people everywhere and no matter what the color of their skin their religious belief what country they come from or who they love you accept them they're part owners of this city
 I believe in an open mind where people can be allowed to express themselves. Now, I can assure you I have several people express themselves with me. Sometimes I like it, sometimes I don't. But I can't say that I keep the door closed. You may not get what you want, but I'll listen to you, everybody. And I believe in an open heart. You serve rather than being served. And those are guiding principles for me. We had, you know...
 There's a lot of things that I don't know. And, you know, people of color, they have had a tough time. They have. And, you know, people come to me or they come to you and they want help. Now, I don't know everything. And, you know, I don't know what it is to be black. But I tell you what, when you know better, you do better. And there are certain things I didn't know. Nelson Hackett, I didn't really know anything about Nelson Hackett until a couple of years ago.
 And so, you know, when I looked at that and I saw that this was going forward and written, you know, mentioned it in a meeting, I told them immediately what I was going to do. There was never any doubt that I would support this. I would support this if I had to vote because I have supported equity, diversity and inclusion for as long as I can remember.
 And, you know, I think that a lot of the comments I really appreciate that it's going to take all of us in a unified effort to change things. But we're going to change things for the better. We have changed things for the better, council. Citizens, we've tried to do the best we know how to do. Now, some people will say I'm too slow at it. And then some people say I'm too fast at it. You know what? I do what I can with quality, diverse equity, diversity and inclusion. I do the best I can.
 And thank you, DeAndre, because my heart's good. I mean, to do good. I want to do good. And I know this council wants to do good, and they want to do the right thing. So, you know, I would, I don't think this is going to be a 4-4 tie, but if it is, I will certainly support the changing of the name. And that's my two cents worth. Upon that, Kara, would you please call the roll? Weedekern? No. Scroggins? Yes. No.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Does anybody need a break? I need a short, I need a short break. Okay, let's go ahead and get started everybody. Okay, we're in the new business. The number one resolution to the equipment of the professional architecture research agreement with Miller, Bosco, Sly, Architects, TAEBA, MDL, the planning percentage, RFQ 21-20.
 Zero nine in the amount of $212,257 for the development of approved building design program to approve a project in Tennessee in the amount of $10,613 in the budget.
 Mayor, would you please turn your mic on? Sorry, sorry. Let me start all over again. You'll like it as well the second time. All right. C1, a resolution to approve a professional architectural services agreement with Miller, Boscus, Slack Architects, PADBA, MBL, planning pursuant to RFQ 21-09 in the amount of $212,257.00.
 for the development of a pre-approved design program to approve project latency in the amount of ten thousand six hundred thirteen dollars and to approve a budget adjustment Jonathan Thank You mayor Jonathan Kurtz the development services department good evening council
 I appreciate the opportunity to present this to the full council and then to have the opportunity at a full public hearing for this to be heard. As I noted at agenda session, this contract is for a pre-approved building program, its associated planning process, and the anticipated outcome, and the anticipated outcomes of the implementation of city plan 2040, which is of course Fayetteville's comprehensive land use plan
 And this begs the question, of course, what is a pre-approved building program? And although I know some of you heard me drooling on about it at agenda session, I would like to just touch on it again, again for the public's benefit, anyone who wasn't at agenda session.
 In a nutshell, a pre-approved building program is an element of the broader concept of pattern zoning. That's itself a technique to right-size development to a specific area or neighborhood of a city and make that the most convenient path for developers and residents to take if they're wanting to develop or redevelop their properties.
 A pre-approved program develops a series of building plans that follow a public engagement process, cross-departmental consultation within the city, and acknowledgement of local ordinances that develop a set of building plans that are available for free for use by the public.
 Some of the expected outcomes that staff has seen in other programs nationally and what we hope to see in Fayetteville is that this will save on design costs because you're not paying an architect or designer for the plans themselves or to license the plans. It can potentially reduce permitting times because all the groundwork has already been done. The plans have already been vetted through that interdepartmental coordination I mentioned.
 Also, there's a higher level of design that typically comes with this. A lot of the homes that you see being built in any part of any city are just part of a developer's portfolio. They may just try to find the building that looks like the best fit for a given piece of property regardless of what may be next to it.
 which segues immediately into the next outcome, which is that we hope to see contextual development arise out of this. As a part of that public engagement process, the consultant and staff would work with the public, residents of the downtown and Walker Park area specifically, to identify what they want to see in their neighborhood and what they would see as more right size, whether it's the building's bulk or area or how it's situated in a lot for their neighborhoods.
 And lastly, one of the outcomes that's often overlooked is the potential for resident empowerment. This can be a very explicit sense of resident empowerment in that a resident can go and pull a permit, one of these permits for an accessory dwelling unit in their backyard. If they have an oversized lot, they could potentially pull a permit for a house next to theirs. And this could afford them the opportunity to rent to somebody and stay on their own property as an area redevelops and properties increase.
 On the more implicit side of resident empowerment, this is giving them some direct input and control over what is being built in their neighborhood. It may not be on the radar of the city council, but several years ago, the state of Arkansas expressly forbade municipalities from regulating single family building design.
 That was a preemption that resulted from one of our neighbors to the north and some actions they were taking to regulate building materials. And as a whole, the state lost the authority to regulate single family building designs. As a volunteer program, if we're making it easy and most convenient path, this will hopefully allow us to insert the city and the residents views of what their portion of the city looked like back into building design, certainly in the single family arena.
 As for this contract in particular, as Mary noted, Miller Bosco Slack was selected following a request for proposals and evaluation of qualifications.
 Moving forward, if the contract is proposed, there will be a kickoff, interview, focus groups and outreach that is anticipated to begin before the end of the year with deployment of the whole program itself by the end of next year. And that's the summary I have to offer. But in closing, I do want to thank Councilmember Turk for proposing to take this off consent. I feel like we perhaps as a result of that received a very well-reviewed report.
 written newspaper article over the weekend. And as a result of that, I suspect we've received several pieces of preliminary comment from both residents
 and a developer in the area they started seeing comments about this being a sensible approach to infill development and possibly improving what has otherwise been an area or development without a whole lot of a lot of oversight whether because again we've been preempted by the state or it's not otherwise required and with that I'm happy to take any questions the council has thank you okay what questions do we have for Jonathan on this
 Hi, Mayor. Jonathan, could you describe the process you all went through before submitting the RFP? I mean, did this go through long-range planning? I mean, I understand it's part of the somewhat inside the 2040 plan, but was this specifically identified as an action from the 2040 plan? Yes, it is one of the implementation items specifically mentioned in City Plan 2040. So it was discussed as a part of City Plan 2040's,
 updating and adoption a few years ago it was discussed by the planning commission's long range group a handful of times also one of their planning commission's retreat meetings as well so it has definitely been vetted and evaluated i think a lot of planning staff and the commissioners have been watching these programs nationally and seeing what works and what doesn't work because it is still
 I don't want to call it novel because it definitely has several years under its belt now. But it is an approach that definitely has been cutting its teeth and we have the opportunity beneficially to see what can make ours better.
 And is the cost, you know, this is $212,000. In my mind, that's pretty significant. That could go to water and sewer repairs and a whole host of other worthy projects that we need within the city. Have you evaluated other cities and how much their cost has been and also the number of citizens or residents that have actually utilized a program like this? We have looked at it, and that gets complicated.
 take the second part of your question first. That gets back to evaluating what other cities have done, because the concern is that some cities
 Like with a lot of planning efforts, whether it's city planning or water and sewer planning, you'll adopt a plan and it sits on a shelf and everyone feels good about it, but it doesn't actually get implemented. And so we did find several instances where these programs were not successful and were either utilized at a very low rate or not at all. And we've sought through working on this contract with the developer to identify ways to make this one more successful.
 One of those is actually the Miller-Boscus LAC specifically intends to offer us more floor plans and building types than we had actually asked for in the RFP. We had submitted asking for four to six, and they suspect that they can get approximately 24 out of it, which gets to one of the biggest failings of these programs is that there aren't enough iterations of house types.
 whether it's as significant as one-story, two-story, or as minor as having a bay window here or not there. And the way that Miller Voska Slack has looked at it through their work, particularly most recently in Claremore, Oklahoma, and Bryant, Texas, is having a larger number of plans available definitely makes it much more successful. And I'm sorry, I lost the thread on the first part of your question. Could you repeat that?
 And what's the implementation been and also the cost? So did Bryant, Texas pay approximately the same amount that we're being asked to pay here and for a three-year duration? I mean, this only lasts three years. That's a good question. They did the program differently and it's had limited success. They bought a set number of plans and that was it for the duration of the program.
 the whole point is with this and having like i'm glad you picked up on that that three-year access period is it allows the architect to substitute plans in and out as they see use if they're not seeing use in what was developed for the city they can substitute new plans in and that's what comes with that time period if it's a highly successful program we've negotiated a rate to continue that license agreement with them that's not included in this but if it's something the council sees though it's appropriate moving forward we can certainly go that route
 But to your question about cost, it is very difficult to compare these programs. A lot that I have seen are specific to one building type. I think Los Angeles' most famous one is they have 12 or 15 different ADU types and they were all submitted by different architects as part of the project as opposed to using a single firm for it. So I've not found a program that's exactly like this that we can compare to. So I don't have anything to offer in that regard.
 So, what is the track record of this company that's been selected? I noticed that they were the only one that actually responded to the RFP. So have they have not just Bryant, Texas, it sounds like that was an implemented very
 very successfully, but what about other, I'm just wondering, have they had a successful implementation in a pier-sized city? The Claremore Oklahoma project is the most recent one and they have seen quite a bit more usage. I don't have numbers of permits pulled, but I do know that they've been implemented and speaking with their planning group.
 I would really like to see that data because, again, I think the price is really expensive and for only three years. I mean, it just seems like that's quite a bit of money to, I mean, it would take 27 different houses if we, I think in the packet it talked about saving $8,000 to a homeowner. So that's about 27 houses to make up to the $212,000 we're being asked to approve. So I would love some additional information. Okay, certainly. Okay.
 I have a question. So these plans, how long are they? They're good for a lot longer than three years, aren't they? How do you mean? I mean, we're not just, they're not just good for three years. They're good for a long period of time. So saying that it's only for three years, that's only the architecture firm's contract to develop them, right? There's two pieces to this contract and I probably could have done a better job if it wasn't as clear in the contract.
 There is the response to the RFP, which is the city's request for four to six designs, which Miller-Bosca's lack will work to give us a permanent license to those designs. But in addition to that, there's a three-year program where the city of Fayetteville can participate in an online portal, for lack of a better word, that is publicly accessible. And those plans can be added to, removed, and swapped in and out as they show themselves to be successful in the program or unsuccessful.
 But it's indefinite once we pay, I mean the plans are ours right? For the four to six that we have as part of the RFP yes, for additional ones no. Okay for the additional ones, okay that's what I meant. So the four to six are ours then, okay. Okay I've got a couple questions because I think you know that there's some concern that we're going to skip steps which that is kind of the idea. So let's say somebody magically comes up with a plan that's identical to one of these.
 Do they have any benefit other than citizens got some say in it? Like are they going to get to skip any steps in the development process? Like if they needed a variance to make it work, they still have to go for that variance, correct? Correct. If they needed a CUP, they still have to go for that CUP. That's correct. So this is not...
 putting them past citizens in any way. Right, the intent of this is to incorporate citizens into the process where they aren't already and then to develop plans that acknowledge our existing codes, whether it's building codes or development standards or site layout standards. Alright, that was my understanding. I just want everyone else to see that it's not skipping
 any of the citizen input steps and may actually add some because they get to kind of develop the plans. I think when we talk about rezones and stuff like that, people are concerned because they want to know what is it going to look like. Is it going to look like anything that's around it? And now with people being able to have input, hopefully that is the case that it's contextual.
 to what's already there, which the state has, like you said, removed kind of our right to do anymore. So I will be in support of this. I think it makes sense to allow citizens to hopefully kind of develop what may come next in their neighborhood. So thank you.
 Jonathan, I'm going to be supporting this, but I thought that in essence we were purchasing a, it's like a subscription for three years, but at the end of three years, we don't have any legal licensing to use these pre-approved plans. The ones beyond the four to six that are a part of the RFP response. Okay, so those, so.
 My two cents worth is that Sears Catalog used to sell homes. They framed them out, put them on a train, shipped them to your community. You put them on a truck and assembled them on site. And the beauty of that in the community that I once lived in previously was that some of the most desirable neighborhoods were, in fact, these Sears Catalog homes because they fit the time and design sense of the community's
 that we're purchasing them. And so I don't have any concerns about pre-approved designs at all. I think the real cost at this step of development is the time it takes to get a plan approved. And that's not staff's fault. That's just literally the number of people submitting plans for your staff to review and that this would be
 efficiency for even customers that don't use a pre-approved plan just by virtue of freeing up plan checkers to look at someone else's plans instead of these. So I commend you for that as well. So I think that this is a tremendous opportunity for us and I applaud you for pursuing that and I think that
 the cost is going to be greater than in other communities because I don't believe other communities, we're purchasing in essence community meetings with the consultants and the designers present and that's really an additional labor that is appropriate for us to purchase. I think the number one complaint that I receive is
 Gee, I'm in a beautiful pitched-roof neighborhood and now I've got a three-story monolithic block that's been built that just doesn't sit well with the neighbors that felt like the architecture of our neighborhood is a value in and of itself intrinsically, so I think that kind of is
 alleviating one additional fear of the community helps the community get behind additional support, additional density, additional accessory dwelling units, those kinds of things. So I think it's a terrific step in the right direction. Thank you.
 Mayor, may I comment on that? Sure. I appreciate you bringing that up. Definitely public input costs are a big portion of that $200,000 contract price. That is one reason that this local group is very appealing to us is it allows them to have the potential for more public input, whereas an outside firm, as we've seen with several other plan contracts, often has very large travel budgets that have the consequence
 compromising your ability to contribute more to the plan one piece that we've been able to negotiate with this is a market analysis which will be ours to consider as a part of ongoing housing dialogue with the city and I appreciate you prompting me to think of mentioning that thank you any other questions from the council okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five-minute duration don't engage anyone the public or any councilman
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Who do we have in the chamber that would like to speak on this issue? Topic. Whatever. It's getting late. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What action would you like to take? What discussion would you like to have? So I would like to ask that we hold this for two weeks to where we can get a little bit more information from Jonathan on the success of more cities and this company.
 and just take a look at that. The other thing that I'm wondering about, you know, the citizens have some concerns about cookie cutter housing, you know, suburbs like we have right now or large scale development. So having the input I think would be extremely helpful, but there's no requirement that you use one of these plans or have a contextual plan in an established neighborhood. Right, this is just an option that could be developed.
 Correct, the incentive comes with the savings and permitting times. And so can you describe how much time savings would, if these were approved, for the average homeowner or developer? That's a good question. Depends on the plan.
 When you submit plans to the City of Fayetteville for an accessory dwelling unit, for example, that could take anywhere from seven days to 30 days. If it's a homeowner doing it themselves, we have seen those take many, many months because there's a lack of familiarity with basic development codes and standards. Sometimes to the point where months extends into a year and they end up hiring an architect or somebody, a design consultant to do the work for them.
 And it gets even perhaps more complicated if you were to do an attached residential unit, whether it's a stacked duplex, meaning a duplex on top of a duplex, or a walk-up quadplex, something like that. Those get very expensive and timely for a developer or a resident if they're wanting to develop that because a lot of those require an architect's stamp as a part of the process.
 That's a long-winded way of saying it's very difficult to quantify how much time, but it can be anywhere from two weeks to several months. And when it comes to dollar amounts, I can't speak to whether they're carrying a construction loan or what kind of financing is associated with it or whether there are design professionals that they're paying hourly for every revision or iteration. So it's hard to put a number to in regards to how much you can save, whether it's a resident or a developer. Yeah.
 Well, I was just thinking with these pre-approved plans, what steps would you, you wouldn't skip the grading permit, you wouldn't skip many of these other steps, or if you do, could you maybe expand that or...
 show that to us in two weeks yeah briefly now I mean one benefit of doing these kind of programs and established parts of town is there's an established development pattern whether that's a platting that's identical from block to block and so what that affords a consultant on a project like that is
 is that they can plan for an exact lot size where they will only need to potentially shift a building footprint around to accommodate if there's any sort of grading requirement or stormwater requirement. So that's where the efficiency is gained is they can basically turn these
 plans into as pre, I was about to say pre-approved again, but that's the words in the title. Basically going through all that pre-evaluation with the departments beforehand so it's not something that has to be done through the development review process.
 So this would save staff time as well? Yes, certainly. And that would be helpful to understand how much staff time that would save. Correct. Because to me, it's hard to justify this amount of money. So that's what I'm getting down to. The Sears catalog, the homeowner paid for that, not the city. So he's in...
 I'm sure I have a version of one of those Sears catalog houses. So that's kind of the difference here. We're spending city money and if I can justify it by saving staff time, that would make me feel a little bit better. That's understandable.
 It's impossible to know how successful the program will be, but on average, the city's approving about two single family building permits a day right now. And so even if a small proportion of that were to filter out into this program, it would definitely have a meaningful impact on staff time to use for other reviews or evaluating policies and processes.
 So I would like to hold this for two weeks to get a little bit more information. The proper motion would be a motion to table. Okay. I'm making a motion to table this for two weeks. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Carol, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? No. Scroggins? No. Fudge? No. Turk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes.
 harvey yes jones yes canyon yes it is tabled okay let's move along to number two an orange living attacks on the real and personal property within the city of federal arkansas for the year 2022 fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for the general fund
 operations 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the federal public library operations, and 1.2 mils for the federal public library expansion and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. Kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2022 to be collected in 2023 for the following purposes at the following rates. Real and personal property, purpose, general fund operations, the levy is 2.3 mils.
 Fayetteville Public Library Operations, 2.5 mils. Fayetteville Public Library Expansion, 1.2 mils. Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils. Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils for a total of 6.8 mils. Section 2, that the real and personal property tax, so levied,
 and the rates provided therefore are hereby certified to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas to be placed in the tax book and collected in the same manner that the county and school district taxes are collected. In Section 3, the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this ordinance in the office of the county clerk for Washington County, Arkansas.
 Annually at this time of the year, we bring forward the mayor's recommendation for property taxes to the council. And this year, we're recommending the same amount, exactly the same amount we had last year. So that's 2.3 mils for general fund operations. That's 2.5 mils for library operations. And remember, that was set by referendum. Also, same as last year.
 For the public library expansion to pay the bonds, 1.2 mils. That, again, was set by referendum. Police pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils. Again, set by referendum. And the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils. Again, set by referendum. So this 6.8 mils is exactly what the recommendation was for last year. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay.
 What questions do we have for all of us? Okay, well let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom?
 No one, Mayor. Okay. Who do we have that would like to address this topic in the chamber? Okie dokie. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I move to suspend rules and go to second reading. All right. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 care would you please call the roll wedeker yes scroggin yes yes kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes inyon yes and norwich living attacks on the real and personal property within the city of fayetteville arkansas for the year 2022
 Fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. Okay, we're on the second reading. This is an ordinance.
 suspend rules and go to third and final reading second yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Adnorn its living attacks on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2022, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations,
 0.4 mils for the Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils for the Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion, and certifying the same to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. What final comments do we have from the council?
 care would you please call the roll we'd occur yes scroggins yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes jones yes yes okay thank you all number three an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 22-0
 37, located southeast of West 18th Street and West Custer Lane, and Ward 1 for approximately 3.10 acres from RSF. RSF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, and C1 neighborhood commercial to RIU residential intermediate urban kit. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF-24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre, and C1, neighborhood commercial, to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Southwest Fayetteville in Ward 1. More specifically, it's southeast of the intersection of 18th Street and Custer Lane. The property accesses Custer along the east side of the street, about three blocks south of 18th Street. If you were able to visit the property, you saw a series of duplexes along Custer before an overgrown, undeveloped piece of property. It includes three undeveloped parcels.
 It is also characterized by an unnamed but protected stream that runs through the property from the southwest corner to the northeast corner. Less visibly, however, is a 100-foot electrical easement that covers the swath of the property along Custer. There is also a water and sewer easement that runs from Custer down to the stream before running off to the northeast. The property is currently split-zoned, as you can see here.
 with approximately the southern and southwestern portion of it entitled under RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre, and the northern balance of the property totaling about one acre zone C1 neighborhood commercial. The request is to rezone the entirety of the property to RIU, residential intermediate urban. The applicant has noted in there as a part of their request that they do intend to develop it with single or two family dwellings.
 When evaluating the request from a compatibility standpoint, staff did find it to be compatible, certainly more so than the existing zoning districts on the property. The RMF24 zoning district has very high allowances as far as the size of buildings, permits multifamily buildings of unlimited number of contiguous units capped only by the zoning district's density, and also allows buildings potentially up to five stories.
 Similarly, along the northern portion of the property, it is zoned commercially, although lacks the frontage to necessarily support it. From staff's perspective, a uniform zoning of the property of RAU is much more fitting given the surrounding largely single and two-family development than the existing entitlements on the site.
 From a long-range perspective, staff finds the request to be much more complementary of our future land use map, the Fayette Junction Plan, City Plan 2040, and its mid-infill rating for the site. Taking the Fayette Junction Plan first, this can be found along its western extents.
 The outline of the property is roughly shown here. As a part of that plan, it was intended to be developed with a gridded neighborhood. I don't know how much anticipation was given towards the creek on the property with this plan or not, but it did anticipate the appropriateness of having housing here, especially near Razorback Road and other transportation corridors, excuse me, in Fayetteville.
 Similarly, it has access to prompt fire response. There's water and sewer immediately accessible to the site. It is worth noting that the infill rating for Finger Park, however, if you're not familiar with Finger is, it's on the opposite side of the interstate, so that is worth bearing in mind when considering and weighing that rating with the larger questions.
 Other issues staff considered when looking at the site are the significant number of constraints and possibly explaining why it hasn't been developed to this point and that RAU may be an appropriate, more appropriate way to develop it sensitively. I mentioned the easements at the top of the presentation. There's also hydric soils on the property and the stream that runs through it is protected by the streamside protection zone.
 It is worth noting that there is also a fair amount of canopy on the property. Looking back at aerial imagery on it, it does appear to be mixed depending where you are on the property. Looking back at 1980, there was very little canopy on the property except along the stream bed. What's on the site now has largely grown up since then. That canopy requirement with this request would reduce it from a 20% minimum to a 15%
 Another item worth bringing to the council's attention was the fair amount of public comment we received on this item. It was a mix of concerns with the existing zonings. A lot of neighbors did not seem to understand that their backyard was currently zoned for multifamily use and they had concerns with large apartment buildings being built there. There were similar concerns to having any development there as well and loss of vegetation that many of the neighbors anticipated having a screen in perpetuity behind their property.
 There's also comments on wondering how the property would be accessed given its narrow frontage on the custer and whether that would pose traffic concerns. And of course the larger natural area concerns for the site and the streamside protection area.
 Moving on to the tour itself, that was held for council yesterday. There were several topics discussed. I think I tried to extract the main ones here and I'm happy to talk about any others or answer questions about any other. We did note the easements on the property, which I've described a couple times now. There was a comment about the maturity of the trees or what kind of quality of canopy it was. It was certainly a mix. As I noted, a lot of it has grown up since the 1980s, but there was a fair amount along the stream bed prior to that.
 Looking down at this portion of the site closer to Custer, it did appear to be much more invasive in nature. And as you move to the other side of the creek, there was definitely a more mature canopy.
 As far as streamside standards go, what those look like in more physical terms is Fayetteville has limitations on how close you can build to a stream once 100 acres of land drains to it. And what that means is when you take the streams route, you go up to the bank of the stream, and at that point you measure 25 feet.
 And that's considered the management zone, or its name is the waterside zone, excuse me, which allows very limited development. Beyond that's the management zone, which allows a little bit more impactful development, not necessarily houses or structures, but you could potentially do some minor disturbance. And then there's also a question from Council Member Turk, we're discussing how those standards change when there's areas of extreme or significant slope.
 And what those do is if there's, once you get to the top of the bank, if the slope is 15% or greater, that initial streamside zone extends out to make the overall area protected 70 feet instead of 50.
 And there was a question also on this property because the east side of the stream had a pretty steep bank and the east side was fairly level. If that does occur, in speaking with Alan Pugh, our floodplain administrator, he shared that the increased, the heightened development standard or distance only applies to the side with the greater slope.
 But, taken all together, and in summation, staff is recommending in favor of the request. Again, we found the proposed rezoning to be more appropriate than what's currently on the property and affords the opportunity to develop it more sensitively. The Planning Commission concurred, voting unanimously 7-0 to forward this request to the City Council.
 They felt similar to staff commenting that the requested rezoning makes more sense or is more sensible than the proposed one or the existing one and that the myriad issues on the site, whether it's easements or stream site or otherwise, would inherently naturally limit the development to an appropriate scale. With that, I'm happy to take any questions from the council and I believe Brian Teague is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Thank you mayor city council, Brian Teague with community by design representing the property owner we are requesting that the council reason this property from C 1 and RMF 24 to our you I think many might consider this to be the down zone if you will. We're willing to forego the commercial use.
 The multi-family use and the five story maximum height. And kind of trade that for what R.I.U. has to offer, three story height maximum, more flexible lot standards. And hopefully those would help us to
 to navigate the constraints of the site, the stream, the trees, the utility easements, et cetera. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council?
 Jonathan, thank you so much for trying to address the issue with the slope of the different heights of the stream bank. Were you able or was Alan able to do some kind of rough calculations or drawings about how that might affect this property where those protections would be bounded?
 He was not, and that's a good question. I learned a lot more about the Streamside Protection Ordinance than I knew before this day started. The way it's calculated is assuming, taking this property as a good example, that the stream is protected from property line to property line. When a property is reviewed with a protected stream, a point is taken at each property line, then every 100 feet in between,
 And if at those points that 15% slope is present, that sets a standard for that portion as far as development goes. So it's not a, you don't do a section of the stream the entire length of it. It's intended to just be a general survey of the stream along its route. So it looks more like a polygon rather than a linear curve, if that makes sense. Yeah, that's very important. Okay, I had no idea either. So thank you for sharing that.
 I had, could you describe the variance process if this is approved and the applicant wanted a variance with the streamside protection that we're talking about tonight? How does that process work? Certainly. At the highest level, streamside protection variances go to our planning commission. Staff makes a recommendation on them like a planning staff would on a planning item.
 Depending on what the variance is, it can result in different conditions being formulated for it. The typical variance that the Planning Commission sees relates to disturbance in either the management zone or the waterside zone, whether it's needing to place portions of a structure or a footing or something like that.
 When those happen, Allen P representing the engineering division formulates a series of conditions that work to offset any intrusion. Usually it comes with a lot of stream bank repair, a lot of native plantings, things like that.
 If it's a much more intrusive intrusion, most prominently a crossing, the expectation is that any crossing would span the breadth of the streamside protection area. If that's not feasible, the engineering division requires a determination of no feasible alternative is the lingo that's used. It's not possible to span it.
 When that is determined, there's a few different other design options. I think the one I described to you yesterday is
 incorporating some sort of culvert or boxes in the stream where you either cut out the bottom of the box to preserve the stream bed, or you have to bury the box a foot or two below it to try to preserve the stream bed. In a similar instance, engineering works to formulate conditions that try to either minimize the impact or offset it by stream bank restoration or again, native plantings elsewhere along the stream, typically within that property.
 One more question. So when you determine there's no feasible alternative, is that showing a hardship? Is that the equivalent to that? It is, and it can vary. I mean, it could be conditions on the site. It could be a cost-related one. It's one that they have to evaluate internally, but then the variance would still go to the Planning Commission for public hearing.
 and then when you model are you modeling on a i think we talked about this yesterday and maybe it was unclear to me or i don't remember was it a 10-year flood or a 25-year flood or do you that that's a good question i don't uh i don't know that i answered that uh i believe chris brown appears to be on the meeting i'm not sure if he's actively listening but mr rad if you're available and can answer that that would be very helpful
 So the question is related to the modeling overall for drainage or just for the stream side? It would be for this particular piece of property for the stream side. So the stream side, basically the
 If you're trying to determine the limits of the streamside protection zone, you start with the identified top of bank. We typically expect the surveyor to make a determination of what that top of bank is. And then everything is measured from the top of bank. So it's not really related to a storm event or anything like that. It's more the physical characteristic of the stream itself. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that.
 What other questions do we have in the council on this? Okay. Let's go to some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? Okay.
 No one there. Okay is there anyone in the chamber that wishes to address us on this? Okay I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It is on the first reading. So what action would the council like to take? What discussion would the council like to have?
 Mr. Mayor, the one comment that I had received from a resident was that this was within an affordable neighborhood of modest homes, that their hope was that whatever's developed would then be potentially attainable to other young families and things of that nature. And I feel like that I can actually agree with the applicant this time that moving from a larger five-story apartment building to...
 single-family or duplex homes would be more in keeping with the context of this neighborhood and that that I think is a step in a very favorable direction I do think there's going to be a
 remarkable constraints with the site and so I I think sensitivity to retaining the mature trees but I assure you the the number of mosquito bites that I received in touring this property almost numbered the amount of invasive privet that is on that site and I would be don't forget about the chicken I would be ecstatic to see those things removed mr. mayor thank you big concrete
 blocks anyway I'm sorry I Now I live in that area as you know when But we live in a very modest neighborhood we do We live in some of those houses that the Kelly brothers put together probably they could build a house in about a month as quickly as I
 But I mean, those are all pretty much scalable and the same. And I talked to Mr. Teague. I don't know. Mr. Teague, could I ask you how you would get into that property? I'm really curious about how you're going to get there. Yes, Mr. Mayor. We would probably most likely, I think the plan would be to a driveway coming off of Custer and going going east.
 we would we would most likely try to cross the stream and and I some some type of courtyard style development in the southeast corner of southeast corner that's what I thought you told me yesterday I want to be sure um okay I don't have any other questions
 I don't have any questions for you, Mr. Teague. Thank you for being there yesterday and stomping through all of that, you know.
 all of that vegetation with us and Jonathan, thank you for organizing that tour. Could you put up some of those photos that I took? I just meant to ask you to display those earlier, but it might be helpful just for the other council members that were not, I think, as crazy to go out there and get poison ivy and chiggers and mosquito bites and all that kind of stuff yesterday.
 And I do think there are a lot of limitations with what can be developed on the property. But I am kind of concerned about the stream and hope that there are no variances that are requested.
 So I don't know if you can really see it in here, but there's large concrete slabs. There's a lot of trash that was there that was in the stream. And there were a few areas where the stream bank was probably, I don't know, six feet high, would you say? Maybe higher than that? Probably higher. Yeah. And so it meanders quite a bit, too. So...
 We really do need to get those concrete blocks out of the stream. But don't you think? I do. Probably in the winter is a good time to watch. Yeah, I say thank goodness we didn't see any snakes yesterday. I was really watching. But the stream, I mean there's a lot of shale there, a lot of concrete. Yeah. It's, yeah. It was a concrete dumping ground at one time.
 Yeah. And it used to be clear you can get in there, but not now. I tell you, I do, this is just me, I do think the RIU is better than a five-story apartment building. Just that's my personal view. But I would not, I was the sponsor of the Streamside Protection Ordinance in 2011. And I didn't bring that to do variances on it.
 i did that to do to protect our stream because of the erosion we were having because of over construction so i just want you to know in the future there is some kind of variance in that stream side protection i wouldn't be supporting that at all i didn't bring it to do variances to it anyway that's just me so let's carry on whatever discussion we might like to have yes mayor i have a question and comment
 This is Councilmember Harvey. I had to leave, but I'm still here on Zoom with you guys. Right now, I'm feeling like I want to hold it. I feel...
 like I had a lot, quite a lot of business going on with various items and wasn't able to invest as much time as I would like to in this particular item for award one. But I did get to make it to the tour and I made it about 10 feet in. It's pretty thick in there. My concern just because we just did this
 I feel like we're going to create a similar type issue. I do agree that the R.I.U. is more appropriate, but that is my concern. I feel like if we put any housing near this stream, it's going to be something that's going to cause issues for residents and water. But I would prefer if we could hold this and just kind of, I'd like to reach out to more of the neighbors in the area. I think that's a good point.
 Yeah, so you want to hold it, Sonia, and DeAndre, you want to hold it? Is that all right? Yes, same thing. I've had a few residents reach out to me, and I agree with Councilmember Harvey. I would like to hold it and have some more conversation around it. Okay. Is anybody opposed to holding it right here? Did I take public comment? I did do that, didn't I? All righty.
 I haven't, well, I have received some public comments, so anyway. Well, then we'll hold it right there. Let's move along to number four. An ordinance for rezoning property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-039, located at 726 West Taylor Street in Ward 2, for approximately .70 acres from RMF 40, residential multifamily four-unit spreader to RIU, residential intermediate urban kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Attendant Memo, from RMF 40, Residential Multifamily, 40 units per acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban.
 and section two that the city council the city of fayetteville arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to collect the zoning change provided in section one okay jonathan thank you mayor this property is in central fayetteville it's about two blocks north of the university of arkansas campus in ward 2. it includes one parcel totaling just shy of three quarters of an acre on the north side of taylor street between leverett to the west and widom to the east
 It's currently developed with three six-unit buildings that are currently front of the street with some canopy in between, three canopy in between them and the street, and then parking behind the buildings to the north. The Taylor Street is perhaps the most notable part about approaching the site. It is a one-way street that is fairly narrow, running from west to east.
 It is, while most of it is narrow without any sort of curve and gutter, there are areas including in front of subject property and the one immediately to the east portions where on-street parking has been accommodated with development. The request before council is to rezone the property from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban. We have not seen any stated development plan.
 Looking at it from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff does find this to be an appropriate request. This is a fairly densely and intensely developed area where RAU often results in very successful development projects. Despite the density and intensity of the area, it's not characterized by the maximum entitlements you'd find in the RMF 40 district. There are not a lot of three-, four-, or five-story buildings.
 It's mostly characterized by two or three story buildings similar to what the RIU zoning district allows. Effectively, what it would be doing is exchanging the larger multifamily buildings for more compact residential structures if it was rezoned from RMF 40 to RIU.
 Perhaps unsurprisingly given its location, this property has an above average or a higher infill rating. It does have a very close proximity to the fire station on, not Leverett, I'm sorry, I'm blanking. Greg? Yes, I think that's Greg, sorry. It also has access to water and sewer. There's nearby park, of course the Skull Creek Trail is immediately to the east.
 Leverett Elementary is to the west a little ways, so the University campus is immediately to the south. Transit is also readily available to the area, as you may expect being so close to the University campus. And we find the request to be very complimentary of the future land use map designation for the property.
 As far as issues related to the site, I think I've noted the most significant one, which is Taylor Street itself. It is already a fairly developed street. Every lot along it is either a parking lot or housing units. We feel that any development under the RIU zoning district would likely trigger street improvements that would accommodate what is necessary on the property.
 We've not received any public comment on the request. It is worth noting that the canopy requirement between RMF 40 and REU does drop by 5% when you look between those two zoning districts. All said, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded it to the City Council 7-0 with a fairly limited commission comment. I'm available for questions. Thank you. I'm sorry. I believe I have Gavin Smith here as the applicant for the item. May I?
 Yes, come on up. I'm Gavin Smith. I'm a civil engineer. I'm joined by the owner of the property and I can answer any questions you have. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this one? Have you all heard anything from anybody on this? Okay. This is so involved with the university that there's not a lot of... Mark, I can't hear you.
 there's not a lot of residential single-family up there that is not affiliated with the University. Okay, what questions do we have for staff or the applicant from the council? You think? Okie dokie. Well, let's take a little public comment.
 Everyone gets one turn to speak. Five minute duration. Don't engage anyone but the public council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Lisa, who do you have on Zoom? There's no one on Zoom. Alright, is there anybody in the chamber that would like to speak to us on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 It's on the first reading, so what action would the council like to take, or what discussion would the council like to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. All right. Kara, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, it is cried and rezoning petition RZN 22-039, located at 726 West Taylor Street in Ward 2 for approximately seven-tenths of an acre from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? We concur. Yes. Sprogan? Yes. Yes.
 Fudge? Yes. Terk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-039, located at 726 West Taylor Street, in Ward 2, for approximately 7 tenths of an acre, from RMF 40, residential multifamily, 40 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 What final comments do we have in the council? My only comment would be that it does appear that the site is slightly underutilized and that it would be an ideal property for redevelopment and even potentially increasing the density if at all possible. It's a terrific location. The owner is fortunate to have it. So God bless. Anybody else?
 here please call ron yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Alright, thank you all. Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 22-031 located at 110 South University Avenue in Board 2 for approximately 0.20 acres from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to MSC Main Street Center, KIPP.
 Feeder ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification property shown on the map, and the legal description exhibit be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from I-1, Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial, to MSC Main Street Center. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 John. Thank you, Mayor. Given the context of this and the next request, I did want to give a little bit of spatial orientation to make sure we are all on the same page going from item to item because it's easy to confuse them.
 This request is in immediately west or southwest of the downtown area. That faint green you see to the east is the recently inaugurated or ribbon-cutted Fay Jones Woods. The property in question for this item, C5, is at 110 University, just southeast of the intersection of Putnam and the University.
 as opposed to the next item on the agenda, C6, which is immediately across the street to the southwest. So hopefully with us all on the same page and oriented for this item, I'll jump right into this request, which is again, C5 for this item. This is one lot south of Putnam and University's intersection. Again, we're just a little ways west of the downtown area, just outside of the downtown master plan.
 The property is developed with one single family home and it is fairly steep as it falls away from University down to the railroad right of way, although it does not qualify as hillside hilltop overlay district. The request is to rezone the property from its existing I-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to MSC main street center. The applicant has shared that this is just as much for flexibility moving forward with it as anything else.
 When looking at it from a compatibility standpoint, staff does find the request to recognize the existing development and zoning districts in the area. There's a fair mix of uses and potential uses, although it's almost, it's overwhelmingly developed residentially. There's of course the institutional use of the park further to the east, and it segues towards more commercial uses as you go north towards Center or you go south towards MLK.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff finds the request to acknowledge the future land use map for the area, which designates it as a city neighborhood area. Those are parts of the city that we anticipate being developed with a mix of uses, single or residential or non-residential. Given the part of town, it's perhaps unsurprising that it has such a high infill rating. There's a lot of things that contribute to that.
 It has a proximity to two different transit options, ORT and Razorback. Fayetteville High School is a few blocks to the west. There's a fairly high intersection density. Again, that's how we measure the connectivity of an area, the relationship of intersections to street sections. There's a grocery store just a few blocks to the south. The main University of Arkansas campus is to the north and has access to water, sewer, park, and trail.
 As far as issues that are worth considering on this, first is the existing industrial zoning. As I noted in the agenda session, despite planning staff's efforts, we weren't able to identify the genesis of why this was zoned industrially since zoning's history in Fayetteville is more recent than the construction of the single family home on the property. As near as we can determine, this may be a relic of a larger industrial application in this area associated with the railroad line.
 Other items to consider with the request is the slope on the property. As I noted at the beginning of the presentation, there is some fair amount of slope as it declines down from University towards the railroad wider way. When it comes to canopy, the change from I-1 to MSC would reduce the required canopy from 15% to 10%.
 Kind of conversely to those matters is the limited development potential of the property. MSC is a zoning district that has some fairly high allowances for it, including height and the uses. It allows the full spectrum of residential activities and a generous dose of non-residential activities. However, given the very small size of the property, planning staff has put at ease that it cannot be used to the full extent of the Main Street Center Zoning District.
 And so we are recommending in favor of this request. As far as public comment on the item goes, we have received one piece of public comment, specifically at the Planning Commission itself, there was a member who spoke in favor of the proposal.
 Staff, again, is in favor of the request. That largely hinges on the existing industrial zoning and the size of the property limiting the potential development of it. The Planning Commission felt similarly, forwarding it to Council by a vote of 7-0 with limited discussion noting that they felt it was a compatible and consistent proposal.
 Council. And I'm available for questions, and I believe Marcia, I'm sorry, Robson or Robson is here as the applicant for the item. I'm sorry if I got your name wrong. Robson, thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the Council? It's noisy, isn't it? It's noisy, isn't it?
 My name is Marsha Robson and this is my home, the One-Tenth South University. We bought this house in 1981 and we've raised all of our children there. I suspect this will be where I stay when I die. I'd like to rezone the property because I feel like I need to look a little bit toward the future now.
 I may want to end up supplementing my income by either having some sort of business in my home. I've thought about several different things, but in the MSC zoning, I get to live work in my house and there were only a few other zonings that let you do that.
 I don't know if you have any questions, I'd be glad to answer them. Okay, do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff and the council? I have a question. Thank you for explaining your rationale for MSC. You know there's a, you can go all the way up to seven stories. I'm not going to do that. I can't afford to do that.
 so it was really just your rationale was really just being able to live and work in the same and having that flexibility yeah okay thank you okay thank you and i'll stay here if you or i'll just go back come back you need to ask some questions is there any other questions from the council oh my good all right let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak we have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in public or any council members stay on topic
 please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that there's no one on zoom mayor okay do we have any anybody else in the chamber and would like to speak on this topic okay mike have have you all heard anything from anybody okay thank you mark
 Okay, this is uh, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading So what action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like that? If there's no questions or comments, I'm sorry, Sonia second Oh, I'm sorry Sonia. Did you have a comment I can I can ask the question on the next reading? It's okay Go ahead. Let's advance it
 Okay, sorry Sonia probably should have recognized you I forgot that you that's okay. I was slow Okay, okay care which please call the right wait occur. Yes Scroggins yes, and yes, sir. Yes, yes RV yes, yes Kenyon yes
 And in order to rezone that property, it is described in the regional petition RZN 22-031, located at 110 South University Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately a fifth of an acre, from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to MSC Main Street Center. Okay, Senator, what was your question?
 Yes, yeah, I'm very interested in those live-work conversation that's being right there at the Ramble, and, you know, maybe this is a larger conversation. But, Jonathan, so when we discuss and when she's saying live-work,
 You know, my ideal situation for an artist or maybe even for Ms. Robson is that she could have a shop underneath and then live above. Is that the case? Like, she could have some type of a, it means a small scale production on this list, and do a small scale production and then potentially live above or behind? Is that allowed?
 That would be from a zoning standpoint under Main Street Center. Building codes may be another question, but I think one of Ms. Robson's main concerns is that the industrial zoning doesn't even allow her house as it is today. It could remain, of course, as a non-conforming use, but modifying it would be not allowed, especially not to modify it to a live-work arrangement.
 And also, given the terrain of the property and the setbacks, she is needing as much flexibility as possible to be able to use it in that manner. Does that answer your question, Council Member Brown? Okay. Yeah, it does. I just want to make sure, and I'm sure you guys have already worked with her to confirm that.
 You know, as we're looking at continuing to advance the Ramble, what's available in the Ramble and live work type situations, potentially artists having a studio space, maybe creating more artworks from a lower level and then living above. She was saying that this was like one of the only zonings that was available to her to potentially do that. So I'm just just wanting to confirm kind of the configuration that both can live.
 they can be there at the same time. Because I mean, I'm seeing that the uses are there, but I don't know, can we have both of like, you know, like a small scale production facility and a home in the same space?
 Yes, typically an artist studio would be classified as an office in our code. If you're looking at the packet, use unit 25, which is an allowed use, there are other zoning districts that would afford her the opportunity to do what she wants to do, but probably not on this property, given the size and how the house is situated on the property. I think that's where...
 her concerns come from and staff and work in planning staff evaluating zoning districts that would afford her this opportunity, how they landed on the Main Street zoning or Main Street Center zoning district for this request. Okay, no, that's great. Yeah, I just wanna confirm that for her and imagine it for potentially bringing it for some other properties to Fayetteville. So this kind of helps me to set that standard. So I'm interested in how she will do it. So I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Okay.
 This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. So what action would the council like to take or what discussion would you like to have? And maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 yes yes yes in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZM 22-0 31 located at 110 South University Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately a fifth of an acre from I won heavy commercial and light industrial to MSC Main Street Center what final comments do we have in the council
 here would you please call the row wedeker yes scroggins yes lunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes okay number six
 in order to resolve that property described rezoning petition rzn 22-032 located at 115 and 121 south university avenue in ward 2 for approximately 0.60 acres from rmf 40 residential multifamily 40 units breaker to dg downtown general kit it ordained by the city council of the city of favor arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 40, Residential Multifamily 40 Units Per Acre, to DG, Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to collect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Donald. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Allow me a moment to pull up the presentation. Again, just for a very brief reorientation, what we just discussed is C5, which you see in the upper right hand bordered in red, which is 110 University. For this item, we're moving immediately to the Southwest, still on South University, but including considering a somewhat larger property on the other side of the university.
 This property includes two parcels, which total about 0.6 acres, which is about twice the size of the previous item included. It's developed from what staff was able to determine from addressing and property records with three dwellings, one of which appears to be a duplex or possibly a house with an ADU, although the applicant, Ms. Robinson, can likely speak more clearly to that.
 Similar to the other item, but going in the opposite direction, this property is also fairly sloped, but the slope is going up from University towards Hill Avenue. The current request is to rezone the property from RMF 40, residential multifamily, 40 units breaker to DG, downtown general.
 The request was originally similar to the one across the street to rezone the property to Main Street Center. Staff did not support that request, although it might seem like a moderate amount of additional property. We did have concerns that the MSC entitlement with, again, the ability to build larger buildings, larger footprints and more intense uses could pose a nuisance to other developments in the area given the doubling in the property size.
 The Planning Commission felt similarly, and they amended the request to Downtown General before affording it to the City Council by vote of six to one. The long range planning considerations were roughly comparable, again, except for staff's concern that the Main Street Center and zoning districts impacts might be outsized given the roughly doubling in property, same infill rating for the site.
 The issues kind of were the opposite on this one, whereas the previous, as far as existing entitlements, whereas the previous property had very high commercial and industrial entitlements, this property has very high multifamily entitlements, but no non-residential entitlements, which is part of staff's concern.
 Again, similar to the previous request, this would reduce the canopy requirement, albeit from 20 to 10 instead of 15 to 10. And again, the slope goes up from University. And similar to the last item, there was public comment in favor of this one as well. Again, this is just a brief summary of the discussion and staff's initial recommendation against Main Street Center, but we are now in agreement with the Planning Commission's amendment to Downtown General.
 When the Planning Commission voted on whether to forward that to Council, it was a split vote, albeit not too significantly. It was a six-to-one vote. The one dissenting commissioner felt that the no-density limitation on DG posed some concern for them, and they did not recommend in favor of forwarding.
 The remainder of the commission, the six others that did vote in favor, recognized that DG was less permissive and less concerning but still very compatible with the multifamily zoning in the area. And happy to take questions. And again, Ms. Robson is the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay. Well, the applicant, yes.
 So there are these three houses we bought over the course of the last 34 years, but I don't know what it's been. But there are two of these houses that sit kind of back from each other. So one of them is on the 1908 map and the other one is not. So I suspect that it was built later on.
 It's like a mother-in-law house or something. And there's 75 feet across the front of it and what I'd like to do is I'd like to be able to separate those two houses so that they each had their own parcel. And the only way for me to do that was...
 There's just a few zonings that allow me to do that and the downtown general zoning does allow me to do that because I can have an 18-foot wide lot so the little house, the mother-in-law house that sits behind it would fit in that 18-foot wide lot and then it would allow me to go ahead and leave the larger house on 50 feet. And so that was one of my main concerns.
 And also we worked on the parking in front of those houses because this is an old street so it doesn't have people park on the street. And so what we did was created a parking lot in front of one of the, in front of those two houses. So there's like 50 feet of parking or something now in front that's off of the street.
 Because we remodeled this house, it originally was a single family house and then somebody else bought it and they put a wall down the middle of the house and put two doors and made two apartments out of it.
 took the wall out of the middle of it and turned it back into a single family unit and we just we just left the two doors because they went into two different bedrooms and uh we thought we just we added the front door in front of the staircase where it should have been and um so now that it has three doors across the front it and there's some parking in front of it it lends itself to be
 for people to be able to run a business or something like that out of it and live in their home. And so that was another consideration that we had. Currently we just, we're just renting it to a couple. And then it does have, somebody said something about it being to a duplex or something. There is another unit over it and that unit enters in from the back of the house.
 That's not, that's not the issue for me. It was just being able to, mainly being able to separate it and having some flexibility in what people could do. Okay, do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff on this one?
 um i'm just wondering if there were other um zoning types because there's no downtown general zoning type in this area so other zoning types that you all explored that would allow you to split those two houses i i looked at a bunch of different ones i thought about main street center but downtown general that's perfect too um it there's right next to
 115 is a big vacant lot and then there's another house after that And then on the other side of Putnam Street, that's all Jones on downtown general It's the eco flats apartments are there and then further down the street from my house on the other side, there's apartments and Duplexes and stuff that are all zoned and
 Main Street Center. So it's really not that really not that different from the rest of the block. Thank you. Yes, I just, Holly showed me the map a little bit further out. So yeah. Okay. Thank you. You're right. Any other questions? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom
 Are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? Lisa. No one, Mayor. Okay. Anyone in the chamber would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. So what it's on the first reading So what action would the council like to take or one question for Jonathan if I may in that this would not create a flag lot This would be a separate standalone lot with 18 feet of width and street frontage That's what she's described. Yes, and to I think councilmember Turks question is
 There is not a zoning district that allows 18-foot lots and the potential for having a mix, like a live-work arrangement on the property. We have RAU, which allows 18-foot lots. And then all the other zoning districts that allow 18-foot lots also allow increasing degrees of non-residential use, like DG and then MSC. Okay. Sonia, do you have any questions? I don't have any questions. I mean, we suspend the rules and go to the...
 second reading second okay we have a motion to second to go to the second rate carriage please call the right yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and during its reason that property is cried and rezoning petition rzn 22-032
 located at 1115 and 121 South University Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately three-fifths of an acre from RMF 40, residential multifamily, 40 units per acre to DG, downtown general. We had any public comment? I mean, have you heard anything, Mike or Mark? Okay. Jonathan, did we get any?
 There was a phone call prior to the Planning Commission in favor of this item and there was comment at the meeting in favor of the previous item. I don't know if either caller distinguished between the two items or not, but both were in favor of the two requests. Okay, that's good. Okay, we're on the second reading, so...
 what action would the council like to take the movies suspend the roles and go to the third and final reading second remember motion second go to the third and final reading care would you please call the road yes scroggins yes yes third yes earthsburg yes rv
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to rezone that property, it is cried and rezone in petition RZN 22-032 located at 115 and 121 South University Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately three-fifths of an acre from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre to DG Downtown General. What final comments do we have in the council?
 Which please call the roll Whitaker yes Scroggins yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Harvey yes, yes Yes Okay, let's move on number seven in order this reason Resume that property inscribing rezoning petition RZ n 22-0 3 3 located southeast of South smoke and
 House Trail and West Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd in Ward 1 for approximately 2.09 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Feet ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to UT, Urban Thoroughfare. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us to Southwest Fayetteville in Ward 1 at the southeast corner of Martin Luther King Boulevard and Ruple where it transitions through the intersection to Smokehouse Trail on the south side of Martin Luther King Boulevard.
 Previously, the property totaled about 15 acres. It was originally part of a much larger piece that ran up the slope going up Smokehouse to Hoodow prior to just over 12 acres of that land being transferred to, I believe it's one of the Northwest Arkansas cycling groups. And now there's a series of trails there that tie into the larger traverse trail network within the city.
 Otherwise, the property here is completely undeveloped with the exception of the existing tree canopy, of course.
 The request is to rezone the property from RA residential agricultural to UT urban thoroughfare. Staff finds in favor of the request, certainly from a compatibility standpoint. While much of this intersection has not fully developed, including areas of Martin Luther King to both the east and the west, this request fully aligns with the zoning entitlements in that area. As you can see on the map here.
 It is the property or the area zoned urban thoroughfare on each of the other three corners of the intersection and extending further to the west and to the east. We feel that the location of this portion of the property being rezoned to UT is appropriate with its location along the transportation corridor. Whereas if it was proposed as the whole length of the previous property extending up the hill, that would not necessarily be a contextual or appropriate request from a property.
 long-range planning standpoint we feel that this request aligns with our future land use map which designates this portion of MLK as a as a city neighborhood area with its intent for residential and non-residential allowances additionally this particular intersection is identified in our growth concept map as a tier two Center which further emphasizes the need for mixed use development concentrated at a significant junction of the city
 It's infill rating, however, reflecting the ongoing development of this area is more middle of the road, between a five and a six, depending where you are on the property. It's given the fire response times, water and sewer, and access to Holland Park, especially to the northwest. One interesting nuance of this property that I spoke to briefly at the agenda session last week is the Master Street of Plan amendment that was approved here.
 The neighbors, particularly to the west, have the foresight to understand that this property likely would be redeveloping someday soon. And so they wanted to ensure that its development along with the changes to the property to the south with construction of the trail system was contextual and appropriate and didn't just simply represent a typical street section of sidewalk, street, curb, and gutter. And so what was brought to council?
 was an amendment to the Master Street Plan. This is a piece of what I've stole from one of Ms. Bostic's signs that she took to the public meetings when those are being considered down on Smokehouse at the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust headquarters on Mr. Frank Sharp's property.
 The intent was to develop the west side of the street with parking that would be accommodating of the trail system there, but preserve the east side of the street with a pretty significant vegetation buffer of the existing trees that are there. How this translates into a more schematic view
 is a 36-foot natural buffer area, which is a pretty significant screen and exceeds anything we would typically see in our development code. But having this ingrained into our master street plan affords staff the ability to evaluate any development proposals with this as the standard moving forward. So I did want to bring that back to your attention. There was some conversation about concerns and how this would develop and
 how it could be developed sensitively at agenda sessions. So I wanted to remind you all of what you had the opportunity to consider and ultimately approve earlier this year.
 Other items to note are one that I already touched on, the southern acreage property, which includes just over 12 acres, is no longer a part of this specific property. It was conveyed to a separate property owner and is now being used as part of the city's trail system. It's not public land, but it is held by the Northwest Arkansas Regional Viking Group.
 It is worth noting that the canopy requirement, of course, will reduce going from an agricultural zoning to UT urban thoroughfare, which is probably not surprising that changes from 25% to 15%. If for what it is worth, looking back at that master street plan section, any tree canopy that would be required as a part of within the right of way does not count towards that. So it would be potentially in addition to that, which is worth noting.
 As for public comment we received on the item, there was a bit. There was no statements necessarily in opposition. In fact, it was expressed in favor of it. It was with the caveat, however, that the people speaking saw a lot of value in making sure that our development standards are maintained.
 specifically those related to our master street plan and if it was developed as an auto oriented use we have some heightened design standards site and building design standards for gas stations specifically which I had sent out to you all late last week for consideration
 With that, staff is in favor of the request. We did find it to be compatible with surrounding zoning and potential future development, along with our long-range plans. The commission felt similarly, and they approved the request 7 to 0, or forwarded the request, excuse me, unanimously 7 to 0.
 They felt it was compatible as well and had confidence that the higher design standards of the UT zoning district would ensure an appropriate development. There was of course some common agreement with those who spoke from the public that an auto-oriented use could be done inappropriately here. And there was some discussion and commitments from the commission that they would hold a variance request to a high standard, but without any development plans to look at, of course, difficult to evaluate at this time.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe earlier I saw Marsha Woody as the applicant online, but I'm not sure if she's still on or not. Oh, thank you. I'm sorry. I'm not met you in person. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council?
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan and Council for considering the zoning change to Urban Thoroughfare. The McNeil family would like to see this property zoned in alignment with the other three properties at the corner of Ruppel and MLK.
 We're in hopes that a developer will purchase the property and put it to its best and highest use benefiting not only the nearby residents but the community as a whole in the spirit of the Kessler Mountain area and the Kessler Mountain bike trails that adjoin the property.
 Thank you. Okay. Thank you. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff from the council? I have a question for Jonathan. I'm a little confused, Jonathan, about the Master Street Plan where you showed that slide. Is that, where is that? Is that a requirement or is that just a plan? It's just something on the map.
 If you could clarify that for me a little bit, I'd appreciate it. That's a very good question. Would it be helpful to see it again? Yes, please. And as far as our master street plan goes, it is the guiding transportation document for the city. It is most readily enshrined in a map that shows all the streets of the city. Some of them don't have any particular designation. Most of those are existing streets just as they are. But there have been specific streets that are called out in Fayetteville
 that are intended to serve a specific function in the city. Typically it's the movement of traffic, ensuring that they're built to adequately carry certain volumes of traffic and to accommodate vehicular versus non-motorized traffic. When it comes to this particular one, this street section was adopted by the city council on this particular piece of street. So the section of Smokehouse between
 rupel to the north and where smokehouse transitions into hoot out to the south this has been applied to that so when a developer comes into the city on this or any other property one of our first stops is to evaluate it in terms of our master street plan and those are the baseline expectations for how they develop their street frontage so typically you hear me talk about in terms of well if you build a house you might have to build sidewalk if you build apartment complex you might build sidewalk curb and gutter
 In this instance, it may be that they contribute to building it out to its parking on the west side but then preserving that natural buffer area on its east side. All told, what the master street plan does is it gives staff the leverage to be able to require a very specific design from an applicant, whereas it might just fall to our standard street sections with sidewalk on both sides and street trees and turf grass.
 So in other words, you're able to negotiate something that would be similar to this 36-foot natural buffer area? Correct. But if you weren't able to negotiate that, this would be preserved because we approved it? This has a higher likelihood of...
 being applied because it doesn't actually, you're not requiring any street improvements, you're just requiring right away dedication, which at its very minimum, when we see developments in Fayetteville, right away dedication is the bare minimum we typically are able to require of them. And so in this instance, when a development comes in from the center line of Smokehouse onto the property to the east, they would have to dedicate right away, which would encompass this natural area, which would then be the cities to hold
 Okay, thank you very much for clarifying that. What other questions do we have in the council? Okay. Sonia, do you have anything? No, thank you very much. Okay. Then let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. If you have a five-minute duration, don't engage in one. From the public or any council members, stay on topic.
 Please give us your name and address, and those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Lisa, who do you have on? There's no one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Go ahead. My name is Robert Sharp. I live at 239 North Church. I appreciate the opportunity to speak tonight. I think this parcel is extremely important for four reasons. One, it is a gateway to Fayetteville.
 is where the mayor's box intersects the east-west entry to our town. So it's really important as people are coming from the west, from Prairie Grove and Farmington, this is really, the city limit is maybe a little bit to the west of us, but this is really your first opportunity to see, welcome to Fayetteville, that intersection of Ruppel and Farmington.
 MLK. So it's it's very important gateway. So it's important that it be developed properly It's also a really critical link in the bike trail system both north south and east west Once this bike connection is made you can go from the regional park at Kessler all the way up to Klaber Creek. So this is a this is a very important part of that network it's also at the base of Mount Kessler, which is a vital part of our enduring green network and
 And also, whatever happens on this site is going to determine what happens on the adjacent sites. We're in a position right now where we know development is coming, but it hasn't happened yet, and so we can have an opportunity to get ahead of it at this point. So I do believe that urban thoroughfare is a great zoning category for this because it is, as the applicant mentioned, this is a regional shopping area potentially, and so the urban thoroughfare is the kind of,
 zoning code that allows the uses that we would want there, but it also has pretty high standards about lot width coverage and having buildings up to the street, which is safer for pedestrians and better civic design and so the I certainly don't have any problem with urban thoroughfare and things think it's a good one and
 but i'll say what i said at the planning commission meeting was is this this is going to be urban thoroughfare and then six variances are granted so it backs its way to c2 that i'm very much against it because i don't want to see continued automotive strip development in this area i don't think it's right for the city and so i'm merely asking that the design standards that our city has in place be
 vigorously enforced as they always are and Also that in particular that the tree preservation numbers be kept because this again this this is a Opportunity to be a very green welcoming gateway to Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'm Frank Sharp. I live at 2062 South Smokehouse Trail and have no objection to the rezoning. And the McNeils and all the neighbors agree that when development comes, though, it needs to be done right. I mean, this is the entry to Kessler Mountain, where the city has spent millions of private developers, like, I mean, trailblazers who bought property, built trails.
 And this is a gem, and this is the entrance to it. And, I mean, the Bible says don't hide your light under a bushel, so we want to be sure that what happens there is beneficial to Kessler Mountain. But I think that us neighbors have done our homework, and in March you had letters from the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, Mount Kessler Greenways, from...
 The Ozark off-road cyclist, all the residents on Smokehouse Trail and Hood Owl Land signed petitions because we had three major problems. There was this gap in the trail from MLK up to the trailhead, which is hidden behind the
 People were wandering around looking for the trail. Also, there's a beautiful sign that says, Welcome to Kessler Mountain, but it's back behind the smokehouse in the woods. People were driving up, and they'd drive up in Hoodow Lane and turn around and bother the neighbors there. Another thing, there's no public parking. Everybody parks in the smokehouse parking lot.
 which is fine for now, but we're going to outgrow that. We can't forever donate public parking there. Anyway, we had a charrette. Britton had probably about 30 people, and all the neighbors gave their input.
 And Rob came up with that design you saw that extends the trail, brings the sign down where it belongs on the highway, and provides parking. And the smokehouse is willing to donate the property. Now then, what I need your help with.
 I mean, this can't go on forever. We need somehow to get this high priority to enact the master street plan. And I don't know where the money can come from. I mean, that's parks or where. That's for you all. I would really appreciate, and all the neighbors would really appreciate your help on this. Thank you. Thank you, Frank. Is there anyone else who would like to address us on this? I'm Michael Taylor, living in Fayetteville,
 1584 East Oaks Manor. Just wanted to note that the McNeil family has resided in the Farmington and Fayetteville area for some time. From farming at Ray's Mill to a mercantile store in Farmington to car dealerships in Fayetteville, the McNeil family has owned and sold property and businesses in our community for 150 years.
 Always considering the community. One example is the former golf McNair Lincoln Mercury dealership, which was sold to the First Baptist Church for development of its beautiful new chapel a number of years ago. More recently, as we've been talking about, they conveyed the property behind this, about 12 acres or so, for the bike NWA.
 The property is for sale. Any developer who would like to develop it as a gateway to Fayetteville is welcome. Properties been for sale for two years. The family would really just like to develop it in accordance to the UT and making it a
 Nice welcoming property for the city. However, you know, the city limits are a quarter mile to the west. We have an empty hamburger joint, a vapor maven, beauty shop, you know. That's the gateway. So if you would please approve the UT, put it in compliance with
 the rest of the property in the area then we can move forward with the next step of making it a nice property in compliance with the neighborhood and a business that can help support the community in that area thank you thank you okay is there anyone else now I'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance we're on the first
 Reading, so what action would the council like to take or? Quick question for Jonathan, if I may. Jonathan, on the property, do you have an estimate on the amount of street frontage it has that the 36-foot tree canopy easement? I'm just kind of wanting to see what percentage of that frontage the 36 feet is. Okay.
 The length of the frontage, is that what you're asking for? As it extends south from MLK, it's about 287 feet. Okay. So in addition to the 15% tree canopy, we're going to get the 36 feet of additional existing tree canopy that's preserved before the 15% gets calculated, if I understood correctly. Yes, in the sense that trees in the right-of-way frontage
 cannot be contributed to or it's that canopy requirement. Yes. The foresters don't count trees in right-of-way. Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. Okay. Thank you. That's my only question. Anything else? There aren't any questions. I'd like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 would you please call the roll? Wiedeker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Pinnion? Yes. In order to rezone that property is cried and reasonably petitioned RZN 22-033 located southeast of South Smokehouse Trail and West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in Ward 1 for approximately 2.09 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Sonja, have Sonja, have you or DeAndre, have you heard anything
 Has anybody contacted you? I have not. I have not been contacted. Okay. Thank you. I mean, I've received the same letters of support that Mr. Frank Sharp mentioned, but that's really the extent. Okay. I'm just checking. I have a question before we move on to anything else.
 So, Jonathan, we've got the 36-foot right-of-way that's going to protect those trees, and then if we rezone it, there's the 15%. Does that get us close to 25% tree protection under the current zoning? I do not know. I've not calculated the amount of existing right-of-way and how far that would go into the property. I don't know that number offhand. Sorry. Okay. I knew I was kind of putting you on the spot there. Okay.
 I'm just wondering, I'm guessing that it's beyond our powers that we could limit this further, that we just do a straight rezoning to UT. In other words, we can't place additional conditions on the zoning. Would that be accurate, Kit? That is correct. Okay. Thank you.
 Okay, this is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. So what actions would you like to take or what conversation would you like to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have motion to go to the third and final reading. I'm going to give the chair which please call the roll.
 Peter Kerr yes Scroggins yes I was but you know I procedurally I didn't enter and want to interrupt the process but I was going to ask that we hold it for two weeks so that we could get additional information now that's right so there we are
 So unless the motioner and the seconder wants to withdraw their motions, then they are permitted to do so, I assume. Yes, they are. Yeah, at this point, I think the motion is being voted on, so we probably need to continue with the vote and see if it gets a two-thirds vote that it would require to pass. All right, thank you. Karen, would you please call the roll? Banks? Yes. Turk? No. No.
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes I think it got the two-thirds vote all right and your answer is a rezone that property described a rezone petition RZN 22-033 located southeast of South Smokehouse Trail and West Martin Luther King jr. Boulevard in Ward 1 for approximately 2.09 acres from RA residential agricultural to UT urban thoroughfare final comments from the council
 i just want to thank uh frank sharp and the neighbors for coming together to create help do this extra uh tree canopy requirement or suggestion of how this all came about i've said i missed all those meetings um but i'm i'm glad for the work that came out of it so uh looking forward to seeing how that will come to fruition okay anything else
 care would you please call the road weaker yes scroggin yes yes yes yes yes barbie yes jones yes yes hey thank you all
 Number 8, an ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 22-036 located at 6040 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4 for approximately .39 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 4 Residential Single Family 4 units for a kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agriculture, which are RCF4, residential single-family, four units per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 okay jonathan thank you mayor i just wanted similar to the item on university i wanted to add a few contextual comments to this one i think i caused more confusion than help at agenda session there like the one on university there were two concurrent rezoning submitted in this area where we are this is out towards double springs road on west weddington ward 4 on the north side of the street
 The item that you all are considering in front of you right now is C8. That's a request, as Mayor and Mr. Williams noted, to rezone a portion of this property from RA to RSF4.
 There is a second request that is still at the Planning Commission to rezone a wider portion of this property from RA to RIU. There was some very vocal public opposition to that. Staff was not in favor of that request, and so it was tabled at the Planning Commission. But just to make sure, I know there's been a lot of public comment going back and forth. Some of it has very clearly said that it's in support of.
 the item before you all right now, as opposed to the petition, for example, that was attached to this Briel's clarification that directly references the item that is still at the Planning Commission. But again, I just wanted to make sure that was clear because it's a second item tonight where there are two very nearby applications that are in the process under the same applicant.
 Taking this one, again, we're on West Weddington, several hundred feet shy of Double Springs Road on the north side of Weddington. The property is developed with a single family home and it is currently split zoned between RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre.
 The applicant would like to rezone the portion that's RA to RSF4 to allow a property line adjustment to shrink the parcel down and make it conforming. Currently the parcel is larger, but even then it still doesn't meet the RA area requirement for two acres of land. From a compatibility standpoint,
 Staff is in favor of the request. RSF4 is a fairly low density single family district. We don't feel that it would be appropriate to have much more intense development necessarily in this area. The single family home there is existing as it is today and it makes sense from staff's perspective to give it a zoning designation that reflects the existing use of the property to afford it to be sold or modified in some way.
 And the area is, if nothing else, characterized by fairly low density single family development.
 Similarly, from a future land use map perspective, this area is designated as residential neighborhood area, which runs the gamut from single family homes up to multifamily homes, depending on context. Again, this context is a fairly low density area, and that's reflected by the infill rating, which is fairly low. I don't feel that much more intense zoning would be appropriate, certainly not for this property.
 Again, the law as it is today is non-conforming. It is worth noting that the canopy requirements stays the same between RA and RSF4. They both have a 25% requirement. And again, there has been some muddying of public comment, although several pieces have very explicitly said they're okay with the applicant trying to rezone this piece of property so that they can make the law conforming, but they unequivocally object to the request that's currently at the Planning Commission.
 Whether there's other public comment that you all have heard, I'm not sure, but that is what staff has heard to date. Accordingly, we are recommending in favor of the request. The city or the Planning Commission felt similarly and felt it was appropriate to rezone the balance of the property that's agricultural as RSF4 to allow it to be conforming. I'm happy to take questions.
 I have Nikki Luttrell as the applicant. I was not able to get a hold of them before the meeting. I don't see them in person and I don't see them online either. I'll leave you all heard anything. We have not. Okay. Well, what questions would the council have for the staff or the board?
 Guess you won't have any questions for the app because they're not here That makes it real simple. I can figure that one out so Any questions? Okay, well let's take some public comment For those that might be out there Everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. I
 stay on topic, please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Do we have anybody on Zoom, Lisa? We do not. We do not. Brian left. What would y'all like to do? The only person that could talk. Brian just left the building. Anyway, I don't really blame you.
 pretty straightforward what they're trying to do this is the thing that we don't want to be in the way of people that are doing pretty obvious things so move to spin the roles and go to second reading second yes yes yes
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to rezone that property, it's described in Rezoning Petition RZN 22-036, located at 6040 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4 for approximately 0.39 acres. From RA Residential Agriculture to RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Care which police call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-036, located at 6040 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4, for approximately 0.39 acres from R.A. Residential Agriculture, which is an RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre.
 any final comments from the council here would you please call the row the director yes scroggin yes yes yes yes yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes
 Thank you all. School number nine. An ordinance for the zoning at property described in the zoning petition RZN 22-038, located at 201 East Spring Street in Ward 1 for approximately .20 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zoning classification properly shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, most attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24, Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 That was a zippy little reading kit. Thank you. John. Thank you, Mayor. This property is east of downtown. It's also east of College Avenue, which is just off screen here to the west. It's one lot east of the intersection of Washington and Spring on the south side of Spring. The property is currently developed with a single family home.
 And if you've been on this portion of spring, you won't be surprised to hear that there's a fair amount of slope as you move from west to east across the property, although it is not designated as a hillside hilltop overlay district area. The request before council is to rezone the property from its existing RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre designation to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 When evaluating the request, staff does find it to be compatible. Oftentimes and in many areas, the REU district has been a more appropriate substitution for several of our RMF zoning districts. As I've noted a few times tonight already, REU was intended to break down some of those larger building sizes that are more commonly found in our multifamily zoning designations.
 and create more context sensitive development, which on this portion of spring is a mixture of single and small scale attached residential buildings.
 Staff also found the request to be complimentary of our long range planning goals. The future land use map calls us out as a residential neighborhood area, as opposed to the last item where that indicated a context of low density residential peripheral portions of the city. This is definitely a much more urban application of that future land use map designation where staff feels it's appropriate for RIEU to be applied with its allowance for one, two, three, and four family dwellings.
 The infill rating suggests that this is also a good fit to staff with quick fire response times, access to water and sewer. Washington schools fairly close to the north, Ozark Natural Foods similarly, and there's park in a few different directions along with very good connectivity as far as intersection density goes.
 Items to also consider as a part of this, staff has limited concerns about this given the development limitations. It is a fairly small piece of property. And it's also worth noting that this one is unique in that some of this property is dedicated to serving the development immediately west of it. So if I think the applicant has some photos they're prepared to share with you with their work along Washington. But as a part of accessing those units,
 the property before you tonight here is dedicated some of their the driveway and such to accessing those lots so that inherently tightens the footprint of what can be developed as well that aside the
 The applicant had been discussing when they had prepared a bill of assurance to potentially include a higher standard of setback. Staff didn't feel that this was necessary and that the REU zoning district offers more inherent protections and contextualizations for the neighborhood. And the Planning Commission felt similarly and it was not included with what was forwarded to the City Council.
 When it comes to canopy requirement, you've noticed I've tried to incorporate that into all my presentations tonight. This will reduce it, the required, from 20% to 15% on the site. When it comes to public comment, to date, all staff has received was a call prior to the Planning Commission in favor of the request. There was no comment offered at the Commission meeting itself that I'm aware of.
 With that in mind, staff is recommending in favor of this request. The commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously, finding that it is compatible and consistent with the surrounding area. I'm happy to take questions, and Mr. Brian Teague is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. I'd like to speak for the council. You have 10 minutes.
 Thank you Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague. I've lived at 201 East Spring for I think 18 years now. I own that property. We're requesting to rezone from RMF 24 to RIU and I've used RIU
 a number of different times as a tool, I think, to create good development. So, if you give me just briefly, I just wanted to talk about RIU just a little bit. But going all the way back to 2006, when the city adopted city plan 2025, I think that was kind of, in my opinion, the city's big leap from
 you know, suburban form to encouraging more walkable urban form. With, in 2006, the city adopted a number of different form-based codes that encourage the development in downtown.
 And then a little bit later with zoning codes like NCRF18 and the cluster development ordinance that kind of addressed form-based development in single-family districts. But even with that, I think there was still a little bit of a gap. I mean, we struggled.
 trying to build anything except single-family housing or larger apartment buildings. Most notably, I have a project over at the intersection of Razorback and Cleveland that we've, in 2014, I think we started that process and we struggled along. In 2017, the
 the city, you know, made, had to pass a resolution to create the RIU district. And that helped us along to get, I think that missing middle housing type built over at Razorback in Cleveland, and of course on other projects. So I just asked Jonathan to talk about
 I've seen some pictures of
 a project that that i built on washington which is right next to 201 east spring just to show you an example i think of what what riu can create if it's if it's done properly properly and these are two two five plexes that i'm pretty proud of that that i've built um most people think that they're single family homes
 They're one and a half story at the street. And then Jonathan, if you just flip through those photos really quickly. Let me just go on to the end. You can see the back.
 of the property where you have two and a half stories and you see three more doors there. But I just wanted to show you that example. I think RAU is a great tool and I'm very appreciative to the city for providing that tool to us.
 On top of that, as far as 201 East Spring goes, I don't have immediate plans to develop it. However, in the future, I am thinking about it and planning. I wanted to get this rezoned request in while I was here on other items, but I really wish the entire neighborhood would rezone to RIU.
 With that, I would be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address.
 those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that lisa who do you have on zoom no one mayor okay well i don't see anyone beating the doors down um tonight in the chamber so um this is an ordinance that's on the first reading um what action would the council like to take or what conversation would the council like to have
 um i have one question for jonathan um what is the uh frontage width of the current property that we're evaluating with any certainty that may be best answered by mr teague i imagine he given his project he probably has a recent survey of it otherwise i can estimate it here it looks like it's about i'm showing it as about 50 to 55 feet
 I just have a quick comment. First of all, thank you, Mr. Teague, for staying this late. I appreciate it. And I really like the two projects that you've done in the past, and I would love to see something like that here. So thank you for showing us that. And so what would you all like to do? I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 peter yes scroggin yes fudge yes her yes herzberg yes harvey
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezone invitation RZN 22-038, located at 201 East Spring Street in Ward 1 for approximately a fifth of an acre, from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Sonny, do you have any questions? I'm sorry, I should have asked already.
 Oh, no, that's okay. I would try to, I was going to plan to squeeze it in, but I like that recommendation. I used to live there on Connor, and I'm familiar with Mr. Teague's work. I'm a fan of it, and it is really great work. I wasn't able to see it on the screen share. I don't know if it was just big content and it wasn't showing up, but since I lived in the neighborhood, I can recall it.
 But I like the recommendation of potentially changing all that RMF 24 to RRU. So maybe I'll try to follow up with Jonathan about that because it does seem like a strange zoning in that area. But no, I don't have any questions. I'm just glad again that Mr. Teague has hung in with us as Councilmember Hertzberg has
 And I would like to move we spend the rules and go to the third and final reading second We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading here. Would you please call roll? Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes, yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-038, located at 201 East Spring Street in Ward 1, for approximately 0.2 acres, from RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Final comments do we have in the council? Chair, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, thank you. All that concludes our business, but Lisa, you have some announcements. I do. I'm going to do these quickly since there are a lot of them, but please know that there's more information on the city's website and also within the public meetings calendar. First announcement, we have a city-hosted blood drive tomorrow from 9 to 3. Just look for the blood mobile on the downtown square. I see the handle.
 The Ward 1 bulky waste event is set for Saturday the 24th, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Shaver Foods. Let's see. Also on Saturday the 24th, there is a public input meeting on Underwood Park that will be held out at the Underwood Park site. For more details, please go to the website. That's from 10 a.m. to noon. If you can't make it to the meeting, you can still share your thoughts on Speak Up Fayetteville.
 There's a Ward 2 meeting set for the 28th, Wednesday the 28th at 5 p.m. That's going to be by Zoom. Please go to the website to register. And the first public meeting for the Citywide Heritage and Preservation Master Plan, also set for Wednesday, September 28th from 4 to 7 at the Fayetteville Public Library. More information on the city's website. That's all, Mayor. Okay. Anybody else got anything? Anything?
 um just briefly we have a ward four meeting next monday night at starting at six okay we're adjourned
 I believe you have a one award one safety meeting coming up as well next week. DeAndre, is that correct? Yes, that's correct. And Mayor Jordan, I have a quick announcement. Northwest Arkansas Mental Health Alliance will be having a welcome to Out of the Darkness Walk for the suicide stigma. Wait, wait, that's the wrong thing, y'all. I'm too ready to go here.
 It's going to be, there's a walk Saturday at Gully Park and it is to end the stigma for, end the mental health stigma. And it's going to be at Gully Park and it starts at 8 o'clock. And if you want to run three miles, you can. And if you want to be like me and walk one mile, you can't. Okay. Anything else? There is a Ward 3 meeting this Thursday.
 Okay. Just all the meetings. Just little meetings everywhere, isn't there? Thank you all. All right. You got something else, John? You're all done. All right, we're adjourned.